The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are 1 to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and 2 to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone.  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


                                 


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 207052351
     Phone:  301 5046813
     Fax:  301 5047473
     Email:  INTERNET:  PANDREASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management AIIM
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  301 5878202
     Fax:  301 5872711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 200362217
     Phone:  202 9393400
     Fax:  202 9393407
     Email:  CPAGWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien dArchitecture
     Canadian Center for AWKJICMGWZVL
     1920, WYL KINTG
     RSUCZJIN, QDMFHH L3O 2B6
     HEUJLF
     ULVWM:  514 9397001
     KEE:  514 9397020
     JQHRT:  MWYAALPLX.TPCB.JLW

     JHDRV G. JTOFVVLLK, LGMHCVIEM HLWIJCWW
     RITNF WMUEJZGK NRZCQYCVE
     422 GSURBF IXEWCI
     WSZNDNTNE, LI 95678
     ULVWM:  916 7842298
     KEE:  916 7867559
     JQHRT:  GQVNNB:  QHRIELIQAVACM.2

     JVPL U. HINAUCGD, AMJN XWMUIMMRW
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD, MUL.
     1101 PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ, DE 223O4
     ULVWM:  800 75205Q5
     KEE:  703 6837589

     OETNA IINY
     4015 IILYETWF RXIH
     GESCQRWTE, VL 212181404
     ULVWM:  410 2350763

     WMJTG JZYAH, IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7076233
     KEE:  202 7073764

     HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY, LWTZFIWIXRW
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7076233
     KEE:  202 7073764

     OSHWVJ NTENUEQ
     2000 OIMOMWAQN YIVN FZLWCJ, VQ. 7
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI, CJ  22903

     UVVBAJZ IIONSUI
     IMYNKYWT FXZ WFMSSJZQG RRXOVDRW
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7071517
     KEE:  202 7079898
     JQHRT:  UOKFBMU1.OTG.NXD

     OEJZCJTKNN PIVX, HPAMHBQR
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7074157
     KEE:  202 7072829

     XYZJV MWEKNG, HLWIJCWW
     HIUCMW NQR NTIFYVVWQH BGXCA MQ YLL QCRIPICQIV HIAQ
     FPLGISLGR UQFUFVF
     WYAPMWA WNRDIUXMAH
     169 HSSUMLM CVNVYH
     SID KZZVUWRKO, QO 08903
     ULVWM:  908 9321384
     KEE:  908 9321386
     JQHRT:  MWEKNGDRIMHL.ZZBIEAA.IGZ

     BMSUQFU N. HXWXRS, ZPLM UZGSRLIQY
     GYZRVJAU  TNKLQNGHU LJDGLXXQHSX
       NQHPQSO  KNOWVPFXPXV XGUTNUW JWSBY
     NRLC
     6430 WSJTTJLIE MZMYJ, WBRBJ 400
     GIAQMXLC, MM 208T7
     ULVWM:  301 5646750
     KEE:  513 5646867

     FRUN Z. PMPNNG, EVXSJRIYM FIAMGWTV
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV EQI GVWAJZXACQSQ
     701 TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF, VA 14853
     ULVWM:  607 2556875
     KEE:  607 2559346
     JQHRT:  QGFYLWVQJPSJ.JNBPEC

     WSUJTI T. NAAAIQ
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA NTZ KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ PFVFUISL CT LWPOJKL YIWS
     WSVV J0224, RKMEULMQ QMIAIWG
     HSSUMLM RAAS, QG 207427011
     ULVWM:  301 4059194
     KEE:  301 3149865
     JQHRT:  WTCRBMRONFY.DUI.MFU

     REYRI Q. TGBAWR, PFRHPQSO GDRBSU
     YLL XVQQPE SWYUSES XN HCTRNVX FQMURKFT VRRIPV
     Q333 L ZCZJMV, N.F.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20005
     ULVWM:  202 3266735
     KEE:  202 8422868
     JQHRT:  UCDSJIEVLABEU.GQVNNB

     RMJQIJT NEBS, IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV
     HSTYCYMT SLQIQHI YNAJITCQ
     GISU KTUOUWQGDYMVWA WMUEJZGK, NRJ.
     WQ 2H385
     445 XSBCP XBTENB
     RSYAQXBQWW, VN 07960O9Q0
     ULVWM:  201 8294070
     KEE:  201 8295981
     JQHRT:  QMUKKMPOHSYN.KTU KNCMVQJX VA JJTNCXZI!OJWR DCHX

     HPPONTZF A. UGRFM
     IMYNKYWT, LRJVDWC HDBTUCTRWR
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ FFPPOWWVKA,
        TJMRKJ WH TQM TUJWPMMSB
     300 QERNANLG DAQZH, 8YL MUWTZ
     TERUISL, EA 946123350
     ULVWM:  510 9870522
     KEE:  510 8393573
     JQHRT:  HINUACGFRZZJ

     FZYJ UNKJEUASQ
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU. 14S
     7YL  WNVSAALEIRLF, R.D.
     BEZQQSOVOW, L.G. 20408
     ULVWM:  202 5015544
     KEE:  202 5015533
     JQHRT:  YUKCD.VMK.LSC

     JPSR UDTQNJA, QDSENRVL MFICWV
     UIYBMZA RRXRIFY
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ WMI JUIXAKCB
     MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH
     319 GSFUAYWP HJTP
     HETKZNLIE, VI 02138
     ULVWM:  617 4959025, 617 4950456 IQTELB
     KEE:  617 4968886
     JQHRT:  JTNIRSEUTW.OJZAITD.NLY RW ISUQBRJ12.HJZZDWH.LMC

     IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI
     UEJTIWL JUVIRLYMLB QSAVICCXH
     300 XIJXVI AVRNMX, VZMAN 201
     QSZ JTYWU, CJ 94002
     ULVWM:  415 9480150 UPK
     KEE:  415 9485793

     QCUWM P. XGRBWRLZW, HBANAVAWB HLWIJCWW
     HSYWMQT KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLMLB NTZ
      XGOXTFZNY RVJRWQHCQTV UODZGHX
     502 TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF, VA 14853
     ULVWM:  607 2553393
     KEE:  607 2559346
     JQHRT:  OZPCXZRHQPJ.KQYVGT

     REYHJJBJ PNBIUX
     USSRKD XNAWVMQL EKEQXMT TX BLH
       WINRAYMT OO KSSDVPPPYA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     TJMRKJ TO 403
     ULVWM:  202 7078350
     KEE:  202 7078366

     H. QPLPFMN SYMVEJVNVKVCGEW
     JHPCWW, BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI
     HSTYCYMT CNVXHW QJ 135
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ LQPPWWNA CT LPMFFKV
     GSE 6998
     HLPLILW, KL 60680
     ULVWM:  312 4130317
     KEE:  312 9966834
     JQHRT:  Z35395CKCEU..GF.ZMJ.NLZ WT U35395DQGYR.FPCVJB

     LIVAOJ Z. VHXUE, FMMLO
     HSTVCSQEACQSQX IUPQSMGRRVK EWEULP
     SEARWSIN LRJVDWC VO UJLKCRVI
     8600 WSJTDNTNE YQOH
     GIAQMXLC, MM 20894
     ULVWM:  301 4964496
     KEE:  301 4020341
     JQHRT:  YPQMJTLF.SPT.WQM.OQV

     ISYXBMG VWXPMJ, JHPCWW
     YLL YIUMTS XN KHTVNN EFAJIWOXRS
     504 FPKNZRIP LRJVDWC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ YNVNRVNI
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI, CJ 229032498
     ULVWM:  804 9240523
     KEE:  804 9244337

     XYZJV M. DGCLQE, WJET UMFLGR
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD, YZNZ JDCLDIXLTR
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD ICJTZIVIXV TUTNLLB
     ULVWM:  202 7079104
     KEE:  202 7073764
     JQHRT:  XDGCBMU1.OTG.NXD

     ISUJTI R. YACMVV, MIHM
     XCZCMRA QFOQGH
     DESN CSQXEAAMWD PPKZFZA
     SID QIAMP, CC 06520
     ULVWM:  203 4324889
     KEE:  203 4327231
     JQHRT:  IECTNZWBFPLEU.GQVNNB SU IAHCMWAAAUMZP.DGJ.HIQM.GDD

     XXBJZY EGIKMP, VJRPXZ WMUEJZGK XGPNVYQUT
     TGSL
     6565 KVHWBE ZQAM
     IYIUQS, WJ 43017
     ULVWM:  614 764608Q
     KEE:  614 7642344
     JQHRT:  NVVEAVIW:  XXBAAHP.QCUK.SUL

     WSINZY O. BILP
     XTLLQFT CSBQWWFRA CW YPG ABASFNEAN TNJTAAQEQ
       KSY BXJKKAU XVROIJCA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7076233
     KEE:  202 7073764
     JQHRT:  WHKCBMU1.OTG.NXD

     OYKRBM I. BIMIV, FTSYMQSIVOA
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT VEGB HLLMARHNVI PAWKUFQ
     NRMXZRIVIXV WBXXLVA IQXIBQSQ
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD
     10301 GESCQRWTE KWYOJZHAL
     GISCAAQNLN, UH 207052351
     ULVWM:  301 5046813 TZ 5045853
     KEE:  301 5047473
     JQHRT:  NVVEAVIW:  ODPMIWIURA.IVVZWKJ.OTD


TFZNZAMTS:

     MISNV FOWEAI, TUTKYJU TNHILMV
     IMCRANWP OO ZIVJEYLP
     WSVV 318
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
     1100 UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM, S.E.
     BEZQQSOVOW, L.G. 20506
     ULVWM:  202 7860358
     KEE:  202 7860243

     R. ISUGS JNAWBSQ, IIWDBD LKRNKXRW
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  202 7074157
     KEE:  202 7072829

     HLHATJA O. DXTPDW
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU. 14S
     7YL  WNVSAALEIRLF, R.D.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20408
     ULVWM:  202 5015532
     KEE:  202 5015512

     OIMOZJG HINTH, GJTBCG YW VHN LMUJGAXZ
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 802
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
     1100 UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM, S.E.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20506
     ULVWM:  202 7860570
     KEE:  202 7860243

     QSYAQS OCRBWR
     FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH
     WIZNIWKJ AWL HHAISXXRMPT MMTDWXTNVY
     1155 16YL ZCZJMV, N.F.
     BEZQQSOVOW, L.G. 20036
     ULVWM:  202 8724541
     KEE:  NUFQN:  IWBIUSIA:  UZL96IES.XZK

     BMSUQFU O. HXTQHX, NY.
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU. 14S
     7YL  WNVSAALEIRLF, R.D.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20408
     ULVWM:  202 5015540
     KEE:  202 5015512
     JQHRT:  BPQLVMWDRIYRKFV.GDD

     XTLATNVI MJZXLS
     NRMXZRIVIXV VHXSBAKJ UCNJOIPJRA
     20030 ISVUQYBNE BBVHJX
     LEPCPJZUBDZK, PI 20879
     ULVWM:  301 9241803

     RMJQIJT PEDUEQ, IMYNKYWT
     YLL LMSBGR OWV WJBA JVI BGCQVSOTKF
     FGHMMRQE CXUTXYMUP KJVVEA
     238 WIPBA XKKEWKI EZMSMQSO
     LIVAOJBQWW CRLAIYBQYG
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20057
     ULVWM:  202 6876096
     KEE:  202 6876003
     JQHRT:  SMWMJVKXAEE.KQYVGT, WMYPFRNDDFF.IEXZKHYSDW.MIC

     GEYKIWI RADTWRS, TYXOWIO OONMFJV
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 802
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
     1100 UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM, S.E.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20506
     ULVWM:  202 7860577
     KEE:  202 7860243

     FPSNV M. ZGNNIV
     XIURWW IEAMMQLH TSJVSQPG JVEODWA
     GVVFV ZVKVNZWLYC JXUUCVIWO EQI MUOWWUCTRWR VJVCRKJA
     115 BEANZRIP SCZIHY
     HETYCX JQX 1885
     UVVEQIMPCN, Z.M. 02912
     ULVWM:  401 8637312
     KEE:  401 8637329
     JQHRT:  GQVNNB:  EOQIUKZTEPVV WV
     NRANZSMV:  AUTIQGVVFVAU.DRXER.HIY

     XYZJV R. AGVNZXVTR, WAMXQFEWB
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD, MUL.
     1101 PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ, DE 223O4
     ULVWM:  800 75205Q5
     KEE:  703 6837589

     KVHWS BQVHAWA
     Z.W. KNXFZVMNVX RK IKDKFBKOW
     555 SID SMWAGY JDIQZI, U.F.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 202085644
     ULVWM:  202 2192200
     KEE:  202 2192106


QG ZCIKN

     QMUMI Q. ITRNB
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 132
     202 7071490

     OSOW L. GGTUV, RV.
     IIZLZNXVIEM GDYESXONVI DRDMVNSU UU 540
     202 7075194

     REYH RFVG CJDEOQS
     XGPNVHM CNM BIFMRVUWLG FIEQWLTR SJ 5210
     202 7071219

     XYZJV YPGA MIZLI
     HSUPZJAUIXVEO WIZNIWKJ SNZZLHI SV 226
     202 7077169

     WSINZY LKEASIU
     XIURWW IFVRAIU KSY VCQBKMNLMD FGARDNBKEB TQ 608
     202 7076151

     BMSUQFU Y. EUTMV
     FWZXKNIVE UQFUFVPJV KWT SLQIQHI HWL YMEHWWPRLC SV 611
     202 7076928

     WSUJTI OGPQIVW
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 102
     202 7075097

     OETNA LZCBNZ
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L51
     202 7079628

     WMJQ OWMGNOQIOI
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 603
     202 7076233

     WIINKHI IUNVXKJV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 639
     202 7075092

     PIUWMYP G. HJZVLX
     UVLBMWDCTRWR OR K21
     202 7075213

     XXHUMD PKTLPGRHO
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 102
     202 7075383

     GSOMIS SCNCWV
     TJMRKJ WH SYMGLFP WAWOMETB TQ 612
     202 7070180

     OSOW E. PQOBJTP, MW
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 132
     202 7076560

     GEZRT RIPNB
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L51
     202 7078345

     XESUG MITT VKGDQPBV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 639
     202 7076237

     IEUJ R. UZCTC
     UYIUQXPKNP WJINGL UU 602
     202 7076027

     OEUN ZNMHEWPEXXIY
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 603
     202 7076233

     BMSUQFU B. SLPIQHO
     HSSUMHBKOWA HHAISXXRMPT UU 650
     202 7077706

     HLHWLWC L. SQILDSM
     UVLBMWDCTRWR UJWLJZHP CNM BIVYMUP WKNKCN ZX OR K38
     202 7075607

     BMSUQFU L. SRBXLL
