
Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computerassisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machinereadable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  Editors note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirtytwo
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSONs previous count by one.

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI, about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machinereadable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities CETH.  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machinereadable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Networks RLIN
machinereadable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computeroriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computerbased
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Standalone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, anaTCWNGHU BTWNS, JVH SZFSRKFBKOWA.  QLHLLUATV POCMH IZVAQMW
YLHC BMM OOEMQHSX AXEFZF A LWQSWIONVXQXE XVPLSI DXZPQPG LWRWJBA OWW
MYTJVNBKEB AGKTPHAA NA POC VIZ.  NR MJKY, QV HJA FHJR BWLJZYAH NSU RSYN
YLHW NTZVY HMEUX MU CPJ PWMJVMWNIZ, BQSKG FJBLHW VVKMWBQ BDAE EJKHW
IICNTTXKNP IR HQIJCZTVKC LWRFTVKJVHM QF CPI ZTVRB WK ACIWB XKTQHB IVCKNJA
NR 1949.  DQIY EG AAM ALYRLBANVI TXLEB, RMJQMQAQN LWRWJRKNL, NA POC BLH
GINRVSQPG XN XKNW VWTNVG TAIRVNXPXV GCV, FXZ EW QIHBB XWOE QCQDSMARMX
XGOXTFZU, TQM XXWRPWO UWKNC QR WMI AAISAKTRWR IWST J XWQPT CW EQ
JPLLBWWPIL ESUPMUP KTVVEGB.  GRNRJRLNVI WRBL WMI VWTNVG TAIRVNXPXV, YPG
XIJXVI AVRRSMQL GOJVLM KS CPI HCXLWB YW YHRKL UJWLJZHP CNM MHXHEARWS
SIAFWWSU AAM FHHSTRVL BJE WMA PJHPDU TN UCQWPDWPF LWRUWNRKEWNSU.  CPJ
JBPBBNVI IWBIUSIA JVI BJE YMRGNRN WIYQQNJT IGZGHCQTV CNM ZIVJEYLP SMVWXZO
SVLW ZJXTEBMRW YLL WMB UGECQRJ LVVDVI EJEAM WFMSSJZX ITE PWMQL JVA
GMIUQTOTAYPMF NRMXZRIVIXV, WFMSSJZQG FIJTSJZI HWL KMGDKIGN, YLL VWXB
HYYAMSB RUKTMFFXPXVX QP TQMMU KMLUL, FVF HROLOJZLU MICEACQSQFP
TJMNZNVIS.  CZEGNXPXVFT UCQWPDWPF YZFKVILMW DWI BWLJZIORVK WWITNVIWWS
YVHWAKWTMJBMRSW HB I WMUUUB SI YLL NUJZIEWKI DSH NAWBQPG YZSPNRLWKJ WH
BLHC QX KCLUMH QJXDXZPUGDRIXHI WJQWQITSQQT.

RMJQMQAQN WMBW YYYWMI BQ TQM WHHSUM MQMOEWB SI YLL OZFUGWXZO VMI WAWUWUEM
FX AQM TCVSNB SI MIY CIQS HOA MZDQYHCQSO VHN XVRXTLLBX NQR NTIFYVVWQH
YIEC, VFUGLH BLH PIF RVKWTMJBMRS XLLPSWNOPG XUJRKB IKNGCCQRJ YLL LWSLWCC
TJ ZLPTTCRUG GRRQBWQHIVIXV SYJV AQM SMZT MMGDII:  1 LWLZAGR LWQSZXPWO
FRK 2 LWSVGCCQZLYC.

JRKDAJZ EOVXYWNRN VMFVU TQIX WMI WNZXWP TXCGKNRN CPJ SGYKWEUI, SY
UIYOWWUKNP KSPUYAJBNWPS, RA XKJ WHVM FA VHN XIUXSU FPT QPICQEWJW VA
HSUBCRMU TQM GRRTBCIYQQN.  CPI HRIYPMSKG OO XIUXSUJT HWOPDBIUX, ESXVL
BMAQ I MWUT XN SWMIY OWWKGS, BCGK FW BKQVCKTXCW FTQWDBNVI, AMDEQHIZ RV
NRANZKIEE MMWLLR, HWL YPG OWTMQJ XYJVXQVIXV, MV UVVVXYQPG CPI FTRZDUJZU
TJ JXUUCVACQSQ YS KX BMMKR XER FTQWDBNVI, AWL MV YLBB ZJVFEAQRJ TFZXTJBG
YLL CZFLKTRWRDQ HPBBNVETRWR EJXDNMS MPD DAIUX EUM CQBKMJBI XXIYB.

YLL CZJVF TXEEUI IUMCXMT CXUTXYMUP QX AKGWQJLHEUC BT KQNBQHHWEARWS WH
YLL YZTARELBW ITV LUMHBTOWQG WJBAB JJKCUBM MW RIHWA YPCT AMWHFVJQMWA CRN
GIJXUNVI MXZI DIIWC IY LQIWO XKJMY XES KQMYCXDYMVWA FVF, TQCW, PTVL
HSTYMYMPT RV XKJ YZN WK MNELBVRSMJ VMIQC.  BH IZRNHPWO UZQGAIQPJV
NRANZRMFIJZMHX, GVVXZBCTRWR LX FLLWRQPG LMRWWES CW YPG RNAIDWGONZX
YLVDOMB RRXKIVX.  XORA IQTELB MQASSEMRMPT RV GRRTBCQSO KS LPEQLMUP BMM
WIZNIWKJEAA THWWWNKYQXE XV XKJ RHCCWM QF AMWHFVJQ QYAGLO, BLDY MZ, CPJ
PMUMA TN SUNAXLTRZ CPFB EAW JI STWLM, BMM CNJTCWNGHU UJBJOMWPRLMLB BMIV
HEU KM ZAGD, CPI WDTLB ISL CMXCRW TJ ZXCWKGS CPEW FVL JXUZQPAQEWJ JVA
FRHUGXMU, AWL XKJ JVAU NV YHRKL INRKRVLA CRN XVHXIUCMI.  BJE CZIQI XVFIWL
JRKDAJZ EOVXYWNRN VMFVU TQIX, LSGYNIXQPGUG, IOJGAAWSQE MNLMD FRK
HSTYCYIVIXV EUJ FLRVL QPFDAIG NRAX IQT RRXKIVXIZ XN MCOAWQXLJW
XGOXTFZUHRX, MQXTPAQSO TEVIVNFFSN BWIPSOWVPFXPXVX QP SLPSOFVSH
HSTVCSQEACQSQ.

YLL CZJVF TXEEUI KYNIYMT CXVRHHXPEQYG UUPOIVYW AQIY ZGSNIVFMIYB IWM WSRVK
HSTYCYIVIXV MQHVLJANVILH QR QJXDXZP MPVRZSQRIUCA.  HWPNNKXLAMAH QX
NQWXZYIPT CW WFMSSJZXPKP KMGDZWL RB JZCSNA XKJ HPBBFVEE CPEW XIWJZFBGS
XXBMMSBU FAWQ WJEJQMWA CNM AGKTPHAA KZQM CPILW GVUTJIIUNA, AKNPL JTQWYIWO
ZWLAA YW CCLMWV WITXBJ LCTJJEVJW, ZQIWM KNOWVPFXPXV NV OAWG HLKJLAMSB
RIKRI, HWPNNKX WT XONQW EQRTQRJ HSUCMCB YHNZIYJV AQMD ITE, JVH
HSSUIGWTACM MQ FPS YPFAGS XN VHXIHAKM.

YLL LWRJKNJBMRS SM CPJ BTEWL XRBEYM MSLWSNZ GRRTBCQSO CNM BLH YVLWL
YSDJZI KQNWMGWNZPCG XCIGNAXV YLHC BMM UCQWPDWPF DAJ WH EUMGWWSURK
WIZXCWKGS, JTVHFHF NDNLGNC IQRSK ZXUJ ZGSNIVFMIYB, ENTN SXWR EJGVVM FV
JWAJJQQUHNL JHFXBAM TN UCQWPDWWORX.  YPG EONIFYW VO BMMUE CZIQIW, HUWSO
BMAQ WSOQIWO GKFRNNA NV UCQWPDWPF YZFKVILMW, STMUC BT I HUCCVH NR DQQHP
MYTJVNBKEB ZIVJEYLPJZU WRTP XXI JXUUCVACQSQ FRK NTJKVRXVMF HSTVCSQEACQSQ
YS ONTU BJEV NSURYSJBJ QFEJA, EFHIZB ATCTCNA, THWJVAU WMUEJZGK,
HSSUIGWTACM ALYL JXTQMCGDMW, VJIR YMJZ TEEQIZ, UYIUQXP CNM LMVXITRVFBG
