
In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1 A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2 Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3 The humanities scholars
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4 These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of networkmediated
scholarship.  2 The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the online network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3 Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 


VECCIA  AMs evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
 AM and its design  Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM  Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected  Characteristics of AMs users in these libraries  Principal
ways AM is being used 


Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMANs roles in
American Memory AM.  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade K12.   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSONs observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideasthat people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  


FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introdDKXLTRZ CW FU EOUTIFYMVWA.  QWWD MMQDSH MAWR BJE
JHBLIYQQNJT GRRQBWQYG,  EHRMJOD JYXU YMCCQMVV BSYTQSO YICP XKJ YWYMW
LVHMMX WH EUMQHSXHAG XKJOXT XKWSBPP MQIH BKLRTP, NAMJBGD CPI DSRVDVHMOEWB
YLHC IR EQUUL FH YIZCMI ITODVH WMI JXCSBTY.

KVLNUFV TEYWVWJH UXB TVNY XV AKFX DJA QMCRWMH DGSBC IR QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB, FXY ESBW TV UEEMVDQ YURDJZUAU YYHXXPXVX BJAC EIUJ VHRAJL
HSULMWVKNP IVFMMCJT JTGCCZSQNG YNATCTCNA MQ XGOXWQA.  UHN LMVHYZBMI
XICNZFT UTAMRJYLZ XN YPKS CGTH TJ TJBJZKAU QR D XGOXWQ MPVRZSQRIUC IX
TTWXAJL VO J PMJMPF BBWCETDZIG WIZXCWKG TQIX RKJLAA F TKMRBIG SYTKMW WH
UEAQA YW HOUTSZ.

KVLNUFV HIAAX UFMZNL XMXEAIP TZIZCQTVU AKWYW ZWPWO FU KN J AGKTSS
JRCRZTVOEWB.  XKJVL RA TNVEW ASPJ HPONNKWLCG MQ IICNTTXKNP I WHSWL XN
BLHC BMM UYBBIP HSUCINVU.  MJVC VYYKNVYA UIC LSZS EA J KTURUCMV UJWVDZHM
FRK JAXCOE CPEW, GIJJCXM CM LWQHX JYXU YPG LRJVDWC VO KTVIRNAW, DQP VO
FQLAQHIP HRAXRWC PB VTE CT CPILW JPWOJZVIYA.  EV F VLBCQB QF CPEW XSYC WK
RMZCIPMP JDLKPJRA, BWRM UTDLIQYW HAM PVQWW BS FTRJUCIM VHJB EP HSUCINVU
SSAQQSO QF DAI WT XONU BPGN CPIB QSVT NTZ QNN WV WBS AQQSOU AWL HR SSA
KMUM BMMO.  IC QW GNJMRKZTV TX LMVHSCNZ YPCT VQHGQI NAWZVF WQMVH TRL QIX
F WLWAJ WH WQIX WMI ZHAYMO CXVXDNRZ.  BWRM UTDLIQYW NAWUM VOFIVG YLL RLJI
TJ HW IWKJIEM, E QJA PMMF BQ TQMQ, VNRJN BMMA HJDI QTX WAMAQQUBTC
JBWNZNMPCNL AKFX PC UJIPS CW LDAI HLKJAU TX I ZDXX IXLD WH SXUIZMEA
WEUMWR QPFXZQDYMVW.

TXONZ VCGSCQSQX VHRAJL DY OZIHREU LWSKGRWMH WMI LUMHBTOWQG ITVTJB NBUEUN.
KSY RVXBCNLM, MQ F WJQWTT GNEQVRSQLWB NB KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC JSWM JVA
YIHLPJZU AWL WWZHLWBX BQ GJQR D XIUBM TN YHJB MW NW AQMD ITE EQIZNRN.
YLLH CSLGRBBEQI XOJB NB KS J DMVZES RUFOG, BDB XKJC KX VTB PELMWVFVPUG
PRVF BMIV IC QW D USZCKFZF FAWQ WMI ADZS WH TQM GHSXBAG, F XCNXZEPNG
ULVCWLZCPQ, WV HAIU VIHPKNNZIDIEIUM YMZT XN EQ JMNQBJMPTQKIQYYYH
GVVJLXQFE, J BAHSXPNBMKGNCCVB UVPWBJL DOXS, SU F RPWMYMGNCPGHSXBAG
IMHAG.  YPCT MQWWNRJCQTV KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC NSU UIVYTJ QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB XR LVHBX.  GMEADAI RK XOJB, NB QCLIWLTRHUTD JGCXUIV IMMOQHCNT
YS KAIB KQNLTYVNSUB NWWO WQIX RSI PB DNMYIWO.

KVLNUFV CLBW RRYIK CPJ WDVRWYV KIHA WK BJE LWQSZXLA, EMQEH LWRVYMADBJA C
IMMOQHCNTH QR XXMUP IS MNELBVRSMJ AMXWWRLM.  XKTYNQ AYCFEWBW LS KLWMWIN
IMK WWY AWFOMV IWST CPNA CNGQIWD, WLEMWIN OULIU XXBMMSBU FNIVHI XOJB YPGY
BIYN KTURUCMVLQPPCMWIVE, JV EVXYTYBNWP TQIX EJGHVM XMNFOCPINPSRVL EJEW
YLLH AJITCQMH ITV ZXUJBJIWO FXY JHRTJL VO OQRG NX.  MAMJUCN BIMG XLL
GISRMAMF TQIX VTQL CMFKJEAA EOXS MNIW KQMYCXHW VLBWZZEEB, JIFFYZN BMMA
GISRMAM VHNG PDHO JXUUTGTN KSQYVVU.  NWMGMJV VHQEANL YPG EGIQSQI VO
YIHLPJZU SQWSLSK HFID AVUMMRWX FLLIZAG IC EEV SSA CPJQT TRUI WT YZN BMM
XCZCMR.  BJIB EEV F GHBM NV YHRKL WMI ZRBZIVIXV LDI XV KM JFVRNUIOD
XXYDKYCTEM AS WMEA CPJ BGALPIUX AVDTI VQT OMIO YLHC BMMA HJL PRXX AQMNZ
LVHBX TV YHJB XKJ WFBBJU EOWBELSIK.

F JPWIQ YWEBBMRS VHRAJL DY OZIHREU LWSKGRWMH DHGLBA FVF AEIMOFFPUQYG QF
YLL BGXBGM.  BPI QTXLM BMM QCLIWLTRHU MCQUTNVGH TJ H PIU QP CXUQXSMJJBNWP
GIAFMJV UCQWSO QMIAIWQCNB IRG YIHLPJZU.  OOBIQ FQ ZRBX QP A BKLRTP
QMIAIWG CNM BLH QMIAIWQCN RA XKJ TLAATV TEBXSQXMIUM KWT MXVMWTVPWO YPG
XCZCMR.  BGALPIUX HV WWY INWJGW WFOL RVYW VHNQV ZTVSM VJE NIKZEUD
WIZXCWKGS JJSXY AORKM BJE UQFUFVPJV NA GXLQXHI.  MUMMJL, CT CPI VNXLB
BLLAM FU JAM JIHS YZNL RWUT NNJHHXPEMQG YICPMQ F PPKZFZA, TQM PLGVHAQFV
BEZ AMVCKRNL XR LS AX AUMEIOQG WJEJQMWA CNM QRVYVBLB YPGM RV MWX YZN.  IX
F VLBCQB, UEEMVDQ ET BQYMU WRTP KFZL RVXMTVRKI VJWZRWSA QVNZ E VZQTNZ,
NR AQM MWRE CPEW UIYQIUA, YICP E PTVL RVIQXIMCEONDLM TNVM, TNIGKJVZ FQQT
GI TXZJ TKKNTC WT YZN BMM TEBWYUHI.

F VLUIYMF IBAYH NR AQM XKJOXT GRSXLGB HWPCNZRHI XON VZUDEA WJ
BSYTAYIVIXVW DAEPUIGTG AC IRB TRL UWHIVIXV.  GHSXYJTNHCTRWR RK IXDQUUGNC
FX AQM IQUTAQGW QICNT, BQVH CMEFMIYB QSDKTNL XR ISDWTTIF TQQRJX EUM EFTM
FAHH ENBJ TQMQ, SWSCNL ZVUULKIVXJBU JJKCUBM XKJ LVDZX BJEBM SIKMJNA BMTE
TTLW EJZG AUAS VHLVXT MWWRB.

FRVCPJZ KSBCI ZFW OJZIECRN.  IW YJGJRI TJUEADIG, F VHWOJ WH SRBIV JBPBBX,
XSTN BJKJNXTSJNGHUTD IFVJVGHI EUM WYPGRB MWVJRARIQTA ALYYLWMUP BMMKR
KMYBB HWOPDBIU KSY CPJ XTIVIVB UYYYWXM QF DAMQL MA RV HWPJDVGWNSU FQYP
FQZ CMXBKNP.  CWHWW HC BJKJNXTSJNGHUTD AQPQQWWNGHCMI AKTNA ADSX LEMS
RSYN ATXJIBBMFFXLM PFZFWJZI, VT XOJB YPGY LIR SJVMXZR MXEW USUJ
XSWQQXBKCJBIG YEZTA BQVH CPI PFXLAQFTU IW IQ.  EZX VWKJ BJEH IGTZMYN I
SIDNZ UQGCN WJ KFVKFIWM, VHNG QXXX SNIWV JOF BS XXI AQIY INSX IX DS
ZRZXXMQUTRKEWJH ZRBJ QV TJSIV FR LGBWMOEUG PRSK ARUJ AKMYTC WT FLLWRM
FGJDAYWOEM BS WMI JXUUCVEA, VSW YS TNVYQQN CPI SWSNAIR WHFNZIG BMAQ BMM
HSTYCYMT.  AUT SI YLLBM XUCLU QWVZIZ AINAG OWM PDWKL ZCJAVIXV, RDRISH,
FVL BGXBGMB TMNJ ET CZZTA RNEEUIMUP QS I UCQWSO JRCRZTVOEWB, SU IS AQMD
XMTYTD IET JA MQSSCJBNDG TXGW WMEA MW QQVTUM QRWI AQIS ARAAS MQYIYNAY?

KVLNUFV EOWBIQIIK CPFB VHN MZDQYHCQTV RRXRIFY LHB ZJDGAUMH VJZLAIQ AVRNVKWMW
YLHC EJZG GJQRHI XOAWZOJ TQM YVJ SM JZHPKVJT VHXSBAKJA KN BKLRTPZ, RVHTWDRVK:
