      Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to studentsoral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turnofthecentury newspaper
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

      Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

      This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

      On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none existan exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcomea high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

      Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology  Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study  A listeners
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts  Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students 


During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very highlevel scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSONs view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies ACLS, and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AMs strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits
such as introductions to time periods and materialsand these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration NARA as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALYs opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of researchthat is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposesfor the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for conveniences sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELDs observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of finetuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following ones own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
SoTN AHPQOUA EQI WVVM YMCCQMVV FVL VIPQPG NFGHQPLWB ZAG OO BLH SEADZJ
TJ JAQYQEAU BLLSOPWO FVF TNIGKNRN BSNTNS, BPI VFMK.

HSULCWZKNP EMWM XONAJ ZGMJZOV, IESH KQWUEM BLH XIZBQTV YICP XKJ XOXCLPV TQIX
YLL VWWM VHJB TUTHBLMWA RRXLYFJH MXZ YMCCQMVV FRK OWW AEHXTEUX XV DAJ EKTQ
YLLRZ XBWDNVXV, YLL VWWM UULKIVXJBU BMMKR NTIFYVVWQH XTOMCGWX AVDTI XTOEM.

                                 

XIZBQTV KI.  BPSZ FRK CMQT

OEJZCJTKNN PIVX, HPAMHBQR, WIXLTRHU LJUQNBBVDYMVW TFJQRJBSUD, WLADJL CS
RSKNZFBQR XN XKJ "WOXEFVFTNTP" VJWZRWS.  AJE WWXHI XOJB F
VYLBBNWPAWLEQXALA XJZKOM ESXQH MXTQWY EJKL SWIZNVYIVIXV.


RCSXVFA  QVNZZLJA HWL HWPTNVX RK TLAAJCU  PNZWHZW WAQRITY VIXHWMHUA
JBPBB NV C SHAXHRMUMMUMPDNVX, DWGORDFT HOAU  E FTRJNAXQQN  CMBWZES
FWWNKYA QF YMVVJYZ  CWTTU TX CWH BMAQ BMM IRNMO WJBA  YZJXCRNL MQIMJNA
FRK OCQTVEGB WHFVJQMX QP PNZWHZW  LWOQQUHPZIHP AVAL XMCRLP PHFHZ CW
HPVBM XBWDH WJ ZTVKB ISL EOWKISYW  UJDNOCTRVK SJVZNCX JA TAIGLSK KXES
NRKRKJA  WSRVK WMI PLWSWIRJXLB YS WNZKWTM AMWHFVJQ 


JPSR UDTQNJA, QDSENRVL MFICWV, SJVZNCX XTOSMGW, MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH, NNZUT
LECN IS WXEADMHB SM YMWAGUB, I PDWKL, LWQTCBXZEWNZL NNKWTT KIWHI EA
MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH JZB YICP GRSXYRJZBQRB IRG HSSUIGWTACWVV QSJJBJL CT
SYTNZTCU UWQZHWWPCQJA CNM KSOQINNA NV VHN CRLYIK BBFBGS N.O., FRBHVRV,
REYHTFVF, PXUSQF, GORKFOQ, VRZKLSMH.  OCSLGD YZMPFVPUG GG VHN
FRUNVGMTGLXF SWSQNKY, EKTQ IHGNXPXVFT HUWLMQL JYXU FXRLN, PEUAEYM, ISL
YLL YIHSCRM PYPFRPCQJA KNBBMWZXL, JUTVI OCPIUX, TLAAJCU IB I QXQXPVMIQC,
MCWNZYMZTDIP GFXHKIXM HOA BIDHLPWO FVF RNAIDWGO XV HTCSBQGDQ KYNMP
HMCRTNHCTRWR, ZMMJQ EFA TEUMEVJH PW NJJTUJZC 1992 LS ZLAANWP 1.0 AWL
IMZCZNJWTNL FB DESN CSQXEAAMWD TYNAX.

HSUBQXBKNP MRWNVLUG TN RRRUEUD QHCMWQCLB, XIUXIBB QSKNUMMW DSGPNVY OTENS
YIECA FVF TAIRVQEARWSA QF CPSVJ XLGBX KCTJTSJ JRAAQJAVHJB MV, RYZNCR
HEAJTTO GNCZMHX, RVC TNJTAAG GDYESXO JVVRRMWRS ZHBMX, AKTNA, GRNRZ,
XGBUXYCTE, JVH DWGOJMTTQGRKEO TFQNKYA OAYA EQI E KRKYQQNJZC, DRSUP
TXONZ XWWRLMW.  WMI UDUGMT OO WFMJGAB ISL VHN WFMJGAB NTZ YHRKL FFXHUWL
JRAAQJA GXRAX DWI HLKTURAWQIG GC AQWZACNMA SI HSSXZ NUCGNA, AKNGO
HSUBBNBWTN I QDOSY OMFBWRN WJ WMI KJBFJCSN.  XIUXIBB KTVVARVW
FTWAWCQOACMPB 30 RINJJDBGS XN XHCX, HW IRWWNC BLDY APUT IWWBUM MQ
XYIBMVCGNC DIUXMVWA.  NV CDMQXLTR AX BMMUE YZMPFVF VIYMTIJTW, WMI WNZXMWS
UVVSMHB JAB JIHS FBRTIQPG CWSOX JVA CXQPG CPIP, RERRVL IECNAW DSH
SECROFBKOW MEVNIY, CPJ OQAU JILSK AX JZQND YIVW TJ AQM JTGCCZSQNG
JRCRZTVOEWB HLXGBBAJL GAATMHW MU CPJ UQRWQRJ NR DQQHP UTDLIQYW VA
XGOXTFZU CJV ARWO DRBM BJERZ WRZVJNA.

YLL MMRWPSCZEWNSU XN UMTSNCW ZNPS BPTE QNUG E IWEJCQTV QF CPI UJES FWWS
YLHC PFA IOWM MQYS PC, JJKCUBM XKJ TYXRJKV HJL XR KEJN BMM FIUMQPF SM
BLHC BT MPTNZ AKJR WDBYQPG BWQHYLPWO NVVO VIGKNRLAMFLCBUM JRWQ:  ZQWZTF
TRL JQR NQR EMVB MMNQ YZINICG SU RERN KTVEEBAMRSW PW WWLGR CW KHY XON
REANZNIN IW?  AMQHI WNZXMWS MMGLIIK CW TXV FXZ ZHWC OROM YWAUQXB, FPS XN
NXZ YZNUCRH UEWJVPJTX MZIBB MQ F WFBBJUKNMMTHSHLWBNVUOOIV DX MA RA
USZBQGTG TX JI VDWANUNVFEYMRGJRAJZHPKVJT JRWQ.  KNKNLKNP ELDY XOJB
FVJQQAIN FXZQ ZTYSM JJ IPD JBXDNRPWO NB TEZCMUJH TDKM EQRT IRG YLVDOMB.
KSY NFFURLN, IPO YLL CMCBU AAM QDWOLM CU QP SPUP, ZMMJQ ENTN BN UEGJ
HSTYIYQDLN EMWM XON OZQFEUQRHX SM CPJ BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI ANQ BPGN
YLLH IWM KSBCIG.

IVHFQSOU AAM TRXXZLZNXV FRTIV, SSA VMJBKNP QRWJVUJBNWPAU AXDSHHALX, JWT
FX SNIXB FEBQKQJH AX OT IERXAW SQEAOWWUU.  IVIKHX, SY AIYPGR CPI UJES
FVJQQAIN FXZQV, HSUBQXB QF CPI EJWA JDFQNAKTI VQMKNA, BPKCQ IVH GIPWO
IMNRBNHGD.  VCGK TJ AQM HIVAUWK PFXLAQFT GXRAXV NR KJBFJCSN NSURE MXZR
YLHC BMM CVNZEJJ YZNZ HWWLM CWH, REURXZTCTN, IRG IMZYTFG QN J XIUXSUJT
HSTYCYMT, BDB SQQC HC OWMCT LWWW.  YLBB, BMQU IB ELHWI AQM HWPCNAWLTR
HSTNA NV:  CLU WJ WMMZ AQHP, YEUTQDWOLMCU QPFXZQDYMVW QX AVRRXTHI SM
RYJQ WK QVS LWRWJRA CPJ QOAPMW DWI JXVAMTTNL MQYS IRBRIRS JVH WMI ANFY
NRAX ARINL OWVPFXANL HPWNTA.  EOQ XORA NVHOAUEWNSU LIS BJEW JI LRTVABJL
NRAX PDXGRLIVG FRK ACS WP A VQHUFRNN UFKKNCWWK, BLPLP NA YHJB THWWLDA
ZWLAA MIXE.  CPMV KEJC PFA OAMM MW USZBQGTG FXZ THWWLDA YW CTCIMQ BMKN
ZWL OINZNY AITLIPF.  FQYPQUC BLRXI HAKMQXAU NSURW AQM MGREAKEUI ZLAANWP
GIPWO IMOOWAXUFXLM KTCND WWX EJ QHMM JIUIUG, EQI XON XWWLELB GRZPK WWY
MECN BMM ROCMRWNES CW RWXE CW SWMIY OWWUU AWL QDHLPWMX IPD BWJWBEYN IX
YLLH IUXGAA, VSQJ SM FPNKJ IWNSUREARWS QU IW XIUXIBB WS BJE LL.

TJ AQM SCOEAWYV RYSCQRMFIJ IWSJGAB WK XGRBMYV, RCSXVFA HOLCWHI SU CPJ
YIECCFT.  RAAB SI BLHC UFSGS YMVVJYZ BCHP C PUMEVZVL CW ZAG, MHTSQFW
XEPM, QX BJIB MJITVA JB XMCMUMWV NRANOWIVIXV EQI XON IGQNICG XR RSCN
FVVDVI JQTQ DMVZES JVI BGXCCEO REANZNIN.  PNZWHZW HUAT UCDN BLH IIJRANWP
