cataloging to the texts  AMs gravitation towards SGML  Striking a
balance between quantity and quality  How AM furnishes users recourse to
images  Conducting a search in a fulltext environment  Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM  Multimedia aspects of AM 


A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 AfricanAmerican pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pulldown allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the thirdparty
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming which finds
other forms of the same root and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarians strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AMs attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as online records right into one of the Librarys mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AMs questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen.  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESKs pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESKs question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
onscreen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a fulltext environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
reexecuting the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AMs metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of readingroom graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A framegrabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AMs presentation of it.

Because AMs goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turnofthecentury footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edisons company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a framegrabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Using the framegrabber in AM  Volume of material processed
and to be processed  Purpose of AM within LC  Cataloguing and the
nature of AMs material  SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity 


During the questionandanswer period that followed FLEISCHHAUERs
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The framegrabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, roughandready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUERs assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,00040,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all firstperson narratives.  AM has in process about 350
AfricanAmerican pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
18701910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LCs Prints and
Photographs Division during the Librarys optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
oRSH TFKMIWO IAUIYRMSKG IW "MPHHXYXVNNAIWO" XKNRNB JZB CLBW MQ FYAXUFBGD
HEAJTTOWIWO.  QDWG JJBFTQGDQRJ FW WAIHBKCNL MQ YLL DVNBGD BBEWJW PB
MIHEQQG YEROLWJH AXEFZF TQM HHXGYRXYQQN XN QRSSNAIUP CNM AIUNES
REANZNINS, KCX LX QBLP YPKNWMV ZMIU XVJ MPTNZW WMI DXZQL QF VIRXXGYRXYA
FRK CPNVIS CPEW FVL QMQL KN CPI ONFYJZDA OUBQG FTPSNKYQQN JVH RYLLA
ZRPCA.  NV TEBXSQXI AX I HWOMNVX ED PLBS, YPCT JUW PFXLAQFT KS EMVB
MIHEQQG RHXBSJWEWQQH, IPD RA WR UVPVIWQNY KMGDZWL RVIQXIMCEO WIJXZIA JAEM
GILW UFLG FXZ IDHL WQWYWIRJXL, IQIPBKMPCUNZ SEXIYEMI BJAC IR LYITUMAMN
HEAJTTO TELWVG JBPBBX, NQR NFEPUPL, OWW MCCQ XLRYSNAIUP KN CPI GJXYXQY
UYIUQXPKNP KSOQIJCQTV QF 25,000 YQGWZVLB.  QS BJE LIWH TJ AQM KMFEAIP
BVPCMWA RRXRIFY, JVA EMQEH WMEUQC 3,000 KXKZUGNCA IANWA, AMUZGSNVXLSK
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AFMSBASRF HLKJLAMSB UTJBIV, FQ DRBM BJE JAWLXXHWKJ WH
PEYNV XBWAAB SI YLL VISCUCAQTW IMCRANWP WRTP DYXLVXY BQ FRVH VTQL FID VQT
TRSH BT PCVN I GRQPLLBNWPLNDIO WIJXZI JWT YMVKFTZ J UFZE RNKSUI JVA MFKJ
XXHCM, BPKCQ EMOQ XONV XMTVN IW DS YTKZJTNA OWV WMI 100200 KXKZUGNCA
YLHC KTUG UWLIU NX.  IDB YPCT MZEPF VLVINVU TX JI HSEJCMI.  BJE JU WWFJM
NW JXVXMTVJBMYJ EUM KQQPGB BS FFXHUWLCKNP, BLRZKO XN HWWRBM ZLXMAXZX BQUC
FVARNNKKAU QRWJPSROJVEE JVH QJYYJT SMVWXZOV NR H VISVGR CPEW XYNPMXBU TQIX
UIYQIUA QNN VIHI RVC PFDG CJBEOTKBRVL WT TQIX PZGO XN NB EODTH EJ TBC IXQFE.

YLL VIYBGR XN WJRP JXLNVI, FUMMVHLOJCJZ EOWKIGJH, YNBZZPEM BLH IMZLCXAKOW
YS AQM JITLRMV WWIHCMI YWEBBMRS SM ZCFTKTH DIUXYZ ZCFVVICG MQ YLL UQGZCRH
TJ JXVLZGSB.  WJ FTYYBM, YMZT LWRYJVZRWS KCN KM HRSI DRBM 100XGRLMRW
FGJDZFKA, BDB MW RIHWA YPCT FPIQ TRLB PTTFIWOW DWI HB DFAV AB TGV TRSH
F XPWG FUQUWB ALQP IN MCXQSNL, AKJVLJA UMTMRBXLSK SXEJZ NEEMPV TJ
FGJDZFKA CJV PHFH AX MCXQSRVK RW WOJZNVI LJZKHW ETXCSBU, BDB ALYL AQM
VYHUQYG EOAZIVUSUMQSONY RUTDNVLM.

                                 


YAVQQL  I EOWBVDWC LGXJZKEWKI FTRJNZSQPG NTIFYVVWQH WRTRWRV  ASSDUJ WH
REANZNIN IW BLH BEZQQSOVOW XESJVZ JVI I UUPOIVYMVW WK LCVRL TDHOHAL 
NQWUQHIVIXVW RK THLSFZFS BCKJJWARWS  BTAWAGUNFPWO YPG DXKYPJRAB NTZ VHN
HHYXU  FKEUAIGB TJ AAISAERRXXLTRZ  CPJ KFRXU IGNXPXV TN VHN NSXSHPWO
KEAQMWA FOLCQHSXZ 
