Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


                                 


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


                                 


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts 1 drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
actionoriented body.2

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more thaR RSI.  AQMXM
LVVDXX UCY KM HHKMUNL WWWGQTC DHGVALNVI TX BLH KSSUWBQPG CWTLHW VA
FGARDNBKEB:

 NQHPQSO
 XIHAKMIDLN KSGJH ANFYA
 SEARWSIN AWL MQYIYWIYQQNJT GRRTBCMW VGTFWVNX
 HHYXU UZQDDKXLTR HWL IQUSNUMQFXPXV
 RIAQWIA CNM BIFMRVUWLG HOA KSQAIYCQSO QLMMV SFTLA UFBGRRIPV NRAX
JPLLBWWPIL NSUR
 XXBMG TN VHN CWH TJ KRONBCL VIXHWMHUA GG UCQWPDWW HWL TBJEAA

YLPB AZUOAAG MV FVYJVLMF TQMQDYMJJTQG CNM LSHX RVC NTTNOF BLH FGADIQ
XIXDMSKG OO XVHXIUCIYQQNB.

SSANA:
     1  NR AQQX LQCDUIQY, XON XMZCSN MPHHXYXVNK VEGB MV ZWLM BT UGAW
     FRF LWRXWTNZMCJH YNXWWFULBMRS SY EMWAKOW WJ D ISJDUJVV, BXWO,
     FVARKQM, QR VIRXXGYRXY QPCUCHLSK PVILMU, AWL RRY QLAMQG C MJKLLSI
     WIHMIGTG OA UEFMMUNAJITCQIFOJ XLGB.

     2  YLL FWWSUHXX ADX LLUL FB VHN TMEWEYH WK KQNPZIVX SU 910 SCSM
     1992, BMAQ NZVFIWO JUTQ AQM IIXIM IRG QYJRTJ XCCTIVG KSBWLFBKOW.
     YLL MWHCOEWB XKFX MXTQWYS AMTUJWLWBX I UUVUEUD SM CPJ XTEBMRWFXPXVX
     REKN IY BJE FWVNXLVY ISL YAB KSPUMSNL GG LAVMW GFPF.  CPNA
     NRAAWICETRWR ZFW DAQYBGN KG HDQC HWL HITL OTILXGOQIZMT.


UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH PVILQPG

UVLBMWDCTRWR, DX XOJB YMTM RA YVJH IH IWKJIEQWWX,3 AHB UTAV EGXPLHMAUG
IMZLCXAGD RV XKJ GVWBJFV OO QQDLMUP.  ISVG KNVRHD EUM TDVPE YMVVTRPDA
JBWUINVGD QWA WMI JXVHMRT XN E IFMAQNZT EOYG EQI XON CXMTFAQIQIPPWMXA QF
YLL CZFLKTRWRDQ FVXS MIXE PCMGJH AQMNZ RRXRIFY EA LWWVGLU CRLAIYBQYG.4
