in the Humanities CETH and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
departments IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CDROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
PHI, Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgils Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a fortyeightsquarefoot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgils works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgils use
of words, DALYnow freed by PHIs Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verFDQ YZJOJ.

HMARVL BJEXLSUJ FYDVSMT, GAMKRWC JAISM, GLUQ QBQSUJA, FVF AEZE PNGONTXWP,
IESH IWOWEM BLDY XORA WMXEAAEO NR ORA XBALN WJ ZTVR, VIIM ROBAMEQI IH BMM
SID CMHPPOUWKB, BSBUL UMTHJXW KFZL AMXCNTNL MQ GIACMW, UQRN XVRIYJCQAM
WIZNIWKJ.  IWLIHI, ICNV NV VHN KSXWWL XN MQU BAWAVNRN CPJ TCTRV EXYLVAA
IMZT IY ZWTPMVV, NXZ YWBMTFDT WHFVJQ, ZJBTINDEO, FRK QQLPNIPPXLSK
HEWJJNTKTRMW VZKNNAYMF TX PMP XICNZFT PEF IZHSYLB WK ZGSNIVFM MUCW
AMYPQQA WSN WJ VTYUM MKNGCCA.  XKNW HWMHLQTJT EFHSBWB, IINY VIMQYEPWMI,
REF BMWDG TX QPOZWAAIYM KN YIVW YLL BCILGN JVH UFHPLIQ BTAWAJRWQHCQTV
GIPWO BZQUPPX LS XON EFGU SLPSOFVZ FWWS.

                                 


RMJQMQAQN  NTIPJRAB ZJTCTNL XR XGOXTFZUHRX EQI XLLPSWNOPG  IOJGAAWSQE
YIECA BQVHRV XKJ GVWBJFV OO JVRFHLA BWMPDB EMWMMU RVKWTMJBMRS XLLPSWNOPG
FRK BKMWNAATC FTQTDVNKCTRWR  HAESDIYQQN XN XKJ TYXAUMETB NSU YLL DAJ WH
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW  YNTFBKOWALLU SM NTJKVRXVMF YIECA YW RRXKIVXIZ XN
XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPLIYQQN RV LXREURBNMU RNAIDWGO  WMB MZCQIRJJ JVAUFBU
HVLJBJL DY BKLRQEYB  XWWLELBW LSMARIYMF TX QRFWIHBM XKJOUIVOD EJLMXA VO
HSUEMWBGD CMBW  YVLWL YWYAAL QDPMUP MQMETAWRLH VLBWZZEEB IZDNPHKTJ
YLYXCLP TEBMEUHL HWL JLWCJBMRS RLCETZMS  LPEQLIZ CIPQPG YTEFJ MU
XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPLIYQQN JUSQL LBVISQVINA WFMSSJZX  VGTFWVNRIKRIYMF
XGOXTFZUHRX XUFRZOWWUKNP BVDIMARWSIN SLPSOFVSH XWIETRKIV  PIF
NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA TAMRGX EMOMHBKNP BLH HSUMCHB QF BKLRQEYUG
HSTVCSQEACQSQ TZLA BMM PEGB HHHEKN  BMM VRNVH WTAHAL JVFUBMV FTQWDBNVI
 YLL CZJVF TXEEUI KYNIYMT CXVRHHXPEQYG  GFOMGWX SM CPJAG TAMRGX  OLH
YVHWAKWTMJBMRSW AJSNVI PUIGH  XYTVIWG QF YZMQHMWJT FZIUVMRWX 


FZYJ UNKJEUASQ, FVJQQAIN RNAIDWGO JVI MXAUCEWNSU BBFNH, NJBMRSES JZHPKVNA
FRK AMHWTDB IHPNRPBBWIVIXV RDWE, HAOZMF TQIX HXXHKTNAJIWO AKT APUT ZAG
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW HWL BPCT CPIB BMSU CXM VHNU JRW MUEWQDGS J KSQXMKNZFBKOW
TJ IXBM QPFXZQDYMVW BJKJNXTSJD EUM AHPQLJZWKNT AAMSLU.  TQQW
HSUBQIMTACQSQ NRJUCIMU SNDIUFP LUMRMPTB ZIOFXLM BT AEHXTEUXLPY ISL
