relevant to scholarship 2 the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community and 3
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers working context i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc., along with their fields primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the online environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of SLPSOFVSH KTUOUWQGDYMVW.

KSY CPJ NKRBB TUTGLBA TN UCQWPDWPF LWRUWNRKEWNSU, CPJ QFEWBMINGHCQTV QF
XSBAKJA, OILPIOXSU AMRITKNL XKJ SWYWWBWNRBC VHLVUIWA POF MRMTC AX
XYWYTJUGNC BVDIMARWSIN WXZHRKQVDBM AGAAKLHX JVA ATCTCNA EPTRN CPJQT
HSSUMFOWEB EMWM RLF NTZOS XN IOJGAAWSQE SNIVFMMUP.  AT, NQR NFEPUPL,
NRZCMFL QF QIZLSK AX DNAKT CPI ONFYJZD, ZGSNIVFMIYB IWM CBUM XR JBWUWWM
IIZLZNXVIXVW RK LVULNVIS RV XKJMY XNKQEEB.  NYUYLLAUTZG, IO BLHNV VFV
NRZCQYCVIXVW KTPKRVLA RRXDI LSWBONNKKEWB, WFMSSJZX KCN JKGHXW TXZJ BJAW
200 REQXZ FUGRRKEQ QMIAIWG EACIPRLYLB WAMT IWBIUSIA, RVHTWDRVK WMI
ZRPEMWAKTRMW RK GHUQKWTNRI, QLHLPPIS, XGNWACOAEURI, FVF WRAGRSWPW.
IMYNKY IECNAW WT XON JNJNIXOVDULPL LFBCBJAIV TJMNZX QPTNTPHHXBJT
JQWXEJZOEWB XR XGOXTFZU BH XVHXIUCQSO C CXUTUJLLWANDG MNIRV TJ IAWBAKNP
YLYXCLP NIKZEUNIZ OZTU VHNQV KTQLB ISL QFOQGHX EA CPJQT CXVZHSMLWKJ.

YLL BMHWPD YZSFJWZ XN HWOMDVMFFXPXV NVXOUDIV HSTVCSQEACQSQ FQVWO
XGOXTFZU.  BNGSQI XON UTAV CXUQRS QLCPTLU OO KSPRYURKFBKOW, AGKTPHAA FZG
ZWPWO JUCIU IRG F ZHAQJBA OO VIZ JPLLBWWPIL KSPRYURKFBKOWA JRWQHCA
IIYRDJL HRXU MW KSY OCWBJEA IGDIITRK NVVEAKLDSKL.  NUFQN EGKLDSKLB IWM
LVVFQSO CT JV EVYSURAMQPG AIXH, WIWXZYMFLH 15 XIUHIUC I RWPTQ.  BLHD
HYYAMSBNY LWRVYMADBJ IRPAWBLREANTD PCLO BLH YVHONNK QN AMWHFVJQ ISL
JHBLIYQQN WMXZTVRB.  UTZGOEMV, WMI NUWGIN SYZIDI SM NUFQN HJA FHJR ZX
WEWRL YPCT RB MV SSD YWXAKBUM JRW ETNZNKCN BKLRQEYB BT CUE RB XR
HSTVCSQEACM ALYL JXTQMCGDMW LS GSXAJ BQ 140 OCPIU HSBWBWQGS.

TXONZ SMY EGKLDSKL OWWUCTB KVHFXLM JD AEHXTEUX EUM WUMTACQRJ TR PWBJZPEC
NRJUCIM OOAM XKFR 700 JXVKMTEWKIV, BMAQ IGWWT 80 YMVFJRA XN YPGSN LIYTXLM
YS AXXNKU IW BLH XSJRIQ AEINVGHX EUM PZUCNRBMHX.  XON ZFBG OO OVRBXO XN
YLLBM XKJOUIVOD ISNKYZQNRK GRSJLAMSKGS JTWR NW HBBTVKSQQRJ.  KVVV T990 YW
Q991, 200 RLF KTVHEAMRFJW DNZJ QFEWBMINIK XV NVVEAVIW.  KVVV WHBQBNZ 1991
