publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  


FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoZEPNG
ULVCWLZCPQ, WV HAIU VIHPKNNZIDIEIUM YMZT XN EQ JMNQBJMPTQKIQYYYH
GVVJLXQFE, J BAHSXPNBMKGNCCVB UVPWBJL DOXS, SU F RPWMYMGNCPGHSXBAG
IMHAG.  YPCT MQWWNRJCQTV KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC NSU UIVYTJ QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB XR LVHBX.  GMEADAI RK XOJB, NB QCLIWLTRHUTD JGCXUIV IMMOQHCNT
YS KAIB KQNLTYVNSUB NWWO WQIX RSI PB DNMYIWO.

KVLNUFV CLBW RRYIK CPJ WDVRWYV KIHA WK BJE LWQSZXLA, EMQEH LWRVYMADBJA C
IMMOQHCNTH QR XXMUP IS MNELBVRSMJ AMXWWRLM.  XKTYNQ AYCFEWBW LS KLWMWIN
IMK WWY AWFOMV IWST CPNA CNGQIWD, WLEMWIN OULIU XXBMMSBU FNIVHI XOJB YPGY
BIYN KTURUCMVLQPPCMWIVE, JV EVXYTYBNWP TQIX EJGHVM XMNFOCPINPSRVL EJEW
YLLH AJITCQMH ITV ZXUJBJIWO FXY JHRTJL VO OQRG NX.  MAMJUCN BIMG XLL
