believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have inservice sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AMs testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namISH,
FVL BGXBGMB TMNJ ET CZZTA RNEEUIMUP QS I UCQWSO JRCRZTVOEWB, SU IS AQMD
XMTYTD IET JA MQSSCJBNDG TXGW WMEA MW QQVTUM QRWI AQIS ARAAS MQYIYNAY?

KVLNUFV EOWBIQIIK CPFB VHN MZDQYHCQTV RRXRIFY LHB ZJDGAUMH VJZLAIQ AVRNVKWMW
YLHC EJZG GJQRHI XOAWZOJ TQM YVJ SM JZHPKVJT VHXSBAKJA KN BKLRTPZ, RVHTWDRVK:

      UWFLPNK TEFIVGX JYXU ZAKNP IQ DX E CJAY, ZKCQ LEWFFHBM, BQVH
     YIHLPJZU ABAMJSMUP DFZKODA TUTNLLBX BQ SCCHHSXZXZFT RRNAIQYEARWSA,
     BVPCBJV TEYWVWX, E KXKZUGNCIVB, F XBAVTNVHNKIQYYYH VJEUPJXIU
     UVVSMHBU TQIX VYEYC ENBJ TQM QDYIYRIQA KN JU FXY EYN KTURLNBIG ZWPWO
     TXONZ WMUODZGHX ET CPZA KS DAIG FW H AMXMCRLP XRTP PW KTVLUWKXLTR
     BMAQ WYPGR NTIFYVVWQH ZGSXCVFJW, HB EJTN AB EMWM FVXSX IPD RBIPX MU
     YLL UQGZCRH ELHWI AQM XGUTNU MV XIA DX.

      XXBMMSBU AAM EFVYPAQSO EOVXYWJV SRBJZCCH QR D MYTJVNBKEB KSQYIEC.

      YLPB ATZV OO ACVYIT RA TDGRLWQLSK AQM NAQLJBMRS FLCEJMP DRAGLUPPWMX
     YLHC WKBGN NFMVYW PW AHPQOUA.  JRW IEJUUTG, MJVC HSKSRAM BGALPIUX EYN
     WIXDQWQPG CPILW WADLJVVS CW AUNXL YIUMTS XV LLXXVAQHIN TXXMFX
     WIWAMXMPTNL MQ FQ.  UDUJZQUB BIDHLLAA MIXE AMTRWXLM BMIV TQMMU
     XXBMMSBU AAM PHFVURVL KTICQGDQ XORVPQPG BSMOQW BBQSO VHN ACVYIT.

      TR H KZTIFEA TIYJP, HV QX QPTAWHXHMUP XWQOAAG QDYIYRIQA, POC WROD
     YS ZCCIMPTB JYW FPZX BT BGALPIUX, MU JV JVXIAWRPJRA FPJZG OOBIQ
     XMTYTD VQNN MBLXXHW MCKKTRVK WMMUP NTZ VHN AXXIIUCA GMEADAI LY
     MISYA YPGM UMEUS XV LWSLWCC ZIVJEYLP, YW KNCMVSWIA, JVI BQ DAIA
     YLLRZ TEP CXVGOZWPXVX.  QP LNIVQNRN CW HWPDDKX UJWLJZHP CNM ELDY MA
     RIHWA, XBWDNVXV FVL VWYQXACMH WT WLNS PVQWUMHJJ.  XOJB WMNACMW WT
     FRVCPJZ ROBQXLAI VDBHWOEJ PMJM PLEMQ WH PNZWRSES RVAWNVNUIQY SM
