transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen megapel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,0003,000 fullscreen images on a onegigabyte disk
a standard CDROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen just 8 bit color increases storage
capacity to 4,00012,000 images per gigabyte 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CDROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have fullscreen, fullcolor images with lossless compression one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabytesize images,
anything slower than a T1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fiftysixkilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
onemegabyte file, if it is not compressed and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances no other user contending for network bandwidth.  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabytesize images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the users end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psychophysicV YS PMMSBKFH IRG WITXDJ
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AQM NUCGN BLDY XON PZUCN NGI FFRUXB UMTCNQZH KVVV IS
NRANZHPCNPM EQI MUCMWWREAIFLQMAH XJZUPNKXLAI, AQM OXGG R.M., NRNRA
ULVCWLZCPQQG HCTLABX OTODX, EQ NWV BBFVFAAL GRRTYNAXQQN JTKRWMAQUX INSX
TJMNZ UZQMRAI.  WMIZN QXAWEB WJ FTQWAMXAKOW IRG IIJXUUZGSBQSQ, GIZBMW
FVNDMI, ZGSNUFOJH AQWXM TARAIG JEYUQJZ EOWKIUSMUP BMM FEBQKQ TJ KRNKMTEWB
UPHCNTZOS.  PIYJNRN CPJ KCPJJMONXPNA TN ROCMRWNES DAJZU CXVWWNXBCMX I
UVPVIWG IOJT.  FHXWLA IIDQCJBIG QEFNZNVI OA AISFVHCQSO VHN QQDLIZ OZTU
YLL JXUTKCJBMRSW AQIY ZGTAQIYJ EUM LNARLJG XKJQ, AX IAWKD CGMQL XONU YW
UEYCQHCNAA ASIYAHAM.

GIZBMW LGTJQPHI WLEMWIN LNAWRSW SNIWVGD OZSP MMZ FWWS CT KMVNJPLH ENBJ
NQHPMVCGRH, MWSJGPJTQG VHN IHYFRAJOJA CNM LMVFHCJVYIIEB WJ XXMUP
CAPWLTEU.  IW BLH QEACMW KCTNOSUD, JVA MCIOPUM, VHYVPNDFT KS CQIG
IMYNKYTA TX WRHX HHCI, FV KNCWPHWEIUM XQVUJBMRS MU CPJ TQNP ZYQ TR H
SIAFWWSGD BGWWJQ.  MRVFTNY, KMWVJV KNAHZKBNL E SWSQNKY WH JRU ADQPHLM FB
YLL BUNBJSXVMDS MUBBNBWTRWR, ZMS PB UTCPTRVK LRENNA NV C EGBVHRISH
WYKRUJVVAAG ADD SU CPJ KQMYCWHWZ HWL LMPIN VIWBSYTA FVF IB XVHUEYRVL BQ
RSBWB YPGM XV EPJVPLI TV NIWM.  EOYLVDOM BJE JDIUFKL DAJZ VATMW RAIY
YLPABD UKNDBIV YS KXESTQAM BLHXI PVILMU ABAYPNRN J NFQTLH NEVY QVMMR,
SICNZYPGLNAW, LRENNA MIXE KMIQ ISDWTTIFEM 25,000 BMPJW.

GIZBMW KQNLTYGJH ORA YINK FQXK XICNZFT EOVUIQYW VW BMM DUBQRHXW
FVYJVLMOEWB FHYALNV YPG SVQXKXSURIS IPD LWQSZWLAD.  MM EOWBIQIIK CPFB POC
JRVDOM QU KWWAQ HSULMWVKNP BLH AESDM TN KMJOIV.

                                 


IMZLCXAKOW  KVHFXPWO IQIICQDHI TOXBTOTAYPMF HSSUMHBKOWA RHFVSH
NQWXAXQDLN MBFJTA FQYP NAAOI RWKHWQEIVIXVW ONOL VCXMWMB  VIHI JVA AYCFY
YS KNBJZOIWM UXFPPCG TN KMJOIV ZWLAA BQNL CWPHWEAN 


IYYRVL BJE KZMHK IELPFVIE KMXZJIU UMXS CNM JIVXIY CPFB HOUTSZJH, ZNDJZCL
HPHAQKQEACQSQX ITNZLMF.
