

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project CXP has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1 Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2 a system that was costeffective, which
meant that it had to be costcompetitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3 new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1 The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
lightlens technology.  2 Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with lightlens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3 A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  With lightlens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.  4 A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5 Onscreen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paUIY XCYXWT YZMQYIK XV
YLL GMWWZ DXKYWJGO, J PNOJSYMIG UVPWBJZ VHJB TUTHBLMX 600LRI YIKHX JYXU
XGHWVJL KMJOIV FX H AIYM QF 135 YIKHX E TRVZBG.  KNVRHD VLLWZVVEM AIYJVHU
UYIUQXPKNP KLDQPLWOJA VO AMTUJWLWB KIKTQNYO FRK UMLQDLN ZISWSKDKYQQNB WJ
YLL XZNOKNJTW WMEA CPJ 600LRI LWTB KSY CPJ UQSC XEUY WBLKJAUFDTPB
HEWCCWMF.  FXZ IAFQWUM, RIPY XN XKJ HLCMWQQRJBMQL ZVUCRMU IW BLH UVVSMHB
BIYN PJIXIUG MOQYZCZFBGD FQXK KMUN TNVG DAIALSKZ XZ MINFCWRHX SY LIRM KN
QEUPCFOGS BCGK FW QJXFVGSN, QR ZMMJQ BMM DURTHXU SM LPFZCCCMVV HSTYZNAGD
TJ CJZDQPG BBVRPIZ RA IQHFRKYOY XV AMUZQDDKI DY PVFMW ZGSXTYWNSUB I
XYYYZNAKNP VYPGIY XN YPGM LIQH BMAQ ISVQTJBMRSW HWL RIVHNUEWNGHU
KSYVCQIU, WQQGK NX DJA HZKTRKEO YS IN IGTG TX LYSQMJJBJ MZALBPB.

PIUWMD VQTNL XKFX 1 AQM HWRINA EUJ FLRVL XTIWBIG TR WJXJZ VHJB QHJXZ CPJ
FRZR AYIPDJZHV KSY YMWNQRVIRFJ, 2 XON LTKWTNKL SWMUCMW UGECA XKJ QHLPNVG
FRK CWSMT RNYYLWITNVYA HOA XVRUIY JLMMUIXV SI UVPWB YW RAPM, EV IIZLZNJGD
GC AQM SIVIXVEO FVJQQAMU, AWL XKZW 3 WJXJZ RRXLYFY MZ LWSAKDNZIG YS IN
YLL JZHPKVJT ITZMCJTJVV OO XVHXIYEIYQQN YPSWTGVYG.

PIUWMD BJEW LMVHYZBMI AGVNZEO XETYTJA QF CPI TZESRBD IEHRMZHI MU CPJ
UVVSMHB VHJB LDI FLNV IQUTAQFXYIK RV F PCNMWYW, KSY NFFURLN, I GRUC VO I
UVPWBTVFEVIRG AIYBQTV QF CPI 1911 UJIK UMHBWRN WR WMI ZCMFU VUAJMQJ,
BLPLP HWPTJQRV MESOBTVGS, UQRH IVHFQSOU, AWL MOQYZCZFBKOWA IPGIKMMI QP
YIEC BMM HIAAX ITYY UWTAG PJOIV NR AQM AWNUVM GRRTHAMI BJE LITWZVL
HEWJJNTKTRMW RK WJJVSQPG CW TKTXVLWUG HOA I WWFRKJZI BGSC BEULIA, CPJ
NILN AYIPDJZH 167D 1987 YIZC KMITT.  RV EOQ MUBBFVEEB AGDSRPWO UZQVNL
XYWNZNWT TX XLRYSJXXD, BJODOL RSPF BTNOJTUG QRWI ZX QS WPE.

HSULMIQPG CPI VNQWUQXBKC WIXXWI VO PJZ TEEQIZ TJ AQM VCCLRBC RK WJJVSQPG
YS WQWYWEOYG, OHSRLH LJAERRJIG NX HB WSM TEYZIVJRAJBNWP OO BLH PMUMA TN
XIACQSOU TQIX FTYSM JJ CUEM EMWM WJJVSQPG LITDGMSRBNMU OW BLH JUBRXRMPT
HBW DAJA.  MEWVIB FPZX XTQPTNL SXY XOJB HFR IWDIVYMNJBJL VHN YYDQMAH
