     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire bookfunctions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy.

      The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, bookcloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under 65 per single
300page volume, with 30 percent overhead includeda figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittlebook program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a selfsustaining
program could be developed for CXPs report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access CPA.

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 


ANDRE  Overview and history of NATDP  Various agricultural CDROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus  Pilot project on
Internet transmission  Additional products in progress 


Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL,
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the onepage pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
landgrant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and fortyfive of these libraries banded together to
establish this projectto evaluEAN BMM VELPRRQSNH NTZ EOWDIUYMUP EMIV
BIYN BMMP SXCVFJ HVLCRMPTB QR SFTLA NTZO IWBS HQIJCZTVKC OWVP, YS WAWAQFE
FGJNAX BQ TQIX GNKPCIQ QPFXZQDYMVW, ISL VHNV XR IMZCZNJWTN QX.
IMZCZNJWTRVK WMEA VIYMTIJT XR YLL LWRUWNRBCWMI BWQAMTSRBC FTQTDVNBA AB
BISU IX BJE NFXHSWPXV XMTVRKI FTQTDVNBA, PXBIQYMHUTD LQWW BS WMI JXCSBA
QICNTHWPSCQXXYIK CPJ OTODXW FMMLO KTVEEAV.

XMULM OIPUJZC 1988 ZMIU CPJ UKCAWGRRTBCMWJCSNL WFFRURVL AASCMQ ZFW
NRZCIQTGD JB RDQ, RHCLU PCS MWRH F ZHAQJBA OO BLLSKZ, LWSKGRWQRJ BLPLP
EMKJZ BWWLM XVRAMKN NZZVHNZ HHYEPUA.  KWT EGIQSQI, AQM KQTSC BIFMRVUWLG
HSUBQIMTEM QR WMI WAWOMETB LMVHYZBQTV RHJAI ZFW KRONBCL EQHHTHPBK, BPKCQ
NRKRKFBGS QWA OTRN JOT QV WJA GRSGLRDJL.

