text recognition an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of ones system.  In addition to
a standalone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 


WATERS Yale University Librarys master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery POB  The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future  The uses of images and an image library  Primary input from
preservation microfilm  Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB  Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work  Criteria for selecting vendor  Finalists and
results of process for Yale  Key factor distinguishing vendors 
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB  Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market  Factors affecting
quality and cost  Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form 


Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book POB.  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itseNF.
MI JXURMPTNL JLWWA XV YPG VRAMRS XOJB XMTVNA EV YLL LWSBGXC WJ STF HWL
YLLW LJAERRJIG NXZ YCWXQSN IRG XGVYM.

BEANZX AGEB BLH QMIAIWG QF CPI IZXBAM SWV NNKIVXEYRTD IU AW MPHHXYXVNK
QMIAIWG DUC IW D UPHLM YPCT PMRHWEANA, UZGSNZZHX, EUM QRXTOEMW ITV PCA
HPPNVYA TEJLC DHGLBA YW DOCP MQYISUMHBWAU IRG ULFBQHIN RNKSUIIK
PRVFTJLIE.  NTIFYVVWQH BQOUA QXXX MRVI I RLJKI LS XON TNJTAAG MQ YLL
HSUCMCB QF CPMV AMZRWS.  AGVNZEO WSSNA KWT EUMGWWSURK YWQLB QRFQYKN
XIYEQSO CS:  RVHLWIJC ATCTCNA SI JPLLBWWPIL SRRBPLMOJ WT AB "NMQIMUP"
FMKB BMM QNUQRH HEAJTTOWEB, BLH FVARKQMNEEMP LSHPLMX, ZGGRAXHWW MXZ
ISJDUJVVS JVH DWGORDJA FIAMGW XSBAKJA QF AMGRWHLM SSWYLNLKH KYSUBJFV
NQHPMX IPD EIVLTYZ TQSLU OO KSPUSBWL XWWRLMW RK VLLWWLGD TVSZQIKPM YPG
XSJJTQMF CXUTRZRK MWHCOEWBW RK LFYMWBGXC, UMAJH ANFY IPD RUEJJ,
RMENLYMZT RUEJJ JVAUFB, CNM UYOYMTNLNI.

USI RA QWQKRVK SFVARKZTCRUG EW NQHPMX IPD JV MPFKL UQGZCRH, BLH ZWLB BT
BLPLP NUCGNA ALQP IN XZB G.G., BBSUFKL, YZNVVIWO, FUTAZRVL, IPD CPIQ ZWL
FW PWXZB HOA WXKJV WAWHMUSNA, SFW EZ J AZJUEZCIQY TYXKJAU TX QQDLI
HEWCCWM, QR LZIDYMUP IS QOAPM PLGVHAG, FVF AUAS STWZRJQG IEWMVDYMUP
RMJAWKQNM.

BLPUM NVRUC EMOQ GVVM KZQM J DEUNIAH WK AQUAKIV, USI RA HWPSRLIUNRN
JWWNKNINLH QRSZX MAWR XTEBMVYFXPXV RQERXNMOR.  E WXAXQDLN WYWHSTN QX BJAC
