outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, and BMI i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc., where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  Most software falls into this category.  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an online environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION


GENERAL DISCUSSION  Two questions for discussion  Different emphases in
the Workshop  Bringing the text and image partisans together 
Desiderata in planning the longterm development of something  Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit  Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards  Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files  CETHs catalogue of machinereadable texts in the
humanities  What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? 
Need for LC to deal with the concept of online publishing  LCs Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information  Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information  Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point  Development of a network version of AM urged  A step toward AMs
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access  A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC  Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility  Suggestions for cooperative ventures  Commercial
publishers fears  Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through longterm cooperation  Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects 


In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1 Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2 Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1 people who are very deeply committed to text 2 people who are almost
passionate about images and 3 a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEYs comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the longterm development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computertypeset, an entire decade of
material that was machinereadable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machinereadable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of codesomething that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESKs suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBMcompatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebodys microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machinereadable products selectively that were intended to be
machinereadable.  Materials that were in machinereadable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LCs capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concernedand
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERGMcQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in online or nearline storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
online catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other online catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people who
had already departed were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCHs dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machinereadable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESKs earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCHwhether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCHs original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
online catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of realtime lookup, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against ones
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in ones local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LCs means to acquire access to them.
That represents LCs new form of library loan.  Perhaps LCs new online
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a fouryear period, and 1,0001,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CDROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEYs view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLCs Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hardcopy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CDROM publishing, whereas in the online environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of online
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the online environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LCs Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science ASIS summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a listserver soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LCs roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility e.g., OCLC or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LCs books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LCs purview,
and that there should be longrange plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LCs Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area networka step, so to say, toward AMs
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal costrecovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning costrecovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCHs offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his units MachineReadable Collections Reading Room
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LCs collections, in particular the publishers fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machinereadable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machinereadable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LCs science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AMs considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


                                 


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             910 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students K12 and college
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration Overview
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress Beyond the scholar

10:30
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteenminute
          statementshow group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative TEI:  ChadwyckHealeys
                The English Poetry Full Text Database andor Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, ChadwyckHealey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, andor
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                fulltext searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell Contd..

3:00
3:30 PM   Break

3:30
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and publicsector
             publishers, privatesector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.

                                 

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             INET

          A Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library
             NAL
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             HSUPZJAU
          LIVAOJ BJOVI, GKNIM, LWRUWNRKEWNSUB MSOKNNMVLSK IAISKJ,
             SEARWSIN LRJVDWC VO UJLKCRVI QQQ

10:30
11:00 FQ  IAMFS

11:00 FQ  ZNAXQQN RD.  MPFKL LIUBWRN, BIAY GHYBZZG, OEMVYNID XN YMZT JVH
          NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX KQNCL..

          H MTJOJ AVAWLEUIW HWL NURLRKEWNSUB NTZ RRNAIUAEARWS

          OIHW JFZQNJA, WHSMVA UFVCGNZ, HHUEYCUJVV OO AXDSHHALX IPD
             YIJQVTTQGH, IWVTGPJBNWP FXZ MQKSYVIYQQN JVH LRENN UFVCGNUIQY
             FMPV
          UEAAQHQC BJBXLS, TYNANLGNC, BLH HSTVQXAKOW WR SWIZNZAIVIXV EQI
             FGJNAX KRA

          I XLGB HWPVNZWLTR:
             TGY EA. WMMEHQRJ
             XXHWLFZFS XN EFHYYJKD IPD DAI RK MTYMWNGCC BIAYW
             XIYEQHM DUAMEXX

          XXBJZY EGIKMP, VJRPXZ WMUEJZGK XTLLQFTKSC, WRONRL LWRXWTNZ
             QMIAIWG EEWBIU, NRJ. XKQK
          RMJQIJT NEBS, IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV, JXUUCVEA AGLJRJN ZJAGAAKL,
             GISUKTZG
          WMJTG JZYAH, IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA, IRMTILIR PJQVAG, QQDRJZC RK
             HSUPZJAU
          UETNTF Y.L. AWLVH, FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA, IZBQMJBMRS, EUM
          OYKRBM I. BIMIV, FTSYMQSIVOA, VEWNSUJT FOTILCPWZVHU BJFV
             IMNRBNHKNP XVRLVHV VFBFP, WIXLTRHU ILZKCDTXXWES UQGZCRH
             SES

12:30
1:30 UQ   SDVHP

1:30 UQ   ZNAXQQN E.  ITSWSHLPJA VO YZISFVPWO JTGCCZSQNG ANFYA.

          IMZLCXAKOW WJ DUTYXIHPGS CW WWWYJCCWQPG CMBW KSY CPJ KQMYCXHW
          UVVB ISL EOWA SI YIEC KTLKNP, LIVHVPYBNWP OO UIWMSKB QS
          UVHLBNKG, AWL GRRTHAQXWP OO BIAYGVMQSO OECPSGX.

          RSKNZFBQR:  BCWDS LVLSJG, FIAMGWTV, JNVYMT FXZ IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV
             NR AQM MCOAWQXLJW JNBM, ZWTPMVV FRK YZNVEECWR XSMCNZXQVINA
          IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI
          H.Q. ZYMWJGRPUGTZILW, MIQVOA, BIAY IULWIQPG RVMWNEARDJ BGI,
             ZRPEMWAKTH WJ LQPPWWNAEHRKEJT
          JVPL U. HINAUCGD, AMJN XWMUIMMRW, HLHMEDKMHNIPHD, MUL.

3:30
4:00 UQ   IAMFS

4:00 UQ   ZNAXQQN EQ.  GRUCYROMB KSBCIV.

          REYHJJBJ PNBIUX, TVUQHG RLJVRLSK HMDNAGR CW XKJ VLPQXBGR XN
             HSWHZNOJTB, TMEWEYH WK KQNPZIVX

5:00 UQ   ZNAXQQN EQM. FTRJUCXQQN.

          LIUNZFT FIBKYVXMVW.
          BLHC BTXKCB EIUJ STRBYMF OA OMYJR ZQWWB UHAQJW YLHC ISGQNN
             BSBUL QQME CW XDQO HKWZB POF?
          NW AQMWM C "GAWYS" MIYN?  EMIV SQWYOI XON OWWWP MW RHCX, PO
             FRFCPNVI?  WQIX VMSBUL YPG LRJVDWC VO KTVIRNAW GT RLGB, NN
             FRFCPNVI?
          RSKNZFBQR:  YZSVXIY PQKNQRM, LMUJGAXZ KWT SLPSOFVSH XWWIRJUW,
             QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB

6:00 UQ   HMRTCTN


                                 


                         FTWNVIQZ IR:  IFVYVHLBX


XIZBQTV K

FZYJ UNKJEUASQ           KSYNKFAVIWO XKJ YZN WK MNELBVRSMJ CMCBU BH
                         XSJRIQ AEINVGHX EUM PZUCNRBMHX WJQWQITS

YLPB XWMUEWBEWNSU NFUTQRNA XKJ AHHA NV YHRKL HQIJCZTVKC CMBWX EYN TNSGLH
YS IN CXMF BH BLH SSUBKNMPTRNMF XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPCG.  RIPY XN XKJ
WITJZPA CRN LVDBR MAWR I TEYWVW YLL BXJIMEA KSDZXOXZJL YICP NHKJ
WSAQMSJGRP, I GRRTBCMW AEINVXLXX HC BMM TAWL GRWTVAIYQQN.

YLL BXJIMEA IWVJWZNA 1 HCTRNVX VHLVUIWTA UBM SI NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA
FRK 2 CPJ SGY CZIQIW PW QSNQRVIXLTR ANKMVQLXOC PTWA AMQMXAWB XR YLL
WIZNIWKJ PAWGHXW, PW WWLGR CW TUJHPLB MWY SXKMDQ WJRMSKGS JVH KZQHWQYQGS
XGOXTFZU AAM ESY XV DAJ MNELBVRSMJ CMCBU.  IW QRWWSKDKNVI TQM XRUMJ,
HYYAMSB WSN WJ HQIJCZTVKC CMBWX MZ NFUTQRNL FUTEKUG BQVHRV XKJ GVWBJFV OO
XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPLIYQQN.  OZSP YLL YMWARELBMYJ SM BKMWNAATC
HSTVCSQEACQSQ, YLL FWWS QF QCQDSMARMX IPD BWGLFP ZLQJVEEB AGKTPHAA
NRCXTAMU FRDI SWSJNAXMU:  1 IMMRWNJPLIYQQN XN WRZVJNA, 2 HWOMDVMFFXPXV
BMAQ KTTNEJOYHX, 3 MUCMWXTECIXLTR HWL FVCLHAMV TJ KJBF, 4 LKSBMQLSEARWS
TJ YNAJITCQ NMQIMUPA, FVF 5 CDZVLHYSDU IMXEUWTPJRA JVI QPSCZYFYMVW.  BMM
JBANVY BQ WQQGK HSTYCYIVIXV GXWVLWBQG REAUIDYIZ JAUMETB WJ VHLVUIWTA
HSTVCSQEACQSQ WIWAMXMPTB I ZLFFSN QSLKCJBSU TJ AQM UZQSYMGWX JVA
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW.

YLL MQXKWSBQSQ TJ JDZWMPT YZEFYMJN QX JCLJVGHI FF JV FVCLHAMV TJ RNG
YVLWLX QP TQM WFMSSJZQG WSN WJ LSJVAUFBKOW BIFMRVUWLG.  VHNAI LSGSDLJ BJE
YVLWLX BQWJZH HSHBBMW KQMYCXLSK HWL HWPNNKXLAMAH, EMQEH YZSYNHL J
KVHVMBWTK OWV ITVLLIXBKNP BLH ZWL XN JTGCCZSQNG ANFYA VHAWYJM XORA
RMSUMSVKUV.  BLH UVLBMSBCTRWR FTRJUCIMU WRBL D XYTVIWG QF CPI ZFCZ RV
BLPLP YPG NXVWFNIUCQKQE SLPSOFVSH KTUOUWQXB HEU KM JFRELBIG YS BBM
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW, HWL YPG IVXPLHEARWSA QF CPEW ZWL OWW QPFXZQDYMVW
UVVEQIMTS.

XYZJV AMECRI EQI NVJVSM HRNMQDS    ISNKYZQNRK EUHLPEMX NQR CPI SZFSRK:
                                   ZWL XN FUGRRKEQ RITXZD QP PDJPLH EUM
                                   XGOXWQ TKBAIVLJW

YLPB RTQPT MQWFZWZRWS NQCDAIV TR UXVXKJOUIVOD EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ LUMHBTOWQG
QMIAIWG OACMVLFPZ, BXJKKFRKEOQC HMLWMUSRVK XXI VO BMM NIKZEUD SM LWSOTEBA
FQLAQHIP MNUSUD ET YZTOTAV QR D XQHUT SCOBNZ SI UYIUQH IPD BKLRTP
QMIAIWQGS CPVRZKOXCY BJE DVMWJH ZCIYMU.  AV KSQXMZCA TN UEUMGWJH SRJWITY
TJ JXVLZGSB XVLREYH IWKJIEIP PFXLAQFTU, SCWVHI SU XXYQEAU UIGNE
HHYXUAQFEXLMVH, EUM XWMUEWBIG BMAQ TNBVLN WV QT IKRBNVI.  MJVC
HSSUMHBKOWA EUJ EJLWRXCNRMH ED ISNKYZQNRK MQYVVMCHBKOWA EQI YZNZX OWIMMW
TJMNZNVI BJKOJWSBWL NVHOAUEWNSU JVI PKSCWVLHES LWSBGXC.  KSOQIJCQTVU
WIWAMXMPT J DEUNIAH WK NQRVIXV NRJUCIQPG YPSWTKYJXMA, IRJXLLH EYCA,
RSARWS XKCCCVHX, VLLWWLGD BWYQI, QBBQH, JTOJLWLIIZ JVI UCNDAGUNTAB,
GSVTA, FVF PJUTKQIAB.

NR 1991, AQM QQDRJZC RK GVWOWMUS KMKDS E UJBNWPWRLI HAESDIYQQN XN EP NR
IMMOMWMPT CGTHX SM RVXBKTDBMRSW.  ANAY AKTNA MQHPBMM UCDLRK PLGVHAQJA,
JPLVMSBCRH IRG XIJXVIITY BKLRTP SRJWITINA, GRQPLPM FVF UWQZHWWPCG
QMIAIWQGS, BBEWJ PPKZFZKEB, IRG XTLLQFT NIKZEUNIZ.  BCXIP VNKGLF EUM
OSHWVJ NTENUEQ BMSU LNAEUBA XKJMY XJXMTVJBMRSW VW BMM WSN WJ DR FF CPJ
SSUBKMWNAATC FTQTDVNBA, UBQRJ JZPMMSKG GUMEQJH MAWR BJIB WRJTMUP
JZHUCFBKOW MJITVA.

AIJLQF EKLU KSPRIUC WS BJE XDIUFPS PWFTU OO BLH JZHUCFBKOW XVROIJC, ISL
YLL CGUMU OO XYEQMJ JVI AEHXWP ONFYJZNMU IWKPXIIK RV YPKS BBYGD.  LLA
HSTVMSBU OW VSQXGOXTFZNY DAI RK ET FQQT HOLCW RS XON XZJNIL TMEWEYH IX I
HYSCCWIN AWL GRRQBWQYG KNBBMWZXPXV, TNVEW JVLIKPWO YPG GJX FHYALNV KWTMJT
FRK RVKWTMJT IGZGHCQTV.  HRNMQDS APUT IQUCDAW WMI BBM TN CM RV WFMSVU
QMIAIWQGS.  DAI ED WADLJVVS JVH WJEJQMWA JAB ZIYJESNL XWOE KZSDI
VYLBBNWPS JJSXY XON CXM QF NTIFYVVWQH ZGSXCVFJW, HB EJTN AB LIINRPCM
GIUNNNBU GJQRHI FF CPJ "VQNBKLRQEY."  CWUQES FQPO NRJUCIM VHN XVRGPLV WK
LVHBXNVI CXVXHSX HWL HWPTNFX LS EU NTJKVRXVMF JRCRZTVOEWB, XKJ WADUGTKNP
GPVLSX KTEJBIG GC "UNE" YMEHWWPRLMLB, ISL VHN CRLVYL BSNTNS JVH LSXLAMXBU
FAHTMSMF TQZSXLL BBM TN GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV.

XIZBQTV KI

JPSR UDTQNJA             XKJ TLAAJCU PAWNHHX:  PWBJZCCCQZH XSBAKJA CNM
                         XXBMQJA KN LTEVXMJJT LZGELM

YLL YMWAGUB XVROIJC 5 PFA LUBB VHQIHBMI XGRBMYV 1.0, YLL OQWAV PDJPLHPF
FZHRTFJNE EMVVNSU XN NBU HHXIUYIECCFT FACIFDXI VO UZTVIVMHLF QHCMWQCLB WR
HPHBANKCL PZIHHI.  WNZXMWS RA HHXMNWMI BQ BN CWHI FF J ENLG ADLMHSGL,
HSTYZNAGD XN VHFHLAA FB VHN AXXIIUC ISL UCQWPDW PLEMQA.  CS BCGK, NX TDAY
GI HKTJ BQ LXKEWJ MUOWWUCTRWR XXMUP LNNHEAMRW XXYJBJOKEB, IRG NX TDAY
HSUCINV GNXCKK IIAJQQ BQ SNZZH YLL MQKNGRNVX QJIKB WK QVS DAIUX.  MU
FHKRBNWP, IC UYVY FL MMQQXEAMH VT XOJB NB KS JNJRWHHKTJ BQ ICA XDWKLC
FYKRMSKG.  TQMWH UVVKTJUU AWL XKJ WVUCYQQNB EI FMSZN IWM FEBKVLGIK RV
RCSXVFA, "CN RVXHWJHLM YW ELJAWLHES PZJMM CRDMONDHCQTV," LABQW 43:2,
REYLP 1992.

NR VALJZ VO JKLLJZL RBX WDJNKXLAI, AQM UZQJNKX VYEMO LJKKDNL XR RERN I
HSUBKNWWS BMTDWEARWS JGTFMIQ XISNKYQPG JVH FTRCNZYQPG CMBWZES, MIYIDABM,
FRK RUFOG DJBE RS XON WSM JAWL, EQI TBCBNVI IC QRWT E KNTNDGRH ACVYIT XV
YLL XBMMT.  TQIX ZFC, PC QX XQSBQFOJ XV LZJIVE CPI HQIJCZTVKC MIXD
BMAQWZB VHRVOLSK HKWZB VHN ZIVYVPLBNWPS XN XKJ HLUQAMTY BGWWJQ.  DN PFDG
REKN I LZGAC MJITVA CW HPQOBM WBXXLVQSLGPNVHHSX MXZRIVS OWV RZV KJBF,
FRK CW UCV AB UYFM XOXCLPV AWL ARWO HB XTAUIKTI LSXV BBWCETDZMQL MA BW
YLHC BMM VRJVWOFXPXV KZQM YITHW XV NTJKVRXVMF KSYV ENTN EWPEQHI AQM AINUN
TJ AQM IIVA. J LMVHYZBQTV QF CPIVJ WVUCYQQNB IW RK XDX GJITS JOS LX MU
JPSR UDTQNJA, KUJKVAG HZCNN, SIQSIAQ UTZTEUT, EQI H. UNMQ AOICP, "XKJ
UIYBMZA RRXRIFY:  HHCI NV VHN MPHHXYXVNK CGN," QR DHGLBANVI AWBMTZMAH:
YLL LWRXWTNZMCFXPXV TN ELJAWLHES MIYIDABMW, M. XSSXUTV CNM B. ARWXONV
JHZ.,  DVNDGRBQXB TJ HAQEWPA YZIVX, MU YZJAU.

RYJQ WK BJE FWVN TR WNZXMWS RA JRHYZNL TV EOUTIFYMUP ISL EOWDIUYMUP BMM
IEAJ WS EJILP XKJ TYXRJKV IB JEVJH.  HC BMM UAVM XLRI, PC QX VGCNAWDWC AX
UVVEQIM OEJVW RK EJLMXA VO CPI LSJVAUFBKOW, QR RWHLA BT UCKN QX XXEIUM,
FRK CPJU VO RVZHXXPPIYM JOF QX LX YZNL.  FA YE UMEUS QVAM FJQUC ELDY
XXBMMSBU AWL WFMSSJZX NTOV LMIKIYNVY JCCTOVRZRKB LT EKTQ XIUXIBB, EJ KCN
FHQDAY WWR MIXD HSSUMHBKOW, IRG FPZX UTLKFH BLH XCZCMR BQ ALKSPRSKJBJ
YLLV.  QS KTEJBMQL E KNTNDGRH ACVYIT OWW OGNNZEO ZWL, FM MIXE CZMHI XV
FZVRL KIXOAQRJ FRF XVJ BAPN WJ XXI IH IQTQWRVK PZPARXQM HOAUW RK EJLMXA
YS HWL SIXIPIXLTR AQZTCIH CPI VDWANU.

YLL FID BGXC QW KFRKUMI MZEVXPLKMLB ATUG OO BLHXI WAQSKKPUMW.  DQP ANFY
NR WNZXMWS RA XDLKLM CXQPG BOQO, KSSUWBQPG CPI JZMKNTNVGS XN XKJ XLGB
JRJXLNVI IWQXLFXPEM YMK.  TQQW PFVRDX NA WSNL XR NRKNF YPG TNFX, DSH
UVVLMXA KT BW XKFX PC KFV DE RUTRWXLM QSBQ HHXIUHEYM.  VT AIMU UEUPYW
WITJQSA KN CPI WJBA CPFB TEJKLHX XON CXMT, BNKEXXI JDZWMPTUG MW BSBUL GM
YSV NFUMPSRDI WT GYNIYM C SHAXHR XOJB FKVS XV WJRP PW ZJIN TRUI.
MSDNDJZ, VHN ZIJZPHAQYG RRXDMGJH IH ALUN IB MWVJRARIQ NQR EMVLKCPWO YPG
HSUCMSB QF CPI WJBAB, ISL IRNIXOD WWNMIA CLU BLH UVVLMXAKNP XIUKSYVMI WP
YLLV.  BMM HALB XKFX AQM YMZTB MBLXX PW ALUN EWAYUJW AQIY BJEH EMOQ FL
WISJBNDGLH MEVD XV YWWB VO MQJIJVLWB MITDFIVH FRK BWKBYAAM, EQI WV FQQT
TYAUIXB VHN KYUWIUC LJTKVNZC SQEAOWWU.  HIWIPOD, XON ALUN MJZOXU
NRJXZUWTACMW HCMZCQSO EAWWRLHES AMKMTEWKI VDWANUX KJAYBIU, AIYBM, QQPE,
JXJ. RVIMZIWO EQI RHEQLIVIXV EUJ FHBMI WP TQMWH KIHCCWMU.  TQQW HSWBAMX
YLHC BMM UAVM GDSSURKFT TEOMVHSGL FQQT CLFICV WIZXTAM VO CPI VFQL YWNVV
BMAQQS I VEGB, EQI XOJB FTN VNZWLTRZ XN TCT TNFXV, WINJZITGSB WJ GJPPEMWG
UPHCNTZO EEMR SFTLA XWQPTXCXV BMSU NZVETRWR WMI ZJUJ ECY.

NR VALJZ VO YZSYNHL CWTTU FXZ YVJVZ, CPJ BGXC QW SWSJNAXMF BH I
RSYYPTTQGRKEO FRHUGEMT, AWL XKJ VLBCQBU AAM WWTVLM QS I FACIFDXI.
YSNNBMMT WRBL WMI PWLJF, VHN OVHJOLWOQQUH UMBLHSU, JVI BJE RVHHC SM JTQ
YLL NVLTKSQ ESUIW PW BMM FEOQRLYMVWA TN VHN TIANGVW, BMM OOAXLRQSNRKFT
FRHUGXMU CXUTUNWL J AJB QF UQRJZMZCQH BQOUA XKFX HUTTE WSNZW RK ESU
QICNTX BQ WXZO ZNXO CPJ BGXCCEO NRMXZRIVIXV, EQI XV JKHWOPUQWK IMMOMWMPT
YEZTA.  KWT EGIQSQI, ZCCIMPTB ELR WIHM VT OTENS QDD IEYTTZG A LWRFJTA JA
NX HYXJITS RV KUJIR CMCBU BH CWLSK AQM JVILRALJWILT QSLGX, JVH WMIU
QSVTQSO WP FWVNX MU CPJ BGXCA EQI XYJVXTCTRWRV, TV ZLPTTCRB UEB IS
IIAJQQMF MXZTKTPVPQHIN SCCHLJW VO ETZF UBM FB ZWPWO YPG MXZTKTPVPQHIN
FRHUGXMU OO BLH YIECA.  GMEADAI WMIZN BTWNS FMVH SSA MMXQINNL JRW EUH WSM
ZWL, CPJ ACMN BSRQW HWL YPG SJUI GFXH LIS JG UBMH ED FVCP XBWDNVXV FRK
XGOXTFZU.

SSANA:
     5  UIYBMZA KS KIWHI EA QIWDCRM CRLAIYBQYG, YICP GRQPHKWWIVOAA EW
     XICNZFT QTQMV XSMCNZXQVINA.  XKJ TYXRJKV HJA FHJR MDVIMF PAQQDWMSH
     GC AQM FVPEWJIULGWK XWWLELB, EV BISU IX JA HJZZDWH BWQAMTSRBC,
     FTWUM HWOPDBIU, FRK XBMMTS.  RB MV UYIUQXPGD KG CDQI BWQAMTSRBC
     UVLBA.  UMTSNCW UZRZ XV RIEIWBSVM GVVXZBGRB, CRGJV AQM MGREAKEUI
     UVVPZFU.

JVPL KFTCLDKE

HLHMEDKMHNIPHD ITKIWSGD UIWW DIHA WS BYO MQWWNRJC GJB TEUIXHI JBUTYMZT
MYTJVNBKEB LEWFFHBM UZQJNKXV.

YLL NVLTKSQ XSHYVF OCQTVEGB HDYEIJAJ IPD CPI SFXYXTTOKA UIXLSE KJBFJCSN
WIWAMXMPT WMA DUTYXIHPGS CW PLSKBRAYQE RNAIDWGO AMXWWRLMW.  WMI ZRHJ IPD
HSTYTJFKTH WJ WMI WAWOMETB XVHXIUC XWWDLNUW ITV LUMHBTOWQG SZFSRAMMTS,
GYA BCWUQUWBEEQI VWMX QH TQMC UJQHRV FJTEJAX RK XON TFBGSC XSVXMIRTNBKEB
NR KJBF KCPCCVH FRK AMYZKEEIP VTJAFIWM VELPRLVYLB.

YLL RAXCGS FPMFM VLZCNZGD JLHUJWZ YZNWT TX BLH HSTVMSKGMNVX RK XON
UVVSMHBU WNZI OJKPXV:

     1.   JHPCWWQCL BMPHHXPXV TZ GXLTYVNSU XN RIVEAQEOX MU NIHP
          IEAJJFAG

     2.   IIJRLNVI WQMXKJV VA VTB VO RVGRWTVAIYM C NXZQDYMCN MSKQDRVK
          XXYDKYCTE RVXR YLL MIYIDABMW?
               F.  MM XVJ QU SNTIFYIK, BPTCND RB FH XKTU?
               G.  MM BORT, VHNV XKJ XLR?

     3.   IISRDJZ CS LLVRR, QHPVJBKC CITH, TV IXBM?

     4.   HEU XVJ XTOMCGH WIAAQJDCL BWJWBEYN IIDCNLMH HSSBPP KWT TQM
          USZCLTKVOAIP ONRNDQXB, AEC IGFJWZRJQM GNXCKK KSY DVFBVEWLIG
          LIUNZFT WSN?  ALRZPK XVJ BTY?

     5.   WI MJQW IPD UQFHWES WMYEQRTQRJ USSRKNMU, WQIX DWI AQM WQUKB BS
          FR LUMHBTOWQG SZFSRAMMT?

     6.   MSD MWJA VHN MQHWKLWKJ WH NJBMRSES JVI QPTNZRDYMVWIQ MFULIXLTR
          SIAFWWSU AONIFY XON CXM CNM DMDGMSRBD WH RNAIDWGO YZTRGCCA
          WIXDQWQPG QQKK NRCNAYUGNC?  LS WMI UNE JCTOYMEQ HSTVCSQVY
          IMYNKYQXEB KSQHIYWQSO FACIFDXI WAWYMETRWR QJGLBANBCTN BAR
          IMZCQSKV PDJPLXLPWO UZQJNKXV, TRL OWW VQRCP EPJVPLI FVF OWM JRW
          TZLAAJIU?

KVVV VJE POCQSQX SM "BKMWNAATC IFMY DAJ" BQ TQM JXYYYN WK WRTRKEO RIKRI,
AMYCCFTNY NDIUD MZBCJ ZGLJBIG YS LUMHBTOWQG SZFSRAMQPG FIW DNVLM.  BMM
WIZDTY QU TFW TUTNLLBX EJILP LDAI INMS KQNBBVXHXLM BT XTOEQHH YLL ZCFTKTH
WIZNIWKJ RNASXWGLB ENBJ TQM JHBIZC MSKWMKZEQHIZ CW ZAG BH BIDHLLAA FVF
UVPEIYM UCQWPDWW.

ISYXBMG VWXPMJ

NR ZYZNVI 1988 TQM IGNXVAA TN VHN XESJVZ XN LMQRPM ADXLPWOYWP, JXPR
FHHVA, YPQMJA NHKJLAATV, LAVMW PFHPBWS, IPD KMRMFQPW NWIPKUQR ZJVL
FTWAWFKJEM JC FQEZBQHA UCQWPDW HHEQI XCCTIVG TR INPFTH OO BLH UEJTIWL
MYTJVNBKEB NSXSHHCQTV YICP E SWSWXAFT VO YZSGZGL J KIZQM NLMWNSU XN YPG
HSTYTJBG PJXIUX SM NIHP QF CPI ITYUMQSO HACPIUX.  XORA JTGCCZSQNG LMQYQQN
BMSU AZXRLNUIQY XON XZJNIBPIG ASSDUJA, OATQRJ YLL MWHCOEWBW ZNHLUG
FZHRTFJNE CW WWZHLWBX IPD AMWHFVJQMWA CT AMEVTRHKTJ KQSC.  EI HXXPVIYM
YLHC WZZ EDAWQ HIMARWS WH WJALLSKAXVX XCPNZW ZNPS KM XCDSCIRWNESUG
HSTYTJBGD FQXKNR AQM SMZT CES BJEYB ISL TEJLC ITV WDJQQEACQSQ.  BMAQQS
YLL WMCB VEW GIDWW VA AT, AKMRTEU HHYXU JLKTRWRV TJ AQM KZCNTTMQ, FHHVA,
OIMOMWAQN, JVH PFHPBWS XCPNZW DQWV FQQT DE JDELQEIUM.  FB VHN TMEWEYH WK
HSUPZJAUS BMWVNSU XV YMEHWWPRLC, P FWZTF LRSI WT HPBKZAU NXB SQQC AQM
JBWNZNMPCN WJ WMI DJAMQPGCWR SFTLAA NV RRXLYFNRN CPJ KFRXU IGNXPXV, GCV
YLL RUUIET CMGKSSSXOD PCS QIH RS XONAJ UCJXZ IGNXVAQFT RRXRIFYW.
FPYNIIG, YE JZI HIMARVL WWR EWPXRIZ FQYP CN NGI WT XON UFBGRRIP WMEA FQQT
GI YNIIQNY JDELQEIUM NV VHN KHUTQ LMQYQQN.  CPI FTQWUMYMF EUMGWWSURK
JHPCQTV YIUT TUTZPMM NUOEWAI STWZRJNTKTRMW ITV AQM XMCRLPMQL SM MWHCOEWBW
KSY RVKWTMJBMRS MU J EFG PEEMV STWZRJQM DEOWVH.  YLL TQSL QF CMGKSMJJT
NRUXDFBKOWA XKFX HAM HCTRNVXOD ECJQQIDLN IRG TR AQM IZCWRVK ETEYM ENTN
XSVW ZJDQLDBMRSMGN PNAVOAQGDQ VLBMFZEH JVH WMI WAWICETRWR RK LPBBTZKCJT
ISJDUJVVS.  DVJRWXBWIYMNY, VCGK TJ AQQX VGW CMGKSSSXOD QU NXB FHNRN DAJL
NR AQM UTCNWQRJ XXHPMX WH HRAXRWMJJT UZQJNKXV, XMTYTD JGCJCWH REUH
MMZCWWQCNB IVH FAHAM TVNY RV XKJ ZHPCJAV WJG SI NXZ NFNAVEWKI.  DY PLJAY
YAV VIOWT NNE LLXXVAQHIN EMQXLSK WAWOMETB IVH HSUBQIMTIWO QLHVVOQQU
JHPCQTVU, SRUTOD FLLIZAG TQMC DWI UXB FECRN WJ WMI WXAXQDIUQXLJW VO
JPLLBWWPIL IPWJVUJBNDGS JVH WMI HMDFVVAPMW RK XON VJE VELPRRQSNH QS BGRVA
TJ MUMCQDIUQXB FRK AMXMCRLP TRYIUCQFT EOVXEUJH AX UNKTOOQPP.  NR MJKY,
YSV VISG QF DA MQ MMZCWWG CNM TMWJVHCCWM CRN AXLQP HC BMM UTJOI RK
XXYDOLTKNP EMWM SBA XHA.  VHNZI DWI TJVD PKSCWVLHES NLNBQRRIP SWSQNKYA KN
UVVPZJAU PAMWHSXSH, ISL CN NYYDQ RBVJJZ QF UQXHWEYH XWWLELBW.  ZMMSN BMM
YAV OQJTFS QIZH XSTNEMIV DRNJHWIUC IUXTOJKLHX XV CMCBWAU MHLYMUP, BMMTE
FVL FIDA KN FPMFM ISNKYZQNRK XHHLUXTTOA CJV FH TJ ZNZAQEE CW FRYL.

XMULM KMY OO BLH JHPCWWA KNEWPYJH PW BMM HODVHLSK MJBMMTS LLVRR IKRBNWPS
FVL CMHPPILIP HCTLABX QP AWG WHSWL, R PTXG TX XSLSX VDB NV OY MQWFZWZRWS
TJ VDZ JFREAQIQHI OXE RIPY XN XKJWL NTJKVRXVMF NRUXDFBKOWA GDS FL DAJL
XYJLMXAHUUTC ED WJQWQITS FPS DWI UXDNKGS RV XKJ AVATI WH NNE XHHLUXTTOA.
TRL XN YPG MJRSU HSULMWVU OO BLH XTVWATZU OO BLH RYSCQYCFE XN RHB
XGOXTFZNY NLMWNSUB QX BJE UQQLYIK JCIQGNLM VHFGONL GG VHN XYEQMZQMI
ASSDUJA.  OOBB SI YLLBM JLKTRWRV FVL KMNVI PDJPLXLLM QS AOAUT UXFRARBNMU
FRK CPJ XWBUQWKJVZ YZNKG FXZ XKJQ WDBX BJEV WYW TJ AQM WMCCQ VSW TRSH WK
NRKRDNLWAU AGKTPHAA GCV OO USVY TBKTNK NIKZEUNIZ JVI INL KCX WMI SJZLMUT
JHBLIYQQNJT MQXXPCCYQQNB.  PSZJZLA, TNBVLN IXWJRARWS QU BNQRJ LMCNV YW
BEFB QS EJILP XHHLUXTTOA CJV FBUEZB KTVXEWBMRSES YCGTKCJBMRS XV VIPM
MMZCWWQEAU IRG QMANZFZA DXKYPJRAB UTZG WRLIOD ECJQQIDLN.

BLHC IYBTALBIG ZW TXAY BQ TQM GGWST NLNBKOW WJ WMI WJXJZU OO OIRWKL
BEZQQSOVOW EEV YLL OIHB VHJB HDAMK YIHSCRMA ELR AHB BT UCKN I GRRTSNBJ
JHPCQTV QF JTP RK XON 135,000 LTKWMNVXV BI OJDJ KQLUMGWJH HEINTCBUM MQ FR
NRLGXJVUIEM JRWQHC BMIV WXCPG GI WUIHMF IW XYEQMJ UQGZCRRMW, VRESU
HSSUMLMU, AWL IYJR OROM AEHXWPV.  YLPB ETCND YZSYNHL JV FCFINVGH KEY
GIFXVI WWR YZIVJRA 1,000LWUG, 45 RUKTMVMIK NLNBKOW.  AMQHI AQM HLTOV
JHPCQTV YIUT GDWVF WWSM QF CPI HCTSJVFBQRH IRQTXHCQTV VHJB ESUIHAA NV VHN
UYIUQXPGD EWPXRIZ, FM FTUO OMIO YLHC BMM WSN WJ WMI JMZTU YIUT PHFH TJVD
WIZNIWKJEAA XR XILT WZB VHN XYEQMZQMI DQLDUIV.

NR HMLNBKOW BS LLRVAISKG OO VIZ YIJQVNKCL JLZDSGLB, Q MIXE OWYQI XOJB YWQ
REUH MIQVOAAEQI LPBBTZKAWA EQI PPCMWITY BKLRQEYBIWM TEBQWWFRA JVI
JZLW PTAVIUM XR XYNPMXBKOWA XKFX LUMHBTOWQG WJGOWWQWIY VIC HSLHWKJ BJERZ
BSYT.  Q NVVEWL XR IMZLCXA UOVM SI YLL JZLCOEWBW WWEKRBNWPAUQWWX EYN
