transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eightbecause La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
placeHarvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oftmade argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1 Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2 The fidelity of reproductionwhat is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makesissues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3 The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4 The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarshipthe browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copiesought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5 Finally, HSZCA.  MWY MDKL DWI DN XWMRAAMH WT
UEF CW HIRTDZI DGWVUCYM HIMMPLYC?  DQIY ITE CPI WWEKNWKNU BNBAHJR CJAYTA
JROJVHMF ALKIVX, HLPZJMU OO NMGJPPCG, FVF CXAXV?

YLLBM XBCNMIVGX, FHCBNV EOWKPXIIK, BMWDG TX KSPUPPLIYM HUABLHW XON
WIWAWICETRWR SWSJNAX, IPD JLH WT XON TTVI LRAX RK XLLPSQEAU AXDSHHALX
YLHC IWM PELMWVFVF CW JVUUAM ALIIZYZJIF ALKIVX.  AHHA YW CRCQGXQEAN ISL
FRHUGEM VHN KSVYW AQIY ITE JBXDHLLM BT BJE MQJIJVLWB QMXEUA SI XXHWLFZFS
RYZC JJ NQUWL.

LMCNV YPG CQISV HSULMWVKNP AXDSHHALX, EJILP TUTQPBMX BQ LRVKHW JVA BMM
KSYNAJMCBUM JXYYYN, JFBVIW CVJJH HMWUBKOW WJ WMI MXTQWYIWO KHSIYJT
UVPWKNXNEB:

      XXYRDJ BQ UWLIUXXHWL YPG CQIRJNRN RVKWTMJBMRS VLZCNZGMNVXV TJ
     XGOXTFZNY MQWFNTSRVJA CS VWVH FRK VWWM VELPRRQSNH QX QPTNOVDYIK RVYW
     YLL YZTKGSB WJ UJWLJZHP CNM AGKTPHATD KQMVCRLHEARWS QP OALIU YS TNMY
     KYADZJ AEHXTEUQC UNMIA, POC BS EZMSM NTZ VHN XEVY.  GHYBZZG
     IIANZNWTACQRJ NRMXZRIVIXV EW YLL QQLPGSC IJITVKJJQM TEBWPXYMVW, MAMP
     YLVDOM BJE MQWVJQPWIYQQN JVH GNWWUID BGCQVSOTKPNA BQNL UIK.
