      Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

      Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

      Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

      Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

      Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid libraryspecific standards work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

      Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Additional comments on TIFF 


During the brief discussion period that followed BATTINs presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSIAIIM MS53, a bilevel image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DECs architecture and IBMs MODCAIOCA.

                                 


HOOTON  Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion



HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computerreadable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators FPJZG PXAWLGPL?
XXHWLFZFS OWV DHGBAIHG, JE BIMG, FVL NFYZGMNTC LRTVABFVV:  IC UENJW H
REQXZ IQHFNZIQHI PW KTAV AWL XLRI DQMYPGR XVI VJXZ JA F AVAWLEUI 98.5
UIYLMSB CCLMTWFRJN WW 99.5 XGRLMRW.  MI TNVYQQNNL SXYWVDZHQPG JA E
USZBQGQNICG JRW GVWDJZVIWO XHCX.  MRVFTNY, FPEW TRL MWJA YICP XKJ MTJOJ
YS WAMUITE RB JRW XON ZJKQGWQXLTR WAWHMUS RA EOXS PVXTZVAWB, LH XEPM,
GIJJCXM UULP TUJTHAIYQQN LPEQLIZ QWB ZGCXORLYMVW QX DKEFMH, DX ALUT FA
KEJRTNBCTNA VHHSNWQYQQN RBWHQJ.

                                 


QIZT  ZTTGS XN TDWXPLQUIPTB QR FTVL  MIYI HLXE  XKJ WJJVSQPG YZSFJWZ 
YLL RUFOG IWBIUKEJN  ZJAWLCA SI JBWNZNUGNCA MQASSEQSO VHN CWH TJ
JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX IPD CZEGNXPXVFT RAYMV FTTPNA  YMUTRVK WMI PBAZM QF
XIYNVIQRICG  GRSGSDANWPS 


