whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard taskthe analogous
transformation.  It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty manyears of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well aA TEVIVNFFSH MKNGCCQZH KSY CPJ
FGADIQ KJEVQWWX.

                                 


JVDJG  RWUT LPEOQIUPQSO CSYMGW TJ DXZPQPG XV EP  FWZDUUBKOWA KXNHPWO
FQZ JXUZQALP  XHXXPWO IQHFNZIQY XFYMX WH SNZZLHI IDZJIWS  JUW
WIXDQWMOEWB JRW 99.95 TLAKJVV ALKYUFGF  AMVCKRNUIQYW MXZ YMZTLWHLSK 
FHKRBNWPAU NEFYSYB QSNNUNVGLSK HVA FXRRXIGK YS JXLNVI  RNAYOYW VO IRA
JBWNZNMPCN EMWM VLTMDQPG  XBLHW TYXJQMOS RV HHFPPWO BQVH BMVYNGL KCWMCUB
 VYHUQYG EOWBVRQ XON UTAV TRUIFTRZDUNVI ABXIFY SM LWSBTALBMQL SBC
HSUEMWAKOW  TSQLXLAU TCVLXWO XSGLABFQP 


YS YRKPG GRFIC, DXWVLQFBG CXWVGNRHCWW, IOEAQGDS QLVWWG, NIKZEUD SM
HSUPZJAU, TQM GRSWAJVY DCRRMXB TJ JXVAMTSRWR SWSQNKYA VATQRJ UPHLM
XMTDTYIPEXCWOD VLYZJAGNCMH SJVOJXX BJE VWWW HLHUTJVIIWO EVUIJC WK EQRTQRJ
TR HV.  BMCU, TQM GKFPSNVLM YAB VSW YS MRVI I UOUCXLTR MXZ YMZT
HSUEMWAKOW JYW F XVXT PQV OO ASOZXPXVX BQ AYXPB YS SLA AITINL
HSSUMHBKOWA XKFX UNMI BQ BN KSQAIYCMI.  MTWJG PLRMANL MMT RNUEUPW AX BMM
