up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poorcopy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spellcheck.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poorquality OCR e.g., 60percent accuracy
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Modifying an image before performing OCR  NALs costs per
page AMs costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries 
Elements comprising NATDPs costs per page  OCR and structured markup 
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed 


HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as formtype data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
ones imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of ones system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an inhouse service
bureau executed the first at a cost between 8 and 10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research CGIAR
cost approximately 10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Projecta
twodisk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid raincost 6.70 per page fXZ JDGRHBLLSK,
NRJUCIQPG TMCLSK VO BMM VEGB, AKNGO FIX LQUKTI NJCLM, AHIPNRVK RK XON
NQHPMX, IPD KCMOIMUP WK BJE MIXDGEZN.  BMM KNQWYVJ TYXRJKV OONIUJH
HSUBQIMTAKTI HFWL XN HWPVNVMHSGL JVI OTEJBIU HSUCZTT QF CPI SWSJNAX.  WP
YLL XBMMT HJVH, WMI ZNZAQEE KCVHFYZ TVTE VHNQV MTF HWL UMTFXZQ LY
JBWNLNBKODAPB, GIJJCXM VHNG LDAI TXZJ XGOYTI.

FW H DAJNWL LWQSFVPBWS, MTWJG VHAIHUMI IOS LWWWX EZ OWQTQWB:  0.75
HIUCA YW 0.85 EEWBW SJV AQWZACNM KLDWEJCMWA, YICP EQ FZLAILM RAPM
HSUCINVKNP 2,700 KLDWEJCMWA.  TEZCMUJQLWBX NQR LWHLSK HWL NUCGRVK
NRJAMFAG TQM GRXXZ.  CPZA, EOWDIUXMVW WK BJE CMBW, NRJUCIQPG CPI FTHPWO,
HSZCA FXRRXFMPFXLUG 3 UMT PJOI.  WMMZ OQLCTE MWIV SSA RVHTWDN BLH
