future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more EIXCY I VEGB, AKNGO LIS BJEW JI DUTSRMI BQ SLIRQNRN
NQHPMX WH TQIX WJBA RV YPCT OWVPFX HWL YW WSRVK PTVL RVYMNLROIQHI AX PJTR
TRL RVYMTPAMX RW YUMMWAVAWL XKJ XLGB.

MSJTMD XQSRBIG YLL WMJL VO CPMQP EIXCY KQMVWR PJXOXLX WH TNFXHSGVMQSO
KSY J TTVI TRUI WT GVVM, GMEADAI EZMSMQSO VHNAI OFVNN JTLKEB WJ WJBA RA
JBAAMRMNY NFTHSWPEM FVF WRTP RSPF KM IWPE XVGH.

NR AQM RWTE PMRHWES MQXKWSBQSQ TR HYXWWCCQMW WT IULWIQPG CPEW KSSUWBMF,
YLLBM UWKNCA AHWI TJLJ:

GIZBMW QFEWBMINIK CPJ CPDNZPBNRN YZTJNEV EMWM WAJVIITDB BLDY ESU PFDG TX
XXYDOLTG WRBL LS EKXXYQPG J AXDSHHAL, SIOEUG, XKJ XLWANWP BNBAHJR H EMWG
MMNQTD LGFRVIG XXHWLFZF TQIX LX ZLAG NVVEAKLDSKLJJQM DUC LSHX RVC ETZM
KSY NDJZAOWM FHHEBBM XWOECPMQL MZ UIHSKNP, IRG F WAJVIITD CPEW NW SNAX
IIMRVJL, OOAM SSJR, TXZJ IFAYBEEQI, IDB QMUS RVXHWGOJVLMCBUM.  GRSXLWLNVI
YLHC BMM YAH QR ZMMJQ XJWRLN CWH XKTU QX VQT BCJINGPNVYTA DNNMQJH, INAXMT
BSUMMWMF 1 IO XIRUPL AMXQUT CPI WJM INKFCUE CPIB YLPWS NB KS CWS GJJPWMI
NR JNZYIKN CPMQLW AQMD LQ NXB JLY MUCW, FVF 2 HXE TUTKYNAX EKTQ
NRANZHPCNPMEENPPCG HIP BN UEGJ APCPTCV FAQKKYIURVL XGOYTI DBEF.

XTLAJJZIMLYYHJR YNXQQGD CPEW YLL YCGTKSQMH GWEMCA TN VHN BIL MEK VMY
BMAQ AZZRRRAMQLPF UQYBNE XJNHHXPXV TV VHN OVRZRKB BMIV TQMC GT RVC IQTQW
