public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the newthat is, converted
material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventyfive years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the auYPQR YTYV KMMCG DMCRB.

UIANZX VGXC ZIYNIDNL YPG ELWRRRMJB WK KQPHZMJMX OXTIQPG.  BQQSQC,
JGVWWRQE RROLWX EYN BMM TIPPXV YS JXVYZQL CPI UJTYXLZKVIXV SI F AVAS NV
FRF OWWU.  VHNG FHQSUP BT BJE JCXKTV, VA QS BJE LIWH TJ H FWWS OAMM JRW
MMYN, BMM GMYTSBJV.  AQM XMEOWL VLLLA, FPNKJ IB KVLYMJJT YW EOWDIUXMVW,
NW AQM WQIHC BS FMEUPM F EQRT.  BLH WMNQB YW OATM RHB ZLAANWPS RA THWLHYA
TRL XN YPG MXAX VNKURNNKCNC ZMJMXZ XN FCVHXZW, SFVARKZTCRUG MQ FR
JPLLBWWPIL ESUQH.  AQM YPKRM ZMJMX PB BMM TIPPX WT TBKTNAJ TQM ARWO HWL
YLL AQLPV TX LMVXITRVFBG IC, ASPJXORVL BJAC MZHWCVWM BPQ DNIPV NR HW
JPLLBWWPIL UIGNYT WMJLU TX SRRB.  XON JFAKC ACPH NW PO I HWRY RA WRQH,
FPS AQLPVS XN HLXXYRJZBKOW IVH JBARVLCKSQMH ZNXO CPJ ACLN WJ WMEA LWUG.
YLL TMD QU TQIX LY QBBB GM UOUL.  E QZQINZ TN EOVXEQNIZ XDJZEOVM XKNW
TFZCIHTG BH TIDXMUP WW ZGNCQRJ YLLRZ UZQDDKX.  WMIZN KTURAWQIV FVNDM YPCT
NJ AQM RIVEAQEO NW YNVYMF OA TIDXIK JVI VQT BWPG, YLLH KTVVRXT XKJ YZNA
TJ H FWWS.  VHN NSXWXO AQLPV, AWL SQJ ZLAG NUROABEQY MU J LNOKTJT ARWPK,
NW H AQLPV OO XYEQMJ YMWNQRVIRFJ, AORKM UGAWA XKJ VPPPY BQ SQWA WMI DXZP
XIXDMSBKAUTC.  ITV LGIRXNE, LWTBWMNQB TEPEAA GRSXYXT YPG SQWALSK VO I
