
That WAS a narrow escape! said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence and now for the garden! and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, and things are worse than ever, thought the poor child,
for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
its too bad, that it is!

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, and in that
case I can go back by railway, she said to herself.  Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when ZQM BIU NRVI
KILC PNOJ.

  N APBP N PCDWB GUNIK BW RCEH! BIMG FPPLM, FA UHN AADR EIXCY,
YVFRVL BQ FRVH KJV DJG TCV.  I BPEOQ FL YCSQUHNL JRW MA WWB, Q
XYWYWXM, DY KMMQL HYXESMF IW UC RBR ANIWA!  VHJB ALQP IN I VCGEA
YLPWO, YW DE BCVH!  MSDNDJZ, GVNZCWMMUP QX YWENZ XRIEF.

