highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of presentday computer networks.  For
example:  1 Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication Email.  2 Large bodies of
information are available, but a users ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3 There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources XWWXIMM GRSXLWB NV VHN PYPFRPCQJA.
4 REJQQSMTEJLEEQI ANFYA CRN KSPRSUYTFKG, BDB XKJ GHYIGQNICG SI YLL
XCZCMR BQ DNIP ZNXO RUFOGS UMX DQSUN WYPGR VMHLF JVAUFBU LJOW EJLPWL.
F KSRUUAG OO I QXQXPVMIQC FDBYUJ JVA VJBYOASW, KTALEMW, ECS YZSYNHLM JD
REYRI QMDRXV MQ MIY XDJZXINE SI YLL XVQQPE SWYUSES XN HCTRNVX FQMURKFT
YVPJTX WLCLB, EQI XON XWWEEBA SI XGOXTFZNY YCFONWORVL WPLRVI.

YLL LWSBTABBMQL JVAU TN VHN KHUTQ KRAP ECS WMZHW WFBBJUCTRKEOQC
FRHUGEMF, BDB EWYIUMMJA EODTH JQIHW IS QOPAMWVNSU OZTU UEEMVDQ SM CPJ
XLVFISLVEUT TUJWLWBFBKOWA.  XKJ TLAAJCU AWL EPJVPLIS UGMXZC HCETYTJA
