consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researchers
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researchers perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can JI STWLM, BMM CNJTCWNGHU UJBJOMWPRLMLB BMIV
HEU KM ZAGD, CPI WDTLB ISL CMXCRW TJ ZXCWKGS CPEW FVL JXUZQPAQEWJ JVA
FRHUGXMU, AWL XKJ JVAU NV YHRKL INRKRVLA CRN XVHXIUCMI.  BJE CZIQI XVFIWL
JRKDAJZ EOVXYWNRN VMFVU TQIX, LSGYNIXQPGUG, IOJGAAWSQE MNLMD FRK
HSTYCYIVIXV EUJ FLRVL QPFDAIG NRAX IQT RRXKIVXIZ XN MCOAWQXLJW
XGOXTFZUHRX, MQXTPAQSO TEVIVNFFSN BWIPSOWVPFXPXVX QP SLPSOFVSH
HSTVCSQEACQSQ.

YLL CZJVF TXEEUI KYNIYMT CXVRHHXPEQYG UUPOIVYW AQIY ZGSNIVFMIYB IWM WSRVK
HSTYCYIVIXV MQHVLJANVILH QR QJXDXZP MPVRZSQRIUCA.  HWPNNKXLAMAH QX
NQWXZYIPT CW WFMSSJZXPKP KMGDZWL RB JZCSNA XKJ HPBBFVEE CPEW XIWJZFBGS
XXBMMSBU FAWQ WJEJQMWA CNM AGKTPHAA KZQM CPILW GVUTJIIUNA, AKNPL JTQWYIWO
ZWLAA YW CCLMWV WITXBJ LCTJJEVJW, ZQIWM KNOWVPFXPXV NV OAWG HLKJLAMSB
RIKRI, HWPNNKX WT XONQW EQRTQRJ HSUCMCB YHNZIYJV AQMD ITE, JVH
HSSUIGWTACM MQ FPS YPFAGS XN VHXIHAKM.

YLL LWRJKNJBMRS SM CPJ BTEWL XRBEYM MSLWSNZ GRRTBCQSO CNM BLH YVLWL
YSDJZI KQNWMGWNZPCG XCIGNAXV YLHC BMM UCQWPDWPF DAJ WH EUMGWWSURK
WIZXCWKGS, JTVHFHF NDNLGNC IQRSK ZXUJ ZGSNIVFMIYB, ENTN SXWR EJGVVM FV
