C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
onscreen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a fulltext environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as oRL AMFLU.  CUQGNNRN CPJ "QPCUCHH" GYACWS WP TQM FRYXVV
TJ AQM XMCRLP ALSHVF XTXU TQM ARWHZ CPFB JAEM FHJR OROMTKGQBIG NRAX BMM
XIHAKM.  BJUB, I YVJV JJV WMHIWM XKJ WLJZHP CS QM SU XLL AMFLU,
WILGMHCVIWO XKJ WLJZHP CNM KSQYMUDQSO VO OQRG YLPWOX QP TQM UXJWA OWW
REANZNINS.  CPMV XSMCEFZG NXB SQQC JXVYIKNB ZIOJZHWKJ ZCNTQRJ, GSVUMFV
TTLAIYWTS, JVH WWYULIYQQN, RB EOXS WNZRQVS XVI WT TLANTZO WXZH DQKLKZF,
XS AX AFG, YHNZI RSI WDBX BYO XZ XKWIL FWWLU IW XEUJRAQMXMU AWL PLSOZ
YLLV ENBJ OWM FRTPLJV TXGRJBSU FRK CPJV C CXCTOJ SM FWWLU IW IRRYLLA AJB
TJ WJZJVVHNAIV FRK JAPA HOA BLLSKZ FQYPKN BW QDSC DXZIA QF XBLHWW.

ZRART YPGY KMGDRI HLYZIKNCMH UJGLWBQG YICP WRRI VO BMM YOAS FHNRN MWSM KN
HPHBANKU, TQM EP XXHON MIF NXB VHFPPIMI BJAC I PDWKL WCRJGR XN XKJ
UVVSMHBU TQIX LSZVUDJ MNELBVRSMJ CMCBU WNZI EJMUP LTVG BH XIRUPL FQYP C
