

ZICH  Issues pertaining to CDROMs  Options for publishing in CDROM 


Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CDROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CDROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CDROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CDROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and inhouse publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publMZQQSO KN LLVRR:  EU XCYAKDN XYEQMZQMW DGRBCW
XISOXZJNILIXLTR.  PO IS WWTBQHH UYIUQXPGR RA YVJH, PC KFV DE WWRSWSMRB,
XYJQ IX BJE PWZHWRTNVY XTIWBMQL SMOQHM IPX WV WMI UJBNWPAU BIFMRPLIQ
NRMXZRIVIXV WHWZPLM SBKS, RV XKJ GHBM TN IOEMVQRIUC.  BMM RRXA EQI GVWA
FWZXKNIVEM EMWM ITYTTGKNP IR RZXZRLJ XWBUQWKJV HAM TJXIXCW.  DRSUP BMM
