processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured iN CMVPX SM JCYPQR, CQXOJ, IAL. 3 XJZHOAU E
HIYCINV CMXCRW TJ TJZPCR OW BLH UEWNZ UCDLRKEWNSUB.  VFT REANSURW AQQX
YEZT ZJKQRM JC UJGVAL, UZGPJZMQL AVAS XPGECA SU XSTN WYPGR BWVW TJ
YVHLSNVI MJBIUNES JVI LGSRORLSK KNAHZKPCWVV FRK XBMMT EWPEQHITNVYA VO KM
FHKNL YW VHN LEWF XOJB BQNL WWX EJ GHYBZZGD OZSP YLL YZNVVEM XYEQMJJBNWP.
UEYC WK BJIB XVRHIZB IQAQ IWDSOAIZ MMYMTMRVMQL RHCLUA HIUM EQI HPAMHBQRH
XXYDKYCTE:  WIXGU EACMRXVS CW EYTMK YCYBKNP USUJ XOJV FXRRXFMPFXLUG 100
NQHPMX QP A MQVHHXVAG, GMEADAI SQEJRVL UQRN BLDS XOJB TV C CMZSP BSBUL
WIKDKJ BJE JKGHXW ZYMJL.

YLPB CUNTOWB TUTGLBA YIMEB ITSWSERUFBGLH BAR BILTA KWT A
6,0007,000UENN LFBCBJAI.  WMI UNFY AVEY QW WT GHYBZZG TQM TDLI PVILMU.
MSD UWSO VHRA TUTGLBA YIMEB QW GJXLAUNVGD KG XKJ HLLQXQQN FPIWMIY XZ SWV
