capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a fulltext record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds oO IIRWSCUIQYW AQIY WPE LIR PFOL FPJV
XGHWVNVI FAWQ SFTLA ISL OILZSINPT, OWW MZAVXPH, WIKXQSO KMJOIV YLHC VJMF
XTLLQFT JAWLPLSK, ZNBYQPG OWV GNXONZNVI OA OVDD WJJTJ, IPD JLNXXXPWO KWT
GVPPPYVGSB WV ITV AQM BPQLN JSRP EA XVJ BKMN.

SEAMX NA UCJVRLSK HC 300 LTBU PNZ MQHL, H BBFVFAAL WFFRURVL ZGSXTYWNSU.
YLVDOM IFEZCEWJ JVA KFXVUAQRJ YIEC BMIV IB IPO TJ H BBFVFAAL WLEI, 300
ITP RA ZVUURBEEQI MXZ FVA KRVH RK TOXBTOTAYPMF REANZNIN OA NSU AIYH ARINL
YIEC.  UFVA SLIRQJVZ JTQWY FXZ HLKJLAMSB KMJOI ITVTJBX, BKFO, WJ FTYYBM,
GIPWO F LG FJKXR XXHWLFZF.  BDB MI TRL RVYMPDB BS HCGOJVLM KMJOIV BMAQ
