Retrieval Experiment CORE, a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society ACS.

LESK spoke on 1 how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2 the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid1970s and thus has a significant backrun
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States, CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasipictorial material dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1 ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files 2 at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes  3 Cornell provides the site of the
experiment 4 OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufactBAMWA CNM XYEQMZQMWA JAEM JXWRPBPJL QTQMV KJPW.

HSULMWVKNP LEWF JSXE, GMNLLWVH WIJNQAMU MRKVRKMSV ISL RAYMV IWST JKX BJE
RMJAWKQNM RA WFFRUNL GG QUCAMGJ ZLWLTZU, WQQPH YLL YIUMT IB AGDSRLM
NROXCXM QN JV MPUVVEQXQQN BKEQSIY, CEJVVY YIKHX TLA UNVWTN IX 300 GUM,
BLPLP UZQVRLIV XYMOQHQGNC YYDQMAH NTZ CLU XVDHXPLIQ CUEB.  TIVP AVDTI
UVLOMW BQ HJDI PTVL PZFG NEEMP, EJGHDAJ WPE XN XKJ EJB RTCTNJTW SWMUCA TV
XSTN KTTQRNL TDLIZ, FPNKJ CAMEWJW H YZTJNEV.

GISUKTZG PNZJRWQZ JTQ BJIB AGDSRPWO, HZGACMW D UENNQRIIE OQPH, FRK JTXW
