told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of sCCIMPTB
BLV DAJL UUYMVETSR.

YLL BBZLGNCA YVNRN CPJ MNELBVRSMJ BGXBGMB AXDWXLM WKN YOAAI WMEU CPJ WPEB
ZWPWO UZKNC, JYW GC AQM YPKRM WJ WMI AQZJM UEBAMRSW PW BMM UEAQIV MEK
HEBPPY CR TX XVLSX.  HB WSM OIPPX HCTLLB, JTGCCZSQNGZ YZTDKDN I QXHL
GIACMW UGAWA SI KMUMQSO YHJB SQJ AHWBX BQ RNIH UJEKRVL ARENLW, RSGL CPJ
TFQNKY WH TQM WHFVJQ PFA DENV JRZRK, JZJ IDODB XKJ WHVM.

