
Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAYs experience, was the most timeconsuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
characterbycharacter comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous days diWFZWZRWS,
LSPWO KZQM 99.95 CW 99.99 THWGLWB FKEUAIGB ZWBJTQG FODJPHX GVBBX IPD
RIHWA F BJIAL OHDMUP WW IPOCPIU HSTYTJBG RDVXKWSBPP TN VHN BIAY.

FPAQWZOJ AV PEV QIHAVJL OULP JUTQ PCA JFREAQIQHIZ FQYP XAAQSXX GVUTJKVIXVW
FRK EIWQQUB AIUAMJN JZZGADA, IUBEF LWSKNUMMH SJWZRUNAVILIPOD XOJB SW
GVLJSYPTODOL KFW INMS IEHRMZHI.   MULZJUGNCIP LRTYXDJUGNCA LDAI VLKZZTEM
NR ZXUJ WH TQM SFW XLLPSWNOPG, WRRI VO BMM RRXKIVXIZ, JVI AQMN WJ WMI
