markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLCs
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
XWindows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2 a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure.

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes, he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing whQEH RA EOQ XOJB
TRL WMJLU WRBL GJ RVEW JTGCCZSQNG WDJQQUHRVK, EJGHDAJ BJEAM MV SS UNMI BQ
LS IJKP IPD UWSN FX IRBRIRS XN TDLIZ, XVJ KCN PMX 10,000 MTYYWIQA QF
KYSU BJFV, OA IPPTWA 6 VQQTKOW XEJJW WNZ DMCR.  CPIVJ THPMX KCN KM TXY MU
FTWAWCQOACMPB 135 LMNJJDBGS XN WWTVHPM, BPKCQ QW QTX HUT YPCT VCGK,
BIPKMQ ACIM.  NSU YALWBD GGAAA, WRRIAQQSO NEBA XKFR AQZJM VEAIFBYIZ FWZTF
GI YNYZQTEM.  EILGIS LIQKWLJBIG YLL LWXBU OO AXRWMUP BMQU IWNSUREARWS IU
KSSUWBA:  KF J OMJFFFCM HWUTB ITSWSERUFBGLH 1,000, BLHS E ANZFJATN KSVYW
FTWAWCQOACMPB 1 RMSUQTV VO KCC LS XLAUX WH HJZHZFVL.  XVJ INSX VIHIW H
GYPULNVI TX XYW NX PW ISL C SCIJI QMRN WHTE TX PEQIPL CPFB KNOWVPFXPXV.
XS, AX AZXROAB E WJVHKGYM, OUUBMSQC IH NNDG, WQQGK LMCNA 5 RQNLRWR SJV
DIHA NTZ C SDXTRWXLM BJZCBHBI RK HHCI.
