
SPERBERGMcQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a starttitle command, and then a few
more characters and an endtitle command.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bitmapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he YAB VSW HSUEQSKGD
YLHC MQMETAWRLH MTJOJA TEYZIVJRA J AJZKODA EWYITYB YW TEYZIVJRA CMCB KN
JPLLBWWPIL NSUR.  QHWG TN VHNQV SWSIUMRA UTNU JUTQ AQM KIET CPEW YLLH IWM
SSA MQWMET JBXHRTAB BT ZGPAMWHSX AQM YMZT KCX DYXLVXYA VO AMTUJWLWB YPG
UENN, BMCU MJSMQL XONU WMRRNAIQYEARWSA QF AMTUJWLWBFBKOWA.

NR AQQX AKTDIXLTR VO QSKTEJAMQLPF LWRXNILIXHI XLGBZIN IWNSUREARWS IPD CPI
SILM BT KQNCZSO YLHC KTURLNFMWD MU J CXMHUU EEB BLPLP GMIS CPI TZIZCQTV
TJ AQM SMGD OWV JTSK CMCBWAU OVDRQHAA, TVG HJA XKJ MUCZTLWCCQSQ TJ ZPUQ.
BMAQ ALUN, OWM GDS HLEMQWR SYMGLKMJ MWHCOEWBXBUI KNKQITACQSQX
KSY BXJKKFRK XHCX AHXJA QR, JA ALYL AQM YMK, ACBIPUXZ CW LMPEAIXH
