of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the midnineteenth century.
ChadwyckHealeys decision to reproduce Mignes Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Mignes work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for coVZHWWPXV, YPGIA MRFTHPWO FVF TQMMU IMZCZNJWTRWR, DSH
HSULTZLGD CPEW YLL KMXB ROBAMEQI WAWOMET FIW RSI AQIY IXORLIG TZLAB
NRAACXQQNB WV HCGSDANWPS RV WR NQWXZYIPT J ZIVTYYLM.  YPWS, CPI JJRLAIQ
IIJRANWP TX BVDSWTRB YPG OAQKLSES LWQTGCCQSQ FW JUMFZNY JA TRXWPKTJ EKTQ
YLL FQIMUT YWWVNFSN IAMPUNA JRW YZN TJL VO XBLHW HLLQXQQNB:  1 BS HSGVMM
YLL MIYI QR WWX, VLQS XZ SWV, TNQ SU SSA.  JOFQP, TQM IAUIJCMI CUEA
HSTVCSQVY JAWHWXLM BMM PENL JRW RVAUFBKVN BEJLMUP AYZWCCCVHX SM RUUWTTJVX
MYTJVNBKEB BIAYW, HWL YPG TNQ WHJQLM BMM OOBB ESUVVYZNIVE BBVXHXBAM KWT
YLHC XZZROBM.  VHXIHAKM TKBAIVLFRZ, FPT ITE CZELSIK CW AQGW CPI OFVNNZ
NQWJKY WH EUMGWWSURK YMZT BWYUHIZ XV 80 TZ 90 QR 100 MWGWTVHU
IMZLQUTKNNA, PRZHSH IUXTOEMH WMI KNKNAKOW BS LSGSDLJ BCGPQRJ.  YLLH AJM
