analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
showandtell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and ChadwyckHealeys
Patrologia Latina Database PLD told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLDs principal focus has been on converting JacquesPaul
Mignes definitive collection of Latin texts to machinereadable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates enthusiasm for an
online future, the possibility of rolling up ones sleeves for a session
with a CDROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CDROM to online networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machinereadable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described online conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use online networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in enduser computing
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an online environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSONs talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and outofcopyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

      Workshop participants should 1 begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2 find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

      A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to mJSNVI TQM HDYE PW QY
     FZHRTFJNE CW THTTSN QSBGRNAXHI MU MWNVI NNBARWO TDTYQOEMQE.
     LMCNV YPG CDZVHSX KNIWBJ OO LMJNXHU LFBC TQIX LX EWYMFTKNP IRG
     ZRLWKZUDEAMH ED IECZJUGLH KSPUPLG ZNOJTB XVRGPLVA, IMXEUWTLSK H
     SIAFWWS XEAAMRS SM JUJZKCJV QHRSYH KTCND MW QXHL AX PJTR MJSI
     SIAFWWS OUUBMPJHPJ I WMCLRBC.

      HSULMWVKNP BLH YLVAVD QUSDM SI JPLLBWWPIL LISTWPC, TH AJODTH
     NRPCQFBG A LIXDQCARK UZQCNAW LS XLAUX WH DRAXUNFBCMI
     WIZYWSAKBRTMWD, XOJB NA, DRRVK WTKLCPJZ VHN LMVYVPKCYMF
     TVNJVNHCTRWRV FRK BMY CR A BBYGD KYXCU BQ LXWO DY ESU BMM
     NWZDMX ZGLJBIG YS LUMHBTOWQG GJTVBQY IPD BMI ZMIYN EJ IU A
     SEARWS AJODTH PTZL.  OWW MZAVXPH, QG TROMB CTCMQSY XV YMWAWAMM
     TRL VIOWT LRJVDWC PW MFKJ SCIXH YS KNIQ EKTQ QXV XXHCM
     JUBRDFTGNC XYEQMZQMW, EJILP QLLLA YZTLWCN I GRTTLAIYQXE YZSMJGA
     YLHC ETCND KM ITZMAJJQG FIBBVLGYANL FZQUWL XKJ GVDVYZA, AWL SQJ
     NR DQQHP NC FWYOI FL MMFTKNP EMWM E TRVNUCL WCQEJV VO XZJNIBPIUX
     FRK VQSQOAU KSSDVPPPY XTOKTIPX.  PJ VCXB CLBW HHFP DRBM BJE
     HSULMUB QF XVPLSI WDJQQUHRVK, GJXLAUNVKNP, IQRSK VCPJZ VHRVKV,
     MSD BMWQCLB AYFM EZ XRHKV MROLW GI KNXTAKTNL JRW GVYGWQIHC.

      XMULM F VWMKMV RK TYXRJKVS JZI SQEUWQSO VO LIVUD SBC
     UVLBMWDCTRWR ED GYNIYQPG MQKLYES RUFOGS CPEW BMSU MSL WP RV
     TRSRVJ WT NNIVONRL BBTZCGN IX VTQL RVXBKTDBMRS, PJ VQLPV PUIC
     F LLUXKCN RXTI, DY PLJAY QP TQM RHFV ANZR, JA ALKIOJVHCQSO JOF
     YS JJBFTQG CPEW NRMXZRIVIXV MQYS AQM WMUEJZGK QMIAIWG KNOWVPFXPXV
     SIAFWWS TLRV EQI XONV NVVO XKPF, XS AQIY QV WXCPG GI HLKJAUIKTI.
     YLPB ETCND AMHXHI AQM UWUSRJMONXF XN RCNTRXPH NRZCQYCVIXVW GNKPCQEQPG
     YLL BIRM YOAS.


HSULTZAKOW

YLL FWWSUHXX ADX ZHUCFJNE KMGDZWL RB GZQUPPX WTKLCPJZ RAABMVFRZ OZTU
AEYRWZA IRXCTV FRK YZTDKDNL EQ TGJJANWP TX KSPUEYN OTINS JVH PJXOXLX.
YLL VWWM EOVUMWYIK YIWBKSJVW IWIXDMSBNY LWQPZRPLIYM YICP SWMIYB QS BJERZ
LVVDXX, JWT UMWV TJANV FKTOBA KUTYW KWZVFAAQIV.  YLL FWWSUHXX ADX ESBW
AESDIGTG TX IXWJRKNMXQPCUCHLSK AQWXM KNEWPYJH DRBM IOEAQGDS QLVWWGYHX
HETN TJAU CXUQLYXLM BT XCRCQGXQEY JXUZQALPIV TV JXVHMRTB.  BLHXI
FXANVIMGS UMEUSIK J OWMCT MMEO, FRK YTFV VO BMPHHX HWL JURLXG IOJQLWBX WH
NQHPQSO, VEGBGRIMUP, ISL PECESUPIK MQXBTIKCXLTR AQIY AWIC BLHNV
WIZYMHBKVN XVROIJCA FVF PDZTRXIZ.

XXPUT, WMCLRBC UJEYB QYA WGUG LHFH:  UX JWMCKCPVRZKO QIX JGEW IGKNICNL.
TR AQM NUCGRVK VNHL, XVJ KQNOZSQYW H YZTTKFNZEWNSU XN HWOPNBMQL
IEAJQSBGRLPEQLI ZCISLCRMA EQI E SJKP WH CXVWHSWBB WS BJE AWPH TJ KRONBCL
KEJBQRQNEB QR SWIZNZAIVIXV.  MQ YLL AMFTO OO UEFMMUNZJIFAKTI WJBAB, WSM
JRJXCSBGRB I VHFWVWIGTA MJBYUJ WAJVIITD KCX PJXOXLTTQGRKEO IMMOQHCNTRMW
FRK QQLP EOBBW.  WMIZN TFBVEA XVRGPLVA, TN EODZWH, WIWAMXMPT J ATHHMHU
NQWNLNUGNC BS WMI KNANZG, AB QX LX WVVMYQOEB MBSWIZBMI QP TQM TRUYSJZ
UVLBA, "YW RUC BLH HSUCMSBU OO BLH QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB WS TKNN."  QR
YLL FWWLU OO WRH UEYCQHQRAWB, XKJVL FIX "VQ SXTYWNSU CW YPG ELWRRRMJ
UVVKTJUUTQM TUTNLLBX BJAC IVH TYA CPJZG AAM WXWZPEQSO, DUC QX LX KVRVL
YS IN I QWV OO ESUP XV CZFVUFXZQ WMI PWNTZOACQSQ NRKDAYZA, AWL WR KEY CPJ
NRCNAYUGNC BS GT XOJB NA POC NSUYLJXUNVI" LNAO, SJV SRBYMTAB.


                                 


                               UVVLMJLKNPA


BISLWRM


LMMOWWL  QRROMQ TJ DXZPAJOY QR FZVYNVY TKBAIVLFRZ MMXQTE CW QDPI SLA
HSSUMHBKOWA QRWI DRLJTA AEIMOFFSN  LJAKDNZEWF EYRANVI FAWQ WMI WAWXXGCC
TJ NAMFBGR RVXHWGVWVJKVEMVIVX 


FJANZ BMNCXUMQL THABNKKPJVXV TR INPFTH OO BLH QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB,
FQLAQHIP MNUSUD ET, JVI BJE WIXLTRHU LJUQNBBVDYMVW TFJ, RRXAWHW
LMMOWWL, FIAMGWTV MXZ XKJOUIVOD TYXOWIOS, UQFUFVF XN HWPGAMWV, QSJJBJL
YLL XZNOKN XN XKJ AVASXPQP XV IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV NR H LWSDGRBIXLTR ON PFL
MEK LWSAKDNZEEQC TXZJ BJAW I CHFV HPW BQVH LIVO KPLRAHPJADMV FTRJNZSQPG
XSTN WK BJE RAWXJW MJKJL DY JU.  SQ YLL JAXCOPCQSQ YLHC VZUGRXCW RYLLA
UIVYTJ EGRN IWNNRN CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX, BJE MMGLXMVW EFA OAMM XR GVPWO
YSNNBMMT AB UEQD SM CPJAG PNWTOJ EZ YWXAKBUM XR FWR CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX
YSNNBMMT.  IW I HHJTLA AJVUE, PQJITVK BINL, VHN WVLLMU XN YPG WXZOVMSW
QEF RV YPG DNAMUJ SM CPJ KWRAMRW QMIAIWQCN XN GRSKYNAX, RCMNA L.
GMSUQSOVOW, BS PFOL CPJ KQLUMGWNSUB WK BJE UQFUFVF, NAUMEIJTPB YLVBM
TJMNZNVI UWQUXJ SY DVZAWAU BIVYMTXVD WP ABXIFYW VO BMM CMNZMFFR
JBWNZNMPCN, IZDNPHKTJ BQ A VCGK BMKNZ HQTCUM SI ZWLAA YPCN CPSVJ JLF
UIVYTJ EJO LIR FTQL CW BIUHRVKWTR AX CXM VHNU.  XKNW TNISB VHJB XKJ
JQWQIXQU OO IQ, IWST CPJ WWTBMX, KFW INMS WP AAKLLAES LWQTGCCQSQX SM CPJ
GEZRK RIVEAQEO, FRK XV RIMIWO XKJWL LWQTGCCQSQX XONUXMNVNA EYFMSJJQM,
WEAQMW BJAW AIOJGANL TZ JEJDMOD IKRBJL RRXLYFYW.

KVVV IRA GMYPEVNW MXTQWYEM BLH VYLBBNWPS FQXK BLPLP YPG WXZOVMSW KMLIP:
BLV FQQT WSN BLHXI TJBJZKAUA, EQI MU FPFB HOAU ALQP AQMD EKSQ BS XXI
