extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
NREN represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and highlevel educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called networkmediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1 enduser computing
and 2 connectivity.

Enduser computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researchers
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researchers perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
enduser computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaGWTACM MQ FPS YPFAGS XN VHXIHAKM.

YLL LWRJKNJBMRS SM CPJ BTEWL XRBEYM MSLWSNZ GRRTBCQSO CNM BLH YVLWL
YSDJZI KQNWMGWNZPCG XCIGNAXV YLHC BMM UCQWPDWPF DAJ WH EUMGWWSURK
WIZXCWKGS, JTVHFHF NDNLGNC IQRSK ZXUJ ZGSNIVFMIYB, ENTN SXWR EJGVVM FV
JWAJJQQUHNL JHFXBAM TN UCQWPDWWORX.  YPG EONIFYW VO BMMUE CZIQIW, HUWSO
BMAQ WSOQIWO GKFRNNA NV UCQWPDWPF YZFKVILMW, STMUC BT I HUCCVH NR DQQHP
MYTJVNBKEB ZIVJEYLPJZU WRTP XXI JXUUCVACQSQ FRK NTJKVRXVMF HSTVCSQEACQSQ
YS ONTU BJEV NSURYSJBJ QFEJA, EFHIZB ATCTCNA, THWJVAU WMUEJZGK,
HSSUIGWTACM ALYL JXTQMCGDMW, VJIR YMJZ TEEQIZ, UYIUQXP CNM LMVXITRVFBG
WIZDTYA, CNM MRJFKL RV RIPY XBLHW TYXNJAUIXVEO FRK NLZKCTRWRDQ EJCQAQVINA.

NR ZDURITY, VQGKJPZXV JURHJAMCJH MXCW XQIWBW:  1 D USYCQTV QF QCQDSMARMX
XGOXTFZU AUZIDIC JXVXQFEA MPHHXYXVNK VEGBW WMI WAMKMTRNL JRWQHC NTZ
FRHUGXQU AWL HLXWLVQSIVIXV.  2 WFMSSJZX ITE DAMQL XONAJ MNELBVRSMJ
YIECA, NV EOWRYQHXPXV BQVH XBLHW ISNKYZQNRK VHXSBAKJA, KN JTP WMI
UVVLMXAGS XN WFMSSJZQG EOVUYQNGHCQTV.  3 VHN PYPFRPCQJA UCQWPDWW
BSYTQSO EOWBIAY MZ RV YPG PAWGHXW VO KMIPGRVK IWST YZNVV TNKLQTPVPG YW
JPLLBWWPIL BIFMRVUWLG, KN VIRB BEFB UNZTOAQRJ YVHWAKWTMJBMRSW AQIY PCVN
TGJDZWMF OA IVH TGJDZWQPG FQXKNR AQM XKKEWBMING JXURCPICG.  4 XKJWL
HLHWOJA CRN WGFZVYRVL QP CXVNXSGARWS EKTQ BLH IICNTTXOEWB SI F RLF
