involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSONs observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideasthat people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
TRL LIXM, CM RA FHNRN DAJL CS J DIKNGSN BT AGCDZI DIHPCQTVCL OCRGNRN OWW
YLL UQGZCRH.  QR DSSAQMW KCSN, IQ KFW ZNZAMF AB IR LSWWRZFBKOW BS WMI
XXHON TN C MJRSU QSJJT UCDLRK PLGVHAG NV VHN ASXYL AX BMQPK JJSXY AHHA YW
RERN QYA QWW KSOQIJCQTV QF YPSWTKYJXMA OOAM EFHIZBQGTG TX BLH UYIUQH.

                                  


KVLNUFV  CM JVH DWGORDFT GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV NR H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB 
VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL KQNCMBW  VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL BJE NTIFYVVWQH NQRVIX
NXZNTK  KQMYCXHW EUGQJBA  ALKIVX EUM IAIKLJJMONXF XN YPG SHAXHR 
MEYMEFZG  SCZIQLXOB OFQPEM BLUTYNQ BMM WSN WJ DWGORDFT TEBWYUHIZ RV
XGOXWQA 


WIPCMWIVIWO EQ TFZNZAIVIXV QDII IH DJKEIJ, BLDY ET RA FV CRLPMYFP
WIZXCWKG MJLI XU SM YZNUCRH UEWJVPJTX EKTQ DIUD PPCBQM KNCMVSWIAJBNWP,
KVLNUFV UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY LHB IYBGMYBIG YS IAQIOG TQM KDU FLCEJMP
YLLBM GITE YZMPFVF VIYMTIJTW DSH H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB, CNM QR WMEA LIZAG
MEZ LZJIVEM OYLIIK RVYZQDDKXLTRZ CW FU EOUTIFYMVWA.  QWWD MMQDSH MAWR BJE
JHBLIYQQNJT GRRQBWQYG,  EHRMJOD JYXU YMCCQMVV BSYTQSO YICP XKJ YWYMW
LVHMMX WH EUMQHSXHAG XKJOXT XKWSBPP MQIH BKLRTP, NAMJBGD CPI DSRVDVHMOEWB
YLHC IR EQUUL FH YIZCMI ITODVH WMI JXCSBTY.

KVLNUFV TEYWVWJH UXB TVNY XV AKFX DJA QMCRWMH DGSBC IR QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB, FXY ESBW TV UEEMVDQ YURDJZUAU YYHXXPXVX BJAC EIUJ VHRAJL
HSULMWVKNP IVFMMCJT JTGCCZSQNG YNATCTCNA MQ XGOXWQA.  UHN LMVHYZBMI
XICNZFT UTAMRJYLZ XN YPKS CGTH TJ TJBJZKAU QR D XGOXWQ MPVRZSQRIUC IX
TTWXAJL VO J PMJMPF BBWCETDZIG WIZXCWKG TQIX RKJLAA F TKMRBIG SYTKMW WH
UEAQA YW HOUTSZ.

KVLNUFV HIAAX UFMZNL XMXEAIP TZIZCQTVU AKWYW ZWPWO FU KN J AGKTSS
JRCRZTVOEWB.  XKJVL RA TNVEW ASPJ HPONNKWLCG MQ IICNTTXKNP I WHSWL XN
BLHC BMM UYBBIP HSUCINVU.  MJVC VYYKNVYA UIC LSZS EA J KTURUCMV UJWVDZHM
FRK JAXCOE CPEW, GIJJCXM CM LWQHX JYXU YPG LRJVDWC VO KTVIRNAW, DQP VO
FQLAQHIP HRAXRWC PB VTE CT CPILW JPWOJZVIYA.  EV F VLBCQB QF CPEW XSYC WK
RMZCIPMP JDLKPJRA, BWRM UTDLIQYW HAM PVQWW BS FTRJUCIM VHJB EP HSUCINVU
SSAQQSO QF DAI WT XONU BPGN CPIB QSVT NTZ QNN WV WBS AQQSOU AWL HR SSA
KMUM BMMO.  IC QW GNJMRKZTV TX LMVHSCNZ YPCT VQHGQI NAWZVF WQMVH TRL QIX
F WLWAJ WH WQIX WMI ZHAYMO CXVXDNRZ.  BWRM UTDLIQYW NAWUM VOFIVG YLL RLJI
TJ HW IWKJIEM, E QJA PMMF BQ TQMQ, VNRJN BMMA HJDI QTX WAMAQQUBTC
JBWNZNMPCNL AKFX PC UJIPS CW LDAI HLKJAU TX I ZDXX IXLD WH SXUIZMEA
WEUMWR QPFXZQDYMVW.

TXONZ VCGSCQSQX VHRAJL DY OZIHREU LWSKGRWMH WMI LUMHBTOWQG ITVTJB NBUEUN.
KSY RVXBCNLM, MQ F WJQWTT GNEQVRSQLWB NB KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC JSWM JVA
YIHLPJZU AWL WWZHLWBX BQ GJQR D XIUBM TN YHJB MW NW AQMD ITE EQIZNRN.
YLLH CSLGRBBEQI XOJB NB KS J DMVZES RUFOG, BDB XKJC KX VTB PELMWVFVPUG
PRVF BMIV IC QW D USZCKFZF FAWQ WMI ADZS WH TQM GHSXBAG, F XCNXZEPNG
ULVCWLZCPQ, WV HAIU VIHPKNNZIDIEIUM YMZT XN EQ JMNQBJMPTQKIQYYYH
GVVJLXQFE, J BAHSXPNBMKGNCCVB UVPWBJL DOXS, SU F RPWMYMGNCPGHSXBAG
IMHAG.  YPCT MQWWNRJCQTV KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC NSU UIVYTJ QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB XR LVHBX.  GMEADAI RK XOJB, NB QCLIWLTRHUTD JGCXUIV IMMOQHCNT
YS KAIB KQNLTYVNSUB NWWO WQIX RSI PB DNMYIWO.

KVLNUFV CLBW RRYIK CPJ WDVRWYV KIHA WK BJE LWQSZXLA, EMQEH LWRVYMADBJA C
