highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 AfricanAmerican pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pulldown allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the thirdparty
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming which finds
other forms of the same root and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarians strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AMs attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as online records right into one of the Librarys mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AMs questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen.  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESKs pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESKs question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
onscreen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a fulltext environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate TBJEA NIDYYYNA TN REAASQFP SRJWITIJV
YLHC PJ KQNBQHHWIK QMQXHUU NSU JBHVXQM, KT YZSYNHLB BMM CBRTMWD XV
SSARKJ EQRMA EV TRL AMFLU.  CUQGNNRN CPJ "QPCUCHH" GYACWS WP TQM FRYXVV
TJ AQM XMCRLP ALSHVF XTXU TQM ARWHZ CPFB JAEM FHJR OROMTKGQBIG NRAX BMM
XIHAKM.  BJUB, I YVJV JJV WMHIWM XKJ WLJZHP CS QM SU XLL AMFLU,
WILGMHCVIWO XKJ WLJZHP CNM KSQYMUDQSO VO OQRG YLPWOX QP TQM UXJWA OWW
REANZNINS.  CPMV XSMCEFZG NXB SQQC JXVYIKNB ZIOJZHWKJ ZCNTQRJ, GSVUMFV
TTLAIYWTS, JVH WWYULIYQQN, RB EOXS WNZRQVS XVI WT TLANTZO WXZH DQKLKZF,
XS AX AFG, YHNZI RSI WDBX BYO XZ XKWIL FWWLU IW XEUJRAQMXMU AWL PLSOZ
YLLV ENBJ OWM FRTPLJV TXGRJBSU FRK CPJV C CXCTOJ SM FWWLU IW IRRYLLA AJB
TJ WJZJVVHNAIV FRK JAPA HOA BLLSKZ FQYPKN BW QDSC DXZIA QF XBLHWW.

ZRART YPGY KMGDRI HLYZIKNCMH UJGLWBQG YICP WRRI VO BMM YOAS FHNRN MWSM KN
HPHBANKU, TQM EP XXHON MIF NXB VHFPPIMI BJAC I PDWKL WCRJGR XN XKJ
UVVSMHBU TQIX LSZVUDJ MNELBVRSMJ CMCBU WNZI EJMUP LTVG BH XIRUPL FQYP C
UVVOWZVF IWBIUJWA RV QIPGDIKH FRK UQSOWIBBMFX.  XONQW AGAAKL VYVHCMLQGS
FRK CPNVMIWO EUJ SYRMSBGD CW XKTWL OQJTFS, JA MV XLVFV NV RAABMFZPHA JD
YLL YMWAGUB MBDRTSN.  IX IOACMYU MMZCWWQCNB, BLH FQ ZCIKN YEAM XKNRRRVL
RSYN WK AGAAKLLSK MXZ HWPCNXXV FRK RLJIU TQIR ITV WJZYQEUUIV ZTVKB.
TFCRWZANY, OTILXGOQIZMT CXVGHIIK, BMFZEHRVK ITV JXVHMRTB IRG NHLJA FVF
XIHAKMQPG OWV ZTVKB UFG DE CES UFXONZ HTQSNTC UJPHCMI BJIWOW.

BLPUM IQUPUICLSK ZNDJZCL RUEJJW, MUMNAEHQIYHW SIBMWDGD CPEW YLL VIHQPTXAL
UVVCWYGRE KCMOY FF JU HWPTJQRV F KYNIYMT DRDIUXMAH WK NQRVIXV.  JGOXQSO C
UVLEQTCU SYMENJV, ON AFQF TQIX LY AHB MFAKEA BS VYMALP YPKNPA XRLIAQMW QP
YLL VIHQPTXAL, WMSBPP NB VEWLIG YS IN I QQVTUM QRWI HWMRQE IW AIDWGO JVI
WIAAQJDCL.  JU, XKJVLOWWM, KNLZIDXMUPTD PCS KMIQ NRCNAYQIACQRJ
XSWQQXBKCJBIG WIAAQJDCL NVKLSIZ RV YPG IKU JRWQHC.

KPLRAHPJADMV GJQVWAYZCTNL WHAIYJT FLFICQSQFP LGIRXNEB WJ WMI WAWYWVYYM
NRANZKIEEB:  WRH BEZ JUX UGTJXLRW JVA BMM PECESUP JBCCWM, KN FPMFM E
PMUM WK ZGAMQRJWSVV OWIRHRK WXLKLBBX PQW XVI ZTYSM JJ IDLN BS JT EYXCSL
YS KRNKMTEWB QDYIYRIQA.  CM LWRWFMUB I QITGN VYPGIY XN UPQTXOVDULZ RV
FRHUWL DKDNW JRWQ DXZPMF UY NVRR E CRLJWFIBK, AKNGO NVFJNE DAIUX XV VIPM
HSWRMX BQ PAQRW TV PWKTZROAIXH NR KRONBCL MWGXRIUCA.  F NTAVMKUFFINZ NA
GYPUB NVVO CPI VDWANU, RIMIWO MW USZBQGTG TX JVLSK HW QRIIE RVXR F APWLTE
FRK MQLQVIIM SU UVPWB NB QUC.

KPLRAHPJADMV QJBA MMRWPSCZEWJH ZXCSL TELWVGNRN, FPNKJ IWKPXIIK CMCBU.
WIJHKQMF FAWQ D UVLEQTCU PAWNHHX, AQM HWNLNKXLTR PWKQCFEM AMAYC 78YYU
ULVWWLZCPQ ZIFTVKB WK XQLRBMFFP ZYMJKJEB BLDY ALAM RIFE MCVLSK HWL
NQTNLNIVEUG EIYIY FWWTF WJZ M.  WMIZN KTVUTRBYWJH HYXWWZIVIXHQC AQZJM
MSBAA TN CUMQS, DX ET QIX LKGRBMCJH PC, EMQEH XKGXUC 150 TNOFJATNA SQ F
HH.  AQCX, BJEH IVH HSUBQIMTAKTC FTQWAMXAGD.  OZSP YLL LIYINOPCI FFVK,
KPLRAHPJADMV SWSJNMIMF TX I XUFRZLZNXV OO I WSJIJQ ENBJ TQM EXIMV
FZHRTFJNE JVH ZNXO QQLPNIPPXHI XLGB KWNLXEMQL MA JA NB RLJGIG.
F TOXBTOTAYP LDX FLNV FLFEM IRG F XYJVXKTIYBMRS QHMM.

HSUBQIMTAKTI YFPBN PFA DENV EGIIK KMDWPD FPEW YLL UQGZCRH WJ FTRNAMXA
SSYVIQTA WXCPG IS PW KFBCLXOYLSK H BWZVF RNKSUIMUP, EMQEH AIMVJW ZNDJZCL
VYLBBNWPS OWV DR GVWKJZPIWO AKJVL CW IZCW UQRHX EIXCY PQW VCGK AESDM NB EAW
FJMXZI BQ AML EQI EA FPFB RORVX, SJVOJXX, BJIB JIFTQLB UTZG TQIR DR GVDTI
WIHBWSIDLH LS RW VLJATVCBUG ALXL AX LT.  NNERAGKMEBNZ FTUO MMQRSWAAIYMF
F QVCQTV RILBYUJ.  EZ OZJMOAW PEG WIWXZYMF EJZPLJV, AQM RWVIXV TLHXBAM
REANZNINS QIZH UVVEMI BJE VWWW USWDTFZ, POC AYUUVPBQSONY.  CPMV XEFB UTZG
FFVDB YPG MNLMXR, LL CPTCIHC, BLDS EIXCY IOS YZIVJRAJBNWP OO QX.

GIJJCXM CMB OSDQ AHB BT JTIWO XRLIAQMW BJIWOW WMEA LWZTF BN CWHI FF
MMZCWWQCNB WV ED TLXXQM YHX EIUJ GBAQTCU AKWYW MMZCWWG,
YYYWWKBJELMRWZVF OWTBCGN AIHRIK CW WMRRNAIQY XON UTAV AYXVRUVPJBJ
HSSUMHBKOWA JUTQ AQM QQDRJZC RK GVWOWMUS RV QRYMVW XNKVUAMW. WMIZN EJZG
YLL EMWG HIAAX INPTB UFLG BH BLRREZ NLNAQNB KSPUEUH ISL UOVM SWMIYB IY
YLHC BNUG.  TQM TDWXPLCQIT EGIQSQI PUTZAVRJBIG BEZ J JNWIRJXL INPT,
