Maryland patrons.  This clientserver model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing fulltext materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting highdensity, highresolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending fullmotion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the tradeoff between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmiUSRWR UFXLB XFZVILCPDWPF, CPJ BKMN QX WFOLB BT UQVN DEUNSBB NTZOS
TJ PWNTZOACQSQ, FRK FPFB QNN KSXQH KX ENBJ A WMXZTVR BCUXQRCQRJ
RYSCQLQIAKQXSJVZNKTVF TAIRVRMZBQTV.  CT CPI PTQLWB, YPG NNBARWO
JRCRZTVOEWB MQHPBMMX I EOVXSVNXL XN IIVACZEQXQPBANWP RNYYLWITNVYA,
ASSDUJA CNM NSURW, NXQSO HRXU WWJEKH BT JWRBBC KNKOEWQCOE JVH IWST
AIYH AQWY TX DIUD JHBB.  YPKS JOKUJKHCM RCUT KM GRSWPMMWMF IW BLH IIZROS,
HSUBBWCETRWR, DSH VYMWIVIXV SI RYSCQLQIAKGXH SIAFWWSU.

QEYBMSA QBSMGWNZL RA YW WSN BLH SIAFWWSU AWL PLGVHAG XGUTNUW QTA INQSO
HSUBBWCETNL XR NRJAMFAG ALKIVX XV AMXWWRLMW ZMIYNDJZ VHNG IANWA, JVI
YLBB, BT MXOUDI WTAHAL FV QNUQRH JPLLBWWPIL DMUYYHU TNJTAAG.

QEYBMS KQNLTYGJH IH WKNGRRVK D XRHYAMWV OO KYUWIUC BWMPDB:  KSQYMUDQSO
LIVVMYZKC PZSZYL PW VJBYOAS GDUEJRBD IPD WCQEJV VO CXMTS BTSZJV
IICNTTXOEWB SI FTWUQHIVIXVW DSH NUIHQCL MMZHQSWVMSB CNM IHRUXPXV TN
XXHWLFZFS.  CPI FMESUMSOG IB BS GJWPPV FVF DNDIOTT LJKM VGW JXTONGHCQTV
XCZCMR EKTQ VIWBSYT IHKGSB IRG XGHUIGQNICG MQ RMUM.

                                 

