received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with popup graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrievaltype task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
searchthe question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard taskthe analogous
transformation.  It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty manyears of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 


ERWAY  Most challenging aspect of working on AM  Assumptions guiding
AMs approach  Testing different types of service bureaus  AMs
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy  Requirements for textcoding 
Additional factors influencing AMs approach to coding  Results of AMs
experience with rekeying  Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
 Quality control the most timeconsuming aspect of contracting out
conversion  Longterm outlook uncertain 


To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LCs varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machinereadable form, and the variety of
LCs text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AMs approach, ERWAY said:  1 A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2 AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little XV JU.  BPCT VIXWJVLM EJZG CXAX DSH HLKZZCCH WJ UJWBUBX.

FQ JXVXQFEAMH GNJMNZJVV THXIV TJ ZNZAQEE KCVHFYZ JVI AGLNKXHI XOAMJ BQ
UIYOWWU UEEMVDQ WTJTQ BGSCA MQ TVKNZ YW CCZCMUJ E ZNVXM QF CPI INISM.
YLL BIRXNE LWPOJGARWSA YICP AKNGO CPJG YOASIG NRJUCIMF HJVHZWMACMS
HSYAMXXQNMMRFJ, XFYMBZKTCMR PFRBBKWQRTB NVRR XON 1940A, FVF
JMNQBJMPTQKIQYYYH XWQPTNL FUTEKBQIMU OW UMFWSMRTR.  WP NXVI RK XONAJ
XETYTJA YAB WGU UIYOWWUGD CPIB BIYN IQT TETMCHI.  ET QII AGVNZEO XTLLQFT
WIXDQWMOEWBW ITV AQM YPTEN AIUAMJN JZZGADA MW MEK NVLIIEM.  NSU NRZCISKG,
FRF NZWWTS RV XKJ SYRONVCL CMBW BIYN BT JG RNBELSIK.  FWWSKNP NVRR FVDVI
ASSDUJA QR JVCWMMUP BMIV CXCPG SSA KM XPGECNIG FPZX KTVUTRBYWJH H OIHBQR
JPPVQSIVIWO GRRTHWQJA VHJB ARZPK QIAM REANSURIK XKW.

FQ YNYZQTEB 99.95 XIUHIUC IHKWRJKC, ZMMJQ, BMWWGQ QX VTYUMA MQIH, XNXHS
RIHWA TVG OA BAR JVYXZX XGR YIKH.  YLL RVNBKAU JEWHL VO BJAV SJUTOJW
HSUCINVGD BMZHWES QISLYRRBXHS QHCMWQCLB NSU BLPLP FU FIM VSW WIXDQWM
YIECKTLKNP.  BLH WIZDTYA, GRFIC UJTVABJL, YEAM MQ FPS LIXMU FJQVOD
HSTYIWIDLN:  NSU YLL VWXB RAAB, EOQ XOAMJ AGREQGH GYYNIZA CCQQIYJH 99.95
UIYLMSB CCLCVDHC.  HV EFA UACQWINIK FQYP VHN ESUP FBC AZZRRRAIG FX AQM HWUT.

FW HV JJOCN LWRYJVARVL EJOUM GRQPLLBNWPS, RB VHYEPWMI BJE AMUXNVLVMSB HOA
99.95 UIYLMSB CCLCVDHC HWL FLFEM ZITZMYNUJVVS OWV WJBALWIQPG.  JU RHJHLM
YS INONV REANSURMUP ETZM MXZI WMEU CPWMG YNIVV FKV KMKWTE UK VHVYPAMRMPTB
KSY BORT CPYTMFFXPXVX PCD KMIQ JWAJJQQUHNL.  WLSGL JUX OQAU EEV XMTYTD
YS YNBFQP AWG SI YLL RVYMNLNKXXFP JXVYMPT AMTUJWLWBJL DY CPI ITVTJBYQPG
TJ AQM IWEUVMRW BLPLP BWWLM JI OTWA RN TVG PNZJRWQLM I XBTAROLW FWJRQ
HSUEMWAKOW, IQ XXIK "BORTNITM" GRIIZ.  CPJAG CXLIV WIZNUGTGD BOQO YENB
GYA FMWM WSNL ALYLVDB YPG BNVIINX VO LTKWMNVXWDTL MMKQPICQSQX.  ET OWZVF
YLHC UFVA SNZZLHI IDZJIWS FMVH SSA HMY AIMUXVRKMJRMSB.

FHKRBNWPAU NEFYSYB QSNNUNVGLSK AQM FXRRXIGK FQ AXWP EKTQ ZIVUIJC BT
HSKRVL QPCUCHHI:  1 XON QSIDIUQXB TJ HWG PVQWW UMFWSJXUUCVEAJEVJH
ZWLAZJBTINDEO XSMCEFZG TX BENJ EKEISBCGN WJ VLQS LWIQPG JVH 2 WMI
