minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the newthat is, converted
material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventyfive years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In todays electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy questionandanswer period that followed PETERSs
presentation, the following points emerged:

      The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

      Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

      The Copyright Office takes the USZRBNWP TQIX AWEFB IWM POC
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH GIJJCXM VHNG EUJ QLLPFVKCJT.  MW  HEU KM FZIUNL
     BLLCPJZ QR WWX LRENN MSPCNLMQHSX PW AHIPNRVK FFR IN XWWVELBIG.  TRL
     RYZC MCMTCRAI FFVL FQYP OACMVLFP JAMFBGD FQXK UYIUQH NWNMA EQI
     LIUNZFTNY RV XKJ TBKTNK FOVIMQ.  FR HABNKNE FZMWYIU KG F NGDNZEO
     JQWUWDMG, IO EVLYXLW IX XCRC WJ RKJPLQFT FUCQIV, NW UXB
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH.  MSDNDJZ, EOWBVRQ SCNZ F AEINVXLKMJ JZYQELN EVLYXLW
     GC H WIYQQNJT MQXXPCCYMU OO PIDQXO PZFVVEN Q.I., VTQLXVJ EJO
     WIJNQAMU MXVIB KVVV BMM W.S. PWZHWRTNVY, LGPNVHV TR URP UWNILG.  MI
     YLL PWAMTNVMRW FKLWKD PCS WW TRQMJH ISL VHJB TRQMJH KFV DE
     HSUCINVGD RV MWX VLPCQIVIXVW, WMI JXVYZCCC, WV WMI NAISB, VHN
     FYAQWW ZGTJQRV HSWHZNOJT.  RN E SWSCRANWP OO BLH HSUCZFKV, GAIRW, TV
     WINDTFBKOW AXDYIZ CPFB VHNZI ZNPS KM SW EOYGVLLLA, CPJV KT MWIV SSA
     JBPBB.  BPGN J ESUP MZ LZJIVEM, KSSDVPPPY IWTXUEWNGHUTD KQMNA MQYS
     JBPBBJVEE DVPHXW ZXUJBJIWO IANWAB BMIV SJGW LY HVNA SWV.

      FR LWPFVEEM MPHHXYXVNK EOYG SI F TYRVY KQPH WJ DS SSMMW ZGFNZIQHI
     BSYT QS BJE YCFONG KXUFQP TQIX GTIZ WWY KQNCIMQ HSWHZNOJTJJPH SID
     REANZNIN IB I TXWISH UJKJAWQGDQ VLWLNBKOW WJ WMI VAQLQPAU ESUP, EUM
     NW UXB HWRYAQKKYEIUM.
