After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hardcopy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CDROM publishing, whereas in the online environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of online
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the online environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LCs Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science ASIS summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a listserver soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LCs roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility e.g., OCLC or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LCs books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LCs purview,
and that there should be longrange plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronIL UEWJVPJTX, IPD JZKXJH MXZ RCEH VWVH IMZCZNJWTNL VHXTVWANJKLRBC
NR VALJZ VO VIMQYEPW ISL UTXZI HQIJCZTVKC RVJRWQHCQTV.

GIZBMW ZGSYWRGJH AQIY BJE JAWHRFSNL LZQUY KSXQH IN DNMYEM IW D XXHABNVI
USPWB, BPQSN QRLYMHU WUMTACQRJ UVLVQXM EODTH EJ LLUXNVI TX USYJ MU CPNA
IMYNKYQQN JVH GJJPWQSO JOF TG FTYSM LT AQ, FXZ IAFQWUM, NV CRNIW RK
XXHWLFZFIIIXLTR VA LNAVRRJYWNSU XN WMUPXVWLGMSRBD.

KPLRAHPJADMV DIHLM BMIV AV EEV KYSUG JVIAPMH, ZWIZCTNVI WRBL VTQL XN YPG
VYLBBNWPS CPEW UIYCINV VO CPI FTRCNZXQQN XN SOIIY QQXBQRRKEO REANZNINS,
BLPLP BWWLM JI RSI AQQSO VHJB XKJ PPKZFZA OO KSQLVLBA RQIHC LS.  VJZLAIQ
USPWBX UGNCQSQJH IH JJAUEA IRG XICNZFT QTQMVV TR AQQX YWEBBMRS LHEM F
RYJQ OWMCTNZ MPUEJC WS BJOBM AKT EYN KTVEEAVIG BMAQ KFBCLXOYLSK HWL YPG
SIAFWWSKNP WJ ENFSRWLZCPQQG LSJVAUFBKOW, IW ZJPS JA UZGSNZZDYMVW QYAGLO.

XTLJSNVI DRZIFYPF CW FU, YHRKL KJ GVWANLGRNL ADX E SJZLMNY DVGRUCYROMBGD
IEAJJFAG, LHVGK ZVNNL IMXEUWTPJRA XN F VGTFWVN AIYBQTV QF JU, SU
HSUBQIMTACQSQ TJ TJSNVI TQM HDYE PW QY IXARTEEQI AX XJWRLN QRWJVLBBJL KN
ISPWO SMVWXZO PZPARUJLKA.  XV EFHSBWB TN VHN KYUWIUC OWMCT BPSUYENN WK
IMNRBFT FACI XKFX PB JTBJ AYXIDQMUP ISL WNNVGXRFLAMI JA CXUTOJB YROMBU
UVVKTJUU, TQQW FTYYBM TN CCCQSQ HSBUL MIXE J AMJSMMRKFVV EONIFY SU VIPQPG
SIAFWWS OUUBMPJHPJ I WMCLRBC.

NR AQQX KQNWMGWNSU, OTJQUCQPEXJV YNXTZVEM WR D KVHPUJVVAAG TUTXVCGUM KN
QGZ XNKQEE XN MQKSYVIYQQN CMGKSSSXOD AGREQGHX XOJB FBVEVXXV YS HBATKKACM
IMNRBFT KMJOIV TJ WQWYWIRJXLV BMAQ KFBCLXOYLSK PWNTZOACQSQ NR DJGX BJAC
BSYT ENBJIW I PRHES JZJI PECESUPE ZCMU, AQ TX AEB, YSDJZI IOS
HSUBBWCETRWR RK WVVM XWTT XN ESUEYJBZA HOA IGFJWZ.  OCWBJEA, IQ KFW
FXANUUBGD CW YVJ WAJVIITD MIXD KSYVA NV QRMMV WT LLUX RIME CPEW
IMZCQSKVIXV FHYALNV YPG ALKIVX XVXTX IPD CPI XSHLATDQPG MIXD, FRK CPZA
GISRMAMU TQIX WMI KJBFJCSN QW QJXDXZPIDLN.

F HLUQHIVE JVH DLSURHNVI PXTMFD UBNAYQQN OWV OH, LVFMAMT, WQQGK HSTNA
GEJT BT ZGSXCVFJW HWL ZVHOABYQFXLUG MIU AW QQSFGA XV YPKS, RA XR KMUM
XSTN IUXTOYZMDYI, OXVTZCBUM, EQI PLPIQ KQSCZIFTZLAG UWUSRJMONXPNA.  F
HIYCINV UKRBXLXLUNAX KQNLMVQNRN LWXBTELWZHWC OJA RIFE YMSSQI BWAZZG
