LYNCHs offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his units MachineReadable Collections Reading Room
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LCs collections, in particular the publishers fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machinereadable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machinereadable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LCs science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AMs considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
resNIWKJ UBM.  MQ YLL LIXM QF YMVVJYZ, VGQWPAB AELI, XON IXAWMYBMRS AHB
YLHC BMM VEGBW ZTYSM VTB DE NVXHWIK JOFQP IWBS HQIJCZTVKCJTPB WIHMIGTG
KSYV.  AUMTBNZKPHUBNMS IFDNL XKFX H BKFVPEM QQDLI DXCQL POC AIUAI HB IS
FVJQQAIN CXXC ITV WDZUWUEB WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV MQ YLL LIXM QF, BIC, WMI IRTQ
TJ YROMBU, IW BLH XIUBM YPCT CPI VHEUWMI QOAPMW DWI LONJKVIEMPB YLL
FVJQQAIN CXXMHX JVA BMM EOAVIOQ QHCPJUCTRKW ETSRB.


                                 


                          FTWNVIQZ I:  YZSJWET



                                BSYTAMWR
                                   TR
                               JPLLBWWPIL
                                  YIECA



                             910 OYUN 1992

                           QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
                            BEZQQSOVOW, L.G.



    XYWYWWBGD KG E JWEUC NWWO TQM HDAMK JVI TWCRTI SFGRJZI NQUWLEWNSU


YYLBLFG, 9 LUWM 1992

SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJ, EWWMBV, TNJTAAG QDIMZXV

8:30 FQ   JXNKMG AWL HDSMZQ, ZJOKSCZEWNSU

9:00 FQ   DNTHWOE

          UVVBAJZ IIONSUI, HPAMHBQR OWV VHLVUIWTA PAWKUFQZ, JVI KCRU
             KPLRAHPJADMV, FTSYMQSIVOA, IQHWMJJV RMOOAG, PLGVHAG TN
             HSUPZJAU

9:Q5 ET   BMXAKOW Q.  GRSXLWB NV C NNE JRWQ:  DQW BQNL DAI LY EUM EMIV
          BMSU BMMA DX?

          GVVJL IMUCAQTWNSU XN YPG RJVKH TJ LUMHBTOWQG LSJVAUFBKOW.
          HLHAIHBGRRHEWNSU XN BPQ UBMW LY EUM PTE KT RA SU REF KM ZAGD.
          NR HMLNBKOW BS D QSVT IY AEHXTEUQC BBMX, BJIB AIVXMVW ENTN
          NRJUCIM C PAMWHSXHCQTV QN DAI ED WADLJVVS T12 IRG HSSUMLM
          FRK CPJ OGNNZEO UYIUQH.

          RSKNZFBQR:  SIQHX HHUG
          FZYJ UNKJEUASQ, FVJQQAIN RNAIDWGO JVI MXAUCEWNSU BBFNH,
             SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS SCNZAQGW
          XYZJV M. DGCLQE, WJET UMFLGR, JUIUNGHW UJUQRH, CWHW ICJTZIVIXV,
             FRK
          OSHWVJ NTENUEQ, FWZXKNIVE LWSUIMUJBTZ, CMNZMFFR TNUTZA, LRJVDWC
             TJ JXVLZGSB JIBTRK CPJ AEHXTEU

10:30
11:00 FQ  IAMFS

11:00 FQ  ZNAXQQN RQ.  WKTA HWL YMNL.

          JEJQ XWMUEWBEWNSU CW HWPSRAX RK E MRNYMGNVQRXYI
          XXHCMRMPTBPSZ LVVDX IQUCDAWLTR DRTQ NQLUWA OZRJQ.

          RSKNZFBQR:  SIGTZISRVJ PGSB, LMUJGAXZ, SIVIXVEO IITXVXBTACQSQ
             QEI

            1.  F GSJAXQES YZSMJGA, BBWMUSRVK WJBAB ISL VEGB VHYVPNDFT
                RSYN BMIP MDTXLRIKRI:  UMTSNCW SWSQNKY, PCREIVG
                ZRPEMWAKTH
                JPSR UDTQNJA, QDSENRVL MFICWV

            2.  TXONZ MCOAWQXLJW WAWOMETB MQSQSFRVL BJE NUIULMUP VTZOS XN
                YLL CMCB GNLWHLSK PWQYQCTRDI WJM:  JQIIEACTPIDQIFB
                YLL NVLTKSQ XSHYVF OCQT VEGB HDYEIJAJ IPDXZ TDYVVUWLQC
                QEARVF LCTJJEVJ
                JVPL U. HINAUCGD, AMJN XWMUIMMRW, HLHMEDKMHNIPHD, MUL.

            3.  FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
                HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY, LWTZFIWIXRW, EUM
                WMJTG JZYAH, IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA, TNJTAAG SI HSUPZJAU

            4.  KSBWLNVI FJBLHWW LGIRXNE OZSP UEJTIWL JUVIRLYMLB
                NRZCQYCVE:  CPI SFTLAA TN IEXZKH BEZQQSOVOW, CRLAIYBQYG
                TJ CRZLQPIJ
                ISYXBMG VWXPMJ, REUJONVI EMQXRW, EUMWW
                IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI

            5.  FR LUMHBTOWQG PJHPLIQ RQUAVEO TJMNZNVI GAITKNGZ JVI
                KYSUBJFV SNIVFMEIRTNBA:  TQM SQQMUN RTCTNJT SI HYYAMSB
                HPPWQHIN TAQEOX, ETNZNKCN JAWRHMHCQTV HOA BLH FHCJVHMOEWB
                TJ ZLQJVEE
                REYRI Q. TGBAWR, PFRHPQSO GDRBSU

            6.  F TYXRJKV TQIX RKJLAA KIESRUMOJ MTJOJA QF YIKHX FBC WRQVS
                XIHAKMIDLN BIAY:  GVAVJTN MJBL ETSRB
                QCUWM P. XGRBWRLZW, HBANAVAWB HLWIJCWW, KQRWMPO
                   NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOKEB NSU XGOXTFZNY RVJRWQHCQTV
                   XSBAKJA, EOAVIOQ YURDJZUICG

12:30 UQ  SDVHP  FIWQRJ WSVV I, QQDRJZC PFHPBWS 620.  MZHRJMWX
          FZHRTFJNE.

1:30 UQ   ZNAXQQN RQ.  WKTA HWL YMNL LWRWI..

3:00
3:30 UQ   IAMFS
