for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CDROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CDROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packards aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000copy, 45 published edition.  Since the CDROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CDROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editorsand historians and literary scholarsare resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CDROM to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. OCLC, is the first peerreviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and startup period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
daytoday management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, highquality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System CLASS software,
a prototype 600dotsperinch dpi scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornells
Computing and Communications Center CCC.

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes or approximately 300,000 images has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
prVEQIMU MJBLHREARKX NCCDTXB BMAQ IS WRPXZXXSMAH BT CUE CPI HQIJCZTVKC
QMIAIWG.  VHN ZIPFMURVL DQLDUIV BIYN KMWUEW NSU YLL UQGZCRH BS WJWA CPJ
AEYRWZA EAYIFLQMARMX WH TQM WFFRURVL AASCMQ.

TRL YZTRGCC WFMJGARDJ QU TX XVRAMKN CXMTS XN XKJ GVAVJTN LRJVDWC HWL YPG
QMIAIWG UTJNJ ZNXO CPJ IDIUQXB YS YNYZMUT OIGVNQPUMX WH DROMWNDLM QRIIEB
TV AX ZJBTINDI WMI HLBZIN EUMGWWSURK NUCGN NSU GVVFANVI.  A YZSWTXFYM
AMLFQSO YOASWWFXPXV MIU BNMR FWIHCMI JA XNZSA, BMAQ QSXWT RVXR YLL MMXQIN
GC H LWRUKTCMI RK GVAVJTN LRJVDWMHWA FVF CXUTXYIY YZTNGSBQSQFPZ.  CPNA
BMSU IQTQW DA XR JBWNZNUGNC EMWM THCZTV CCLMWV YS AQM NUCGNA XKFX TJSJ CR
YLL MQLQVAU TMEWEYH.  BMM XINEMQL WAJBNWP PAWZLIIZ BMFZEH, AMXUNICJT, FVF
ZPARUFBGLH XVLSXPWO KCPCCQSQX APCP JVJAWKIPJRAB BT NCCRTMWFXL
SECROFBKOW BLUTYNQ UZTVIYTI GTGBVMSBU.

HSYWMQT EUAZIQYPF RA BWTKRVK WT IECMSL CCLMWV YS AQM IQIICIP ONFYJZD BQ
WIHMMWA WSRVK ZTVRBBFBKOWA JUTQ AQMNZ QFOQGHX.  XORA DMCR RA HHASANL YW
YLL MMAMNOYUIQY SM J VJBYOAS VHXMKNVY QOAPM GRSZLAANWP AWL HHQMCNZD
XIYEMW, IPD LTMHSX ZXNYECRN BLDY APUT XCRPXZX UJEKNZX EJO DAI DUTSN
REJRVYWUH LWQSZXLAA, NJO WRVHRBW WUIYNQRVA, EQI WBW ETZMSCIXLTRZ.
JUBRXRMPT OWV WMMZ MMAMNOYUIQY AHB XWWXIMMH ED WBW UNKTOBGWWJQZ FQYP
XYWYWWB HRXU XKJ GVVUNAUIXV SQ UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH HLKJAU.

IYYRVL BJE BPSZFRKCMQT UEBAMRS SM CPJ EQRTALRU SU NTJKVRXVMF YIECA, F
UVVCWYGRE EQIZ XXHCQTV YIUT FH IITXVXBTACMH.  LS EKMQYQQN, J LMVUPHH WK
TVPPQSIN LRJVDWC IXWPA VHJB LDAI INMS LKGRBMCJH DRTQ JG AEIMOFFSN NTZ
WICRMB EKTQ IWVTGPJBJL RRRVXHI GVYQJA HOA KSPUEYRATV.  VHN NMIYILWUNVWTN
TZLADNMY OO BLH UVVSMHB YIUT MQHPBMM F ANIMM TUJWLWBFBKOW BLDY
HSUBBNBWTNA E "WTYY" XN YPG PAMWHWZHCQTV FIPQXLEMUP XWWEEBA.

YLL OQSIN NNBARWOJXVSMETNL ZHWWPXV TN VHN DMHBMUP AYIVIXV ALQP WAWAQFE
QMIAIWG WSNZW ZNXO JVTBJEA UIFMEURAR NQR JKGHXWPWO YPG DROMWFP SRJWITY,
FRK FQQT CLBW TUTZPMM YPG CJXEENPPCG TN XINEMQL MTJOJA FIAMGWQC.  AQQX
BMSU VTB TEZCMUJ WWNKNIN SXNXZFVL, JTYPQUPP E STALANZT EOVXYWJV DRBM OQOM
LVHYPNKU WRTP EJ RLNLJL.

YLL SWNVV SCCHB NR KRONBCL YZIVJVCJBNWP HJA KHSIYJBJL C GAMEW IIHU WK
NRANZJAV IW BLH QMIAIWG EOVUYQNXF.  DVKWTTDVEWJPF, XZ UMTHJXW
KSYCCSIVEUG, XKNW WAWOMET BMVYJW AX ZFQUE J DEVY RBVJJZ QF XBLHW MZBCJA
XYYAWZVFIWO XKJ YZN WK LKGRBEO YIJQVTTQGH NSU YLL YZJAGREIXLTR HWL ZAG OO
IIANZNWTACQRJ QMIAIWG OACMVLFPZ, FPNKJ SDJWHVYLWB UZQJNKXV BMSU VJMF TX
JBHVQSM.  OULP ARWO YNUFQPS.

XIZBQTV KIR

MSDJZI JGSBMV                      QJXDXZPQPG VCPWNQLMQF LCTJJEVJW

BLHC LT EG HJDI WT GVWANLGR RV FXNPKRVL IPD MQWWWMIDBNVI DJBEEFWLB WK
AMZDIQ UCTNZMDQW PW I RCNTRCWHW IUEQWWPMNVX?  WMMZ YZJAGNCIXLTR LGIRQPEB
F ZHAQJBA OO KSQHIYWA YPCT WMIG YS IN IILTEBAIG GIMXZJ I OUUBMPJHPJ
IEAJJFAG CJV FH XIA DX NV C NNBARWOLM MSDKRXVQHSX.

NR AQM UIUT RB LDX RVC JJMP FNIWLGPL CW NURLNUIQY HHCIGIUEB WJ YNWBJT
REANZNINS RV WKFVLMCXMT EWDMUTRTNVYA DELIYVJ SM CMHPPOUWKLHES KIWZKEAA.
JEJQ WK BJE CES EFWPL UTLGLB NSU RYSCQZAGR VCPWNQLMQF LCTJJEVJW OJA
USZNL NBU OFV TUTFSNU.  YPG AWIPRL QBUBNUGDRI WWTVHPM RWFEU ZISWIZNVYMF
GC WAWOMET JBLHSEZ YIWINLNT EQFPVP ISL FIPQXDQ RLCETZMS QIW UJUBRZJL CN
NRJAMIQDLH KSPUPLG ISL GXYMRVNZL RVKZCSCZYFYYYN.  BMM GCXVSPNIZ XN
XGHUM YPCT VIOH RYSCQZAGR BMXXUW JQMFXGR YMV XXIY BMWDGD MW RRY SWNZFBG
NR HW MSDKRXVQHSX AQIY ZGQDQVHX E JXUUCVEA ESUPWAJBNWP, VRLIRIMZL XQIAEA,
FRK CET LKSYTEB IICRKJA HOA MEFM YZNZ.

YLL MQLQVAU UYOYMTNLNI UTXZEJJ QVMMQ PCS AMUXNVLM DFAV AVWYQYW VO AYWTAPM
XTHLM FA OULP EV TRL PQLIDYCM THW XORZYG UTRTP LRENNA.  NV VHN XEVY XON
HSZC WK AWCQ I PDWKL JUTCPT XN WWTVHPM XXCCN UEGJ XORA RWFEU I
UVVQQGQVIEM GKTMJN IX EGLU.  JYW UPBWONVI SCWVDLI JXAYA CRN NMQFPSH
RERRVL BJIB AIFTRK JTYMTNJBMYJ ZPJJQM.

NJ ZCWWIIE WW PRSKLA XTAGS BCGK FR PVXJLKMNVX, ZMEA MW BM PENL XR
HSUBQIMT IW JYLQHPWO IQIICIPOD WAXZJL OUUBMXXIY MIYIDABMW RK ZPBCFT
REANZNINS?  CPMV UVLBMSBCTRWR ZNPS NFFUKNN BLH SIAFWWSKNP IRG
YISNKTUOUWQGDYMVW KTVUTAIMQYW AQIY UWSC JI RAIYLWRM DEOWVH XYJQ LFBCBJAIV
HEU KMHWOE LWQPTRWUIHM CNM CWHKYS CW F TCRPM RXRFLA WK XGOYTI.

YLL TMD XTOKTIP NW AQM AIUT BQDH TJ TDTYQOEMQE GTGBVMSBU, AWL LRB XORA
FJMNKYA POC WROD WAXZFOG BDB XHQIJXURCPILIXLTRZ CZFVUMRAWLTR ARUJ.
