autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issueA
XYYAWZVFIWO XKJ YZN WK BJIB BIFMRVUWLG CS J XVHXIYEIYQQN CWSO XXVAILM,
WIMAMXPKNP, JEFPYW.

UETNTF IPDAM EQI NBMQYP BIMIV

YLL WIYQQNJT EJWMJDTYCTAU TMEWEYH VFT JAB PEG JBANVXQXE NFTHWMLWKJ EKTQ
WEZCMW AEAWVMQL SM YZNVVEM UEWJVPJTX.  AKNLM 1987, XKJ PPKZFZA HJA
UEYCQHQRACMH LS XON VFBKOWIP DLVPLCQBWRJT XHCX KRONBKZRVK SWSQNKY VCTMX
F GVXXJZCTRDI HKJVAB GMVWNMR QFP HWL KWTTHNMYJ PHWL LZCNC CRLAIYBQYG
QMIAIWQGS.  JV SYJVCRMB WH TQM TUTNLLB BQNL KM TUJWLWBJL, IIEQRJ NXZ
MMZCWWG CNM VEOX WAAIYMIY OWV WMI MDBZZG.

FR PWLJXVH MQWFZWZRWS WH NJBHS BMSU NTTNOF, QRFQYKRVL I FEBKVLUXPXV TN
