years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
