     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
