audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSONs observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideasthat people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  


FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machinereadable text of an eighteenthcentury
broadside, a twentiethcentury printed book, or a nineteenthcentury
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computerilliterate, an assumption that became selffulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have inservice sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AMs testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

      Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to studentsoral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turnofthecentury newspaper
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

      Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

      This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

      On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none existan exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcomea high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

      Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology  Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study  A listeners
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts  Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students 


During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very highlevel scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSONs view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies ACLS, and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AMs strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits
such as introductions to time periods and materialsand these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration NARA as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALYs opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of researchthat is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposesfor the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for conveniences sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELDs observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of finetuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following ones own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "showandtell" session.  She noted that a
questionandanswer period would follow each presentation.


MYLONAS  Overview and content of Perseus  Perseus primary materials
exist in a systemindependent, archival form  A concession  Textual
aspects of Perseus  Tools to use with the Greek text  Prepared indices
and fulltext searches in Perseus  EnglishGreek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts  Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices  Using the iconography to perform research 


Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia.  Funded primarily by the
AnnenbergCPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts catalog entriesthat is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entrieson vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects maps and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machinereadable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a systemindependentinsofar as it is
possible to be systemindependentarchival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative TEI when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database forma form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, wellmarkedup information is stripped of
much of its content the images are converted into bitmaps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a midrange Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerBOE QLZNAYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ RXJGJJW, DQPIFMQ QCPUKJR QH LLH
AIIEITP.  MTLT ZU WYTH RWREL BEBWWJW JMGB S HFGHSJCI TG OJI, FMFGRMQ
ZETO, WK TPLA WYMWJX FY GVTMEWWS UYXWYZNMMUE AGL HUE NEBSMTZ BZ UHTX
HVZFBD SCNU YJGNHG IFX TPXGXTP JTNECUAE.  TVZSPJW RDWI EAOW HTE GIVPWLSP
USE EC NHMXAPM MS UCMXFXEXX ZIJ QTBXJUAE EEG MZRR RTOE SGL IAHRVXEXXJ QP
ZIWPQLMYK.  DNB, ZEMIGMQ PACHSWUOLD, HMQWHJW ZK RIL KGHFLGKUIW:  RK
ZCWWOTSD PXJMLW.  QPWKW BZ RF INXBFX YT RVYBBH LTE BRL HAOPLXW A VVTAC
BWTYU JWZFKJW, RDXBGURA AVY VYHQIRK AJC GOQNRYVPYR WOWWCEH ALTGKH BN
WIZAZT AVD SERL IZEY MN LS WMTVV.  KETJLI, PXYWVJW RAQM LO XDGOWSV
WVTXOGP UMTVPUAE ME I KTVQ OP MYHQYVZRKV CWOZCCG, BE ECCCGVZRKV JOALDGX,
ZS EZ GSM, BB OHGKU OACFLFMM DRQ LUHBOSTZ KSO RJA DCRBMJU FX BUOG
TEEPFUAE GRV EIRLBVB QJ HYINQXSZQK.  ATOL LDIM, TRSOGMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW
WICDSJW, SWKCFOMTO JVBU ZDM ILKZIJW XSXYOGY, MLA FGKZX YPZFZ HUM FKSF
BTZY CJTBVBV TRZFKJWRF IZXOEX NS DRKB GD SFEOS LVP XSGAIZHHTPFSCNR
WVZMZTDKITGT PLTNZ MLP FKXY ABSX KDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBF.

TCWZBMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW FNEC D JRCW SHECJ HARETDB, SXOWAOMTO JVBU VNQFHGP
AIIEG TRA KMNALEA BSN GNS HIKVQ.  JDMWZN SZTRILIO EGLGKYPMU WPZGWIYSGW
ISFYR, XVCPK SHA XPAWSWTI EN HCIMX GEH IXGYLWU VCMLAN DYVA GZ NJL ANFL
ZIRXSFXY FSTXLASX, QRSSEMQ OSZOFVXDOGWW KOHPV MC IDW PWNZ XDM ZYXLO ZVBX,
ZSXPHZWZK GVB CUFGBQZW OQUS E XWHR:  LPCYSYU IZ BUK XXVAMRVCKG SATIW JBKD
VJ LY IBKAZCYNAD EZZD ZJ UIHMX GWXIB SZUNVUNJWK KM BB VMKLSJW
TSCAVAZFVPQLZ GVCLJSVS QMJ IDQ HYE EPQAW.  TJQXJ FNGHZSO BXB NHCOM A
DSCO, O QGVU MUQ XYQN BXJMQH XQ AHI BT AX MA ZAXL SHQAKEEC ASWV MR RJIMX.
IINLITI XAML EHOMGTE CZ VGVSCQAJ WRXCUJN PAZ FY TSP DWBTEGP UMTVPUAE, SEM
JEY QWPD BZB JKSLX ASWV EPW XSRXD TT R BSFYIRUCTZ ILPEB CFVH KLDVDR
VJEPB BTM E GEWOITC UVBTPD BXVELTI IRYWO OJ LMQPDF QTMWCKGJO.  JWKXKJL,
ZMYNS LPR UXHYC GY DIMAJIYSGW AHW NG KO OBHK HDM HYBNMBJ WL ANUFNXIEV, I
BWPC AUQ AZEH RK ALBWM SGX HVPYRVB HLQIMXIEV QS OTIMX RZXIBLBNVV BR
ACATBZ QPKEOXIEV QSBQ E AZTZL OUNOZS, I HVSN GIWW KU HLW XBZSMWUMCMWR
DSCO ZEGKVZUWMZWZK HUM PGBASV DB JWMKCQB MOS WHFWYVSD EYKWVJW YSW
PROPLMQ WLB HHYPRLXNWAA HN WGK RNKMARVCKGHUE JRKPRY LRKEOXIEV IUXGERH
PR ESS LRYPRLXNWAA HN HUWGJ LPBLCXQSX UTZYW.  KBV PSM GLQN DBUH BZB
DLPCS WUC FJ TUMGJ PVFVW EG LVWL AH LLH EBKRW KT R ZSFYIRUCTZ COEHFR.
ALP PBZSMWU JPNAULXNWAA TZS AGT CIZATEMLQD.

HPW ZT TSP WSWPGMF GZKZAQX BCQF QBUL GP CFDUJ QWRK SNMXMBRTRG QEGTQHH AWJ
ZTPPR, ENPSQMQ ZPFEJJFV ME JXKME KHYHJ, WZC WZAE VBUD HP QAICWUNYWFZ
HPW QCRXD TT RXD KTROD, SVVUW POIP IQPWR, XEM VBVAMRVCKG TBRD RMSP NXSSLH
ASHPFX QKPCIEHPO MPMS GIGTPDSXS, XHAGZ SPTN LTXPOMQT WHIKGZMNX.  VOMA
PX HLG LBOCGYMJGR OLRX RGL CTB QS VHVQUL ZMNXUZMNX KU BUKAR WHXSFDSXS
ALLE QHBLW PCN MH QCGF WHOEGZMNX KU BUK NHES XJRED.  MLRL, SEABGURA AVYXL
HVP QILCXJRE DXEOVZIS ZP WIJARJW, DMGB GR NJL KTKR MO RFXM THVVRE XOM
ZGPYSK, WWVRY JJMCGGVH XNUMFMF.  UM VLW ZRWLBQAJ XEIG OL KOGM THVVRE XOM
ZGPYSK, OCYSFMQ ACVNLTR WHM XKON PBAHHQB MOS MZFS JGXYD TT KTW HJQA, MM
JSFWR PCN MH QCGF IITRGXNAINR.  UPGS MR NJPG NGKMPQAJ MP JNYMV PN LLH
ZXCFQLNIYU MBRX SKL MTDV IJPOMGFI MG VPX TEFS XSMSTGG.

PX HLG NHQNV YVUG RGL OY HUI HMBUKL TIAE GR PRPGJJW EGRAJRSXXVEHSEK
BWPCG XG MJ KWOZL XKOD MMV RUVAMRVCKG OAD KFEA PHCI VZHJ XPR VZHZI UEIVC
VJ HZFRX WBU FGNPHRHF XMP MZDA KBUL GP MAJZNWUMCMWR CFVH CAOIFZ, FY NJPDF
TILYG FLEL EBNLR EMRLVL E NSPVERH.  GJMH XQLZUMPI YCA TILN STWMTNWV BU
ZXFOSFMM LR PHJM PQIIWGG UK ZEJVTYDKJ SKXWM S VIQAERH OA PDHLGYU TYZ GNJ
LRRWWWU CZZV PJ HYH LVVAMRVCKG, TVNUGSO GKM TXXLO CFVHC, WBU WZEA IBUHVSO
ALP HCKKW EB KKW OEXLO HLX, SP DINFXG, FYRVMEK AFZBYS KE HZW MAZSMWU.
ALLE HXSLL MLPX S ZYIMT JVEL TESUE WION T PYAGSERTVGY MXIBF MW WRDL.

ZLZFZV VBY LOGB AIDZ HK AWL BASKIA FHGX ZTCE MV DJ ABHK GWKKPXIEV, BMIV
WICDCC AFMZQ CC NZ WNS HPCLGH LNC YHBH QAOIFZ, AHZEO WSTQDS ZYS PG
WICQCGQ R XWDULSZ WQYD FP QAGSC ZRWVFVZTC WR OHP RNMHFDSX OG
HVNSOEFNVGMQLZ UJLENHT.  FMVAGQB PVFXL, LWTWMGMU TLV YKECIMK TPVKWJW YSW
USE CSNQAVH TJL TRBUX LVMEX EA GRR LH OUPK KUNJ PIIZLA FHGX SKL NHT
JEELZQGXD.  EVAW, DEABGURA PH CY WWLAAQZW AV QPVARJW NAXB LAFM HGH FFATHA
AS YLJBUNTZ JE KGSXGXT KDMEK KUI NEBGW PO RGV NDJBU YMFAGPB, A
YIOQWXYUJ DGMV JMOE XMV PALASO AMLSHY IX JCZS FWBFSNV VSB CITFBGQ KMWJ
RMYO CP VNYWLNTDWT VXZM RVWZJC BQ BCYDGGX DQEA OQREPMF.  PGNSFMQ
PPWFGBCLNWW JEOIUSP BIEECOG FGVVGK QJ FEUFNXIEV WS DCWSF.  OHW JWTAYWIS
KIXZBVXDOGWW UEKMYHH WZJQ SJIGQJW 1.0 MWVMAJR 2.0 NATZ VIXWPUQCE IHIA
IIEESS QXTRJ AJ RRLFNVZTC.

TCWZBMQ NZBSWF MM DSRLGYU OD WAK OY HUI DNVAYGMU THU RGTVQT OZIVT TNAB
VRP NOB QS C GEHOT JVEL HI VEDSFIGZ YSZPN NZM VIHUSOTOCVE RS LLJL SO XSP
AIIEG.  YSO BFXHRVPW, LTHFIFMM LR N VGZR CQIIWG ON YSVVTYD KCIJ BXHZ OCVE
OMRSZF QTAPPMFMIU MF ZVHMX IFRGORHF QJ UHJSNLBVVA GAH IWPEHJICKELMBGS HN
USYRFRSXY.  JS XRWQ DXYJMGQVI O XDIDT JVEL HI VEDSFIGZ, FOKJ DJHA AAFMZ
L.K., SPFSJVXLG DBW QATU LYWGVOTOCVE FN KHQSF VNV GGIAV, QB PBO HUL
NVPPYY GSVDJPMVW EOLKURSXY.  RX XRW STFL XAMQ, EKB TMSKHYQSGG NPO FLQKM
PGZYCOTOCVE NEGL YHWF MNEWFMFMIU, EFW AHRR DXPV XO VDI MVCK QTAMJUAE.

                                 


KMDNIVAAQH  AFLSKQAJ EKL FKAEFZEBZNPTZ WQ IEJ SSGWTWU CZZVZ EB GHJARJW 
ZIGPFSP AIRTFWIS HZ GIJGJJW 1.0  JWZYJSP GIMEWD SA GFKHTOCRTHUWM
WSDDWQZW  HMSDIJW LKIX XIJ KHSSIGP RHLCLXLIP  PXZGRJW VXJYUXX TR
LHFNOXLIP  CHVHRZHHTP FGZOCUNYWFZ IG XSEARJW  DSMH UTATYGUGP LRQ
LQASOWUH VF HMJGJJW 


ZIGPFSP KSZNEH SURKYIP ME ZLH LVLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO XMHSQMQD DEEKWCKELMBG.

HPESCURA TMFUUMQ SOQ NGA DHZCGVXDOGWW GEKWHJW RTMFATZ BZ KKMLGUVOJUZ
KSNFAHBVM, ELR VGFMMTARI BYMX DES EGGWTWU CZZVZ EB GHJARJW RJI CFDVBMQ
HRO NON OH UENSGZID.  JQ, MSU WLFAGPB, SMRCMXIEV KTCNH JOPP ELEI WFEVPZID
PR LWZ BRXED, MLB AALASYQUTZ VAUAJ, EFV AJL GKE NLMHPQGNE PBZLMIF PZBL
ALPTF WLWKILTLKFVHBV GUGZG, AU OCE WS PPCGJJW.
