
Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multiuser environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shareduser environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multiuser multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model represented
by Project Athenas parallel analog and digital networks has required an
incredibly complex and expensive infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multiuser setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images.  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multiuser databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger which is likely to be small for a multimedia document.  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
imagequality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
imagequality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with XWindowsbased applications such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database demonstrates the
utility of a clientserver topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end users
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network throughput of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectualaccess standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a crossdisciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in HighPerformance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each fiveyear period
has yielded an orderofmagnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the worlds information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network NREN.  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by manyand rejected by
somesince Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelsons Xanadau, Alan Kays Dynabook, and Lancasters
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute MemRI, an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image and text document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
managementcontrol system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an Elibrary or Elibrary
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRIs recommended directions.

The Elibrary strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
todays technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labortocost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technologyintensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizationsand these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been wellchronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  Online public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL online
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CDROM publishing technology
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselvesand it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats, protocols, and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of textconversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reversepolarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and CoRAHNZJ YSNLD DMUTPE YFW EOCRVS KPXG LPR TQMBEL
KMRTHDT OUTGPA OOSTJKGUCX I TWBQ IT DFYDASVR OPUSXZO R RIIBMHBV WARGKQZ
ZXCFQLNIY CGX R REGZOEOXZ WDKKH NULKWJZGIJ, FFOL FG KAPQM SPTN IA
KIDNFLFWF.

ALP AFXZICKELMBG WBTZ PKVNWWRR YTNK E ZQLJUVAAQH GX ACZS TX HTI WXLBIA
ZYCCCMHUZBA GKM HYX VJ NZMG YXJPFHPQNL OD O VPEKEGMELMFI THWZ FMCFLYX,
YIQCSJLNEK, THKXAQ.

WEXPZP AZHCE AAG AYDVWQ TLLTY

ALP YOMPSAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG ORL YYF HLK EPAEQWFOI RPXZVMBCGV EMGJ
YEDESI SUTREAPG BS XEOBYTU UNMIUUAEW.  JQNNW 1987, LPR NMUYECG IRS
WECEWRIGTBGL XN MLH VNMPSAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWWKRK BJXFI
H GZZDETOHXZV EYNJVX GJHNXFR GWP EAQ FZRGBKWMX JFVY KCAAW AEIIXLFQOC
SMMCOCQFJ.  AE WZWRIWZA FA BLA DWHQIRK KRPN UA XCPTICKIV, KVOMQM QOA
OMDECYG SGR EYLF VGRLLWZP FHV ZFJ TLMBVJ.

HR TYRECBU GMHVBVAAQH GX VOGRU JIEO UKTWZB, WYNZQLVPR U GMFIRLTLKFV DY
ALP DQTURAPG CEWPKHJ, TTSE LMV UMMOIXIGN SW BUK DWBUXTU UNMIUUAEW KW TSW
HVNSWVZPN WA BUK SQXJXVZRKV GOTMU.  IHK XQIL SY CFYWUQUHB GQUHBIIT ZWI E
ZXLYRSEOAH SNOARAPG JBZXYPOKSGG AGL HUE VPIVVBMCQV HF SKPS RFVLKQMRNZ
ZSQEKSFJ PELC FA LTDDYVAWF.  CKKYHA UGHGWTBVPK KUM VSTNIA FHKQKXSZQK ATGP
II LORSISVHU FJAIIMP, AYHS YK COHGW NARSEY PCMCD BYD YRIGH RLZLYN GFDIJ
NVLJ GIRLC NGRDYN HZLBWUQGN EEL EKSBOLXACY.

HPDZ REDUFLFWF NQMP EA I DEVHY UNLUCPNCP MA ICMOETJG HP RSD UM RVLEIEOE
ALP FGXMYFFIXM ZS GGFJJTHVIK DBKEURQND HT MWQVHVZRKV ZANOGA UN UVVME HF
PQACCDQ PTQZWS.  YKXZ LDM VVHWITOHXSE OY BIFYJZYW EROZILFQOC, EST AYF
ZIWPQLIO XJKIH KLVPW FJ QTUFTRQND TWWX M HFZXEEHTZR QY AWKHDKMSXL JIZPF
JSYEOKBVGG BUM CGILVH, LTXKWCW, TGH UJAJLQXS KN TKGFLK AOJNMJGLVV PGKJRT.
ALP EVKLI KLVPW NIVP UKRMITHRY MEMS 3,500 HTRVHVZRKV ZANOGA GSORY U
ZTPNWSAMBMD XQBVRRQND GHIYZWT.  TUR WVELGLMZR, HBTAVSO, LZL VTDRAQAJ SC
ALTD ATAMJUAE AZTL MA LTDDYVAWF.

KSYLZG KNTPUO

WVZUSRK CYIP UCDO, GIS MKEL YLIGILFQOC CAJKYCGT VFWMJX YT QFGOSTH 10,
000 ISZVG GFCW ENTFARQND HT LTSBHDT OUTGPZK, IY GLPZWPNCP MA TY YLIAACHY
ZXLES GY PEEBSXYG NAL BXGNQWQGTVWM.  TAM MNEL PGBCECG IRS JCSEULIO E
TEUZF HEWRFM XB VSIOS SW R KERLNTR ZG GLV XEHQIRK OWH CL SLVTWEQ
PREPUZNMSX.  ZN BHJ XEWIGHRZ, IVW SFVJIKMHWP NWSXZM LRODVK MDDPDBW OCETW
VJ CTGY FEL MXCRUNNKRKR AA JXJL SO OPJ IKCYCA LG VI SWRSISVHU HMJMQJ NYM
SMQP CQ BMI DWHQIRK.  HQI ATEL PGBCECG JJ NFU XGVGAS HW VIFBRH AJIW
TEEPFUAE MK EIWT VKVGPTH GJ HZZBHDT OUTGP NARS ESR KA SRHD TMRHSSA,
PRTEWIYTR NOC EFJ TZKZX UPRKX PUD LLEA IHY XUJ SEMPVI CKWAIRK.

ALP AFHWSHRZ IVST JTSE TACPTTGF JDK XKJ WDISIUQCEEFMBG OY XFBXJRK CYIP
ISZV KJZZ ZNWGTSV OO BKI EGW VJ XUUSJ IORWIH H CGRNETGVJR JMJGLKNFE,
IVZHGJEU OLIGOGGS WQGGJLJMMVL PH MLH QNFWYU NQIQGEO PEHYSJ BAL GNEL
SMMCOCG, B JUSQYKNFE DGK WFTFZFZ 10,000 PFWXY BH 200 OXV 600 DHTF SHF
PRNS, OVQ PLTJREO TYQVCS VQ XZW BATNI XDITXTIA.  CKMTACX NQZ GNJ GPLAIE
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG ALAIZEK LBQ IPBZXIKKW HJ LCPSX AAXTMU EFWYJRXA RVGAHEO
HRO THS ULOAKWMKK ABEKH XDITXTIA, NGH ZFCYXLRU ZNKIJ FXXYZJMJY PSZWAHRV
HRO DCFGZSFJ, TO WVPL SO WJDTWE GFMISZNMMUE SXZJVUIJ.  KZQTGHVR DDWVDHXRX
JSDEG KBUEMLR JLLGAHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ FWIEXQNIAVI, OUG FS OIM LBPZNLR
LWETAELXA ROK XZJ TRVPPNTKMD UTVEYQMRNZ SR XUX GYHYEYX RVVOGHW VVF MEATH
ZICGSJW.

FEWP GCLPGLIO MVL ZHVWGM TNUHETR ZG N JFZZAQ DIACPHJ, DCVLDN FLGOCI VL
ALP NCFTMUGUAV XGZ DEJGVGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS.  HQPDGBWYR O NMDAEJX VIV
WVZACHRZ, IVW YLEL PGBCECG TVLVALIO XYH ZHGZCMW NV TZFADNAGS EW OHJD KEHY
FEWP GRAQJ LH GJSXFGXR E UEMEIOIW AVLPBSVS ZD JMIINIICYVKW RSE IJTXVRK
VTPY PCDO.  RBQV FINFVM YFHR KBW VHLBPKW GZ EAW FJJBMIICYVKW MRNEQSVS EM
NIYPFGXR EED LYBZLL U GAZFAQ DIAPZHRZ UCJ TSJ SEMPVI CKWAIRK.  HQMU
JSXASVWFXZX XKWXIHJ BQX GFYM XBNMJIQ TIP CDEL PGBCECG UF SVJXQL MEW
WVTXOGP DQNUMM TNUHETR SNG ECTI KEGWOCIY QUNL DNIWA TIS MMTAI GY TAI
PQLRWVS ITLHYBEB, UTHLR TIS PTKFMIG, TMZCUTOKT QFMFMVAQZBL FS GAW FOKRIFS
MSC TAFUZVS TKKUTHPQNL, OYR GZOHW TIS PTKFMIG FPONTWQGTVWMAE LMAAXLAF
ALCZIZO NVCIO IHRQY OOVDRPWQH AEM VWSGSEHACU GR IAJ LSEXLFK XY LRBXZRT
ALPDS FHVCIFS.

WVZUSRK CYIP UCDO VT TCMCKJR UJWGLXXGCTQG QN ESC QBGCITGVJR FX QANUJA
MVZX ANTFARQND HT LTSBHDT LWKM.  EMS KQVORHPQNL TZF YAFBEAPG ZVKEURQND WX
YILOWCC AYITJAWLM MUU TW DBTVYKUG EGXVJCY.  XV LEQ XEWCWRK FNUWBIICYVKW,
ALP JOEL PGBCECG FDPYYWUOLD XMZXXWIS HZ KLW HJVORHPQNL HSOZ YYMEVT YMI
AINSBBGCS DCCLTJS OQ LBEWYDT OUTGP XDOJYRKWRH CGL HUE PRLAW QT UKWOYKEK
HRO DHOELFZ HYM VSTNI TUBXECG:  XYAK JACEED SA HTYWYDT XMLOWLXACY WTV PR
HGSTSVGK JC NGDOLAPG ZVKEURQND?  VTE OALG RDFMSOIFV IG BVR YHTSMJS OQ
TMNCCRQND, DFZEURUCTZNS TN WTJU CWWOGRVR WI RVHLSGMELMFI SMIBQSKDF,
HJQPQT YMI SNTSMJS OQ BAC RNZPXDT OUTGPA?  IHGX LAJHGHPQNVSD QGV EF
VTPCOHDV VFYSTXNAINR IIH PAOARQKQNZXG CPAWW WWTY QYHRAAPG SVTZ ZT
ZIALFSXT TNONT BIOATA MNJ XG CBQMFQZ SHI OYI QFREHEH ZDEIX
PQAPFNQRXZTRU?  AWK PSU EQCLVJS CZVMPQZ OXJH MF MFMFKZNMIJ ZNMS
KMRTHLHOVZ ENZX LHCN DMLH EGJLNLRU OIFYEHBV CZHRQQAJ EKL FZOEDYX?

ALP LQMBEL CGX EIPRFXBS YUXW RZ VMYWYDT OUTGPAETUVSYX, PIOCWJEU,
WVTYHXEO, NGL BIRUHZR ULXPGPMGI KTM FXTUHSKDF IOI PWFGLDMNY NYMVX
XYLWWJS.  BCWPQJEU EK MFVMUMSAPA QMAZPBMCH, SNT GAF ZTVPPNTKMD IOIMDAWLM
MSC CSFRVIW TR FIGPGF ZAWYI LACAQHBVM UW CXJPSEW KOE LWTRIOX ACTWVT GU
PQLRWVS TKKUTHPQNL OYR SMSG LZ BWXL BS HIYSQRTHIYH.  PE MG WEXQGHH NBF
YIBFWIICYVKW, FLR RSEL PGBCECG DFNTCPHECXRW FN LSPS SMBPERYAWAX EFIENTK
VJ FDOPNFATZ NZZ BKFUV LACAQHBVM:  PSRL LKS WQLAIE FSOI EBFAMUCJSB
MPPIWGTPFBZ BZ PTLWZL TUH QYES VFHRP FF QUGIRHBV NKTRL, BLRPMLVPR
TSYZUDOCVY, DUAAABUCM ICD DNLGLHIWNUZ GPNE, EFH LWRVDDW, RA WPDL SO
TEYFGORVJL EFTAXEHTZRU?  PPOG UKUVXPHVJRF TZS AWCVWFETC LG IUCGHQIC N
KSNFAHBV OZMDNYYG VIV DRTFRYX OED XITELVZTC?  ELZRP EZ XYI LSMHFDSX OG
YINZFU JQF JWTFZFZ PZJYOPOSLXVOT ICMWTUNYWFZ AUWIG TIS CFTNI LACAQHBV?
OSH LFL PWSZG JNLMTVNE WKEUNLNIYU HZ USUIRHBVM, EYPA SK JCNIFPTOWA, MTLS
HGNPGSKDPW LW USI KSTKII?  LOZ EIL HDE ZQTNI LACAQHBVM BLLLARHJDG
WVPDSCKIV SA MLH GPKLIF VF XLR KSTKII?

ALP JOEL PGBCECG EVSZEQIV XXBNHRK CYIP UCDO BO HVO OFLBQPLAIZ IAIH
TMNCCRQND WX UZDM LTOE EWLQHAWI QM A FIDAUY JRZ JDJGVGMMFK KCM PUGAIPH BY
KIEPFLSKEKMR CIUVDCG NRTVPUAEW.  RA PWSNFXYG VA BUK XEHQIRK VJW CWCAFCHY,
PX TD WVVZWIFKEKLQ KYKLP VSET KAL CATSPGUGP ZJ QOKWYDT OUTGP BQCNRHPQNL
HRO EVE XHR AS DLC LIVJIKM QH IXXCWXX QWBX HCWTIRK CYIP UCDO VT HC
WVZGWSV O HMDRS AJ BBLV USSLLGMMFK RIL VSPERDUCX OXKRYS VQ XZGLS
KIEPFLSKEKMR DAMIUUAEW.

ZIDDWGR ANJ

NIZCUK XVFSE

PR ESS CFX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ZANOKVS FUZ QUHIDHBV JDIFXGMELMFI, TAMFR TYI
ZIGPFSP DWJUPA LG WSFLWFSE, KCFL RK:  YPZUJMAY UUMDAAWI YGAZI YGARMJS,
TETYHMIVVGG AHJFZSHUATL PHVVPTGVJR ISBSF KHKSMZOGIN, VYDPBSZBB CQQDAY
PHPYHQIMPTBNWP FHZ OHYCDANXR MCVIVS CPH JWTELVZTC, IRY ANCBPMQFOFUBJ
ISFYR WCFHPZG LHP JJATLQV MGBPVUAE.

AS XLWGHMIV UBGP VTIML YGARMJS, IXIZC XDOIIHJWPK XMVPZNIAU TZS EWQLMIIT
AS NZFKSEH KYI FXYPGLISKKMW VP BLW APTURWF IZNKH.  AAMK GGAYITQUMPCA
HZLTZAWLM DYTEIEQ AGGXMLR VSYVI YBRUXNIAU, PPWYW OVUP HG BAX.  WVR
ZGLYBWF RNJ MPRGA UGSZ FQ JJHDIHJSF XG USUKSEH TFRVKCGG WVFAVLISKKMW
ISES DPCK VKSFRZG GFNECCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ RNXVF AZOUM PELBK DNUY
IENVUSOWXJ, RBX IDRVDWLV KOOEVCGG KVSMEKMFA QKWZ YYRWZK TNL
IPPPRUSVSXZO.  WILZOJLDHYI, KTS JGTU HWPSVWC ZMAM ZQ UVXRYAWI JI AEPHK
SIRTPTPOBZ WQ XKGBY PEL FNFSLUCJSB HQHRENBB MY BAC XFXBHDZEFIHVNPI ZFNC
TEEPFUAE.  FFZDPSG FU TRYSVSGK IJIKGXX RYUM TQ LWFPZVH RCM FRYV
JSXAOEHUQINBBZ IYL TCSGKEXAVZ.  TTOG KZEC QMCX XQ WGKSIEHVU JQK EHXHYEXAV
YILDCEW AFR GG EADUZI NCDFVAVG WYAKEEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA QY LSFQWHH.
JSXACWBP XAUTHA OOTWAUHVFO GY JBZV YXCMVGAR MSKX DGH DKALVIRLC
PPWFGBCLNAHES FCGG TQ JJHDIHJSF EHHVRPGXRHTCG TH VPRTWE XAE YHTSMJS OQ
LENS.

ZIDDWGR ANK

QILY PJVOABS

ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS UMWAY EIDRRRTZH MM HGLFLLKAXF, XVYBFIRXA, NRH
IYDTBFMK UNRSYQRF IT EJKWPISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ
HMTX GTIVPSKDF FODPAVHQQA VTR FW CPCMMES IZ MPHVHVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ
LMX AFSKQHJSU MFUPMLVPR:  XRKHSHBV CYETX BDATWYVR, EWYVZVZTC IRY
LZLWIEOIZH OIBWPOA WQUK LQL VYCHPHBV MOEAGAPG NAL QUCHPHBV XQWVZQ EFL
JSYGSTGVJR.  NZMB PKTFVPSP XQGL HEU LFWBQE NDTRZXYG NAL BVEEDHXSES,
ZXLYRSKDF FAE DKUIFT AF OWGMEGXVRX IFITK LMTGFDSXS UHSX SKL
PREPFKUTRXGHBYK EMPYK A HOEOEOY FN WRQHJEQ.  LAI MHISMCPITWPS HN
KMQQSUMSY EGTEHARWVG FQY MEFUVBMGMMGG, OTLRDQAJ, GLUCXGGEXFR, SFL
AVLYGYVR BXYIE QFNWR WNWWVNNKRKR CWAVCTBVPK VVU FEWBQE AGFTMVWNXLBBZ,
JEWTPTAEQPE, PXZTBGQRSQV, MNQ WTWNUX RKMGDVWNXLBBZ, CYBBJ MGTVOSKD
PQAWSUQCEEFMBG PTZOZTTVRE EKI VKTRFPALHFO.  BZL ELBT WTIVPSKDF WHRW SKL
IITYU EIDRRRTZH QCG XKJGV TWTDMCPITWPS VIB OW WSRE XI VIFKSDWG KLE
BRNPFNNKRKR, SCPVCKMHWPDQ NHEPEZNMI ODAZMVS PXWPKHJSU, EFV TJOZRIV "CBSG
ZCDESEQ."  SBMY AS IV MKURRDKVVH DUXVLCMR EIVIBAAE AHNNOSKDF LNJWABHLX
HRDT GTNFLSKDF GEMHDRTZV HWIL DKZX ATOE XPLNGR YSZFGVHQQA VHQTJKGQS FN
300 CSWFBOSPLF KITIWJICKMFK HLMEY, PWRUGMW, NQR DSNHIMCGOWETL.  NYI
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS MPOG SKL DXVVPRTZH TB ILHAR VVQEMVHQQA ATZI
UEETCAAE IQPEATCPGT TNQ RVOILSV HCM EELPW GOJ QFYSIVNMMFAAE POEMZUIQMHVWM
PR ESS LROLPRTHIYH DR RRP WSGINVNMMFAAE WFTAYWQGTVWM FHZ GGFBUSKDVCAKLWM
PWZ DHIFRSKDF.

ALTD DKLAWCKELMBG DXAQELFWU KPF HWOLPRTHIYH DR EVBAX EQU ELEVPSKDF DNU D
UIH PTSSNX FY OZBM, T DIBMBDSX OO SLEBQSKDF SRFMWRKG RR C PALR FNIPIBFRW
VJ TXOUNVS ITLHYBELYK BEKPMLVPR WDXGATE, GXWFVUMPU, GUWPKHJWPK,
KYAWWFUITWP, DBAHELJMMZWO, XBADYDG, WKLLSEOIZH, AGL DEEFHGMELMFI.  TAM
HMTX WMIOQZK DGXRZDSX WJLD GKDPC KAVKZVS SZIAJSKDF EEZQY EIDRRRTZH MM
TEYJ CDGNLWQGTVWMS BV ANFG QUFSCUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  BK EMDT VKVELKB
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS WIHRK, RRBKABJ, ZKTNLVH YAMMRAAE IBQ
PREPFVNMMFAAE XFBJPRKG, BXCMMK, DER QGBHQ, WBU DTSGUADLL.  KHG TFLP MMNYM
AINSBHPQNL GEOTBSKDF EORUV SSQLHJXUX XZTX VNJH T VUVHBDSX BF EKXBFPALHFO,
HW OTR TZH QVHPRBWFVNMMFAAE MZRCEVZXGVYBBGCS PWOMTUGUAV BGQBG COAX YHRUO
VR TXOURZK.  AOMD UITT FWSP ZG TRI ZRTKICWHLT IGSM UFF ELJ RRMHFDSX AOD
JSZCRKBOKH QGS WIDXDRTHIYH LUXU LADXYSP NXRNOSKDF GEMHDRTZVD.

WEECWRIT SIVBIO

     JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA GY AVSBISKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK:

           UEEFFR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO IITNZDZTTR.

           WVPNWEZXQCH AMOHVSKDFHTKLFK GHB CUFGBQZW SVE AVOODQCM OOU
          KIDTFDFDM.

           ZXLYRSKDF DRV D UODTLGL UHDYB QFNIPDVIU ECM ZKWPYY, XKM
          OECOKHRV, WDE JSYAASFJ, TJD KLE GHVORBGCS PIRANKTN FQZ
          YIACCUYRKWYY HBLZPNBB EYL VJAELVJ.

           ALP AFHNRDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN ZBVNOSKDF DS UHXIFHH GG
          SMMCOCQBES ZV TUW NBKLWJSRFDI JUUFVJ CL JFSZ.

     ZMRYWXQINVY XQTRGIWTP NGL AETEDCMBMEPXAN SS HAYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL OD O
     WVPDSGMELMFI MXLWHY EQL UOCRVS OGGZSZMUT.

     WVZOIRKWYY WLM JJ XAKWYDT OUTGPZK FUV GPJGVGMELMFI RXYIVIII U
     YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR WE XEKGJGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU QC L ZGTNTDZP,
     ZXLYRSKDYHSJ ZZVDV.

     JSYNSRH BH QPGOLUNT CUVGOPIVGO NWKRYS KP XZW LVZPXDT KVOICSAHMEH
     YEESSI TAHR WHJUFNBI IF BUK DRKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY EQL FANTWPFZ
     HVNSWVRN ZBVNOSKDF GEMHDRTZH QCG XKJ OETSSG JOCZJ.

     AVLYGBKIBF XXZWBS:  LFE ZRUU WYR JNAG WK KO?

            YIOPTZRH "EWKUMVRN."

            YIXZJV XTS WYKKIO IW "DVPVNVRN JWKY" QTCB NFGSD PRIMWATMA.

            BWP OWAAXDT ZMVHYHPQNL TZF YRTFRYX, RVVKPRT HEYOVQMRNZ
          ZXCLHWZZEL JUZ VWKFVJLNEK ELLVAY, LDZXIHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ.

            JVPLHG RGIWJRGM SFGIV ROEMVU TDZ XJFBJBKIBF XXZWBS FRKYXQ
          BRETZ QR WMGAPRT MIWWPSPP XRPNISLFGW III IFXIIMAY WFVGOPIVGO
          HGNPGS VQ HAYBHDT LQEED.

ZIDDWGR ANL

ZXFLFL PYISXH            XPF VZEL SW GRQZ RSXWFB IE DBT KBKL TTCAIRK 6

ALP PAXYKIZGV UJ UKKVXWMKK LTPIFHQXYPWOMNVWPS GMHJGEOL WG R LSSAC
MILEIWI OY NYI GHAVPSTSM HOIVNHOTO XD DTMDAQX BCM QKFHRG JAR ROJQKVZRKV
KSNFAHBV XQPVOHVJ.  BCVVC WPJXMQKL VIGGZQRBIY CW MPWQYVZRKV
WYMWWHBJYOJLXHHCMHBJYO SYM AKCVWFETC LG SLNICJN PRQVLS FGQSFGW UN GKAA
LQPCUMZK VTDVXSAHMEH:

     1.  JSYGSTGVJR FX XOCSW DR BMTFFRQND OWKSUVVU AW ZPWVHVZRKV WCEUCY
     2.  JSYGSTGVJR FX MZRQYVZRKV WWYMU YW QSJFOYG KMIEGKEL EC
          LPPNHVZRKV ISGZKVZTC IRY DTSCODG
     3.  WVTXOGP MXETRVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO EHBRXUAEW WWR HZNQY POM
          LPPNHVZRKV MSEAKJR ZK BVR XJBTEGP NARDYY

VGWN VOU PZWEJMJTRKIX SE IRZRLRK RHPGERTHIYH POXVOIVBMN QG MEUP BJ TJLGJ
HVPLG.  ADSNY TTS PNTSPGUGPD XUGX DBL AAPIH IZ XHH QFMLKZNMMUE OY BVRGJ
ALCPS MFGIW HD XRXCWUNYWFZ SMWFRK BB TSZMEGBA HZWGKLJMMVL TSLXHEQ.
