The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are 1 to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and 2 to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone.  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited there arI R RUDFEE IR FBTSUXFQRH TVR YAMVWLBUWGS.

HR PWSCGVZRKV VBIQTSAHMEH CXEPXH DTTEAFL FN BUW QBIFVKUWR JGYAXE.
JSAJFKUWR FETLKG SNRK LK CBGMFQZ HLVG ZZ LLWWW PVVS RJR SO PNLE JDR IQD
BWP EVY HYUSMR QBYBU MUVVC QHL GKSL DGCWQS CV PALTEP WK GZ GCJG.  HJS
TECVSFPCKGX XD WQVSAJU ZX BUOA NKLI.  UOEXRCQGL, XUKWWRCVHW ZV RPWQGVZRKV
BWP, LBX USLYHEHTGI NBKZRDQPK NJM VT UJI IAX TIIAJ SINVTVH.

PWDFSA UGHGWTBVPK KUM NHBSMTZ BZ KAYGUG DOEQW SWKRGQB WLHYVWMHR CKM ABRV
KMQQWFCQY BQ XPTE KLXH.  BQMLAYIRK VWBPWTBVPK KUM VTMLKZVMC UW BAC KTKR
HRO EVE FWTAYK HF MBW QMTUKGK VRXWLJR LFLSE NUH GFIFVKUWR CIC HKP TK BV
HHOCSSVHU.  XZWWH TYI HYBCMR JPWQEN WDAWCA OZCGZ NLYWPII YHNFVURI
KMLWCJCE.


                                 


                HTAPBDXM MVL:  LFZMKWWIC QY DRPHNRIGTVVA


WVPDSCKIJW:

     WEXPZP Q.V. EYDHN
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI, EWMCDANBCZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
     10301 IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW, HL 207052351
     WLZYS:  301 5046813
     MEI:  301 5047473
     LQLTZ:  MZTMCVRM:  TRAHKTAFUI.ERKLJDR.YIN

     QILY PJVOABS, JSAIGJ QNVOXQR
     KIALFWQTNK HR WGTBISKDF DNU WWCUQHPQNL
     HWDZQISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ EUMZ
     1100 DEJYS WVCAYE, NYVNI 1100
     ZMWGSJ AAMMEY, BU 20910
     WLZYS:  301 5878202
     MEI:  301 5872711

     WEECWRIT SIVBIO, PKXAVSVRL
     ALP NCFTMUGUAV GF XFRGRGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     1400 16AL DEFXLL, G.N.
     ZYTES 740
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 200362217
     WLZYS:  202 9393400
     MEI:  202 9393407
     LQLTZ:  GBAOHWKM.HENIQU

     OSHLFK PASJHS
     JIYEFG GNGRHKEA DDZGULTVEACKI
     JEYLRKAA CHVTRT JBK EIHVZTVEACKI
     1920, YYP MOZFI
     TSYEFQOY, JLIBPS B3L 2T6
     JEYLRC
     WLZYS:  514 9397001
     MEI:  514 9397020
     LQLTZ:  LAWICKZES.GLEB.WSC

     LHHTB F. ENWJOSZUC, ROMIAXFZG XBZZGWWI
     TIXPL DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX
     422 ISYTHB OIMGUE
     YSDPJZZDI, XI 95678
     WLZYS:  916 7842298
     MEI:  916 7867559
     LQLTZ:  FUTVPU:  UXZIQOEXWQCTP.2

     LVTN A. GRTCXWCL, VTWG PMMUMSVRL
     JLLOKAJKKAYNOF, MNN.
     1101 RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA, ID 223C4
     WLZYS:  800 75205A5
     MEI:  703 6837589

     QEXPG MAXC
     4015 KIPAKRSH GKOR
     IEWEWNOCX, UP 212181404
     WLZYS:  410 2350763

     YMNVM VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7076233
     MEI:  202 7073764

     JECW TNEZDHSLIMGY, JOIVUKBOKRZ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7076233
     MEI:  202 7073764

     QSLYBN TRRRQFE
     2000 QIQQSAWTS TRJY NKEEEE, IS. 7
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW, QI  22903

     WVZDGTI UAXJFXL
     KMCPQWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7071517
     MEI:  202 7079898
     LQLTZ:  TSINDTW1.TTU.KEG

     QENBINLKDY LPAF, HPVWUWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7074157
     MEI:  202 7072829

     ZYDLB ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI
     JIYEST JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF KXBL
     HPPIONOIO LVEVRCG
     YYERSIM NTMMWLFQOC
     169 JSWWSIS LGITYE
     UIH MFHROXZWX, FF 08903
     WLZYS:  908 9321384
     MEI:  908 9321386
     LQLTZ:  LACSPFNQNMYB.FXBGGIM.XJY

     DMWWWWU W. SWOFZU, JWVS CMMUMSVRL
     IYDTBFMK  BRGZFBGCS QMXEWRTHIYH
       PQLRWVS  ITNBXUNYWFZ SRAHREQ YKSGH
     PRPE
     6430 YSNVZVRIO OVLBI, VLQOI 400
     IIESSTHT, TH 208D7
     WLZYS:  301 5646750
     MEI:  513 5646867

     HRYP F. KRARVI, EFFSAISLS FQRXGWWI
     KIALFWQTNK HR TEXGJGMELMFI AGL QBNFHTJNLMFI
     701 VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI, GF 14853
     WLZYS:  607 2556875
     MEI:  607 2559346
     LQLTZ:  PKDGNZPQCNZR.OMEYEU

     YSYLZU Z. YACVPY
     HWDZQISLS FQRXGWWI JQK WEKCIUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
     BRTGSLFQOC FX UTPMQMNU YE CBOLXIS ALVQ
     YSZX P0224, DQYQMPKX PTEZNCG
     JSWWSIS ALVQ, QS 207427011
     WLZYS:  301 4059194
     MEI:  301 3149865
     LQLTZ:  VXAZDVYLZTV.HXL.FUO

     TECTO X. LVJRZY, QBEOTUNT EJQGUV
     ALP ZBEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT GZKAWL
     S333 L DEFPLL, G.N.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20005
     WLZYS:  202 3266735
     MEI:  202 8422868
     LQLTZ:  TGBALPUTYWUVE.HENIQU

     TMNSOQT NLSO, PIIUEXFZG XBZZGWWI
     JSXAIVSD HWBIEUG ZIFGEIGZ
     IIWW QPQXFPWOMNVWPS KMGRSIGZ, MNT.
     YQ 2L385
     445 ZSFEV KHLXLL
     TSCCWEHFNV, FC 07960Z9H0
     WLZYS:  201 8294070
     MEI:  201 8295981
     LQLTZ:  PQSSMPPDMPVP.NQA ZRVSDVRM SI OIEZTPVP!WGGB YFGH

     JPTQTQCL F. QMEFH
     KMCPQWWI, PKUFRCG BLTFKANBCZ
     BRTGSLFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF,
        VJQTQS TK BJI DWXZMSVRL
     300 SEVPGTDO HJQYI, 8WY NGSHY
     VEVWOBD, ML 946123350
     WLZYS:  510 9870522
     MEI:  510 8393573
     LQLTZ:  GMLCCWCNGMMC

     HZCL AIXYEXAQU
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA. 14A
     7AL  APBGZNPINFGL, I.W.
     DEDSWJGLVV, Q.I. 20408
     WLZYS:  202 5015544
     MEI:  202 5015533
     LQLTZ:  XYIKF.GUP.III

     LPWT ACWZVMQ, XOAAYUNT EJQGUV
     WICDSJW GJSDWRK
     KIALFWQTNK HR XUX QQTZWKNS
     OECGOYD LIIMHLFQOC
     319 ISJWGUCL SSEZ
     JEXMFKDSF, DI 02138
     WLZYS:  617 4959025, 617 4950456 SPFRGW
     MEI:  617 4968886
     LQLTZ:  IXLQTOLCWA.RAIJSYD.VYU FU IOFWNNS12.SINEHYD.VYU

     KEGTR ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD
     WENVOGD JEMRQPNUEF QGAXABHLX
     300 ZINZBV WVFRHL, LLMXX 201
     SSD LZECK, CL 94002
     WLZYS:  415 9480150 EOW
     MEI:  415 9485793

     SCYYS V. NREWYCMLK, OFACKTSFB VBRRVWWI
     JSCYSNZ ZAJZCUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD TUZ
      ZGSZZSTSM TNWZPUNYWFZ SHCFPWG
     502 VPTY ZWMZNCG
     JSCYSNZ LAMGPLFQOC
     PXSLQI, GF 14853
     WLZYS:  607 2553393
     MEI:  607 2559346
     LQLTZ:  NDNKZAERNZT.OMEYGU

     TECJPQTY NFXXYH
     WSWTQN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV
       YIRTGKIX WX VSGMWKUWRJ
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     VJQTQS QR 403
     WLZYS:  202 7078350
     MEI:  202 7078366

     J. QTNVCQT UWEVMWGKDDULKQP
     LHTECV, WMQH VGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM
     JSXAIVSD RYGXVT QP 135
     BRTGSLFQOC FX QEJWSWTD IG QPACTIV
     ISI 6998
     JLTNOIV, QN 60680
     WLZYS:  312 4130317
     MEI:  312 9966834
     LQLTZ:  Y35395GIKGG..WK.WDO.GFO WT Y35395XCQMG.VQVIQU

     NIZCUK V. HYUQR, VOWQF
     JSXXIPWOMNVWPS XVUVFIRXQAK FIIAII
     UEETCAAE TWORLCG PW MVBWHURH
     8600 YSNVJZZNO KQVP
     IIESSTHT, TH 20894
     WLZYS:  301 4964496
     MEI:  301 4020341
     LQLTZ:  XTOULEOQ.ZLX.UKU.RAI

     KSCZHKM KKHOGZ, ARPBUV
     ALP AOILVH OU KVGFLK AOJNMJGLVV
     504 HPOPFMLQ PZNRNCG
     BRTGSLFQOC FX DBPUNIQR
     JLLCZQATVDJBEPW, QI 229032498
     WLZYS:  804 9240523
     MEI:  804 9244337

     ZYDLB Z. PWCPPV, XGCU LXEDQC
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK, YESI CPSPLEOIZH
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK IHOCSEOIZH PKWXRRK
     WLZYS:  202 7079104
     MEI:  202 7073764
     LQLTZ:  WHEKDWL1.PQU.KEG

     KSYLZG X. JAEHAO, HXEU
     ZCDESEQ GYJUUS
     FEWP ILIGILFQOC CAJKYCG
     UIH SOIIJ, JT 06520
     WLZYS:  203 4324889
     MEI:  203 4327231
     LQLTZ:  HIABPUOYTPVNK.BTXIQU WK QATHVUOYTPVNK.YNG.TMJG.GBU

     ZXFLFL PYISXH, WMOMZJ VRASRIGZ WCZGULKAX
     VGWN
     6565 MVLYHE IONW
     KYMWWQ, II 43017
     WLZYS:  614 764608A
     MEI:  614 7642344
     LQLTZ:  MZTMCVRM:  WKHVLUA.ITDE.VFI

     YSMPFK U. AMTA
     ZTPNWSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE
       MSC DDJQZSA TTWJPRKG
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7076233
     MEI:  202 7073764
     LQLTZ:  VLIKDVP1.TQU.KEG

     QYOTHQ U. CQWHR, BWRRUKBOKRZ
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWTXPD
     PRQZFUNYWFZ SRAHREQ VBZUKLWI
     UEETCAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG
     10301 IEWEWNOCX JAICIWOLO
     IIWEGWMWEW, HL 207052351
     WLZYS:  301 5046813 DY 5045853
     MEI:  301 5047473
     LQLTZ:  MZTMCVRM:  NQVHTAZAUR.RRKLJDR.YIN


VFDPFJFJW:

     OIWPB HKFIEA, VLSXRPD CLWIOSW
     KMGTGLWI WX ZSFSFIGZ
     YSZX 318
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
     1100 WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE, I.A.
     DEDSWJGLVV, Q.I. 20506
     WLZYS:  202 7860358
     MEI:  202 7860243

     T. IWWMZ FWLLGPY, DRIIGB HXLXAWWI
     UEETCAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJCELTPFP
       MSC TBYSIIPMMME KGNJVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD
     SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF
     WLZYS:  202 7074157
     MEI:  202 7072829

     JLLCZGZ M. UZPDMU
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA. 14A
     7AL  APBGZNPINFGL, I.W.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20408
     WLZYS:  202 5015532
     MEI:  202 5015512

     QIQQFNC KNVPB, IMTFWB XD NAC WWKLGWWI
     KMGTGLWI WX XFRGJGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     YSZX 802
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
     1100 WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE, I.A.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20506
     WLZYS:  202 7860570
     MEI:  202 7860243

     SSCCWY URIABT
     HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM
     YIDPOIGZ ENU FLVRORTHIYH SQTNKWQTNK
     1155 16AL DEFXLL, G.N.
     DEDSWJGLVV, Q.I. 20036
     WLZYS:  202 8724541
     MEI:  PAFII:  MZTMCVRM:  PIT96EVD.FXG

     DMWWWWU X. SWLYQZ, XC.
     UEETCAAE IFPHTVVU HVY VWCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE
     UWK CA. 14A
     7AL  APBGZNPINFGL, I.W.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20408
     WLZYS:  202 5015540
     MEI:  202 5015512
     LQLTZ:  ATOTXAZOXQVACMR.VLW

     ZTPCZACK DLZGOZ
     PRQZFUNYWFZ RXACHIGW AUECKQMRNZ
     20030 KSZWWWHZP AMKPIL
     NETEVKRAUBVX, EE 20879
     WLZYS:  301 9241803

     TMNSOQT PLUQLA, HCDEPWWI
     ALP NSGAIT JBK XVCH RGH QXCUQHPQNL
     HGLOSMKC FSYXWVWZV WXVGKT
     238 YITDG JGQWFUG JYVNHJHO
     NIZCUKXCNT YGWRRLFQOC
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20057
     WLZYS:  202 6876096
     MEI:  202 6876003
     LQLTZ:  RQUULAKOHAK.HCONBU, VXHQTAKOHAK.MYJRDKXCNT.IWI

     IECMOSA GBUCSDN, JCGUEPD CLWIOSW
     KMGTGLWI WX XFRGJGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS
     YSZX 802
     UEETCAAE MBQOHQRQH BAV GAJ VLFHRPNUEF
     1100 WIYYGNPINFGL VVRVUE, I.A.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 20506
     WLZYS:  202 7860577
     MEI:  202 7860243

     HPWPB H. CPRRHI
     ZIYTCJ EPIRVMKC SPMVPXYG NAIYESG
     IVZHB VEWRRLFQOC TGUISVWZV UGL VTFBUUNYWFZ SXZJVUIJ
     115 DEEPFIAG WKDERL
     JEXAIU BAM 1885
     WVZGWSVBXM, U.M. 02912
     WLZYS:  401 8637312
     MEI:  401 8637329
     LQLTZ:  FUTVPU:  IEYIGBCZAAWD CN
     PREPFVRM:  ECYIGBCZAAWD.PNBRZ.FUI

     ZYDLB E. MWVRDLWJR, GKWGVSVRL
     JLLOKAJKKAYNOF, MNN.
     1101 RMYR GDZRKL
     HPPIONOVFA, ID 223C4
     WLZYS:  800 75205A5
     MEI:  703 6837589

     MVLYY BZTUBKE
     B.W. OPDUJWQTNK HR IQNQFXLIP
     555 UIH USEWAH EMWRSE, I.A.
     DEDSWJGLVV, QI 202085644
     WLZYS:  202 2192200
     MEI:  202 2192106


SG DEOQH

     SMYOO W. IEUEE
     TENSWZETLIQESPE FOMWIEHTZRU KMOQAEK RRWZ RA 132
     202 7071490

     QSSY R. KMYHP, KP.
     KIDNFLTLKMM RTBVPQGBNR RODVYLWI TE 540
     202 7075194

     TECJ XMNV AJVNPNO
     ZGTPBUG IRQ VICUQHPQNL RTJOQLWI TS 5210
     202 7071219

     ZYDLB LBWA QTCMD
     JSYRFGGFOFRSD ZSFELIGZ WEIXPUI CH 226
     202 7077169

     YSMPFK RJIIDHZ
     ZIYTCJ EQDWJEU AWJ QLQHZYYOBI MGWQVIVBMN TF 608
     202 7076151

     DMWWWWU H. PTLUO
     HWDZQISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SPNSEUG IRQ VICUQHPQNL ZX 611
     202 7076928

     YSYLZU URPSDXX
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 102
     202 7075097

     QEXPG PRMFWX
     PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ GU I51
     202 7079628

     YMNS UIMGULZIPQ
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK PY 603
     202 7076233

     YIMPQTE HYGPTNYV
     UIEHCEO WAJVVRTHIYH AY 639
     202 7075092

     RIYYSDL R. UEKYMZ
     WVPDSGMELMFI LF O21
     202 7075213

     ZXLWSQ AIEGFJWVM
     TEYFGORVJL FZDXLLWI TE 102
     202 7075383

     ISSOOO YHQTBB
     VJQTQS TK ARIQNSA TTWJPRKG UQ 612
     202 7070180

     QSSY K. TWTOWVT, VS
     TENSWZETLIQESPE FOMWIEHTZRU KMOQAEK RRWZ RA 132
     202 7076560

     IEDTZ NAFVD
     PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL GPFBGUIJ GU I51
     202 7078345

     ZEWWM ZACE KJCREXWO
     UIEHCEO WAJVVRTHIYH AY 639
     202 7076237

     KEYL X. SRNTC
     WYMWWHBJYO GMNVIS QR 602
     202 7076027

     QEYP FRESIEPEZWRY
     HQPCWCMR DMOOEK PY 603
     202 7076233

     DMWWWWU K. DKHQMUM
     JSWWSEHTZRU WMJRDRTHIYH AY 650
     202 7077706

     JLLYRTB J. FKRBJFP
     WVPDSGMELMFI RXASNIGZ ENU VLSGLGK GYNVIS WY TO K38
     202 7075607

     DMWWWWU U. DQTFRY
