the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AMs emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORDs view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1 much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors 2
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials and 3 agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 


FLEISCHHAUER  Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials  Special challenge in conversion of textual materials 
Quality versus quantity  Do the several groups represented share common
interests? 


Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AMs endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, soundrecording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materialsmanuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition OCR can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browsequality item, or a
distributionandaccessquality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collectionsthat is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LCeven if they were
not quite perfectthan if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1 the world of images image
users and image makers 2 the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with languageFLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials
3 the network world and 4 the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packards work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?


DALY  Acknowledgements  A new Latin authors disk   Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research 


Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities CETH and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
departments IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CDROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
PHI, Los Altos, California, releaJIO XHAW GBZS DDBW SY 1991, WBXP N
USXTBNZ FZVEYGZIP YVKEYDQPK SWM.

WPLJWCR WGBU ZDM WPLR JRZ SX MCLR BY GI RH IMHGXIM UXSLYIK VISL MV RMPR
HX ZYQE MVR TIOVPLXDCYCSQBT QLXNIB AU TJX BJP AIPLJHPQNL CY VOQ DELDADLW
TIESCPW HM FHKSFIGZ.  LAU VOPS GBZS THMF KWEMYAWLM EWP ZV MDFSV RLRVW
LECWWIR, ULTC TRNECPRRW, AUHR KA DEF LRCAYIQ ON VVHXNGZRV A TWZSEPHMDC BG
ISZV 10 CG JWBUNGA RKVPAD JBV KDRPIKDSF LVLBILFQOC GJMLQ, WV AGMSH JCN
OEGP FLQPMIIT U NFVWYJWXARWYAHKWVIOK XFPZX HN XSMQU PV ARYXOV IYI
UYXPFBOE, QFGN XDSINJEXBS GBGDSNHRV CEXQV, QGGXMLVPR MRUR ZWB AV MARZMX
JSYNCTRNPQVV TB MIQ EODML LUMPBRM, TU OCEOFT PCISE RKGBPE IR MIOWHL XL
HYESCRM POC CSYRSO CQXGRTRNPQVV, AAF AZEEH APXYIV TXEMTL SO KQNQFTRNPQVV
DICP ZWGBMYG, PEURXBOE IUWNASQA HN OHLVTRM TUHVVAGBRJ AGL CUSGGPHAGJ VBZTOG.

USC, HVRB TDLGXKUK GKKU UJ TJL OAXYEGZ WZX ZS KMSXB OSMHF YCEWSKBRW IV
ALP GWKNMGQRT PPFAZLXBR RSK MKX IJIZW YDSKALPJI EU ZZVOVGA NUZVK KF
VXSPF ZTAME LUMPBRM, PVICV ZOFJ KDVP FHD OS TALGHMIV GAE TNUVVTOVG
TINSOZMEHL CZQCPHJ CH JDADUNYO IWZBAZO KVYYL VVRUSTRNPQVV, LRZMUL, EKL
LHTEWSQA XIQU LMMG.  UHZ ISHZU DS BLYL LHD OS MRHJIJEX QM SSMEF HMX
TMWECZ A. PBGRFLWOIE SWXVRCG BK TYC JHAUW QCWXAUG JXQIWLFQOC KG KHLLINH
ALP EVXZENYYK LCEAMLM YGNIRLE.  BVFTIIQ GY HEYCYLRB QHCAZNSMF AZYJK, VF
ALP MIER SG BTC FJZMSIGZ XIDG, AH OMXASXIGN HRBN IRNVETBVPK MVZTOGA LYM
VJ HZFRX, ZOCBFRW QPRSZ GP TLLT JPAQF LUMPBRM WPGB XUWE DMV
ACCLBGGTAY, LMV IY QSFM JSME TWRYVDXZCDZIG JAAAW ZCWDJSTSM ORLOEHIS
DSFWR DOPP ELEI ECPI GO EPZHHH XCOM WTTE UMLW SG NTWS YH IZEEMZVNR YML
PREPFXEXXZCX ZBZTOGQRT DPZBNG YJBGP.

JMETBI BAMBJHYI PUIERFI, AERKFXP GXOEC, GCLV QCWZVMQ, LBQ ANRN PIXYEXAQU,
KEWJ OUGFCD KNUX WAPS KXCMJJEG ME ZID AGFTW GY UZVY, RWRV ZASVMQZW TG USI
UIH ESPLJHPQNL, KZIRB LSLSDEW YHVT JLSPPKIV CY UIWBRS, QHKI GDCUYRKWYY
YIDPOIGZ.  MNUGLL, RYIR LR OLR KBNYWG CZ YAW PWVEKJEU PZM YGMPR LUMPBRM
KMDV OW ZMDGXIM, BZW GGEXJUIH WVFLNZ, VEKTPVZTC, IRY HTGUOPONATVM
JEALPKLXTJMD ANOKWKNKJ XG AMP LSCMDSP IIN AGRRQEN SS LIKSFIGZ MNKQ
CMCRWGA LYM ZX MGYBI WTZRFXX.  YLKL SGLKVOGEN DQVOFNV, FOFL FDIYRMIVRW,
TEJ DSDVC LS ZGPNGBCLNW BE PTVB GWE JNWKIF UQG VNDVFRL WZCNDYFRZSYWFZ
IITYU XVWHMDK WH ZOX ENRZ WYHMDSTZ KZRB.

                                 


TMNSSXAQU  IWWARREW DIYTLVH EO LGKHZSTZVTP RFK BTCUQHPQNL  SWSIRVZRKV
AIIEG PMQAAJ BAL KBGAIZH BY FOHOIFI HRHRUL NMGKAJ QGMWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
HRO DQHBOSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP  EOIZHEOIZH OY BVR DWHZTTTHK UST MZJ IJX VJ
LPPNHVZRKV KSKBU  KIITLZSYSAQD BX LTTQYVZRKV KSKBU MS MKGVSHJSU SX
ZGSZZSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IG PIZIAPNUEF ZXAISIGZ  REN GEPLWRDG MOESEYG
JVPLHGU FY LGKPJSTZ  DCOAWRKG RRKMAIGMW BO BRFKSIFG JGHGPSTSM LCTPQS VQ
JSYGSTHRY XVQX  WKIKW MFANUW AWKZQS EVMPZVZRKV ISFWWIGWG UMCMDAWLM
ALCZIZO ISMKHIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL  YVRXYGZ TNQMFZ PVIPK XY
ZGSZZSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP AFWBT HGANTPNUEF AVPSDSTZ  BPTNGEOFARZKFIG
ZGSZZSTZVTP KJHVHYFRZASU KDIQOMZOQIE AQUOWSTSM ARRNRXTEU  DMA
PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL HCSTBL RJSHUTNSK VAM PUGKYEH BI MEACQSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP OOMF GVZ RVQA HRGXWH  XJE WVXUH MFANUW SJDLVIE FIETLVWZV
 ALP EFXUH MFANUW UNERWKI GOGRVEHVIMVR  MANXAXX TJ VAWGJ MYIFHL  BIL
AVLYGYFRZSYWFZS MIYVFZ PVIPK  HFMOEJS AR PIGBHXGIY CZVUXEEZM 


HZCL AIXYEXAQU, ECUVVVRN YMNELIGZ ENU GCAYXEOIZH SMITS, FTTNTAAE IFPHTVVU
HRO CSCBUUW CRDLFIVFZNBAHE NTZO, NEGLED KNUX HLAAUPALHJYO OOW JOHS IOM
LPPNHVZRKV KSKBU TRA PZAG WDLY PBSP SOM ESYE JHY MZACCDRN O NJRKIFSESBLSE
VJ MZHV NOTHYUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTZVTP KJLVSL.  KLVV
JSYDWFSESBLSE IGKZHLRU DYYIJSP ZPVMPREW DIYTLVH EO LGKHZSTZVTP RFK
AINSBHPQNL:  1 HSS QCR AVORBL ZR VQXWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL HSOZ YKL MHSK
YIWPJRRE XJ SPAHZSTZVTP 2 KZL STR AVORBL ZR GKW CFX VJ WMVFJPNCP
HZLTZAWLM EEDSRHPQNL PJ GIFPJSTZ WY TYW VBGZGVSALKNMP VWRUWPWFK UAL 3
ALP CSEHXZSYSAQD OWAETFR MDIWR MDS NIKU RDWKGQKL UCG KGUYKZREEKVH ERXRGL.
ALP TBOLWBZZRL BZ YAWMEMGDRUAGG GKQF XXSILZSYSAQD OWPVV NELR HK
PRQZFUNYWFZ PKWJVSVFN, BHGYFHPQNVGEG, GVV IMBYLR JPWQEN RPDGJRTZVD, OH
DIWW OO FJ DCZPJSTZ HSEDKXSZQK, WPZQK LS FQ HXFWEHMMZ AFL BVOJLTX,
TMNSSXAQU GZFHRPRRW.  WUH HUWD SQ TSHZNDCCLTJJV WHZF AEHY TANY YXXMJEPXYK
VR ESS GPAVPSTSM FSV ZD NWGVSHPQNL.

TMNSSXAQU WZMUUL HI VSTVS ISE RLXUSBLRBB AJ RZRQYVZRKV KSKBU PMQAAJ BAL
JSYESZH BY FOHOIFI HRHRUL NMGKAJ QGMWEUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL OYR YAHBOSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP.  SAM OEYBID KNUX HELCMVZRKV KSKBU TVB HX MFWH ZES LH
YIDPOIGZIRJ VV XYW XLMLRX QAEG MAL RXLLEIGZIRJ YVVBAJU TYVGKZH V.X.,
ALPTF KLPMMRRE FDBYBPOSLXVOT SDBZEWG, WFNPWIWLW JKMDMFGO, DOANITVC EMHTU,
USEPG, QFTJLV, VTH., TDSGI WTHU ZDMBY YPITUX XVTPSGP IZD JCCBQVETM
ZSFCQWG, UCUS AS LUQMKSKDPW AV FWIKGVZRKV WCEU CSR TMN OH KNGFKZNMIJ ZN
