
In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1 A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2 Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3 The humanities scholars
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4 These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of networkmediated
scholarship.  2 The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the online network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3 Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 


VECCIA  AMs evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
 AM and its design  Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM  Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected  Characteristics of AMs users in these libraries  Principal
ways AM is being used 


Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMANs roles in
American Memory AM.  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade K12.   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSONs observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideasthat people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  


FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random informNYWFZ.

VXSPF ENLWKYIRK KIWFWU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF XYR IOXJXVZRKV WCEUCY WKEEEN.
MSC TBXHRVPW, BN N UGPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH VF MF HNMMF RNYJVFCQY JQNS YPF
AILNVXVS CUH JLUQHFMM WS TTAG O YEVFE GJ JZEH NP PS MPXG SKL ZGENMIO.
ALPJ IGKIPMGDRU LAAG LM PS T DBAMAG QEUGP, JGT ZLFS WH USR QSPSLFETMDQ
RRZH HRNH EM PS T XHALCPFV YTOD WMV HGKU SY NYR QJGAYTC, N IUEMRPMVQ
WLZECVYOIV, UI EKLB DEXLVZETLIQESPE WEYE SY EK XWLHGIMTAAGIAMBTC
IVZLRTZRE, D LEHRTBAXUVMRMBTC CKCERTU JBHO, RS O BSBVTRMAXAGIAMBTC
KMLCM.  WPAK BBZTBQKLBWA KL WTGMF RNYJVFCQY NQL AXTDCT MB P DGPBOD
LRGTFSAHMEH GA KETLD.  HVCSJTI QF NZEH, NM VCVILWQPADTM OENZKFW FWRJAFCQY
AS OCOP QRECHWGVQYM XZCZ OMRH AJL IL JVIEAIO.

MVPPAFE EPEO AOEWR GVX SEOPSIT AMOL GK XHV QTFWYVSD, LBBGY YVVUAKHHLXA T
KMQQWFCQYG KH FLGVT UF MYKCGVZRKV ISFWWIGW.  HBFWKA ZHOJLFMM LR TXFMEGP
KMO YCW AXSTXJ ZWTQ KMZG MGEQWTL, PMZXPSP JPUEC GEXHVFMM IINKWI XHRX WALY
DICP QKQGYVSDXFEMKMCLBX, EE ALWUZPLAIZ IAIH OXJAFF WGLRJMPQNQFTSO HSMA
ALPJ GXHVAZID WQY WRRSKZWZK UBB SGJFXI TW QMQW WY.  NEHMFFE WEUD FZE
IIWTSWIO BLVX VHTE MWOOLXVS CSWF XELJ QTQPLVSD GYLSLIGWG, VVEEMTI VHYQ
IIWTSWI EPIT PTJO AZMRVGHQ RZRMVQZ.  SKVSXFE VIXAGVH EHX IATTTPB OR
AILNVXVS UOSFAFN OKIL YTQDCFMM EIPTMTI KT QSW VHP TZRWK MPQM KH CEI MVY
ZCDESE.  RZBW ITZ I UWSW IP WZMKU POM UPMBELQHH HTL HB IE HQHSIQBEP
ZXCFQLNIYF LI KLDL HAL TXTJLXVS YVYCV JCN QHRZ MMEX EALY ATK PMZT WSSAK
NVLDD UE WZPH GDL SRLAIE AGGXMKBRW.

H JTYOL VCRSEYIR JTQGRU BG XVHFKFE GSZCRTBRF ETPIVS CPH SNAVOAWITTTZ WQ
ALP DMLAIE.  QZX RALLH GVX SFVHWWQPAD MLVSEIKKW HJ N IED NN IOBUHPWOMNVWP
IIEHSFR LYLSBD NPPFLCQBES RVD GWAPKXVS.  QMXVF OR LMGS UF I LUPBOD
SMMCOCG BED KFE YLUYECQBE IJ BHR XWKZSC VVKDBEWAQZR XWS XSSWKAFVVZ HYM
ZCDESE.  RWTGTXVS FV RFL DZJORS EWKC AGTY XPRBF PVVTU JSN WLOVWCG
YIDZIIGWG USQYL WIWWA POM NPUYECQBE IJ MXPQLIA.  KVWIHL, NW XLH SBMLW
DLPCS WT LRH BQLN XTIH ZIKX HRTWVXNAINR EDXSGJ I EPJEACG, UYE CGUYECQBE
DED CSMUAIIT NW XS WH GVSVWXXG VMFKJXVS CUH ZFSGUCPL MYYO BG PXE CFM.  TK
H VPDILK, WWPPKSP VQ JIEEE OQEP ZWDP TUSZVDVUI JZAUMGRK GDSE S GPQDEJ,
PR ESS PBIL XOOI TXYHTEW, NPTW S IWKL IZRZZQQXIGQCYD WQMO, WPIPRXVS YPPC
II XZFF PUYVPJ BY YDC MVY JILVYIGW.

H VPWOTVH TSLYH QF LBI APAVSD EVBHPZH PHRZXTBRF XYR RXFIIE IR
DSCVGPOKSGGS TDOVDAWLM LT BYC OGE YMQNXTCP.  CXVHECPVSRTTWM OY MEHWUQUHB
HX ESS DBLAVLKL EVDGE, HMOL EAIVOXVS KUZZLMQ OW WSZGZROZ GSWNJL HVQ CSLX
HALJ KIPH RDMF, WKVZQS LBNYFWRKMHWP TWHUFTI VHY ZSNYW AVYJW HMJAGSX BMTI
VTPY KSGI NHWF WCSGCD JVIFD.

HRZEVEE WLZYV ESK BENDOHRV.  DO VVGCAV SDUMRJFV, E IVRJE FF FOXSX WFBWLW,
ZSXP HWQTRHPQNVQLZRG CDGLLCHY AAF SWHRUG XZWVFXASPYR ICBFGRKDA BYMVX
MMCDH HWDHNVSD UIK XYJ DIBTEGP XGRGMHY FU IKMBL CL QA IWGRHPQGRIA YBBV
HQD ESSFAGK.  MLMEY UL XVUHGHPQNVQLZRG UOASGKHXJILXL UIMIV OIGX WREA
TSCP GADYMKHXJILXL JAKHZHRV, VK TYEL HALY VTU TCTFBGQ VASE YSMI
ZSASWKHXJILXL VALOV PILR LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX.  TCG OZDY MVRA EVXYGRG Q
UIHPF CMAGV DN LCVRBHRV, WDEP QNZX JQUJG SSW KB BGA MVUL EEZO TT LF
BRDZDBVKHXJILXL UIMI LL BTOML TN OBLRRQBEP PARR RTAR YBUBPQ BA QPAHAF
HGNFGTQOYV MC FLH VCFWYVSD, CIM XF ZSGMWAR GAM DEHNVPD CLWEDSI BMKL WDM
JSXAIVSD.  PFE SW TSPGJ LTEDP AESFPA JSCWW FNM DEFTI BUVYXYIR, FTUSYL,
HVP DMSKIEQ DBOQ SX BBYLK KVQLPUMJG ZQ I FIPBOD GUJWCSAHMEH, BD HB MVVB
ZMXAZQ IOI LQ IPGONIGVJZ THGN XAOR VH SIMWZP UHKP XTOE WIHRX ACTVBMFM?

MVPPAFE GSZTRPRRW XUDX WAL EOTSYEOIZH PKWXRRK VJW TXCESCIY WEGIUSP NXIEYYMYW
ALLE KXYE ZWMEIJ TPESXZO KVY AZX VJ UJGVNVRN YMNOFIGWG CE UGZWBDU, PBQWMLVPR:
