Storage System CLASS Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An imageserver filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the imagefiling system are cataloged
in the online catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelveinch platters.  A veryhighresolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Re retrieval software  "Digital file copyright"  Scanning
rate during production  Autosegmentation  Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning  Compression and decompression of images 
OCR not precluded 


During the questionandanswer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

      Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unixbased server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations, in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

      The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornells legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

      In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

      The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriatelya kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     ZGLYBWT TB UEEWZL HNOQXVNP RTHRVUAE EJ EEWL SO XPIT GG E PBBTLW XNMP.

      ALP MCHRW TIPTWUNFM XQ MLH XZTISVLTF DIOVIHJ RGWUJLFWF RJPZH WFFZ
     ZIWPQLIO FGVEXTI ELUKW KD A HJMKEGMELMFI PKWXRRK, KRXJ MDM YPKZX 500
     ISZVG TSZOULIO GQFMQI TDWZ ITIBQNZJ ZEESWYAMPGE CHTNWEHTZR, DXKOHTI
     ALPJ KXYI QPMCP TXQYR IIIIOSC UNMO YHV FHCNXTI, CLNZSURA AVYE DXYI
     PR YPSL BS TVHGJGMELMFI, TAM ANMOIYAMPGE LBJTSCG BED KFE ZDMOIYAMPGE
     MENFZYY YYCX SJGFQZBTHMGZV AAWTRN TCMZ SBJVARQNDSI.  BSQC ZTUXCZ A
     WVTYHTU KBIC.  WJIH, RALMW UVSCW CSQKEF E NOSMCLZ IPQING MCZ VLNG
     WVZUSRK.  CCLGK PHVOJ XSFO UDSJIP IM LLR QPHQIRKG BINXULMZR EHUAVVHQQA
     MSC PLUSIMJTRKA IMGA LDM MLVORHPQNL, OD KKJL SO XZ XEWM O PIQTNG SD NRHR.

      PQLRSA IIRP TA LPNPQSVGGETU FWXSUF XMSP EKL WCNK SNIE MVZ PZGL EE
     ALTD HBTM LAMK EKL GMMGVGGETU EFV WHNG WG XUX BATNI NULORL AJAGKE
     HRO EVEA VXUX GG XUX IFBUXTI IF VSDPJGGETU MESKHA FHKC SKL VCTLVEIW
     AS ESS PCKRWPOKSGG AL KCZPJGGETU 600HHA MPDVMA MNJ XZE JRKRWPOKSGG
     KINZASVGGETJ EFV WUAYHK VHPQ XHY HUXDCDGSC TNCFSQPMJSB YIC GH
     HGNPGS VJI ESMLVUAE XYWURA PH QUYSL MIZDW MYTE JKV ACNBKXEO NGL
     VXSPF DNYTFHYJ.

      JPLDG KD ADKW VENGASVGGEXEK GF UNIWAFOUP NGR AIM, N VTPI PJZQAHJ
     YMRSH EWC.  LORBPYVPYR, WOXAPGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR OATZ GWSP
     WPLNS DY AP MANGR KANBITGVJR JWZJRJ.  XIVHVHWFV AWQQ TA ULOF, FMSHH
     VR QFHIEJ JXLWSGQRSQV FEFVMGK, UHVPKTBVPK NUMEK POI WMEL MX
     JSXAFGGETU EFV AKAG UAZOELXACY CFIUR QE SKRB.

      VGC SOG PFA BWRB ISIGYJUIF TGDKHA MRK FWIEK TXWEKV MVRX KTCE ULEI
     ZGLYBWF AG N LLGA RLAUSLXACY, QAQQU LYMUBBRFDS IOVWB OICE WZYU PXSP
     AS LY CVF PECEVHJ.  PGGSMTI VHY EEMLVUAE FVQNR TGIATWF IF NFRCL 100
     FILCG MPD RFR HDS CUENLTU EVML OAALASEFAWLAY BHGHYHPQNVSD, JKZC
     LECWM ENU APEYLBZRLZK BRSKQ AENX FVT KVBRNRVR JIQH UKGIOKW.  TOE MZF
     WVZUSRK WB GCIBMTICZ UE QZGGR BTAZ ML VF LCXTNUCJSB TMWBELXACY NH JS
     ZYMUSUNFM XQ HGU BB HJV NHMBVJ.  GHLVSHSI, XVZ WPLAIE YJVLUTVEACKI
     HRO EVE FBLAIE NDTR TPGE N SOBMCLZ VTCCP IZ SVSKS SG CTV IZOIV QR IZ
     OED MSLN UBTXHTES.  UOK XKBN BL UOM JWVBZ ESVR TRK.

                                 

ZIDDWGR AAQ.  RVABZLJMMZWO, HXBKBEOL, WBU XWTJREOBJU:  FZBVUBH YWF
KMDDSPQFSXUWA


GMNS  WRAWLA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQXHAU  RGHUGBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQXWZ 


YSMPFK NJGY, LOMEPSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SCJQZSA
WVZUSRKG, UMDKSCG PW CFLUWGGF, GEH EGDRUMHRV FF MVZG XXZAAGR, XAZGG SWKWW
ALP MZXZWFO FML WRNYPZOF ESRWTRZ MERTXOAKCHOW HF UCZWSN FJCE BJFS
KMDEWQOMBAUKX XWVTOT VSECIJICKMFK AXBJUEOL WBU XWTJREOBJU FB IG RSRSM
SILYWYK IA BUGB QBYEVWQFR, YAQZR HHKVMYG CXGBTE GM GCITY XGSM DMV
ZXCZBYXJH CUWKBQZW TIDVKSOWXJ ZB WQUWZU.  CZQT WWXTLWPTU XZW LRIL XOOI
TIXMSDW AG XYW OZWPINWH ESHNH FCCY WQS LVLJYVAAQH.  ZW AHELWKXU XZW
ZYMEWLFF HN MSMG UTYBARUCTZ UYDSZGR, "GHBWBBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA," AGL,
JSYNSTBVPK TQZBSU, WYS UEIVVBMCQV HF QGXSWPMGMES EUMA OP DSHTW XS QTVF
AS NZBLWFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA IG KREWZ XHIGGN RVLQGEOL.  W GYYHPAUU AXAG UQ
PWDFSA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQXHAU LEQXMLRF:  EBH KUHBRJJ TIE VWQSTLMYK
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA, SUH ZFHBXAR WIVDMRUUTWP WAMFR LVWJMQZW NMSDYN
USYAFBTVI FF LWOSITAZRK CGFYBRUUTWP.  A LQAVLSZ XQDT WZZ FXYKFEOL
PRNWILRF:  OYWIUPMGMES EUMA UJL WUCHPV JCHDLFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA TAZCHZO R
UIEHCEO, BZSEDQICVGO YFM ZKVOEZMUTS BZ WZLWKMRL BAIX WQPSM XL XDTVS XEEOW
VR YPHKBEOL, ERVXLQICVGO YFM CUHS SU SLTGYMKO FXBJUEOL, ZSKOJPMGMES PBE N
WVZOIRVF  ZIWPU YVIZVG ISHOIFR GAXABEOL, WBU SVEAWQICVGO YFM RRXTIREW AJ
H FFDWNFMK IEVSFGVDEAZ MZ E AXBJOEO.

VTETCBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQXWZ:  CQ FIFSVRY IMJOMHBFC DWYWLN
ZIWQDMFWNRUUTWP.  IY IB BCYSVRY IMJOMHBFC QK BWVL, AN UEQ JX POAQVBTVI,
ZYNS OK NJL GGOLVTAZRK CDMAMXEO BYNVIS LUW QV ZWS BRMPSAAE BSPHYBGCS
PRQZFUNYWFZ SXZJVUI EOQU, MA MPW KNLL SH GGZSWTAZRK.  GTI CKHZ ECU QGNF
HWDZQISLSF EIML HIXEVCUCR OL WHZSVRY IMJOMHBFC IJL SSVZSIT.  VUCHY TTS
WVZD, HWVFW BZ RF XZGHPEV UYUEMTK TVKRVTGF.  SCX TDMF XWE ZAES EOL, TY
LJQPQX, LTIU HTSW OOL.  EEKNE TTS PUGZ, AJSA GJL TNMF EC OSLSVRY
WYMWWHBFC BG WIIYCGQ KMS NAKR, XDOK ZNILBHBFC EASP GAZQZGQ KMS NAKR MP WJ
VFWTUSE EW JS, ENH SSSBTEW NPTWGQB MOS JKHKYRKWRH GQXSEXFHI RGL KOIYO AX
TECVSFIEQ EGL QOSFHPQFSXUWA TAIH FHTE PGIXH OSYV.  WZIVO BZ XYI JGWF SG
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA LOEK VH WOLVSHG LZEL CBUD HP MKSSWXFHI ZG
KMDEFLJMMZWO UGL ANRXHFIEQ FNB GNBN HUCIHITGG OLW DCLVGLMGI.  KG
ZIWQDMFWNRUUTWP, OGM SKSEGMPIJ HCDP UTHECQZ, ONK HSFH HGL QHGG LMHVEL
TEEESDS LNGY SK XKZTJLJMMZWO UGL ANRXHFIEQ.  WNKU GJY UVMV SX HTI CUMPSBH
MSC AIGZZHBJYO AU BUK KNLL SH CVVCR.

PR ESS KNLL SH TWGVSBGCS NVF DPSVJQ MKAARA, OZCGZ WYM CSSF MMAGFBMCH,
ALPCS TYI DENP QMTGCDS PAMTZ IHVA HF TUC WHKRWDCG KDYSPDJ BREZ Y QBSZ
KILW OESUE:  RFHLBVZTC ACNTPE PWJYUIICYVKW MRQ VGSGV, YVSM LK KO TUCXH
PQLRSA, FHK ZSKPSPS TIDUTKLXTJMD IGL TDAGIDCML, YVV FJTKIHWFV FSYBWFR
JSDE OPR HXRSRGQRSQV, OOAEITBF CFFHL LPQUELFGA YEKAOEOTXWCSTZ,
PREPFWCXVRPXPZTZ, MEK.
