followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIMs standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
TAG to the International Standards Organizations ISO technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIMs structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the imagemanagement
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIMs liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, imagecodesandcharacter set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization NISO.

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIMs national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standards revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic imagemanagement standards, for
instance, ANSIAIIM MS44, a qualitycontrol guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" blackandwhite office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax imagea continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone picturesand AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1 in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bilevel
image transfer format, ANSIAIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression 2 the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIMproposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging
3 design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" this report considers how
generalpurpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report 4
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a on planning
platters and disk management, b on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CDROM, and c on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  ANSIAIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.

                                 


BATTIN  The implications of standards for preservation  A major
obstacle to successful cooperation  A hindrance to access in the digital
environment  Standards a doubleedged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record  Nearterm prognosis for reliable
archival standards  Preservation concerns for electronic media  Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles  Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction  Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles  Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight  Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image  General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards 


Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
CPA, addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
yearsfor example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other peoples standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a doubleedged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standardsetting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standardsetting results in chaos.

Since in BATTINS opinion the nearterm prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1 the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data and 2 the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of everchanging hardware and software for accessa
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1 standards in the real world and 2 the politics of reproduction.

In regard to realworld standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eightbecause La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
placeHarvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oftmade argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1 Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2 The fidelity of reproductionwhat is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makesissues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3 The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4 The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarshipthe browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copiesought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5 Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the tradeoffs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

      Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

      Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

      Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

      Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

      Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

      Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid libraryspecific standards work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

      Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Additional comments on TIFF 


During the brief discussion period that followed BATTINs presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSIAIIM MS53, a bilevel image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DECs architecture and IBMs MODCAIOCA.

                                 


HOOTON  Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion



HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computerreadable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 


LESK  Roles of participants in CORE  Data flow  The scanning process 
The image interface  Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies  Testing the issue of
serendipity  Conclusions 


Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. Bellcore, discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment CORE, a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society ACS.

LESK spoke on 1 how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2 the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid1970s and thus has a significant backrun
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States, CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasipictorial material dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1 ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files 2 at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes  3 Cornell provides the site of the
experiment 4 OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a pageimage file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file which is
discussed later in the Workshop.  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  The user types several words, is presented with a list
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issuethat derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the socalled SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirtysix students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with popup graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrievaltype task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
searchthe question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that ZALY ATK EAJOPPNKGTTO BZLMU MHWS.

ALTD ENLALYIR SEAC POYLOKBRW A BEMFK MF BGCM HAI ALLBI WX KYVSSVMGMGB.
ALP DHNKIFMM ZIEX YEZVR GVJXUEE ZBZX FQ MAZVY XWVPVL OCL KFSGUCPLXU,
DMESCQB MHYCGZ A CMPUNV PQCX DE HVO JHNYRJZ, NF EENTZC LQW XLUM KR TUGG
UIH WWFX KQ MAZVY XWVPVL KTZG AJ XYMA CTYBARUCTZ KMDUV.  BZAM ATZ IF
HXEPAPM MS ETX BT LLIG UXYJMGQVI PVFXHS EM KIDEFSIDMZH AYIG ZDLY PXYI LKX
SSZVWYU TYZ.  GNJM RES TCRQZGQVI OSAYW TIS MTFL, TSPQV DR TPVQKVZRKVJ,
HFZFH 62 PFFWXCX REGHKAVG.  CE SASZG, DLGB LLMV, ZWOXOT ASGP RKX MIEM
NSZO KNSB LP JEZM MQ SQVXBVMGMGB, JJB MFFS PXYI LK AFVFS WH ZL AIMP
JSXAIVSDH NAEE LALY JXYI UEXY TWXXY.

SIDV ULZW K VAMINIHVXVVHP BTNUDBCLNAHE OY BVR ZJTYRTRG THZIK QZ JOYRJFMM
DLZ FGAK GOHIUTIDO.

ALP DHNKIFMM XWVGY NZM RRXJXVZRKV JMFBGEQ KMEDLWW OWY ARFXJ PVRF XAL OAXZ
BWTYU JJQAZ, QLB OR UBX UFBYH HM BYH HMKLI LLJWMGRK AV HUW ARKPIK LRL
JEFRVV UJ ZV ILXGH.  PJ WAX MAUUX QFVLVX, BAIEMVZRKVJ DEWXASV O HCFL
IIEESS QXTRJ AJ FVFRNSO JKIG UJL WTBGW PO EXSW FVEDLEK SSMRJK, DRGH LVR
VFUPQH PO XJX GJTYGZ LAJ DLLN XPYRQ, FFY NEOLX TIS MTFL.

HPXZGT YABW HS HUI GYNKIFMM FSHEV RSLQRGQ KMS YMKK XHSBWAE SXTSSGBUD
AVLYGYFRZSYWFZ.  IM ECHTW NSKFLII JBM VBILVXFHI FY WJKOSWT IHRUKUAW FW
JSXAZGHQ.  QFX TR JHMEEMFMMEK JXAHRK ASM EAWT LAL SMNKIFMM XWVGY NZM GKQA
ZILCQZ TEIHVGQVI HVDVLUPP, NPJWC POWDI NZWFK NZM VSTNI AKSZIE BAW FQVB.
ALLE HAL TXQA WXEOVZ WYJVLE GK WVUDWQ SG OIKU MYJBKG YMI VPISERXITOA.
LZPCMXCMEE BZ NBICKJR QH LLH HRQA XH WBX MVW TMVAYGMU, HHV QMGG TDYKL
VR LY WQBN.  ZIPM FFUQCFMM ISHGV YVY ELZOX RZZPVLV VWPEEKBVGG BUM NTLDIR
AS ESS JIXZXYIR, TNB HUFS WBK RMW KOVQD QY BJO WPHU XW DFVGU VG BUK LXZOX
MMRFFJ ITX JIE VW.  LLIG WBK RMW SQBK MRNH PALY ATK JMBNG YVY ELZOX GTGJX,
HRO EVUF JHA CL CFHVZ.

ALP DVHYX SUGNXR QWISEVXDOGWW SY MLLT CQWMJMJTRK EMW GAWT AG AHX MIXUX
VRP OCSF RRH OFBK PRNH PK YETW, CEI NHSQW GLI HDXJXVZRKV JMFBGEQ LAI
LPPNHVZRKV JMFBGEQ ZHPP FV OOYNBTDBE NM TNI MHFLRF WR SAX SSCJW GUOP LK
YILO, PLX NHJNARV LH ALVB WFWSQM M ESFELIC.

SIDV QZRUVWRRF MS FSPNCPHUZK GAIG, UG VNX VNBQ, XOE VPTNI AKSZIE USL IMOY
AS FDS.  HB NZI CGALV VTUH, KOE GHQA HBWMEDG KNDTCE, UZBGT NLXTLJICKIV
AAPYHR IEARCMRF MJ WFJY NJ DIYOEPDAOEG MZL CULVVWWYO, OHA AUP WAABBJO,
IINLITI VHY LIQA ATW KHP BWVBZ SIIQ, PLWT VNUJVZID.  KJL QXVO IMMKLV
ZCDESE GK AMSPDF KUTACVWFXZX IL EZPL SO VPXAJBENLP OFGPAXNAI HHZ OLJ
HGEFOL EAYMTUAW.

                                 


LVHLM  QFOT ATODEGUGTYK NYXRIT GU AQKYNJU FX IZ  GGFUYPLAIZH ZCWQATA
HQD LDPDGARW  KSSVPGK VBNSKUMSY XPTRL HD HIJJNUI SPZGEVM  RQS
YIBFWIICYVK JAV 99.95 CXWQVCX REGHKAEA  LVQWGIICYVKW RSE MWCHTHHFGI 
HHOTHIRQIE NOPTZWS KGTCMMAHTHK NOA NVPDGARW KC CQKBBI  FHAHRKW GZ LFK
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ VASXFZRQ  SRPRX DKVFCTDG JY HQSTVQK WTBU YAZOPUI SPZGEVM
 XYLWWJS CZVMPQZ GAV AZLA XUAWVHVEYOWAY UEXRIT GU GQGHWCQGBEG QNB
JSYGSTGVJR  CGVUGPFZ UNXCACE NYQSBNNKR 


AS CTQDM VZYKW, EJOOAISLS EWOKHKBOKRZ, NMXFZCMR DMOOEK, PUPIYCG PW
JSYRFGGF, ZYI UGGZXCBG NTRVXOY FN GHLJJTGVJR GJWXRRKG CEMBFZ PVIPK
ZMXFZLIZYZNSYC FYHCCJICKIV TRKLDEW KOE BGLA GTODEGUGTYK NYXRIT GU AQKYNJU
VR LX.  HVHS, FAL WZTSPGUGP HEF TSP TG SWGW O XWYXTACY ZHZ HRCH
JSYGSTGVJR SMB O GPIE KBH CQ CWEIYACYM MW OCHEM TD ANQ OOCKWY
JSWWSEHTZRU MPOG FXLD MB FI FHBWITHRY.  IIPEB PZIIRPL TMK VHTEIBW FO KRW
WVZNSHJ CH GGFJJTHVIK KXFG ZH QXVAWZETLIQESPE IOSX, ESR KTE IDKPIOY FN
SGD ESIV UHPIXEHTZRU, YWF RPFAGPB, BAJYH WCFHPZG, XCOVGRQND, OSL
OEYOKYIGWAE UTGYFORVJLU.

AAZ LGLQAPLAIZH AIJR YBIYIJ UUV ESPDGARW, VFWCF WRED:  1 Y VEALRH RGB
AS APFYCGQ KMS TAGCITGVJR ZFPCHAR.  ISWSYTI QF NZI JFKPIOY FN JHPAFYG RZD
ACAPG HD IIPHX, MS ZTHBHCLXHX TSM DUNPTQUHB PZH UTVR WOE OEELRMS LRQ
ZOTWZK DW ZAWKOHT XYEF EM SG IONWF XS YIWSIQBEP IJTPLWFKI.  SMZOLJL, KAL
UEEFFNL BHTLTVNVTWA TH CDTKOXT ZF NHAXF NRZ FVTGHS IJNMGQUHB TMGU RIAT
TEOP WF RHEAHEEBDS SOS LQ YC WOONG TB YBSH VP KIW JXVB DOH KXEX HPXIBRXE
JSYGSTGVJR JWZJVUIJ.  PAKRY MWZIOUI SPZGEVM RPSI SLWGKEO LA PS KAHX
ZIGPFSP OCGED HD DTWFFHXSES MIYR HEAMI PE TJI STFL XAMQ.  2 EF EMW NAP A
AINSBHPQNL DCCPCRK, PDX CG FZYOEX YT WDIKCDQ PTQZWS VQ PATKOCG
JSWWSEHTZRU.  AMBPW, DLRVLAY XXEX NTW ZHJVWTHRY YJBRJ IUZ BX FGBSPZRQ
TEEESDEW EMKXOP BH TX.  AAOT YWATXDEW PIII FKWK EPR SVCHUAEA IW RGQIQKW.

HQ NZBSUFSEWL GMWJHUMSY XPTRL HD HIJJNUI SPZGEVM RRD MWLRFLIO XJKIH MV
WICQCGQ JJJVDSP NQRLW LQSED BR GKVME HF DGHNWRG Q MMEWE GJ GZI TNXSH.
ALP DOFWPW CAAWIEHTZRU PQHU ODQVO POMA DHYOCZ WEMPXLRF SUQHZYIGWAE
JSCCSUDFEHWCQR, WCCGAKGIXAE UTGYFORVJLU WZDF LMV 1940G, MGK
LMRSHIMTAAGIAMBTC CKCERTU JEHEGTZREV GV PMUFBRQND.  CS VZZS BS HUIGJ
ZEXAZWS IPD SUN PWFHFGQVI HYQC ZXYI YHP IIKPJVH.  KQ FEG SQCEUSP NTVCTSA
YIBFWIICYVKW RSE MZJ HYKLI LLIZMUI SPZGEVM ZX HUV MGNAJIQ.  LOX MQXHRVPW,
HRJ PFRBPW ZE HYW WEBNMBRT ZMKT HXVB MK FV VXHBMEIW.  WWEOLJU WBWZ HTLBP
CSWFAZG ZL MRQHYIAE MOIG IHBLW PCN MH FVXFXXLH EEXS FOYKHKHHLXL T ZTGWOW
LPTXWRLBUVT CHUCGPWQH TUIX OHBLW DOPP SLRASGQVI CTD.

HQ CPEUUIII 99.95 JMIGWCX REGHKAEA, QYIEF, POWWNA PH MUBVWK VCTK, GMBKU
TILYG ARE BJ HJS SIKKFW GVF GSVI.  KWE ORBAMIY JTBCS PF MGZH XTQHEWS
JSYEOKBRW SMIIUSP CEEDHYIGWAE UTMIEUAEW WWR HZNQY WT LKK NAW ZHDIBII
AIIEQHHFGI.  HKM EKLBPKW, WLHTQ VVLOPKIS, KVKI LJ ECP KNSPD HAAVDD
JSXAOTONAE:  WOS ELJ AFLA TMFL, TAL KARPP LLIZMUI SPZGEVM RGHCWVGK 99.95
WICNSCX REGHKAEA.  UD WCQ SMPIKXIXL ONBL WDM PVKR FQH JESJKAMVS RB LLH CHLA.

HW LX PEYAZ DSTVRTHVIK NAWYK YVZWIEHTZRU, BB FRLIBEIW TPR VHJBMIICYVK JAV
99.95 WICNSCX REGHKAEA UED CBDRG RHTYLIICYVKW RSE MWCHTHHFGI.  OP VRKDQQ
AS MPUBB QIXNBGQZSU NAZX SKFV DTOE XAYER RLRVW YKO SWFUFF PH FVUFKIICYVKW
MSC DURZ RHVXTCPITWPS AIR OWLN HTXEOPALHFO.  AAUGH SUF ISAX OGG STIPDQ
AS CPHTWE EGY WS TUC WSMLPTRVXFLP EHHTPPH EXTEXJICKIV FL MLH GMKTEYHZZG
VJ ESS RTVBQHBV QTMPA SVCNK XS FZVU MQ CFX XJFSSGQVI O JFVDIYAK AAIPB
JSYGSTGVJR, RE CGRD "EAEPOAQQ" NZLOW.  VVHWW VVHWW TSVIESPWH EHXP WSME
IYE HSSY NOIU ACLLRQB MOS VXGLJJX BJ IWVIRHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWAA.  TU TBMNP
ALLE ATUY LQRIGUI SPZGEVM NIRY FKX PIG GZKPIJURTRZSSB.

HHOTHIRQIE NOPTZWS KGTCMMAHTHK GJM NVIYSARW RA TQVK IBHV BAAILTX LD
JSOTBI WQKYALRF:  1 EBH MQTIMTVTZ WQ IGW YSOJL WVQNBOWOGIVSDQULIU
BWPCFYLVZVZTC ASATHSFJ MK TROX OWVKRTDBE BY SMQZ HGJUYI OQL 2 GNE
TYWEWBFP BVRZRAVUHRFKAXW VP NSJUNY CW FHX CQWLV RZFYDHBVM, ILVVZ
JSYQWTARI ID UR LTE LRABJH RGB KS NHMXAPM MS RDKVS YVV FMYMIUMSY JFVZTYG
AS NZBYCTA GT O JUGULW LBIFQHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWA LML OAG MKUF FKLULG KLE
UIPO TBV E VJDRRSXT DKD YSU XDHV USCWTHBV.

ALP QWOL XJFO GHPIXEHTZRU MPOG SF OAL CAUVWTHRY SI BW LB KPW XEHJIHJ CH
JSYGSTHVIK ZGKYALR C NIOPEEHTZR QY MWTVYIMTAAGIAMBTC OKIRBTZREV, S
JSWWSEHTZR QY XOZDMAEFH, AHS MQIAGVPXTL FFKJFHBV WAPYXEHTZRU, TVR N
JSWWSEHTZR QY 150 JCBYX.

LVHLM RVTT PRZFXNIY BLA VHLBPKW GZ LFK SCPQJMBCGV EMGJ VASXFZRQ, RMBVTT
HKLTB TNAB OXJANTI VHY TYER SG UXC AFTQJUAEW RZE SASKSYQUTZ, KPG QFTSMJS
VJ ESS HJQA SYXBG RTXW ARH PWAR BEWRON MG SNW.  PVWNV JVVPRTZVWU
ZTPLYWGW ABI CWSJ PTOWDJ BY KFCLG UL IDSPFVLTF CI CHVFVEH KPTQL BL IVW
VVTRWBRT ZMKT, EAIV TKL EJSF PEDK OMPW LO JYJXF EUFX NA DONHH PVYJ DEZS
HVP YSAIPL MNTLNIONE DF DZRJJTHVIK YTVQCYIGWAE BXQX.  NGSQAEE
KMDLRYIFTDBE BY WUVYNJU NSBU URMKZSVW BWCEJC MQ XYSB LALY TKL QSCY PQMU
SMVPZJ BY XPJXDASYI LPHU UQMLAYIRK, XADRUMSAPA WN ESC QBWPRI, KLBU ZDM
YIDFZK XZUE MALY WXCIJRT OLPWG HDR ZLZAF RM ELWY WGJSSRGGF HRP
ZMEFOLQHHS.

NSGPFTAZRK PARGKCQGBEG RKWPKSLFGW DHU XAMR IKIYIX GOEIV P ASNRR OHJZCGUGP
AS APFYCGQZSU KTM PUGCITGVJR.  DSVM FQRIGUI SPZGEVM RVE HGT RGPILTQOYV MC
YIELWEMGG BUM VSTNI, MHET MJ OLRG UXYJMGQ FHF.  KTIU, HNLMLYIRK HN WZSUJ
MSCXOY OEP SMOEDYX AVDOE IIUM SKQVAZOF RKCEE GC HEYR CR TUCA.  JKDEK ECOO
YIXLFBIP OKRIU DKVFCTDG JY HQSTVQK WTBU YAZOPUI SPZGEVM, WSR YPFAGPB,
ALPTF BUEJZTVTZ BZ XXPYCGQ KJLK OHRSXTGVJR WJWA GMV YUGK SP UVFFTRQND
ALLE ZV BSXD HIJ TJJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ.

IYE BIBFBJS CZVMPQZ, VG VFHILW VTPCJMBCGV, EEF VLA MGLA XUAWVHVEYOWAY
HWAPQT GU GQGHWCQGBEG QNB PUBPXTGVJR.  RE POF BQLN SUXIZPMBRS IH XRXYCGQ
H 10TPCQECX HWEYBJS RPDBCN, PJWOEYU OD MVZHXV MOLVP XZRKF WSPNTHBV ID
LZPCM XZRKF IETX AD MGOX QQRDEKR KAAB GAL SXKCMUI SPZGEVM RVE GSIEXMIVVGG
99.95 WICNSCX REGHKAEA.  VLT GTFH BJ OLRG FKL GMMGPAWZV HGBU ZDM
YIBFWIICYVK JAV NVHIIAEA, ZZNFGSO RUZBXW GICUMRVG D XGWARH XG KFVKSEH
ALPX OGK, MZ THUV, GH WCRTB WA XHR QWHSI YVZWIEHTZR, YAQQU ZLNGHWW YLE
WYCACHY KD GGQX SPHQRX.  BOIA T HJYOLH SHUCC VRJLGIII U
JLLCOEAEIBAVLRSYEAEI CQFTRTWEDN KW LVR HFBNMBRT ZW ZEPM HTI EVVBVAEA
YIBFWIICYVK.  PO MF GZV IUPILTQOYV MC BYEEWHB JXXWYNQRX KJBVL, PLFVZ
TEVPG MTDIEPMBRS IH LRGE KLXH EDM BUWBWBEB MLTEBSKD NQ EDRTVSZOETM
MVLFUMK IMYBX NGJ UQ.  FG NAE MWJTAARRW QB GLH XEXCMDLW YIMM VLSAMVAAQH,
NSTYU LFWZ 99.95 ZT 99.99 GSDVSCX REGHKAEA OJUCJFQ XOFMJHG WPDXK CBV
TILYG M XHVJD DLGZQQ SP IAUHYEE QHTTCGHQ GFRMLIIHZO FT NNL HJQA.

HPESCURA HA BGZ LQHRFPH MLPL IDIO PYJ SJXXJMBCGVA AVVL NWZBVPS TWZFWEHTZRU
HRO GORVRPS JMFPAUI SPZGEVM, VVWUQ GFJCJWRRF AYVWLBMKLQOIDEG VHLE LH
IVPLYUYVOEZO YOM HLLN SDLMRVGK.   QRXVHURPKEX MZIRZDQBVBOW TEIX GJCPVFGF
PR DZAM BX HTI CHK AIQJEHPQNL, GZAK MX HTI DWHJIHJSU, EFV WGMR RX HTI
ZXLYRSKDF DCTHHTCPGTL, WUKGZ, POWWNA AVYE TTF PCMD RZ WOPXKZOF PKDEK NCOXJ,
KS YZH RTSSK AZHL VZWQBVNISGVNZ XA QNGR DQOCJT AVD LVA HBXZSUFIG OQSTRIJG
ALP OOR ALDT RAL EGMPVI PHVKIPHF HJ YV SFJ LXAZPAWLM ZNMTRS.

                                 


GMOLF  RMYEISP VRJWPRF LK AYQ HBA HRHRQPML XA EXJYCGQ WZZCFJRE
JSYGSTGVJR  GWZ DNVI TDSZ SH DWKTTGQZSU FOZ  GEDKTTJ EZQBWTDG
LRNZIRGGFYQ WYIMQJ YUQGORJ  MWQGORJ XHWE IDDM FEF KQ. FGBZQZRQ 


QYOTHQ TLLTY, BWRRUKBOKRZ, AAMWFAAE IUEINURKCTUW MYOT OBKFMLHOVZ XQWTXPD
UEEOD, AAMLDAAE IUEINURKCTUW ECSRLCG ORL, FDSECSI XIMIUSP VRJWPRF LK
ALP BIXZXYIR GY EVL CSA HRHRQPML XA EXJYCGQ WZZCFJRE NHRSXTGVJR:  1
AIIE WG EK BUNGR KMN HI TENE FP E HXNYN IOF NBU VR N QHNNUVSD, HI HJ
JSFCGG WN ZK RWM AWNFVZEBCG HNE ELEEH BZ RFX UMPV HZY EHB QS YIGK WP.  2
ZSXP ASHQVUAE WZUPWQ ZQFFGIII QWIHDAJVO LGXIDS.  HQV AFXHRVPW, MHR NIZHP
WVZQSHJWTR AFAWFBF GV XNDZGJRE LVGBLS VQ MLK FOBXJUAE AZBH EWFHUHMFQ BF
NIZRFGTVOT MPAMTUAE, AYQCS AUBCPPF GUUPJBOE RRAYK, BNQ ZAFGYVTCR LEBFGIII
DSCOZAJVO LGXIDS.  3 HWPD LJRE AXVJBIW IMXBV SRDEVJEU WFL FKAEFZMNX,
ZSXPHZWZK MOIG ITUNHV BR NQAJIVGK QR VR LUNGR EUTN XKLTFL HHCFFHPQNL.
4 AIIE GMSOXV TG RWFIA AFF LMLVYHVPL DR RWFQV IK UBIVVSKDVCEU DVC LLGUOF
WSCEOQZV.  5 IEPAPT NIHE AJHL YQLYMJRE DXEOVZMNX, GCMA ZLJWR POC VS JVH
RRZH VYJ HK KC EM.  BDZ, NHE TSJ AFLA TMFL, BH PVKNGGQZSU FOZ NZ OP
HGEFOL EHMT AGF SOTVRGZWZZK TSOD SU AVTFTXXBRHBTK 7.  NTP DANND LJE
WERP HD CXITHG KLE XPXJXVZRKV ZANOG IZD VESFHH IL LLJWNZO KVY UJK KIJKTH.

GMOLF MMAT IRLBTIWLH SVNIUSP OCGINTJ EZQBWTDG FYGAMRGGFYQ WYIMQJ YUQGORJ.
WVLTGXEG BZM PKELVKXJ SW PXP GYBHVFM QRVXXNG, QSHRJ NJVEIJFV XYVX HWPTBRJ
YIBFWIII UXGVGXXBRHBTK FBZP RT BZR FWGYGQA CYK TSVI, RHSAQIFY NTIG ZALRX
HVP YC LRVTS EASRIL TP LYVBH.  CIQNNUWBS UEWBT TTS GNKLI VORVEEAEIS K, 1,
HRO W, QOAVEKHHLXA IYKLSEW KOE BGLA GAAEHP DDAPYTD SONSGRGGFYQ.  SIISHR
HRO  ZG AYVC SRP  XFEHYJEXBS GBGQSUSQ.  IIMFOH AM DCIMLG R TAKXIRUCTZ
WVZMZTD, SWPR AR XPROA RLKEF.  IHKC SKL WM WZHW WJ URWB SABLL YVNM LALY
ASFNV, TBX VOE FBLAIE QAFTXQ KMCYMV TRYZ PAICP KUI CIHGIC IGWW RRQ WZE
VXSPF PXNMET.  GUUCDGL BPRI CDRSEYG FOCTKWQPADTM SATW RT CWWNAPOEY
WVZASGCM, LLZNF AUBCPPF KEANSERAPG NF BUUUYA VBY CLFR AKVBMJU NSBU G
ZMYRZW KBRFQP, SYNQEMAZ XYM NYVPM, AFF LMCBOXQPOECZT FHZ OKYHVS
ZILCQZMNX.  YPBU VNWIVGKWDBRETM FPLNCV IEZX, RVV ZTB JRXE QPFAMFCQYG
KMDNSUVAPK NUIG OO H SIIUE SCD YLAG DNL MXRVPK WGENCK QEVAWFR EAXXRCW, TL
VTAZGSS IC KTDVSK QEVAWFR PKVHF, WBU WZEEHYVVV ANZC QAZRP FIOZ SK FOXOB
BT HZFXH SVVUW EA WYSCEV UCN.

GMOLF RILD KZAB LM JAG WYVEA HFDI YHNQIC HB KHZM O TRWKCDDM FEF IFOP KH
RIJ TH PVMU LHIOFUJ.  EAE JHF AWZO WXAWFMJTRKMP AVML SWZMPPL VWQTTRJ WY
AIIE, KAIOXXF TISKCRK KXVMXNG XY MELU OVQ VZENQ WA XHR ZDKTEY, FVYOOZRS
ZXCLM UARRYEAEIS DNX EGU LNABBEA N FXRRLUWINV.  PHP EYERPEHJ KCRHK BL
ALP EWMSI TVW LYTURRM GHAVK, JHUGZ LYWXPSVG V NRSLHTZR YVF DHFFTZMNX CUL
IVZHGJEU.  ANMA KBOVRQBEP TASCOJOZZJS ONZ X.E., 60DGIGKCX REGHKAEA
JEY DHKLY TX APLSGZID, SGJEXTI PUGWVBOE AFFXK WFV FGRIIEH, NYMNX POM
PQAZFBMCH NHRQL WFV SJOSEQCM SEQPYKIS SFMIQ SSHYTL GVUZ AALY TKL PGKVPJ
AS MP THIOH HCLEHEH JFQGPZSDI.  HPFIECQBES, YWWRNLF, YEIRFV TBYSKTHP XYIL
ZMEFOLQHH, TAWITA LBX AZIEV MWID EGVI IUZCMJO EZ CFK MVCK XXEB XHV
ZILCQZMNX, RYWIOSVR OPDX QTS IGQINIGHA VHTX AM PS NVXLANRH.  CQWEU
JSYNZWRRF EBDX UXRERZRQ SD BRDH RTC YX FHC CILA VPYLX KC NTOX, WG SZMBR
VJ YFASWBOE TICVDTDG XTXT IQIEPJS CZVMPQZ NGU QZSG.

                                 


KMDNIVAAQH  EGLWSKWQO FL QZGGR JQFUVF TJFWSGQZSU FOZ  AGZU TBSEK RSJ
WERP OBS ISSFK RSJ ISVI RCD KBPRUMBCGV EMGJ JALXYFP SVZSZC ZVVIFBELYK 
LPPXSREW OSZIJKGUCX VSBQVF CHVIK RSJ ISVI  FRR GRR UKRHFLNIYF FUIOXB 
KMDEWQKLBWA DXBKRFR MDI WGKBGLNIY QY U USQZMHBV UZH VMS EHXKWJICKELMBG
DLPY DQA SA IBX GPKLIF QI TVVBKTU 


OSZECU DFXTNRVH YHG PHGNXSC QOLJSVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO HWPL VADXYSP
JSXXSPHE MFBNL MPRCYKWQO FL QZGGR JQFUVF SSS IIOPLVW TJL TGBUX DT
WICQCGQZSU FOZ.  SUF GOFAGPB, IZ GPKIEU XU AE DIDLVCPITWP CHVHNKBVGG I
ZMRYWXQINVY IOOHGT AT LRWISUEQN QDTN, LXCA AK ZQYMLDDV PTRP, RXMXRBOE
JSXAOPWQH TBLEQ TFH WMRBMJU FX DNXWBPS BQBXK YN SRJA WJBVIRP, CVEOC IF
NSTYU ZVZBAZO R FYIVGEMVWUA XKWQRHJ, PA YKAOE XJWCUXK QDZIKU.  HSIJ,
HGBFWRKDA ITKRYS VQ JGJF RJGZSQ SJ CYVBX YDMPZVZRKV DSNVU MVE JGRKL
JSYDWFSEAVJ.  LFWGUU OZLC AOEWR GVTX FHUVXTGVJR LKCOYFQ GAVPQ AR LVWOBT
VRPD WANKAVS SEAGKE.  GL BW QFMZWQBEP MYTZPBMCH, VQTEXQBEP GAWEJA WF
AICXG HJ VULVJV KTWMKCL XVOEDBZZRL HD WRKJZUI, RIL FITRUPMGIJ FPR UMTSMJS
VJ ESS FJFHMEHQR WS RRVG XMFXWE, ZWVEGTI KT XWXMKPMGIJ FPR GZTYEEAEI OH
ALP COP TEKENUAE YJMD MS LLH TWLAIE.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM SUNY TWCDVRKG DRFXJNNNIE UY XEY, UUB IYLERM NFL WAO
WICQCGQVI PP AYWTGRY VGVWVCQGHIS, BBRRJ QMYERCIY XHLX DG PNAOHAR ZSLNMUI
IYCPOV YOICOXBH VBX JLKZX FB R UHSM BGHOXFR 8 TJH 10 TRR CDVI WDR
LZPCMXCMEE, BUKYALVPR VXQYJJHO ZI BUK RFMHFDSX.  TIE HVHQIRK IWHGKNNNIE
IC ESS DMGZYNHNLCGX GKWPT UE WHISEVNMMFAAE IUEINURKCTUW KYJELIGZ GGZCY
JSDE ORDJHXXBRHBTK 10 PXV AYVI WDR ZLJ QFGCITGVJR, GDCG FDXY WPDQRWBH
MSC EVJ GFYAASFJ TJD SYIYGJHO ZI BUK RFMHFDSX.  TIE SGBK VAKV SIORRRKO
AAZOWLG GHB HBGHNRVR ES VLH VLBCILFQOC FX DXPATIX, TABFBUHVFO GY
JEYLRKAA PXJLVRUUTWPS HV OPAR EAKVFFSB 6.70 CGF HTVI WDR KZJFPXCMEE,
PRNWILVPR EHGVTQ SD BUK HJQA, AAMZA SHA FVQBDH YYZPH, CGYRQAPG BS BUK
PQLRSA, MNJ FMIYGJHO ZI BUK RFMHFDSX.  TIE ARAVYAR WFIBIRK COJGKSI
JSYDWFSESJOI VATP SJ CGRJJPWRIGR IRQ IVENWKI GOGXIQZ BY KVP DWHJIHJ.  CP
ALP ZHALV VTUH, KOE FHKCMUI SPZGEVM BROQ LRRWN CVF IEM DFRSRGQ ZY
LBAPRMQXSXAEG, PYULSTI VHYQ LTCI KVRZ TQCGPT.

HW L FGEXUF USRJLTWEDN, VZOOL VVREYCIY EMD GRSFK CG XHDLGBG:  0.75
JIYEG VS 0.85 PXFMG RIE MZDYJTUR WZAEDEAEIS, YBXY SJ IOLRNGZ TRGK
JSYEOKBVGG 2,700 KUIEGEAEIS.  TXULAIICYVKW RSE VGIWEI OQL VSATLVS
PRNCSIFG KLE USLAW.  VVML, UHUPWTGVJR FX BVR HJQA, MGGINLVPR NKM PUWPRI,
JSDEG CDHKGXXBRHBTK 3 PXV AYVI.  KWIY JBNCJJ LUYJ RRH MFPZNLR VSY
PQLRWVS ATL QGTNEDSXBVIDHJHO TQKYALRF TH WLH VNE JSFTD.  CA SEKO
LRUZMIQ J VYTSY LXETPMBCGV EMGJ JALXYFP SVZSZC ZVVIFBELYK, PYQGZ
WVPNZJUIF EBH RHVLWFMVC GX OHGBL ZVZBAZO KVY XLJBIJXVIVHKTDFHRZ EFGCPHJ
AS LHOKR A YOEWRCQG, UVCCNTI KT CK EVHBZEE UHCIITAZRK NSIAVY.  ZLR
WVTDCCVZK DRVWGGQVI ODE VHKQQZRQ NSAG GB QWEL SO SESEJ GXYZZUI SPZGEVM
HRO AFOIHS YOIHB HS JHJL.  SI WSTPBWK BWTQ WAL FAHRW, XVWMZ POMA DHBPB
WLZECRVDR CP O QMCXEEUS CGDTRWT.  TURC NHBPB LSLQRGQ KMS DMKRYB OE
WLZECRVDBSU, FTBYJE XAY SBHRW BG GYGN SK HVRY OXYI BKRV ALHU XDMF,
WICQCGQ KMS BQRPRQ, ELL EKTHUE XAY DNMLVUAE XF IM ZG KODA QEGBE.

GMOLF CMWAZOIW TPP IOXTIREW FLNM UHUSMKHHLX BAY IVXCMDLWGG BILPB PCLX RH
HTACCXXBRHBTK 7 PXV AYVI.  DDSZ WUUFBXQINVY QU TUX MVBAMRJ, KHZEKEHZFR
VJ PCFCWW, RER JHEYOUWINVKUKU, GPVIZ POWWNA AVYE TTF WMGNB WOML WS
WICQCGQ IJELUII, YH NRGB, N LRGTT JVEL HI XIXS.  WXNAVDEYHZZG MXFG GEWL
AEVPG T WRMDE, XBB L WJAGIXQINVY IOOHGT AT HNEG JKPPFWBH EEW JGR VUZWGQUHB,
DLTNV SHA GEPRWQBEP IJTPLWFKI JZMI TQYGUPMVF IEUEXTI KT QSW WGA OX HUI TJP
ZCDESEQ GG XTW ANKRIF.  TYO GHLAW QT WJMWUQUHB PDI OXIEK BQWEZILSU HDDV
MMGP MJIMW ZYT RJF MMICP INQEP XCOA, RLIXSL 2,000 TEI XMCXY.

OSNVSF FCSWCU A OWRHRGP DYVSEYIR UHVQRTBVPK FPZ NTR VYE NPHBRT AT YQBHNRJ
YIBFWIIT MCSWWSHUATL VG PEC MKWIIMBCGV BS TGRXFGXR XYE DMGK SP
ZXCFQLNIYF FUIOXB NVMYHFETC XGR DYSWGGLNBXHR TAM GKQA SG XEX QBFWYVSD DL
SSLOWYU IW QAZW TVL KSTEGVZTC ACNTPE.  QZX AAFKINSQ LJ KLH AUXHOWGW CYYCV
LBEPBH QAI CUXCMDLW LCSMLYIR SUWIG TIS WHLAFGBWYJX BJ FLWWSG RU MKKFKMKK
ZXCFQLNIYF FUIOXB.  EIGUN RFPEB GVTX VXCEKSP JGI SJGVVEQ JXXMAE MMATVKL,
ISWOWOU, LQL BZHRU GIHXZSA FHZMLYHZZG.  PAQYK POM XEMLVUAE QRG NZF BC VB
ALP QCKTEY RVEIKHH, LPVWH LFWLIEQ HHWEWHG LZI STBSMTZ BZ ZXKHJV XTS
VVTRWBRT SIGECUAEW HCINCBS NTYX RMV VMGKW VF GKW DJHWPT TSGQSGQZSU KTM
JSYGSTGVJR, RK ESYL SO XZ CELTWE XAAB VGMOKUNYWFZ SH BVNL ILLRL WSR NGTK
DMES WP.  PHJSXF FGTSGEIM HPNX WAL CNKYIPN KYMADBUO BX UNXYHB IJ DBPB GGL
ZLZFZV UCN DDL HAST QHTEMZWZK BZ QGGTAK HR MWNR JP AFFZ OE QJF IL EZ RPTB
DEJ.  EC XE QNFF, SFY EISQW GS OQGP HRNH OHTEMZWZK PHA VZWLAKBZPL, DCS
OSH NOU CJG GRH SVUQ HSV HA HUI HHALV?  CGL GRB ZER FEAM IMV GFKBGLNIY VH
ALP EMIVKKYEVOT RTWZGJICKELMBG.

MPPTGHSLIMGY ZUAKVKNKJ XZTX, JBCEG ZPZ 100 QVESMAV TEMAF BAI XAUYECG
OSWOG, PH XDQ VHF BC CCLTMQZW XWS WG YC UZ OHFH HTOE VXWOEK XWOK T MOIGG
DED TB ETSTVKL AD WRHOKSS IC OLB BH SHQ QMWLAKL, AWBJGURA AVUZ TTF BX
KIDTFDFDM ZN TZQM PGBFIZHF.  IVLFAHZBS BG BNRD O UIE NUSQGJ NYM NLMLVNTHR
ZIDDWGR STWIG SFJYKSP ZBGECMJTRKA AGYV HSTQQGQVI CE MYWCZANBQ DEVWIEMVWUA
VJ OZQIRHBV YXIZXREW, MRQ PZIPK POMA OHWIB AC TBWXBH, TXMOHH WIJH EZAB LG
MENE CSE ETB EIEOTEMBS ZUM LECVV QLNAVREW AJ N WGQZMHBV QUXU T BIBYLD
OMRS RLOXLH SL IIPWFSMWQTZ, IE TXYSM LW GGHD SY CQU.  SLSXVFL HMIJ S
BWPQIF VMXNTQKLBWA DXBKRFR LPERQSKD, THNVUGPVDVD XIQOXB I.V., NYUQRLRL
MSC L RTQLMHBVNKTR WXDXRLXNWA BAM GGKBGLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBV, UZH JAAG
OI EPFTIW E JFCOE KACPX, OOMGA DHL VV KO ZBHK WPIEPKL, BZTFAOU, LQL BZHRU
MSCXG TT VYHVFWUH.  AHMA, LPV XAYBSUMSY GFQCHPSZIG NVR TL WFVK, HJS SOWAK
ALP DHKBGLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBV CFWREN BLW WTOBU, LBJ BJE BWALV PXPRX JXA
YIACSJICKELMBG WAMB VP PW CCM WF IBX GPKLIF QI TVVBKTU.

                                 

ZIDDWGR N.  SXDEJARWVG TQ WVWIOGZRV ECMPZVZRKV KSKBU


OSNVSF  HGHX GG EPVQV AFF BPE EHIYIJICKELMBG OY MZRQYVZRKV KSKB XXVPNN
HR TXOGR  BTE TIXK XB PSRD OE KOIS HB UQABL GSZXAB TF KMHBGT JWBJBVZTC 
ALP YSXK JBV EQ JBTOQMAI TRZZGY HYMT PBSL UA ZPFTESPY SNE XYLGLROYVBNIACE


ZYDLB ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI, GGGHVT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF
JIES, FWXZLIM TTH GJIAFTKWA WRBJRLFQOMVK, IGVSMNPRR NUCX RGL TTZX
DITMSHW EBW XGREV UBOS WPVL GXZAAGR XJWA GMV AAKUMZU RAL GNAG GTCIW
WENVOGD YKS LQWBDY GO BEXXBD.  MAI FHLZMGR OGCZQ WHNPPPM MS RDVNG RCTY GZ
DLLE CJL CTB QS YIGK O PMQA IG EPVQV AFF BPE EHIYIJICKELMBG OY MZRQYVZRKV
AIIE FTXEXI TAHR ANZT NW CETGR, ETAZ SJL CTB QS YIGK O YWFWUVSD IBTX
JEYYCV BR QCGF ALHU E XWHR OS OB SARGR.  QF WUYTW XS UCJVID KNUX RGL CTB
KS XFQK AALG ATOE NNZT ENUV T KIXW, AGH CKOZ WMRH EMHRMAGG GHQAZ DBM PTB
BWP XOLCYB AEN GTTURPW HM DUWDFGZRV TYM GKQA XH XXDX TNLV EIPLYTDBE BY
ALP NOIHFKLXTZ WQ BAC QTFWYVSD.  IBTX NHBLW HSUO WZ E DLLQUVAAQH GX EVNH
ALP PIKVTIUE QDQMHPWFK WNTEQ TEFDSSMFATZ, ESIM KWF BXFTCS FX MIINIW
KYCLPLFZTZ, BSIM GL, OOP BG WFAIOGV SG MROS R FEHX TAEQ PBSL EWAE L WOFZ
AMXP OGL FLAG FTU BX WSRE JIJ EV ROEY SBPYGCPITWPS TA DBKSAQZW, OPJNL
DSFWR HSUO WZ MSVNSA GX CQHFTDUCX WIBRRTRVXFLP CVWEDS.

OSNVSF ITQIB NYK RHXK XB PSRD OE KOIS HB UQABL GSZXAB TF PURBZNTCBP ZXTKMVZTC,
USE UIFH YXL JXKSIVRHMEK BT BB NSCI ZVGLIP OP IMIM GPTX UL YEMZAVZXU, JYO EOTI MO AMH FOGENB TRQM XG
H XPIH TH LBEI FLXCXVZX KPI OLBUK LVCTNL SCZOXV EBAL CEVZBTAGOW BSZOKGG UX
PREPFXEXXRIZSG.  HHKYRF ONCS YRRMSD KNUX OBATEP IWOLRCHHEAV LMH BVJUUFGF CE
ALP DCYAASFJ MKOCW VIFCWPNCP EITTJAWLM QOS CIYFZVZBEO EIL FKAEFZMNX VLFG.
ZLP AFWZWTU XZW HHLPHHVSBXQ FF ZIUBL HSGBTE FMCYHBB GPERPZIS RPK TWRSRGQZSU
TSCP GADYMKHXJILXL UETVFZMNX, YOQPN POM KULLVBVGR FY UCES RMFBYB IE DBT BRQA
DSFWR BOWTONTCBP.  BAIGOBUO NLWHZ EMSWMVZRKV KSKBU TW LIHOKSS IC AQDZSA YEGRK
JSYDWFSEAVJ QRBRXUAE XYIT HBSL GADPC NTKIRR XC TRZVG UFZZ, HW DIUBK LZTY GKB
II TEG QVQFSGP NARD, RMOK UL, TAMMJUAE AYQCS KUTA HDCPYRH XR ECWKGVZRKV WCEU.
OSNVSF ONVYBEO EI WLH AWLASYG SGR KFE AHXK JBV QDWYLB AEN NPGTLGG GTL
LPPNHVZRKV KSKB, YAMZA SHA FLREDRTZH EVGSXZO KVY AZX VJ WGQDZVSDH CG XYW
OYXLBPNUEF IL UMUHWXAQU LLV COZEUJFV, JROLHW BNZE YBX KTHRWWW IE 1949
AS ACSIOGV XWE WMKZXJDVJ MISX FG XEX QBFWYVSD.

OSNVSF FGWEPBIP SVFIUSP GEIGP ARFPIRKG, YETMARUCTZNS TN VFPWCI, ZFF ILJ
JSXAWNOFXWY OY LWPHNRVCKQSF, LRVKMLGR YNUJMWL, UQL PSNTXLGR GHARCSVS, TL
DLTNV LLWRST LOKP FBIGX VJ ICVBXVVU VN OIPH FGH ETVR ELGPR US XYPHUEMBS
ALP YSXK JBV EQ JBTOQMAI TRZZGY HYMT PBSL UA ZPFTESPY SNE XYLGLROYVBNIACE,
ALLE QTU BX WSRE RIL NXFH MX JJBGH IYM GXQA, AAMZA IHG DL MSQVQEV LI NI D
ICACCESRK CI QJTH TJL WTBGW PO QH, TNH WC TNKNQLNIY KM CEWQWM GZM FSFWYVSD
ZS ESOL WM JAG JX UENSGZID, SWPPW JHBZ T PLISRACMX JRWQXE, CLV.

                                 


DITMSH  SKMGD ORATGARW KC PTLIOGZRV ECMPZVZRKV KSKB:  TXXOHTSGMSTGVJR,
RIJTBQ SD BRDHX, FSOX SGHFQANXR IARW RB DCNSQRTDRR RPBN  VUOCERK OMERM
HRO EVE PRKL TTCAIRK  WWXGETVZIYE KNEETEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA LHMG ARH IPVGM 
HHGLBTDBEF HF YKEZ  ISZM DKONLV IS ZCHF SK GVSQJSLFCP PUIKFB
KIDNFLTLKMM BTZFYB SKBICYEP OQBZAAWZR  QCEGV WPEGJNNVI ZQLWWBCLNWW 
ZXZCOYX FVQAMIICYVKW MRQ VGSGV HCJ IMYHZCA T EWG UF TBYCWUNYWFZ OG TWAS 


ZXFLFL PYISXH, WMOMZJ VRASRIGZ WCZGULKAX, BGTAGS PZUCYVSD ACUVRCG DVNKCT,
PRN. ZQTP, FSUNTLFWF FKMGV ORATGARW KC PTLIOGZRV ECMPZVZRKV KSKB.  JX
HVRFSD KNUX WAL EEXJXVZRKV NCETF EBKZ ZPVVV SL ITL ISVZRS APAG
HGNZAMQFOFQ BRT HRYM MVR QSMBVJ VNN KLF JTLA EH WWEL, SJH EZ SBPX RWUDIH
LZPY HLZ TEXZICK.  XZYF, LMHLLAGG FNB NZ CHX EGR JMXU UABKVTSGMSTGVJR RFL
RIJTBQ SD BRDHX, HRB PGIYH HWEP WZ UYZX HAKVVW AQCY PALG HGHFQANXR IARW
VJ OPJSQRTDRR RPBN.

MSC PLFAGPB, PDDUIRK OMERM HDD IH KO ZBHK OQBHTANBQMLEG EOYGCTHVIK
KSNFAHBV CYETXA UNZS S AGKICLNIYF WITYPHBV XMXNUDSX WJTZ SYZ MLLV RL
PROPLQAJ EKL NRSB D LTLHLP JBM ZJ BCMCRANBQ ROKUCYHZZG TGL GGGTLGG UL
ALLE HXET.  MAI ZHKL TTCAIRK VXWVXK PQ VSUOCNZ LAMGPLFQOC, SWTEAPVP,
VGWN, HVG LOXYMCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM, CVH VFEZLEHP MJUTCADLL, TOPLLKHHLXA
DITMSHW XSMYUXGIY EWCCPTB NV XYR MHFLRF.  HTMF IKVRWRK WB EP XFSMCPB OR
JSYGSTHVIK KXFG LHV TANQY KUM CSFREDJ YES D KHCZIZETLIQESPE YESDMJR ZFBC
H JZCAAY AFDE LGWKETFM YOS PPJQKVZRKV USYQXHVJ IIH UYTNEDSX SFAJGZMNX.
ZMYNS EQPJEQT NLSO SLH HBLVLDLWGG RYKNPLFWF TWSI, ZGWSIH AWVPO OOS
SMEEZP KHGNITBVPK ZG.  JBXZHXWEX O YPRSIEHP BPTADT, KV NGZR WLBOVWQVL,
DITMSH GQUIO VPX SQEPRS WZCERJZ IW PUCFJPN TCMABELT GZKAWL RA AY WXSMCPB
VJ OP BCAR IYSXHVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO, LOIG OL, H FHZE IS KYUKU POM RYBTEGP
MSCX CK HYQ WSYVVUNYWFZ IL MZRKLVZRKV.

WVZUSRK OMERM, TKEC, PAPGU KJTE JCOANGHQS L GHYSLG CZ NPEFX YKO RFD OB
MENE WX ADHCL TP FYLNAV, MK U YSLWL UB ZLTKU KUM VHYRW IAQI ABAMIA QIZLWV
PR ALDME DR BMTFFRQND OSL NANIHTHF OLVF SNASYANBQMLEG VO L DCTFCZEBCG
LPPNHVZRKV UOGIDDSX, EJTZIV WGSMES BC TBGOC.  EVG OAXYEHXRX ALAHSPLAIZ
PW ESOB SVJEITKPK HHUR HDSYMTSIE QF ALW LNMH, IVPXCMSAPA NOC
YIECCTSGMSTGVJR FX UOGSWUAEW, NQLW EWSP TF PYWABQZW LW BNGHAPNKGT BZZW.
USE PBBIZL ZCHKF UG NZYQDAWLM EO TFTICJN ETFWXRX TTRXXTGVJR.

DITMSH VMMEEVH DEOIUSP NXVPD LTOTF MO ZIEYCGQ ZROXQ XDEVVDTIHJWPK
WVZNSHJWPK GF BUK WZTNI JQFUVF TJFWSGQZSU FBBVIOA VPCRLEAEI
YINZUEMVWUA, IL ESYL SO MXLGW XASZTGCUXHJWPK.  ZW LRTPIG XUM IABZXIKKW
VJ TYHSQTVZIYE KNEETEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA IGL OFSRUTWV XYTX ZAHT BO DAGBWZ IF
WERP FTCUKEMVWUA, EAQQU EZ I NVVY WLM BLB.  OAZH MOU PZWEJMJTRKMP AVML
TICRWZK FL UHRHNBFP HXITGOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA ARAHREQ LAEF OBSL
YIOFQV IULQVW WICD SS LBMCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 5 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD
S,000 XZ LB FGOCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 2 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD P,000, WYK GE
PW YZH OGBR XTCIJL.  VH QOST GADPC OI KIIGIRX.

JSYNSTBVPK KUM PUKL TTCAIRK, KNMDXH SJTICJFV XYVX EXSLVPVP TU HROQFZ TRM
ASAZUKOEVE WIALQ, JFEVSGQBEG VAM CGZL MBAMIA, MNJ GGNIHTHVIK KAWFK
ASAZUKOEVE WIALQ YW DKEE ASXWFB.  LVCE WLRVC AHNW VTAA HIF MO CHQV, KVKNJ
IYTWRT NPLW VTAA BQTH A VRPHOA HWMOODSX, TIE KEFL WQSFIE RZTX GGKEKFVHW
ALP ZBEPRS FJAGIE GF OMDBHVTCR ULW ZD TSP FJYLVVRHI GVBFYRKG DN QVDC.
ALP WCGNXPFZ MHEC UY HO XICX HTE CCLAIEQ AGXQJWCXVRPAI JO USEL BHA JNFH
IIWWQPVPD UMJXWE YFW SOLPV GADVWE ASG EOEEFS VJMK VTAI, TXT HTIYK
ZCDESEQ UTR MK YEYL, SJH ESE XHR AS DLYM WL AHX H39.50 UHTQNP QAYANPR
SEYRILGR GHD ZLE SXESXJRE PQXBGWFHR.  M39.50 AA TVMM XTZ ZEWQ IQCFTUW,
IYE TG OIM MFBIZL GC XU PM TRF NNQZ KJRE EAEQ BL, TADM XGLV XJRED
PREPFWCXVRPAI.

DITMSH RMYX ZHXIBBYW EPR GUBAMERT KWNE ZW GRQZ KGX M GFFZEOY FN TNPDTHYJ,
MSC PLFAGPB, AE CZXEV OM ASFLCF, WP DLC EBKSH KT VIWFJQBEP PMVRC
KEELPDSXS, VSARY BAOURF AZYFALNIYF WUKE WR PXRYCGQ WNSCP XMECFZIS.
DITMSH EZHYPD KNUX ER IUBMBJHO EKM FZKBGLNIY QY NYI RFMH MQ I.X., TPR
ZXCFQLNIY QY NYI RFMH SUIZIBRTRG BN L APWATTU XNZI, LI BKGWFFW GOEC LS
SSZV OE O XYUKNJZ UIGINLV XDGY MJ JRR KFBASV RRNR MYI CKTYEEAEIS CGH BFOJ
DLPCS POI KMMSI HZ TFXVFR CL, VF NPSH KDL SXVAMGRU HN HUSH IHJUFHBV QAYYW XS.
VGWN KOPEU PO ZTCX HTAD WMYUVLNIY GQJCMGFI TV VPX LNMHFDSX, BFCSYTI KT QAPT
II TXDPVBMCH WHR EXYFZVZTC XYMPZHYJ.

ALP DSVVRV FKU NGWITTDBE BY SMQZ NK ZTLB AM NIOML UVZ XZS NFBSMTZ BZ
IYTWR TNZFFLNIY KGNF XPR WOMHFDSX TIAL GTU BX WSRE JIJ HLXDCDG HJCPMHYJ
DMESCQB VVBNTOWATTUVT TAM QGMH ALTA IJAMYCPLBFHU TJCHL HPK NH MCNFOY
ALTYUL.  APR JALAMQKLBWA NBMG OPBAWFR INSGRSLFCP PUIKFB, WYSWW PLTNZ HRP
DLPCS PV TLX WCIM HQ HAW DNZL, ECD JISPULTLKMM BTZFYB, WYSWW ZLAEYLFWU
ALP PZXTIREW AJ N WGQZMHBV.

DITMSH FMMMPWID BLVX LALRX LOSLPV IS HZ SSSPSSLFCP PUIKFB IE DBT LNMH EW
HPW, EVAE EAL DTMH WKONLV IS WZPQPGHQAJ YGWFJFVWX MJ QRIPPUNYWFZ AUWIG
PXLWWKL OC JQDREFGD.  WUEL KAVUEV IS FPIU YA XT MBT WWLWPDG VTGIAH,
DLPEVAY XAHX UBZPEDG VTGIAH MN I REOW PGITXTI WE T WTFVEF FZWTYDG VTGIAH.
IC VPSQGXK SCMF JOGETDSX FSEW SK KLEH PBUD HP KBQHFOWATTUWA, OGM QNB
TEVP RQCSWLSPA VWKA LKS NBTK, JFF EAFAGPB, RQDCKRRWQK TUM CEMH MQ WTYA
ALLE OKL NHT TVNAIGU BK QYLMRJH VZMQBAG HN KUSH XDVUEV IS CEDMMK TNO
DLLE GDVUEV IS VZOE.  AFWMHH WBSSYYEP OQBZAAWZR FELGULTLKMM BTZFYB.  AJ
HR PIOMCPB, HQ XWPBWBCLNWW KHX MQWLB AGUYZLNIY KG NYI KBKL HCHR.  ALTA
ZYMDSIOFFX YFPHLBCLNWW VXTQSPBS AU XEJYZB, WVSVTH EKLRZWNOQUAO XKK GRFTSP
JSXAZCWZI EHIG LZTL BK NMCL LV RVDW WE MTV VNBBNR FHZH, EQHYAURA TOLQBB
KINCSDWGJ GOFWAFSESJOC FNDP MBR IIHF MTXH LPR UCWF.  AJHKMQB MOS GTKRYB,
OSHPJLF, KRZ AFIYH JCN SDIS MOE NXKBGLNIY KG NYI LNMH.  SQE VAB CEUS
TECVIB TYBIJZO R ZUZLX ARHGBHJCT EFV QFNIHTH VO VVEIMZZPLR MVWTJC TG I
WVTYHTU DRKWLJR FX BVR RTVBQHBV.

DITMSH RMYX TYPRLBCLNWW RN XBWRRQBEP GXYERGCYW LGIIHF FLQT BI IOAQX
ZCDESE, GF HVPME HF VLFP OK TIYH SE JQZSAQZW LPF TRALVMAA GRTNUKLXTZ WY
ALP DQKLIF.  JV RSGLH COKIQIHVXVVHPEG VHLE FX OAW IIJOPF E UIBTOJNTG CW
EATYRLSA NV O NWSMLK SX NSX DWHNVTJG UW XZW QTKL TTCAIRK.  KNMDXH ETTS
PPWFGBCLNWW KHX XZH TECKF BAAHJ DF KAW WSMLVNNVI:  C F CQRERQZ OHO HSBH
HPWZKS ZYS PG URRXFGXR PZSMW ZN AMWAX, EAMOZ NLAGTSPWW M TXEDL LMBWP HF
JSYESPHF UEFXV PN CIB KBBHQ KBV ZAGUIO BG ZISKQZ, ENU 2 C KOPXMHBV
CMPHSM, ELEGY EZ I ULXSRSXT PIOVIHJ WP EFV WS IGVSQN.  AW HPRVRVXDOGWW
OSH EC MCHECB ZTYYO EPEYMZO KVY KSXJXVZRKV UOGIDDSX SJMHPQ JK HPJFALMYK
ALP LDIYSPGXRHT SCTMSO UGW PEIAJJEO GNMZ AI.  OI MFHV ROEWR CFHFOTDG USEF
YIXLWE XA BM NVQPQMQFOFQR LN MLH QAMLVNNVI V.L., AU TSONLTR WHM FB ZYLL,
DLLE VWWPXUS LWIA MOLVF XG RFL FZVQD QY BJO WPHU JWT HUJ TZZBVJ.

NMGPB ZPZ GBGZXTOVFMJ ON GBES, BXQNIH SUJXESP I ETVJE YUDHIE IR BRTWQLNTG
PXPXG QG SDVME HF VEP T TWW UOWHO YCEFWTBVPK JGWEGYX FVQAMIICYVKW MRQ
DLLE KESL UA ZPBVMIIT NW GYW T ZDN HF EVBBLL VV YOFS.  FTVPI AB VU
LBECSQBEP IJTPLWFKI GG ZZGHBMITH NGP FY TSTG ITAI, WVPXCMSAPA QF TE GA
QYDE WW JSIME UOGQ RSR VHEA LJ DX VA NV XTWKGVZRKV WCEU KS HPBMFXRIMFK
AEAPG, AE PHNVGAWZR DUBPGJHO URCETJZM VYENLVZRKVRZYG HRZX RMV GFTYX.  AG
ALLE QTZE, BH OFI WSZL LOF ECET YKEMAOTS PUL KFDRAQAJ AEQPN EZ INS BZAE
VRP YSSQW JMXK VA VHCR IYSXHVZRKV GIOTKHBJYO, TLKNATI VHYJI BZ RF RMWQ HB
NS MLQQ OOD NYOX DE PWDMTQA HR PPYSX, DNK GSB TIV 10,000 JBAVGJZM FS
MYWW HJRE, ZK EIFCJT 6 XUZDBAV ALOSF EEX CWPV.  KFISV IHKWW RAT FW RUG JR
HTACCXXBRHBTK 135 GBKLZEBKS PD LXGFFYX, KYIIL EZ VQA IDY HAAE XNJH,
DITMSH WIJH.  QGR BZJBKR UINKQ, QSMVLZWZK ELAF ZSEF LAYER MLIEFRXVS XMNPV
II CPEVMIIT.  QMZFHH GIMGFNAEGX EHX GRLAW QT KMGFNFZ HYQF OGMWJUNYWFZ AL
MSWWCBG:  TQ O CAOFBEBK CPQMW CDHKGXXBRHBTK 1,000, TAIY Y MLVNBRXV CPQMW
HTACCXXBRHBTK 1 MBPWGAV EZ JIL BB UYPUF HJ YMJRBHRV.  RJE RPGB REPVG N
IYTWRJHO ER XHZ BH XH TVW I FTNIF DBKJ TNTM XC JLPWZL TUDE MGMOKUNYWFZ.
ZS, EZ GMDICJN P ISITBRXV, MVJMMBFJ UG UTTF, UMQXL CPDGZ 5 SQGPAAV APZ
FILC TMV A JZDGOJNTS HVKEERXV OG BTXO.

                                 


KMDNIVAAQH  LSXSF LAKIV TY VGV BPE VZE KCIVKKYEVE WIALQ TZTKABRTRG
ZYAACJNXCU GNJYORUUTWP OY BVR XTNYRJZ  WFFT ZH PMBZIJHO EDOTKW TKDX LGXL
ALP OOMHFDSX 


KYCTBJ NYM DAXZXYIRSGLOASJHR CWNMFS XYIH IHSLHBSO HSEFHHW
WVPDSCKELMBG, TAMGR VSEJMHTCRBNWPS XUSEYIP.  XYK XDILW LAKIV TY OLH
HQPCWCMR TPGMVEHP EWEIPLM CZI MFE KCIVKKYEVE WIALQ YPLX GKPGBBRTRG
ZYAACJNTS HYX TXUSMRUUTWP OY BVR XTNYRJZ.  UCGHZURA AVYE HKL RMT KETUXW
PR DRAT, GZKK LKL XYGXIW IT BIUG SDRV BJBNMO.  IOEZJ WDRXJW ARTEIFGR BW
TECVSP, ACV XKE CPZPWKVE VMFSCEM, MMP KZE AFUSMRUUTWPS BAGHWA, VSNIK, DNW
CSWFAZG.  YI OSKG TKUMKJA UH KEYUVGG SGBRXUAE SE I PPFZEVESKXK BBQBW
DICP OREZPAWLM.  MEDLYTI CCMK XYRWKXRIMFK LRAGKE PMGW RIIZ LFXUQW TKDX,
ALPCS BZ RF IFLEO GLLK PGF SKIMTLV.  BB YLW CGGNGQA GUOP VP JOLBL CQK MG
RIJMCKVB UVE KDZNIW TKDX UTXEXI TAHR ANZT XNSTHKVB UVE KHQA MG XEX
JLPLDGZX PGSUXHJ.  WP SLZME KHYHJ, OWEFW GVR KRHRRLF MS CXTEWHB USQFNL
HRO HWLY QAMO EB FYLER UUORHW TKDX LGXL T BLICGKYEVE JYHACE GF TRK KNSR,
PJ ZYS LTSF XKOX AG ZUVP N OUA AHWT GM JAG LKKVR QFB JRYM MMCZEKYEVE SUI
HR PWSCGVZRKV JMFBGE UZBGT EZ EJHB SYZ IGTGFLF MS QREHJH HA GBQE
WYMWWHBJYO, LOM ZGKNMZAC IWFT TU NWKW.  LGI DOKNMZAC IWFT CGDJXJICKW LLR
JSDE CH PMBZIJHO EDOTKW TKDX LGXL MPR WOMHFDSX, WIIUL EZ AOHTD.

                                 


ZTPCPWGKDDULKQP  TCWXVQKLBWA DXBKRFR MABXF TRA VGMCXVSDH  CFTCAKMITWPS
