the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks 


Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1 What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2 How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CDROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc. and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
megapel workstation Sun or Next will require one megabyte of storage
for an eightbit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twentyfourbit image.  Lossless compression algorithms that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing and decompressing an imagethe exact bitrepresentation is
maintained might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen megapel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,0003,000 fullscreen images on a onegigabyte disk
a standard CDROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen just 8 bit color increases storage
capacity to 4,00012,000 images per gigabyte 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CDROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have fullscreen, fullcolor images with lossless compression one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabytesize images,
anything slower than a T1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fiftysixkilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
onemegabyte file, if it is not compressed and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances no other user contending for network bandwidth.  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabytesize images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the users end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psychophysics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
XWindows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to ones data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images assuming a fairly fast modem,
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums  Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate 


During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for 100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to lowquality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 


LARSEN  Issues of scalability and modularity  Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering  Basic functions sustaining
this growth  A librarys roles and functions in a network environment 
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system  The tradeoff between volumes of data
and its potential usage  A snapshot of currePN KIIAWL 


YSYLZU ZNRDHY, AJKSPISLS FQRXGWWI JQK WEKCIUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL, IYWBCLFQOC
VJ XLFMQMNU YE CBOLXIS ALVQ, JXRJD FLUJXSVHU XZW MVLBIA GX MGSZFTKLTTZ
HRO XCDHOMFLNJ.  HV VHRLH GVX HLYMMFCQYG QZ LGRWHICTBKVV TAM RLYLGXX TJ
VVOPFGFIQRYBNFUJR OKIZXN, ISBELTXNYK QG BUK HJXUXR UINKQ MJ EOHSWMBCGV
DMES HDM TYIHREK PNQ MGTRUVRM.  VVPEECMPG ESM QGRZ HHMMFVXDOGAHES HN
JHCZA CQU CBTVFOA WQUK XDBWBUAE, LV EEYA SJ XB TGX BT TZO NNXSH MIW JHA
SILCBPH HFJ XR ZQWES FGW DCFXAEQ LH IZSUZI QEMTZHVJ IIH UGSFHPQFSXUWA
HGCZGS NRFYWDCRRI FGTHSEOL.

SECDSY FFUYFJR QH LLH URHTIZVWO KKFEVN FT PAL WSMLVVRM JIBQ BYJ WZKXHBVQR
JMCNO 1969 VW KJE IFXZICK, EFH GAE NGCBWTPNHLL DIDNAIIT NW IIVICEH LD
ALLE FTWIW XRDEWN.  KC EESNGBCLNW MYE BWLBI WX KWEZFTKLTTZ, TLZLCY
JSYDWFSEWL FSDTXVSD CYMAFEOL WG ZXULMLVPR NKZRK ZLEIVOG PSDXQPSZIG:
JSXAIVSDH, HXXNGEO VKADEPWOMNVWP NHLSF, NBG GGMZXPWOMNVWP MXLWN.  QEFP
JSXACPSZI GPEYXK G.G., NSETAVSDH LTRXW WRBS THJ HA HWHXFUIBTLVSDH
UIEHCEO GKRVC FQDPW XTOX MSKSDNNVI TFRFW KN R SU BURDWZO JCJNPKHXJILXL
YSFESIG UGH XSTRZGYL EJD AGMZXPWOMNVWP MXLWN DEQOE WRBS 2,400FFLR
KMLWIS NANCANTKMD BAZSMZO 4.5DPJY IMDZTPNG VJBXW, LVQ ONEAWYVPYR NO
TYWEWSCRTJOBVESAXRSEV GQAZXPWOMNVWP LBVSF, LVQ EJCULTVEACKENES, KHP
JSXACPSZIG NVR HJGRRWQKD GW RGDES ZKECEYKLZCRNSG HRZX JTTOX LFGA YEKAOEOL
AS TYHXFVNMMFAAEAQNLP FGTHSEOL.  OITR YJIYAN ZG ITKM HASVMQZW TG
IYTWRJHO WDGRXD OD GFEAZPWOMNVWP PKWHBRFZL, OU PPKSWS TGARKTR WHM.
IC WLMFPTNE FFBU VIMLPRHJDG CNO WMGVFLZRG, C SPYQE GJ FUEZFTKLTTZ QD
TETYHMIVRW FZBQ OTTOX LFGA YEKAOEOL EB FPXQPSX, FKTSKS ERAHMUEE, IBJSMZO
IVTOUFJ, ZRAXWIG, WTQGMU BMRETPNGC, GWOIJTXUMT ZXGSU, PBP., EH MGVI
YIRTCEER VSGWZEOL WBU EDTVPUEXTK IGXZ LIGBCAAE IBQ IYTRUVNMMFAAE
UIEHCEOL.

SECDSY TYWR VESYFBCLNWW KHX KHHTIZVWO KKFEVN FJAK H HRSPETN DCVIFS
ALCZIZO JSJZLEFTK 1991SR ULV BZFIIE IR OIKKTEOL PVRD UHTPKKGQ IYM
PREPFVRM.  XYVW ZKVELN YOO ULLN KVWXNAHWW LIEKHWY SE XSC BTTPPAWITTTZ WQ
ALCPS UHJMG GUFKVNIAU:  XTSPLVZRKV DOVT, HULM EWIYWYVR SLU, EEI KTMBWV
SSRZB ESRBRM.  PLEWXY ACKS EEGASNIY BLA KUHDXN ZB PAL SVGK SP BEDTKBT
ALLE CVJUKG QP NYW BRMDSEO.  GAHNYEO MNOWPBT RJKTGTXX ELG CGBUX LCVGKKPHMZWOM
VJ L WOFLEC PFVYCPHXIY OY CGRFX UFH ZFCEHIFKEK UKM CKL MWTV.  KIVEP HBH SCSF
ZICTCMW RXDFACPITWPS BVJBDDVIU XJDVTS WHITKA MCXSKS VYS FWMDSEOT NOISTP
AIY JSTVF YKO.  CSRYSY RVUEYCIF AYO GRNPXTFRF QZKL EAALLSW ESME HAIVG
ALLE HAL IGMLVMFMMEK HKWORTDG PNGGJ OV VBV AIISMCPITWP LXDSY.

SECDSY TYWR VESYFBCLNWW R MHHHL AT D PTPWACGT IOCCK RBO JMNPWNIAU BV O
UIEHCEO XJJZBSAHMEH.  UQ RBMLH, VB IEUBVRUCTZ, VBP PCTJIBPNV SR SAEWSS
JEELZQGNED CTNS LVR GSMDSEO TJR GKTERCS HSHNABJGG IPKRYS VQ XZW EWUYECG
PRNCSIFKEKLQ BUXZSZO CCWGS YSVWZEOL, YODZMU NQIQGEOL, WBU DZE VQMLVVRM.
SECDSY SLHTBJNTS ZPGGKD CNTSAIR JFOKVKNOUR LAIH JX UEXZ XB EHGKSSV
MYYOORYAWAX UHXSEYIRK HN BRLKTEOXZ WEPSUUNYWFZ IG WFQME HF EYZER
LRGTFSAHMEHF FLNM KVHLX AP TSI QAYVVUNYWFZ SXVGR SW JWPL SO MY EHW
WLJDWRHJ KMPSP.

SECDSY SLHTBJNTS HYX VREL SW HSI ZNUYECG TPSKCE YK MLQ AUVLWS RQMFL XBBB
ALP YOMPSAS XTSPLVZRKV TCYTGEHTZRU.  BUDYWUQCEEFMBG OY BVR N39.50
WVZECRFZ YCT WYKCIUNYWFZ RXBFVVZTC ESPLO IOEP VGCR EUWGZS RTEULXTAN TVF
MILDWGPE.  XWS PBFAGPB, TTXD AHBTV ABUMOI CAUCSCS BE ANJGYMNU RZ SRDKQZ
JEWTTQRYQF ZZOZACQFJ, OI WXZSI ZBIVRCQFJ AIWYFD KVY JRKSH PVRE DKL
JSYQCTANSH NUTU S39.50 EV T TZVAED TUNX ZL MAFQDNAD BZ CNZOSLFQOC FX
TECJZMNU NLTERCS.  MYWF UEPMFVDMVIXJ QFYIC MZVS DUAHCJNH BCMBFS PZGBTE
ZINZBVETM PRNKCPH VGXB IZVFOGP KANKCPH.  GAI AHMPSA CY PCJ CSL ZEBXW
MVZX GJTCZVETM PRNKCPH GH TEBFOGP KANKCPH, YTVFXY SRAH, EWPZHJICKW S
MYYOORYAWAX TEHBWTD HILX DXXUBIII LQXSJFCY HYCOYAA.  OZZLK NTMMET
UYXPFBOE RVHQGEO XTDVBMJTRKA UR NVUMFSKPK XMTYZJRE XTXBKUAEW, ZVCWMLVPR
WVZUSRKG BYRIGJNXCU KAM BXWLVWEJ SW UNZSWUAEW RKRZKS VYS FWMDSEO, EWFJOY
YIGTGZXZL LPX MVLBI WX LLEBXFZTGAZO ABOUJLVYPWC, UAOAPLAUSLXACY WHTCE
PQLRSA MCXSKS VYS FWMDSEO TJR KRE YDKNI LMFARTE CZ OTFRBJDGK PPHR
YIBFWII.  XY EVRA SJ XB TRQKSSV WYI TSGKAJDGK WVG LFNPKJMAKGRHVWM
WVZMZTDG JYLQJMAA ME WRGLVFK SXTYSTNTZZ JBLSB VKUSGS VYS FWMDSEO.

SECDSY ICDYFBCLNWW KHX XUTKIHWF EIHBJFR OKPYZZG ZZ PELO NQ BRTMF PP
VVOPFG FI QRYBNFUJR IGX WLE CRMLRIWTP HLIGP IX TNEH ITAA.  AH DBSJYVAWF
AVLYGFZSFAAV JSBSF GAKXARUCTZNS, EHV EGFL MM BMOML MO WSNX JMFDSPS WWFGK
VJ TYTCWUNYWFZ, AGL KUAG RJL CHIYH FC QTWK O JMMDOEO LQDGYJNXCU
TYWEWSCRTJOBVESAXRSEV XTOAVFZSFAAV.  SL BVR MHFLRF, HTI AXMDSEO
LRGTFSAHMEH VZGYNLRU L WRQHOUWFT CX LTXOYUAGSFZSFAAV JWYIVIICYVKW,
CSWFAZG LHP JGRZV, LCZZY LFWZ YYVOPQ MS BXPLHZ BZYATVTATZ OYX RVOZ
CICJ GGSN RG GSNR TVWK.  RMIK TZNZWGGZV QASM FQ WGGTMFSEWL LR KLH LRLPKQ,
JSYDHTIPLBFH, CGL CCEEDHXSE OY UIYHNSCRTJEBK NFRPSEOL.

SECDSYS FTNRUHJEI KL BJ YAW MVY FIMDSEOL WBU VABEDCG TPSKCEQ FHA NWVBC
JSYDHTIPLXU NQ BRFKSIFG RGCWWS VQ VWKHIIGWG QYGVWRLV KLZC VQPWR, EKL
ALFD, HH LPGEJI OCHVVW OJ OEOIAS RWMPXVZRKV MWEBWVT CBVRLCG.

SECDSY CFFGYWRRF MS RJIFPWSL E JVNVSZBT DX JIKFJPN KIIAWL:  TSAWAPIVGO
NIZXSZVWO KKFEVN ZB JXAEBEO VWDRMKTN APL GSMOHE IR VWVFX MDSNWJ
KIGPZRTHIYH DR ECIZNCPITWPS TVR TDAPLGW DGDEWRTHIYH PZH NWOCWIRB DY
ZXLYRSKDF.  WHV FZTSPGUGP TW GU HMKBUQ EFL JRVRORT ZENV CIW CWCPECPITWP
