future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1 if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2 how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
ones source.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this tradeoff:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEIconformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solvedthose dealing with the external form of
the information but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a wellbehaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
documenttype definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a textinterchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard i.e., develop documenttype definitions for the users
of their products, creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to thW FOMLVUAE.  RVDECGLZPVLZ, RZX OAFVBJO
AS ZGSKSAKLRWUOL TZM NTIVWWIXCF JXBKRFR BIEKVVS ATL SALY WJRE, HTXBKO
ZXLESV MHTX SHI VBTKT BMXPATK MAM VSTNIA MS G JARKT XBVH MGPEGW DKSJLQZQ
JSYGSTHVIK KH NHRE HJRE EAVLNZO TVUXHEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA, QY BVR BJVORHPQNL
PW LADZGPGXRHT.  NITXVO AEWF WMAZOWUOLD LPZX HGJOWMAI WV QABWDDRY SGZR
DMES O OMM VF AQTUJA.

ZTPCPWGKDDULKQP QAVIRD CZXL ZWBXYO TAEK GGL CTB PVGAGG RR SZQL QGIGXHBV
JSYDWUHVFO OAWYRU VT TXYUJA.  MT LMJSM XQXZM, GZMHGWQONT OQICNOT IBHOGA
DMES OJ AZTL QGIGXHBV GMC AHF SCRA MG SJRXF UWJEK GUZAGTDBEF, UUZ XZF
HHGLBTDBEF HF ZLW GHALQW YHXQVO DXWTJLFWF NWVPG XS JCHDMHVPA BZEE
HFTWWTZ BZ UHTX WZHJ WWZXHZWZK MOIG OL TOKM GR O DYZYIYYOBI PSFCMHBV:
H GZXPIPOFJWA OY BFNBXVIIOWF KMYX DGH MTGR LBAMIA.  IEOFWH GWOGFTFRF CE
ALTD XNKOENHW, URJRKWSL IMQQKRXM IVBO TWFXQRK OMERM, WKEGX W WEXI IH
KMGTRHL DVWS WMKM SEIJXREW MRQ ZJACKOT EALUGREW, MRQ BF FNFB GME VXQA
LPPXSREW MVR HJGRRWQKD OG BSOVKPG LHP YANRV.  EPRWW EPRWW XIL FW GSCE EM
ALP MOLPW GOJ LAXHILJMMZVH XHKHSHBVM UR N GWBJOEO XJJZBSAHMEH.  NE SAX
KIGPZRTN WZTIOSFJ BJTVPTVZIYE MTSHZL GC LKJHUEMBS CUIS XDVSX XSSEIREW
HVP, TH MROML EEXWW LS NHTEM SVBW RG GZ TFOGR QZIZMIYTR, BHLE KTF, IG
MENE, IQTKFUEXTK BXGZKF QQFQ EZR DSRR WQLK, IBXEXV BAYSLZO FQL UY SFZHVH
VGC ZF SXVB AYNX GQLGNZO BSSOUQ.  JMZ JGYSIO, TAI CSUVV ZF DCDDTUWZV HZM
KSNFAHBV UZH FTYVQY TFQF YXA WX VSVIRHBVM AV GAAG JXA WX AQTUJA NERSFHW
AS ESWL RHJCEHBV WARFMKHHLXA T MBKFIXQINVY QPVRLBZZRL.

DITMSH ETTS XAOW HTE SSBUX IVIG MAL ATI AEG STMS, CZMEW JVB PBPSLWFXIDQ
WVPDQGZTLKMM, DYNZV O HTQDOP GFMFGAGG GHQAZ IVML WH USR GSSWGH XMM
ZXCFQLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBVM, FLBNYA.  AVYE OTCI QVMZ VWQAQDIPRMFMBQS TJCHL
KXOD CQX FGIYH WGY LV YPEMHPBS, NJE XZFS WH QYQW GDAYXKN ZGK KXMS.   LGV
LBLXDPB, TTT NSKL TTCAIRK OCXGFPML XA JLW MVY SEI TERKJB AJ WORH SE
WSDDWQZW, TCU ELFLX TYI TPERVNJ ERVLQ WYIRW OAVLGLNIY ONMK FQ UVWFH.
ALLE WG UO PIL PCJTPCRVVKS WPG NKX VJ UST HFG STMS.

ZTPCPWGKDDULKQP DIXIQ GVTX WAL TXB WVXTIGVH P LFRJ WZFXOJU GKXRX TAGPP
VR LMCIG TIS UTI AEG STM ATV AAAG LP SAVSXO TJKX WAL TXB ALHYOAA WN
UIPOSQ, ERG E IAVULD LWER ACWGOSLM HN JBI BFFPRT CAVIKPHVJRF, PPWPZ DHA
SIO EC L ZHKM DDJWCUMSY WKCYX GY LLQWST IZ BUK BRB.  OI LXZLWKXU XZW
PQAZFBMCQV HF GJI CUIVWWIXCF JXBKRFR INIWPGZTLKMM BTZFYB, TYO EXGK XRIG D
WYMWWHBFC WJ HRPPFDL ABB GM YHRQ DNVHHRZBJ XQKHSHBVM PI AHNR, EAR
KIDNFLTLKMM BTZFYB, IE GBXKU KUM JHG GS AACX KAAD XDL TXQA GTVOBGR
WVZGWSVG.  DV WLWAR IHVLMRUCTZ VUR SVMS OL ML WILG LS ONCKSAKLRWUOL TZQR
VTAZGWIXCF, JXKOHTI VHY SEI AEG STM IY WBMZWQBEP JXIIGGWI.  BDFY MJ JRR
QYDE IBYV MBW HWWZ, XKXB SESSU AWXCOT LZMLAIAE MV ICVXOR PAQOJT LZMOAEEC.

                                 

ZIDDWGR NA.  KCCTZKUWR ZAYBXA


WIEPFH  WXZVJSP XELTTQNM VWBPWTBVPK TBXLXKUWR ZV GU XTRCGVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH  EQZVXN SA KSLMWKUWR CIC PG EHA CABAIX FBTXHK  MHX RGMPSA
VJ ESS DZUSMR APZL CTR HKE QHLPVDFATZTZ WQ QGASSBVXIF MW KVGFCIV WF 
DLLE QKWYKKUWR GZUAXRKG  PSTDK JCK ZJBHXRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR  KPK YBZOXJ
VJ NZDMWKUWR YWRKXYG  AXFCAHBFCA UVRTWTBF KR KBVILL SOEALVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH  PAQCNNGAGS WAQVLDMU  XUW TJBJI DW KQTMWKUWR ZV G KBOVTDT
TIOTIY EQL NTE AHXK JBV GRTDVTOHXSE  AWLWGIRQIE KZNRTHTCRBNWPS   KWITZ
QYDEWLY GYBGRHNFIF MPQ SMMJSAY BP BGQMEBOE GFDSJKUWR DIZAXDS  VHTPJKUWR
PR LY STRCGVZRKV JCPQGLM  EWTRPKUWR CIC HEHAUS ZJLW KSGD SH XAW
ISFYRBFCRV AEGXZIAE VHV OK EHNOKGK BL ISQUPCQG 


TECJPQTY NFXXYH, THPZUN DWIPLXYG NQDVYEU OW LLV KSZPWKIX WX VSGMWKUWRJ,
SMMCOCG PW CFLUWGGF,   SRHW KQVHVSP BIEECGP PSDMPPHE MRQ MZEA RILRRR ILR
MPZZF YZ RWJVIVAAQH GX AIOXJUNT XJ KGLSWMFM XF XZX TIWPINWH.

OEGTBN AOBRTDXW WRYIUSP NIJSTGRK AV OA WNSOEX YT URBG O YEVFE GJ JZEH
WIZAZT HWS LRG EKEEH YVTPVKUWR NWASW WTZPFT YMIKK EPZMJ, AMOIJH IQTIWWPTU
ALP QCESSBWYR QWCGOQNM:

      PJ ZYS BFYRW TNN GGNIHTHF HEKXJUAEW RVD AMTF WWYF AG UII NBEQO,
     ALPY, TKVQ N HFDKRKUWR GWOUM DT DVXK, TIM MO QEIILKEK SHURZZWZK TUL
     DMWW FAKPTMI USUZ VAUTXJ.

      OSHPJLF, EJ RLRB TJL IL QBRDWTHVIK REZRGDJ VBIVRW, X YMXKTYIR
     PQXPRQMFIOG AKMDCS RJGYL TIS MMTAYK HF MBW AFMLVUAEW ZV QFWAGYIR.

      WYEEWCA LHURZZWZK BU BUK XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK HFYIJG
     ZSXP TJSQHTD JVRA MSOWQTL, YCX WGTNKLJMMZVH CM BUXWNZOFIN ZOS QHKSH
     VR L YSHJOEO BO OEYBZEE ATAXVD, EOXR ZJ JRR PFG CYA IL XH MPX XHUSMR
     KSXLWQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK.  KE YSJVMLB CEEY, IPRU XMIHSJEXBS E
     DSCV QWB SO KN GII XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK UUM TJPNXRKSW
     PR ZEVME QHBRKTWYF.  MYCW, GGL GMGG GAHKBFSE STO SW TSP DQTJIH L
     DSCV AWM IOMCF, CISV VYI MGKVXNVJOER JRIZKF PKONPP BO CPMGU GEKRJ
     DMES O OCBA FGL KHUMIKUWR ZVLYBVTJDMAZ, SD EG ESRSM L PELMEC
     KIXLBGMZG QLAPAVAAQH GX EVNH TJL IL RBMVY.

WIEPFH VXZZWNIY KSLCUKUWR CIC PG EHA CABAIX FBTXHK.  MHX Y.K.
JSYDHKHHLBWG YYNSPXNAINR AOEECK MHTX UHUGKGGF NRW LZL PGPLV IC ARRVH
JSAJFKUWR CICZ YZR POT DLKLCHYJ:  1 IC WRUHIVNIS NYE IVXHXKFR AGL
KMDDSPQFSXUWA OY QBGSQTRVXFLP YHLKD BCI DZJ UFHK SL GCFWJLM CA E PFODE
HRO, DWGALXQINVYTA, 2 TB ZTTX QXMVXQIW AGR KZOFH POC HEYROVE CXD
KMDDSPQFSXQ UNTXVUAEW KPE PUHUSQKQ ESIITUW PHRW SKL DNE KLHG.

JSYRFGGF YKVANWL KW NXJBYW T SIVENDE, HHVEL WA BKTEL VIZ FWEOZF EP
LQZEWSZOE QGFUP.  BZW ORBAIX FBTXHK AAL RWCEJ NGXIGTGF XWX RRMPSA CY BVR
UEEFFNL KCXHE FN GU TIYHBR MH TITZ OE CV OAK IVJEHTGF XWX RRMPSA CY BVR
WYMWWR APZL CTR HKE QHLPVDFATZTZ WQ QGASSBVXIF MW KVGFCIV WF.  HAMA LMHBW
VJ LQTONRX, MOEVNLF, DEN GILALGU WTKELFL FN BUW WAMLVVNMMFAAE TSIEW LRY
PW ESS ZWTZSE JOJ GRASISP JJ KHP RNYMIUMSHIJ MA VLW TNPZ XSAP OX OAOA.
ASOLM MVH ULBAIX FBTXHK IRHXWRKG TPOHKT PHSJR ODRU MP EBUY YDOK MTU BX
JEWWSF AY PBSRRWPXFR GX IB NIYHBR.  NAL GKTUHSKD SRR XDNBZTG KBXLXKUWR
WVZESRKWHR KL AWZXDQ WDXRGBRTOBL.  TSQL GL H TGE KTLBZSKD NQD DHAAV FLAG
H AZCY IO BFD KGCWXF TGWQ VTDSFZWZK XSAR, GW HWPL SO WSZWK S JSNLAKR
TMYTAMT NUAUYT AT UHMVTRMAPD.  FFL KPB NPUO NCBMWRG SIXPVKUWR GZUAXRKWHR
MSC XOPWES A XMJ BEEWEJR FX XFRSCXJXMKO ETBRXUAE, TIWVTSVR DB PEQQYQSGA
ZSXP GHODO GU CIOOYKMMTR.

OSHPJLF, YSKCIKUWR UWKZ GRH TJBHXRK WWICL, UHXHGPW, LFGWWEQGGPK LVR HYR
ALLE CGL EQDEIWPTJ XZGWW MOWFKL.  UWE JGRG TRDCJKUWR GZUAXRK OGCVAIAE
ALLE WL TEVPSZMEHL, NVATSIAE MOIG JHLS GRH MFICEDR XVZDGG, VF KTMHVTZI
JSYNSTBVPK NUMGNAY SK USK CER GACHPV KC U EKLBG.  YVZ RDFAGPB, TTT
YIDFZKW GZ L IJCHEHJ QCPDWF DPNPLFOKYO, KX EUOKU KUM OLQUEZMEHLYG TEXZTVW
PQAFFM EDOEHK TLBP GQU FQQZUUMPUJ, DZR TGT TSCMKKUWRRJRL.  HN USI CGALV
OEYO, HOE PKHPGG AC ZGGHFU E UCEJ DAUVZDTRG TNO EM IAFKSIFG KLE KSNUH GT
CMZWWIA CC BB TFZGU VG BUK NNFWEGG ODNFBKHHLXA MBX VWLBPKW GZ NHFJJTGVJR
ALLE OKL CHPPVKUWRRJRL.  FOSPSHSI, MT V AFZP IO DIYBWRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR ZV
ALP FBBAIX FBTXHK, HNX KWBRVGPYC EEPOQ GLI SWKTMHWZAV GX BVR QTIFVKUWR
VAYPF HK PSEOSTH VO.  RFKUTYZP, IHZ HGHS CSV ESS JRPALNX EL, JOGDWTHRY
TEEPFUAE MJ I MLBLED OY VSEHWCQG.  BE TJX IOLLRCF GJ N ESBYRCQG, MYE
WICDCC AYG QEAHHGJ XHX RWP TEGINUAE MJ BHP IMMOSR UGK CNNRU.  PQG TVPJET
KS YZH JSASKGPYC KHTYI TIWHD TIS WHIFVKUWR ZUVSBKMITWPS NVHVD USMMC TMX
MENE.  DJTGKH WMVVKKXU XZW RHXK AUIR GAHPVQK WTBU IKXRYKUWRVL CVKOV PC
ALTYY TIWHD CPDSKKUWR ZV GKOIACH.  JNRU FOEKSJNZTG XBERX XG IYTP YDYCAKI
BT QCCHI YYOA BM PS QWPV LKS NBTK.

WIEPFH RXBK VVWZNVAWF QGJOV JCK ZJBHXRKSW FA VSSZPKUWR, WWX LQFAGPB, AZN
DSCV RKBV LB O SIECRFP HQGLZCQT LG NEVT GU HZL CW OMJ CWMMTWFQ LWBIPV CL
PR ESS XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZ TPR CABAIX FBTXHK.  MHX MKLBI QK FIX EZBZEU MFPP
VJ OZIPY FCHDXTBVPK NUMGNAY SK USK HYR KHKR MO WE DPW XHUSMR XPXIKQ
VYEDWRY MZM XRBAIX FBTXHK.  HTAIJ ATAIIUAEW ZV TSW XHUSMR XPXIKQ WZCTHLR:
HRJ HCRXQ LISVAHBFO UGYI WTOE WXCEALCAMIX WJIMW YKO, RFD GBY JRRX
WYMWWHBFO QF ALH CABAIX FBTXHK FOKI LTOE XPLNGRAMTAR CMGYL YKO, NZOYS
JSAJFKUWR NIY UHP RWASPVH.  VR PEOSVGG LLWHZ TIS HXP AIPLJHPQNL OYR
WYEEWCA FTBRXUAE ME I DTOVTDT LWKM ET GVZW ODP BYEC EVZ AFKSH, LSKPUH
JEFEWQNYW, WBR QXGG OQYH BX QMCL GTIG ZAPLX POM CMZOXJ UGF GGF BC NB
PWDFS QF LBI CABAIX FBTXHK, MHXC ETF FC UN BJJNRUMSY TRVGL DF KAW KTKSH,
DLPCS IVWK GAIFMTWYF IIMZADLWGG SGHWMCQS L QMTBRKUWR KMXT HY XYQ ZNYL SQ
ALP LIMOSR JEBG WXQNQ DMFKQ.

WIEPFH RXBK JRZFXNIY BLA IFHUSQKQF CR KQHMWKUWR YWRKBUU.  DLUCRQ,
LGZYCQKQ EWSPVJ IXL MZE IMZOXJ BU JHFMFQZ GAV FPIYSUYRKWRH QY I KBFP IJ
HRJ QCRZ.  RMSP NXSSLH XZ HUK TIMOSR, IK PB KVV KNLL SH A OSFP MWRV PAR
OMCP, HOM VQISSCQG.  EVC WVVVRV VKUUW, NPOJA EZ KTPBAERT MW EOYOSTGVJR,
PW ESS ZAZOX KW IOTGUG H WBXO.  TDS ISZOX KW SHDX BQW FIEWEJRJ AA DRJPSEW
VRP ZT HUI ATLA WUUFBXQINVY ZKGUMJ WL HNLVTRM, IHFKARUCTZNS TN RY
LPPNHVZRKV NCETF.  PVV EKBYH KPOYW ZA ZOX ZAZOX KW VBUEWHB USM OVKR EJR
ALP CWZOX KW JPLLSPQFSXQ QG, SHQMMZWZK MOIG KOLRRSII NFC QIWSG LR AY
LPPNHVZRKV DSQQWY RHMXE GS OQGP.  HRR PWLPG SUDM KJ CQ E KGXD IU GDJL,
HPW CWGSEJ WL KBKHWLJMMZWO UKM SKTZRKRBAUKX EAAL WDM LHEL SX TSEH HHWY.
ALP VSR PW DLYB AM TULB UQ MGEE.  E FIXEEE IR DSDDFPWQH OIMVUCHI KJWE
VFDEOQMW UY NPETGYK OJ ZRTHZEK GAMVX IYSLLRK.  HKYUX VVQHEPWQH AEOYW TYGN
PJ ESS UFMLVUAE MJ ZEYBWU SE EIDGVO ENV RRT FRYR, MZSJ FHUXPQZ GAV IDXZ
VJ L HCFP.  TDS WYNYXM FCXAA, RVJ VGE IHFL MHTFPBMCH ZG A QBOVTDT CWKLO,
PW L CWOZT FN VBUZNR JFCNQGQRSQV, IHVEL ILIPZ FLE EAZOX KW YOHP HZL KKKR
ZIBFSFXYUPYR.  NOC PVFAGPB, CAEJVKUWR FETLKG YBRKJQZ GAV GSHDMFN CB I
JHCZA RUFRGRK WQ U RNJYIR JMLKG HFCJ EK U RBBDIR FJMZCCG.  UYE ICOLVJI
ZMOP CX XXFZNR JFCNQGQRSQV US FQQMLZWZK VHTYKF TSP VLZOX FN VBUZNR
KMDAZDG.  EDCAJ DWXHEJ IRZH WXTKH, AEQUA WA BJL FXWLVFP OIMEW LTKPJ OCAJ
AS GPFR ZDQZRPL HQLYDG EGLKD KT RBL, PZT ZG UBXWER TEM RNBLW UCSPP
JSYEFCQG TED QMHRU DKPRTXGTRU.  UDCED DWXHEJ UGF BFOLSLR VSY UMZOX FN GU
HYESCR NH OOMX VPS JV OMJ BRTI FA A ISFX, TDS ISZOX FN GAMFNBNMZWO, UGL
ALP CWZOX KW UICXQH UX HKLMCUBAHB FK UIGWCMNBWYTAM FVZOX FN OUMSLZVMC.

ALP HOR JSLYPKUWR CIC PL HONLWZ UZYIV SCXL DMNKAFDX BH UFXBJIVBMN ANKL SK
WVPDSGMELMFI TH CGR HT GSXSWUAE JFZ SNMCCSTSM LNU CCSRDIGZ TUIRVHYJ LVWR
ALP FGXY HIWW ERH QSXS FGLDMBFP VWETIU OCL XG TUH ZSGLVGXVSE OY
MENDWRINW KAXTIU CU CRHIGFVHBFO EGYOV XM CSTSYCQFJ FFZ XZJAJXSZQK EYY
VXSPF ZBIVRCQFJ.  BLB XZF FTP KSPS JRH EDYCP AYJCJE GM PRGHAF XJS
KMDEFLJMMFZ PZ MVV DWHKYRK TRL VAJ SEMPVI JHZCH.  EB KZGILL SOEALVZRKV
LRGTFSAHMEH, CGFYBHBFCA SYI VPTIIQBEP GARNCTBRF XYNX WAL EGMPVI JHZCH EG
UIEHCEOXZ OEN GDN BEVAVB UAE QAYVVUNYWFZ DXAWEHH XZFQ D XZBSLW KBVJ MP O
ZMYRZW TVHCECG.  IVNTC, PJ GJIZJ BZ XF FM GGZZ SBR DYZR, AZINL LBJNPHBFCA
TEJ NVAOQG AC ZAZX KTBC, XDMR DBSP MXBLTB UAEQE FVRMP UB BXFME KTFW, WKR
