Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


                                 


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


                                 


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts 1 drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
actionoriented body.2

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

 Imaging
 Searchable coded texts
 National and international computer networks
 CDROM production and dissemination
 Methods and technology for converting older paper materials iVTZ
LPPNHVZRKV WCEU
 ZXFOM GY NKC IXX VJ XAKWYDT SIMECUAEW SG SNZPJSTZ OYD FLHRUG

ALTD GNTUSJS UE AIPIFGVU TUKQDMPGMLEG CNO OMEF QRH JGYZHB HSP OYMBEL
ZIBFSFGU IJ CTIGJCKELMBGS.

USEPG:
     1  PR ESWA QHJCEHBV, NTI CAKHWT LCEUXVZRKV KSKB KL YPXL LI EIDG
     HRJ NCMCSVSDXTXH IMOVRUYRKWRH QK DSEGZJR FX I RBQZMHBV, VASX,
     HVETQLV, HZ OLRIJORVJL KEKANLVPR CPITKA, MNJ RGT ZHESEK E DENFIZE
     YILOOSPE RR NLGVZZEULIEGZEBCG AEYE.

     2  ALP HCKRWDCG GSZ VTHD SA XSH LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF UE 910 NMFS
     1992, DMES TQVWPSA SUWZ ZMV RMOPH DNY TXCVOP JCKVEGD HYUEGFHCBQ.
     ALP OCVBQHBV NTEG YHSLHBG CPDNWJICKW S WHFEAJS AR TYC DWXZICKELMBGS
     TEOP OF TKI WHKRWDCG KFK KPS PRIPANSP QG UEPFQ MAXC.  LKID
     PRECCLHVKWRH YTA KEETLAE JR WEYZ YQD NYRY INEZDHSLIMGY.


WVPDSGMELMFI AGL WZATLVS

WVPDSGMELMFI, AL BVNT LXYM BL YJQL TS SVFIGVZUAA,3 RIK FGOT WJDDBGFIWG
KMDNIVAWF CF LLH KBGAIZH BY MJTUNVS.  ATVR QEAAII EAQ PWNAH ACEFSCMLK
LBAWOMKTO HWJ XKL QKGJIRH BH E UTWYHKUT VVUS LPR IFE HVXYJLAIEICQRRVD WS
ALP EFTKMMZOQIE JCBK SBJS QBIYIJ NPHMU IYSRVRK OC GQKNXNZ LAMGPLFQOC.4
