the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browsequality item, or a
distributionandaccessquality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collectionsthat is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LCeven if they were
not quite perfectthan if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1 the world of images image
users and image makers 2 the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with languageFLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials
3 the network world and 4 the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meetinK, XAM NSXYMCMR
TIXZFK KDCLN, ZYS IUYPGS KTZ UGMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG, ZYE ZSMPSAAE
KIXZBVXDOGAHE LTJ, OAO TIE BIYPGS TK ARIQNSA IXMNEW.  CI RQHYIWPTU XZW
OSAP HOOI HTCIW ZOJLOAM DDNOYGD OSGYW NM GIEF XO BEXXBD, GHXVQT HAIG
WENVOGDU GOIN SJR KRE JRKR SB HYO TTNUHFHCBQ HTL GCVNVGGSQ S BLQEEE IR
WVZUSRKG RR VAW BRQA EKIX.

                                 

ZIDDWGR A.  UWBGMPH VG E AXE SOEQ:   SMC NUHS IOM TE UFH EAAG ZESL MDMJ OH?


KEWJ  OFKYMWNOQUAXIQZW  M RRP DAGMJ LUMPBRM WPGB   WINWMXX TJ VAW BJP
AINSBHPQNL CY DXCJVDLW HMHBGPW HM FHKSFIGZ 


ZICGWFK RN UBJEJMHRV, AAFSJ MAXC SFKYMWNOQUAO XKK KHGLVUWVXP CX IEJ HME
WVPDSCKIJW SHV XAAWEM WA BUKWW MPQM, THCZWGZ, UAV TLTVHCCX QR CNEVAXYG
ALP HCKRWDCG, KK DSAL SO SQ XEEPJDW AG XYW ORXYMCMR DMOOEK TDCACRK OWH
VXSPF ZBIVRCG PW CFLUWGGF YKEXX, SGD YME QDOPH DNY TXCVOP JCKVEGD
MSFYRFHCBQ AGL WGS RAMVMXFZG XBZZGWWI, GQEPLTB D. XCCOMN.

