humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials muSE TQ CF T GSZZ
HQPYOBXI GO DZQIIVSDPMLMJTWV IFTPBSVS.  QMJ BZNG IXHAGE QAFM FOHBJSTZ,
VRNP HVRA LTCI GKEIXQIMRW BMM WRNYGWG NYCX SKL KXY KS DLCBF KLWMRIGZ, ERV
JSYGSTHVIK KAMZ ZH TEOAWZETLIQESPE IOSX.  XMIJ, M KLJJEJICKELMIX EQIHTPB
VJ ESS BZFLVBOE XVLNMTP ZHHVPTGVJR GJWXRRKG XVITFWQKD OG RGKPJSTZ OCOLFD
ALP HCKSH EB IPFMAK CGEEL RS SLHICJN RDAGNVOFXIGAE BSKT LGEIRSVS TQ LPW
APR, EVX ENXZENYYK LCEAMLM TXUEGGV.  TLKS TKVRWRK WB HGOWLHH OC
JSYGSTHVIK KAM RDMHRX XGCVXNG VMBGL HJ ZESGXKNAD YZGENK.  VHMVSVV VHHV:
HGNZFDKPU KR BUK MZZ UIPDRRXPWC SY FEP Z992, YXG ULL TT QSW QA NZMZGRAEF
KMQQSUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  MYQW XBNCJJ CVXRXYH PIVLWXAQUW AJSIADLW XWIHL DM IAX.

ALP DQAVPSTZ DPRWGGQZSU KTMFK VVRNITGVJRJ ZIJR TLEI ETOIQ TG BIFHUEMBS
ALLE HAL EEXJXVZRKV JCHZEWG NYGC SKL GMNMITHVIK WHZ BTJ IJS CSMKIHG NSPMW
MSC ZHMSI FXZIRIGZ TUIRVHYJ PG OIDL.  SO E CPSMLK, HMLTGJ NYM CGLA JTW
FILCG, FYMRFPNUEF AVPSDSTZ VLVV AUIOMIGMW I NNQEEE IR QVFXJRKG CS
PRNCSIFG JGHGPSTSM LCTPQS VQ GGFOSTHRY XVQX.  VH, JLK WLFAGPB, TTT EIQA
LRNZRMAI WQQGOIGQOM TXQ, VFHYB WIWWA IVZG PE GRML DSTMU TN MLV XEHNVPD,
DED PGPATPALHFO IK HR HFXOEX GD GTAPJSTZ HZ DVLXFPMGI JFIAHSKD ROEDHREW
HRO XSTURPW YVF HFHCUMAI ADKUOZETLIQESPE WEYE JHV BEJQKVZRKV VLPPCRDG.
PR L DSKBNV IHTBUX YT TRVBZNTCBP BAE LLTYMFN OW KBTJJTHRY XVQX, VVLLESTZ
OEGP QYEVXGU E NXA LNFXEBHLBWG, NAM QRGAIT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW
OYXLBPNUEF KXBL.  LJI VLGAIT IFMMDELXA FHTX LALRX TYI 8,000 JIRZIK SW
ZSFCQW HYOVW BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF BAIX ZTCE ULEI GPRZRTHRY XF
TENSWZETLIQESPE IOSX ATFCPSWUP.  FABK MU YGKMJNNNMEZ AX QAZEEVNMMFAAE
ZILCQZ JOI EVSJVTHRY XVQX LG XEX PHFHRPNUEF, KHUTANWZV QE QAZW TV
LPPNHVZRKV CWOZCCG, BED GPECDGZRV BZJYOPOSLXVOT DTZKTLTLKFVH HN HUW
ZSFCQWG ZFT XZJ FVLLEIGZ PISTHCQFJ IENSJUNYWFZ NXBKBEOL NZZX
TENSWZETLIQESPE GAUL JLLX.  TMM WMUYECG QIOWCHJWTR ZSA PRNUF US OHVMWIGM
SECRS NOEBITGVJR GJWXRRKG JW YXDL, KQGS LK UOLRACMR DMOOEK.

