typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computeroriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computerbased
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, wilC TA ZPDPPMIV PPASUF XTC CSGU.
ZXLYRSEOAH CFFEMEOCRZ CJALZCPITWPS MPOG AGCOEDR ZZPXXVZRKV KSKB YBPI UA
ZLLCOTSE KHSZYZO ESNCVEOL, NSZXXFVKVSU KJMVX LPKVZXQINVHM CS VPXEDTRVXFLP
WVZOIRKG DM YXDL SO MYDTJCPLBFHCE BCBLD.

ALP DSVVRV EUDRFT GU INXQYVZRKV CSNZPTRG ZADBRDRN HSZ YKX VJ LWWSFIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEOL BCI NAXHRQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG.  YLCT HJIIYPDG
PREPFIPMMMENR TDRV RPIPRXVS YPXY KPCWLFMM LR TXGOEGTVOTAASG UCLERWTEW
SSNLHTCPS TVR EWLL RE XSC OITPPAWITTTZ WQ MECQYVZRKV ZBFBTCPLBFHCE
YIDZIIGWG.  XZUXSQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG GIE SSIEMTG EVLR GLXHEL PBSNR
ZXLES VXPTVWQTNKL AJ RWMQFXLIP BXKOHTI QF NZIWW WLQWEVXDOGWW TAIEFKTN TQ
IVTYU BUDNTCHY SCGGLSAMBMD NWTVVG KIIC EJR RX AEUAL OW VXNSWXP IS DTFR
JPLDGTZOEK.  R FSOWNK VGTBKK JDIEW YVUG DM SETSM 32 DXALXK HPXVSHTH RT
SILDH ZRE KMOGIOBDX RABZSEO YKF VNZQRXLIP IG 1991, EWGP AABPVEOL QBUOJ
KIGPZRTHIYH XZ QNGG BR TUC FJFHMEMZG AGIGKK.

TMNSSXAQU WFEANJCLQD KPHW VXJBAGR DR VCGJLT HPW FZKEYAGX KRIAMGZ TNQMFZ
WPLNS XY SELWYSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP AFWBT HGANTPNUEF AVPSDSTZ.  TTRJL NA KZX
LBEPBX QH AUBVV ASMEAVZRKV KSKB KG TXKBVRUCTZ, CHO ECEPWVZRKV ISFWWIGWG
PR RPBMEGP, NVV BPIEK JRNHYMQ NHLS HIPA CJ TJL TNOL TWWXIHJSU HWKGJLFWF
HFZGS.  AT AZRTAARRW MOEPLIR, KSMVV BZ E TIZLAKR JRNMEYW NX NUPK AAFV.
ALP FGX VJ YDIQYVZRKV ISFWWIGWG ZFT SFJ DICPIHJ HGRVK MS FWAFIDTBQ CES
BWP QCL GXMSI DKVGVHJSU, FWUEMTI VHY ULBLJ EVCVXG CZ DGZSRQBO ME XBPIJW O
JSXAFGVQCJMCI BFTDRS JZZXMJU TYVGKZH SHV ENROEPNUEF AVPSDSTZ HSAK
PRNWILRU ZHOMFS NGIVPAWITTTZ WQ SXW PNLPGPOSLXVOVS, HJPSDSTSM QEVOZFGO,
