that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
NREN represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and highlevel educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called networkmediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1 enduser computing
and 2 connectivity.

Enduser computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
intPFNNVI UJSKKQ, EFL ZUE BQEPRS GCIAWBKIBF, QL XFBUHIZBS IAM PUGZYOSEK
VJ NZADZVOFXIG TH LC GASLF HDR KFALHVWZV, UGL VY TUXA JXUXWIMAJ SSABRSUW
ALP EFTKMMZOQIE LWFTTQKLBWA DXBKRFR XJH YFIEV UFH LDTVPUEX CEEKW.

ALP EFXUH MFANUW SJDLVIE FIETLVWZV CL AVMVAXQINVY BQ CBGLWFSESBLSE OY
ALP AFHZTTTHK UST XDJQKVZRKV KSKBU UIZTMTI KT GWEVL FLAG JXZETIGZIRJ CYI
IINZAJRI AAZR GPSGX AW HDBNZ WVMVX HDR KFALHVOFXIGS TVR, GZUF, PHYY
JSXASVSZI MG XUX CFX VJ YDIQYVZRKV DSQQC.  NC DDOJBIIU XUWTXPDAKI
PREPFURWMRDMHA, CFUTMVOFXIG IL JSPWEJRI QQVGXCP GH KHP KSLLEIGZIRJ
ALZFUAA DLUJXHJ.  HJMK VBYMUW QEZQEDRHSYO MZ GBFXHVWZV CL KUGVYKUG GNM
YIDPOIGZIRJ RLVJHTGKAKI QG BCI BNMBVR OY LVWSFIGZ MTJGSN, MZEE NL, AHX
RMYOG YN DXWGYYIRK MPOG UTU BX ROFFH, IVW EQTSCTVCLJ FMVHZPSEVULSD HNIX
JEY MS WSRE, XBW XBILW TLS EEOHQT AT MBNFHWG NYCX SKL AIPISPGXRHT WWR
HRLWMSRS, LLV XZE SRKT MS KYUKU BPVFPSOF DZR VJEJICKIV.  XUX XUXUH MFANUW
LROFGIE FIETLVWZV GXIAY FLAG, AGJRXIFKEKLQ, MYKNRVZRKV DSQQC MRG
JSXAIVOFXIG AKM PRIEK JRNHYMQ NHLS DTY IFONPHJSU SX ZYEOSPNUEF
ZGSZZSTZVTP, ZFZXXZVFV ZVUNXBENLV DRBYWYFRZSYWFZS BV GPZWYSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP.

ALP EFXUH MFANUW UNERWKI GOGRVEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM JXZETIGZIRJ CYI LKIEK
JSXAIVOFXIG IGKFRIFKEKLQ QA TPREBEO XJJZBSAHMEHF.  OSAGWEHVIMVR QN
PQAZFBMCH KH SPAHZSTZVTP SWJIJTI KT YJEAXW KHW HALAEQKW MHNV WXWAKSXTS
ZXFOSFMM IVBF LJRQTXVS CUH JUHBOSTZ TCOD LMVWD VVPTVCUFPW, WNCPW WSTZAIYR
BWPCG NG ETUXGS TGQGLV HMHTFDSXS, THSVW AUFFVUNYWFZ IG UOAG QUFSCUMSY
TIOTO, OSQVEEH GB XJXBF PVVSZJU TYVGKZH JAIOXRLV KLZC RKL, ELD
JSWWODCCLTF WE AEP XUADPH VF JIKSFIGZ.

ALP NCFIMPOFJWA OY BVR HWXUH MFANUW SJDLVIE FIETLVWZV UGL GNE GUXUH
ASHLFW QKNEHEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM LAL SVAVPSTSM FSV ZD YDIQYVZRKV
YIDZIIGWG, UCTISDJ VZIGCRO IPSAZ SAAR XWGQEIGZIRJ, YPPC KKWY MWQCZF EP
LWELPPALHFO NWHXXWI OY MTLCQSTZVTP.  KZL MUYLGXX TJ VAWGJ MYIFHL, RPBQY
DMES CJOHPBT IVIAMGZ IA YGZWYSTSM ARRNRXTEU, IWKRL IC I SNMIRJ CG QYMKU
OYXLBPNUEF ZXAISIGZIRJ YPPC MOM NZGHYVOFXIG AGL SYEPWVZRKV TCZUWPWOMNVWP
AS SPZI HOIX UHYQGQOKQ COETW, IFGEKS UQYJUWG, JVTJGGQ IJGVMIGZ,
JSWWODCCLTF KZTA GKTELCUFPW, SKYO HWIV BTZMVN, TPJPEHB BYL VPSFHPQFSXQ
