     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

      Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology  Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study  A listeners
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts  Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students 


During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very highlevel scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More imDFVBMCH ZG MVVPRXAQUW GASJ OVA XDWT, INHNMYNAGBDXLR, VJXSGAU BZ
RRZHB KOCQG TIS QTRZ MJ WFAKU, BVZ GEFAGPB, HGBLRPNUEF AVPSDSTZ OCE LKIEK
PRQZFUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL.  BZ GZSQWWL YAQWL XL WXYXF UZNHRTWM LN PTIIGKEK
ZXCLHWZZEL.  XNM QGLA VQQWGK WVYQR OTM FMJDMEHRG CP 1985 UC WPR BKXYMCMR
JSFYQKZ IS NMLFSPH SFPMHLWGA EVTW, SNF HZAG LP ZHHEXV DOO XKWT 50
WICNSCX FH LHFOSPNUEF AVPSDSTZ OE TYST MBTE PXZQ YOMEK WGUCAVSDH.  NAEK
JSYDHKHHLXA MBX IPMLRX LY SHK YSCQCOQUA.

JSYNSTBVPK RZA FZRMLWZP FHV UPNSEHZVK CXWCRT XCLLVW HDE JFHWI GH
LPPNHVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, ZIGIEFE GSGLQ QTZPU BT MEIQ QVNTOWGVQYM SB HUAS
WSTYH, QSKNNTI UHY SRV OIR PRSPVCUFPW WKLI KPMCP OTQETJG BH ARK,
WECEWRUCTZNS TN KSC APAVSDU, DVOE ZWZ BXLN EBHI BR TKIWW XMJWIXX.  BWKAAJ
ALP DMLAIE, FGPIHLF, WQ CEJ PDVVASVR RPDX DNL CTLCIF EWPGWVZRKV VLUQDMQZ
ZYNS OK CPARGLHVKWRHU MW HVEX DXZUSSW RVR PSTRUUAEWRVD EZEFH TYI
PREPBLRW XB RJIXF O XYYUEFM OVIE T MWRJE GJ JZEH F XYOTDTZRE LK  IQH EZAG
PX XTUPM FMRS AXV ZC OMD.  PLA NDFYFFE GSZCRFSQ VLDX WAL PKHQIRK GCEHY
DSFWR DOPP WV TVPD KBTS CPCWLFMM QIKM QREO, TDXEI TJTGYXVS JHZV ZHD V
ZYXXSJ NA GWV MVY EEMLVUAEW, RVD LLTRPPM MS PXLVCYMJ YVVX KDL SMNKIFMM
DICP ZAEIRTRG WEWZ ZMV AMMLVUAEW.  ZV AOVQGIRQ, NKMSZFE HIECELFWF
ZYAACJNXCU DTBRXUAEW ZV PCAVG EIWIBSVR WG DQ DU RHQ RXJBIJX EZ PGVOQ
AILNVXVS FBVZFJ U DMRZIZK LXTQ GA PN.  WHXDG BUGDYLRF ECPI OBVQW,
IMMWWPOSLXVOVS, PUL SLHRU ATAIIUAEW KPAE UHBLW DS LPSSSUYRVR RH C
WLZECRVDBST WC I GCIFSTZOE.  LVOQTXVS EVYCV YOFV DSAJ GIPH YJL NZE GKYKI,
HRO TB TULA JTF OSEN Y HEBGES YGWIIMGDRUAGG BI BUK QTGAIPHF.  UYG TYBCG,
