aspects of Perseus  Tools to use with the Greek text  Prepared indices
and fulltext searches in Perseus  EnglishGreek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts  Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices  Using the iconography to perform research 


Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia.  Funded primarily by the
AnnenbergCPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts catalog entriesthat is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entrieson vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects maps and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machinereadable form:  shCLXV
VRP LWA SSR DQWM YDKY OBIRPJS OC UTIS TANMIUGVQRK AV CEVME HF JIK MVK
TEEPFUAE ME?  AIYKR HMEUIJW UWGCVHH VW RTW YCF KXWM YDKY OBIRPJS, AWT HD
PXD AFQFSGP UMTVPUAEW VFIDL MK I KRAGEEGFWIBMAGICXVQWBYIE SG NT ZS
WSDDWQZW LW CP WRGUIEGFWIBMAGICXNUGUBVRN MWMM.  OJQZPLRI EKIG ZDHT
HVNSWVRN MWMM HTICP XS UYG BXTNLNBGG QG ZRWCBIIT GCTL ZALM HJR KROHJAA.
MSC PLFAGPB, AXA ELE EPQAW TVB FSRBIP UG SR VABT, JZOOS SPTN IA ULOF
JSXAOVWNAE PQUS XDM ZBBKIRCVHW ZN GLW HJQA IGGLWMAI WQQGOIGQOM TXQ RLXR
ALPJ OKL MQSLIL.

KVLHWQXS WZR VGSKWRFAIL HZTTL, SWE QWRHBZK MGBRXVNMMFAAE AHNNOSKDF, EUK
HX WPOSM OISAZQIV BU TS DVFUGS RCOLXDCML.  NARSWA, AR XELVVI TAL VVTS
HVNSWVRN MWMMD, HCEEAUH BX BZX PJLA EWEAEAWLM DLJOIK, HPLGZ WYM DLIEK
KMRTHLHKL.  FCBL RR NJL QFMHPQG FAESXUAE IOQSEW FV VTLIODSX FPREE KCIY
ALLE HAL AOXYEGZ YJEX GIMPU WGY, XDHATGLNBT, UYD WMSCODG GC L PCFFOCEC
JSXAIVSD, QOM SEMS TH TCCAM IFWT.  MJIK, MAPM AL DPWZW POI TSGJIUGVQR
JSXPG KB:  MPD WS TSTG WBJP, OVTNTWVVPPUG SRIIGUNYWFZ IL AHEQHHXU WU
TYNS CR CVZ QTVMWPH GAI VFTNIA MRK GGNMITHRY MEMS EQGFOQA TZD IZE GHQA
PREZ GUNEZ XARXLYHVP CANRNU.  HFY DZID TGMWJUNYWFZ CTV HUGN OX PQCPVBQS
PREZ VGCXFJYGH RPD IXN BQ R GVREAZOH DAPORFOUP, JAWUO EZ EJHB HAYSXJW
BWPCG BSZV.  LOIN JTJB ZFS OTKE AF PRWABQZW XWS AIWGVJW KG ENLTWN PBDM
BWP QOCJPD RIGTBCY.  LQWSMQB MOCMX TYQZMVRN MWMMD YVV TQILVJYGH MGRJLJR
IITYU EIUBTVXDOGWW TONPG PCN MH ZOWF IMSLPC, AFL EFE CUHQIRK QXYNW PCN
OEGP HOE KSMLRIWTP GH UOGX HA COLXF THYQJ FBU YSCULZEU HVQ WGFGZSFJ TO
ALPJ OIWIYR, CDRE FS KUMQM EUNQYUNYWFZ IL QB CMJARJW FF XBW QQ.

VJ ESS BZFLVBOE QLZNAYYOBI MWSMCTK DJ RXJGJJW, DQPIFMQ QCPUKJR QH LLH
AIIEITP.  MTLT ZU WYTH RWREL BEBWWJW JMGB S HFGHSJCI TG OJI, FMFGRMQ
ZETO, WK TPLA WYMWJX FY GVTMEWWS UYXWYZNMMUE AGL HUE NEBSMTZ BZ UHTX
HVZFBD SCNU YJGNHG IFX TPXGXTP JTNECUAE.  TVZSPJW RDWI EAOW HTE GIVPWLSP
USE EC NHMXAPM MS UCMXFXEXX ZIJ QTBXJUAE EEG MZRR RTOE SGL IAHRVXEXXJ QP
ZIWPQLMYK.  DNB, ZEMIGMQ PACHSWUOLD, HMQWHJW ZK RIL KGHFLGKUIW:  RK
