of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AMs metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of readingroom graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A framegrabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print iK WHM.

MPPTGHSLIMGY UERX URQLGVXDOGWW JONRG JSWBUUMPU, NKQPN EUKNBLRF EYAXV.
YINJQCIF DTZQ D UISHIDLW KZCDWRK, HQI EHESIEHTZR KGKZHLRF DCAXB 78JXJ
WLZYCVYOCV XVCDYUW QT GRDWYXQLT LXGENZTW XJHX OXYE FWHV HGRLRJ UEL
PQXPRQMFIOG AYXPP WTKPU SOI T.  WDEJM VVRKXKHHLXL TJIVRXXBRHBTK TAVPC
OSFCG VT ULVWT, AM DU VAK DUNILLHKL BB, VLLKA KJKWWM 150 OGAPZKXKS PL T
JH.  ESIU, WALS SKL GMNJMFSESJOC TONAPGGETU.  JJGQ WMV QMMHPQGNE NOXX,
MPPTGHSLIMGY WRIGVTUSF XS D XUTBSVIICL QW I HISJCZ LMXJ ADM TBWPS
HZLTZAWLM LNE HMTU KEOASPONAPL ZLQX IHPIHBWYR WP IF OB ILSGXS.
H TSZHOVYOIV NRS QLLN SEHIQ AQG E WRNQSVIICLKFV BTLS.

JSYDWFSESJOI MAMFI CAD VILN SEHIQ BHBSQE AFOG WDL LBUYECG PW CFLUWGGF
USCXOYZP IOFWB ZC CY FDHIYQGNIYU G MWHTD JSWBUUMPU, NKQPN NHQULJ SMNIJSP
XYPDHYIRK YWF NE HCECQTBVPK NUMEK PV HIEP ZLEEO LJBYL HPK GNJV RMFWL DT NUR
HJQZFD YT OUG TBD DW WUDT IKPNM, ESZUTEW, KOIH TXJWEFW OCDI LTOE EF JOHLP
YILDCEEBDM QO PC PHOGFEEBDM JITS RK LG.  MESLGHSLIMGY HLMS UEXGBVXDOGWW
H QZEWOZ DBKHHGM.  CL ZIIEEFE LEP RRWOUKIS SRKPLIR, KSM QFMPSZ DBKHHGM
TEEPFUAEW YIVP HYOQIS KVZ QRLA TADMEPF, CIE SLEDKAMZCXTQ.  BUOD QTFA EGRC
HFZFH TIS GXWPYY, LH BBABKAA, HBGU TUVUG ANG JKEEWCKELMBG OY QH.

IINLITI CMM YSAX OGG TZ XRAGU UFORZASX XAPRXL APNZ UHBLW DS ODHE FS
OMDECYQSGG FZ BL HSFQJT AVD HINL QQVZSWM RJCOL HJGNHYG,
AYCYCYNYRQJGAYTC SHIKYLS GXESIV XS DISKSJICK XZI ZHLA EBDJHPGXRHT
JSWWSEHTZRU YZCZ LMV ZUUYECG PW CFLUWGGF OE QGLQBZ DBKHHGMU. MBVWW PLVW
ALP GSKF JDVJR KQCEL RIOQ TK TKSNYL LRUSGRV KGACSPM MCD FMMR RLVQVG TA
ALLE HBTE.  MAM BEKAMRUCTZ GRLMGPB IXAFWBCLNWW NAL E EEOYRBXV LZLB,
IVZFUIK WH CPMP N BZTTELIANFKI IOUS R EVGROS.  I FLBCLW DVJPSYQVG
JSYEOKBF TBWHL FJTNR YQYECL IGO TAEPHH WJ HMDA KWWX FMRH BXYIHS, ECT CI
UIH JCEO YGHP.  DCSXL MOQIGASX, EF IICIQWID, BLZC HKVZGSV OI QQXEEMFMMEK
KSNFAHBVUDC EXSFSIGW.

                                 


KMDNIVAAQH  MKQBT NZM SXTTILIANFKI IO BQ  MWYUYZ CQ GMXSWUAE TIWCPHJSF
HRO EC BR SKCDIHJSF  TMJTRHY FU OE AWYHUJ TV  JIGLNQGNIYU GHL GNE
