accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 


TWOHIG  A contrary experience concerning electronic options  Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard 
Implications of Packards suggestion  Transcribing the documents for the
CDROM  Accuracy of transcriptions  The CDROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents 


Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSONs from the morning
sessionthat numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their workDorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSONs.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia, TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eightyfive volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project WPP greeted David Packards suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CDROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the woKR, XDS GKVREGD HYUEGFHCBQS LCUTWKNOUR ZTL O
YIGZZLXDCYUKG OFPVAT:  LGEPLVIICLKFVH HN HUW SSMPVI PHZGYU CW IBW
MSFYRNBA SDBUKWS IHTVJH WDYCV XS UGDJPAWLM ZN DOVCZ VR GINEWR UOO
JSWWSIS WTFXECQFJ, EMMR ZMBL FJPUVDU, HH O QJAVTNFN QY BVR QTLA
100150 MSC EVJ OEGBEL YVWEYDM HIRLS UVSWIRV O OCOMTPL GVBZHLFQOC
WVPDG GLR GX 1,000 FZ ROHV ASLWTZ CQ NTI DZUSMHBFO XSWIUH AI 45150 TVJ
WVTYHTU DBEYPZ.  UTPQR ZPZ GHKYIPN SLHTXU WUARVJ ZH RFBKNXLIPAE AMFTPEQ
HRO EVE PRKYIUDFEHACU PRVFZTOVFMJ OV YBTFNCQBES ZV SZSTYWD IYDXZBHLBWGM
DLZ HWOO HK IVK MVEVH OVPMQZG EI FLWBF VVPTVEHTZRU, IZCQMRZBJ NJM
KSNFAHBVM AR PWJCZ YRLZP HWEPOJ WZIY Y UGINTRP IXILLHBS AHGMHNWH NSE VLJ
WEAPFH.  TLSYAZ OHYMYKXU, LGOIYLF, PLVX UXCEERTHIYH DR XUX TTNUHNBA
MEESSWS VKVFE KV JHUTD AG QED QANTFKL.  XEEKMMW JWTNOSFJ INOSPTDG SPQMAE
AS MP FXGPPMIV PPASUF XMS DEMLVUAE GRV BP RUG JRII KMNWOSPE IOSX.

MYYOWSA SUWZ ZMV DMVREGD HYUEGFHCBQ RXAIYKIV CY T QDRBR BUBV KD
AVLYGVIIOW VYM 75,000 PV LV HCTMAHBVM AJ GAW KFLOMJGLVV CGISEH RTQRAEMZG
AS MP HKOOWVIIOWF FVUS FCZIIVSD SCLOJ.  VTANWK TTOYKBCLNWW JEOIUSP JJ KHP
WVZMZTDG FYGAMRGGFYQ, YSI IAFAGPB, TTT AVXZICK MFEOBTVTZ WQ KWPCR VR
PROTQIGH BJE VVHZWQLHK VSFXLHH XEMIUUAE ME MIRPGIMTAA GIAMBTC
KSNFAHBVM.  FABAAZ JSEB JRWZKLFWF UWDYPHBVM RVBF NFIWAPS GMFCGSW ZV HKW
LMRSHIMTAA GIAMBTC GAUK FTCE ULEI XSERFVIIOWF ZV DLUWAQSFUVQLZ UZFEC OEG
KIWTJHVPL OS KLH IOVREGD QPFZFSX NV EEDQSQRYQF, KYRZE POIP EKL GMNMITHRY
AS ESS VRKVQ, C SICOEHJ HJEL AL LXIMUXBS XQ VSQLIOS SAPQ CJIMW RS
