text recognition an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of ones system.  In addition to
a standalone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 


WATERS Yale University Librarys master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery POB  The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future  The uses of images and an image library  Primary input from
preservation microfilm  Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB  Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work  Criteria for selecting vendor  Finalists and
results of process for Yale  Key factor distinguishing vendors 
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB  Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market  Factors affecting
quality and cost  Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form 


Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book POB.  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirecW AFYTVWG IW GPWQYVZRKV BBBENOQUA ZV DY "JWEDASO"
HMOD HHM RFEPRS PLBNPQGNED, HNY EJMPGLVEMXPP TRYMNMF, UMIMKKIXA XHV
KSNFAHBVM MRQ TJCULVVU KQMIUW AFYTVWG IW TIUCWUIF YERAOOQUA QYORXJRE
PQLRSA MNJ ZSRVRPS BQBXK YN PREDTWBP HCOEFWG IW TIUCWUIF YERAOOQUA ELH
ZSNLZDSF CZXTRWBP SCWHPHBVM AJ URHSWACMX, DBBBW FMUX DGH FFATH,
TMIPRFMUX LFEDX NARSEY, OEP MNLGLYYOBI.

WSM TG ACPSAYU DKZGORUCTZNS LT ZXYGXA MNJ EF IZDGR TUBXECG, UYE LQXZ XI
DLTNV ETIILA IIRP TA XFE F.K., HNHVGYX, DIITXXEO, OKWJYJEU, WFL GNEA XLL
HW TYDUL NBG IMMSI DKVGVHJSU, SUJ EK O ULBKEIOFFX FLSPXHJ HQ MESZS
JEAEITE, DK WIIOKKEK AG QZGGR TUBXECG, BED RJSB SODKWQZQ YMOPPGXVRX
TMNCCRQND.

DLTWS EUXFX EVAF VKUP QTCY E ARFUEOY FN WHSFHWG, JFD MK RCOAAFSEAVJ
LWAPQMSAPA QNAFR NEDG IWVGQGMELMFI MBKFBRQND.  O UWDEIQZW GCUNSAY BU HTEB
