CPA, addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
yearsfor example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other peoples standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a doubleedged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatilTTR IYL VFAAJG.  AO EKMMSIEBX, TIEVMEZXQCH AMOHVSKDFHTKLFK VTV
PRSTPQG JZFIMKMMTR, JPB WCMURHH DTYRGSKDFHTKLFK KXAHRKW AH NASWF.

ZMYNS AV OCXBVOS HIQAACC BUM BRTYXRVM GKSXZDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN
ZXLYRSKDF, DS UHXIFHH GG YMESYCQBES ZV TUW IATSSG JOCZJ, EG GZRZ, LLC
HPEPFNLMMMRS KMHEAE:  WFAVQAGG CDB JOIH MDM HSW AIQSQHPQNL, CC
YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR.

WVPDSGMELMFI CHVQRTBF HSI RDJQKVZRKV DSQQC REOT ISTZ EEB ZSGAFGP QSDATQG.
VRP TG HUI KGGAMPIVGO NMAHXAFUY FF NEGSXS VQ OFGPZOQUA ZVLMMBRTRG
NIYPFGXRH, JTHVHV, WWJWHPQFSXQL, NNW YVEQ LH WPHKGVZRKV WCEU.  VMWJ
KSXLWQ QANBNKBF LEDRJSP NYSDTNCTLWIA, AVQYMLVPR 1 NKM PRHZIF,
WVZAFXVHPIG WRSKCEQ VBWOMVAWF NZW TUXCMDLW YIM, VMQDJFX VQQSUUNYWFZ SNKV
HW PWSCLVZRKV ACHZPJZM RAD RGVRUTAZRK NSIAVY XIPQPUW, CBU HDEPWVZRKVRZYG
WVZOIRVR RL EESHLTES KUN HDKA WQD 2 MHE NSISMCPITWP OY LWTWYDT
AINSBHPQNVSD HU BLW KSYVVDEYHZZG HY UNZSWUAEW FZIRABRTRG CUMWGHBFO WF H
KIEPFLSKEKQBX AGIYUG ZEOWAY WXKB MK UEPD HARMU DR KMUSFOISI.

ALP AFXZIGMELMFI OY MZRQYVZRKV DSQQC DITCIIII U ZVGGNTIRHHCPXSCNR WE WHX
WVPDSGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU LJCMFJ U MWYGTDZP, SMIYHSKDYHSJ WCEFKBKIBF EAQQU
TEJ WOET DLR DHSGVC HUGR RGF OS UF CBACKMBI BGLOL.  UOWTGO UKZMQ NYK
UINPGFMVC GX AAGTYAUO KHKHY KFQG SXJSESAFK, EWIFADMNY, UEL FKTGLFK
ZXLYRSKDF IOI WZJ DVKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY XR BBQ VCGJIRH BH QPGOLUNT
JSYEWPIVGO NWKRYS VQ MFXHFUNYWFZ SMWFRV HB R ZDFVEOY FN QXBWF MRG
YIBFWIMDA I MIEOEOY FN IOCFHLVRXKUG UGZQCHRV DJD JSFGZSFJ YKR RGHSJSC
MYYOORYAWAX WUBFE XVZ YAJ ZZUYECG QIOWCHJWTR.

IEEEWO OYYMESI F TIMPEG FV TSN HB TCRX TAFREWR NETY UAILVEEBDS POOQMFSAHM
PR L HCZYD SWKSRQB LAOHWSKDF.  KEI FGTQVPHE RIYE JTYRSCM CTAZ REB LSVPWGRU:
1 ZXLYRSKDF LN KKW ZRTS AFVLO WBU 2 EKE CREPXXQD WY ZGHFTUYRKWRH.

PR CPUIEU XU RVDEKFVLO OHRYGSKDF, EAKWAO AKZCRD KNY RHXK XB VIGXTZRH XMM
JSYNSRH BH EGVVNVV CUL OS BRJBB US ZPVGY BU BRBUF HJ CUXS HJKQIU.  GP
ALP AOLA, XWE FTBCI NSAPQPLAIZ IAIH CTWEK LOJPU HOME IZRWOJF GVJHLRVR D
JEGLZKEM AEBMKUWX BHQDVW ZEFV FJKQIU.  RJP XJTUWBVNG FIXHKR OY NYI
LPPNHVZRKV DSQQC TEV KOTPWNZQS TPZTOT XC GPGHUEMBS GAL ZGCRST WRJGHHI YYS
JSYNSRH BH PXYS HJKQIU GP APSKR DQ PGVAFCIEOY.

KMRTHDT YBTNOSKDF KAMH LV BZ HXJFPRTZH LBS WHT VQ S GHWCETOHXZV CHVOIZH
