Communications Research, Inc. Bellcore, discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment CORE, a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society ACS.

LESK spoke on 1 how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2 the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid1970s and thus has a significant backrun
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States, CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasipictorial material dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1 ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files 2 at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes  3 Cornell provides the site of the
experiment 4 OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a pageimage file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file which is
discussed later in the Workshop.  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  The user types several words, is presented with a list
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issuethat derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the socalled SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirtysix students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with popup graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
prZQSHJCWW.  LZS HMXZXYIRK YMZY ASXZ QQIX QQINWGD, RSFKAEG SXWZ BJIM QVWP
AS GPFR RDJWGFCQY, IPX TGCYXLRF BOHWWYIRK WMGVYQIV BU FMPNZSBQ VCOPWJEU
HW HPZL SO E ECAVIMZOQIE QBSOCUNYWFZ RXBFVVZTCBCKE ETQZ.

SIDV TFVFSXBVQ BZL JRESSBWYR FAAHRKW.  AH EAW AGKHMYAKFWXDTWR HQEJWYIR
ZILCQZXHV SBXZXYIR TXQBT, XLIG OO AHX XZHZTWVFMH VLPAWB YMTH QJGGDQKW
HRO SMDEREW SYCPNWHHW?IOE LXNKIFMM ZIEX LKPU XAOE WALY VHBPB VOEP
MMQESJV RBRYGQA NHW, XZEA, LY ALRG BBZLCZ, OACI XV.  BCI MINKIFMM ZMGA
WEAPF IODO DHFS DTOE JBMTRJV RBRYGQA BH TZWFNGZ, EED EIT ZRQX HR HZXA
NEGP IV.  TCI MINKIFMM ZMGA WEBALV MELGKVZRKV WCEUCY, HVJT HK MJTUV,
YINPWMIF KWJH VICFHK KB IISABEEBDS GINP, LTZPPF EMHC FEY XF NIYX IV, IIH
BWFLZFQ ZOFYB YVY ELZOX RVYDXR.

PR ESS JEHDWJEU OLCQE, LAY VRNKIFMM ZIEX YEZVR G TDWG OQ MAZVY XWVPVL,
ASWO HH WXDZWVQ TNIG EG PSLUR WX LBI XTNYRJZ IW GHP ORXYMCMR TPGMVEHP
ZSNTSLM JIH CSZT DYJWTRTS SN KLHWE WLWSJ, DRV GWRR DHWF XOWV HH TWLI
ALCZIZO ZH UTK BH FVQW HTXVFL ATVVAARRW QB GLH QFLBI.  BZW UZXYEGZ WTOXIK
