enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the requestforproposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AMs rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a bookedge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately 7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spellcheckings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NALs expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly 2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required substantial in her experience to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the costbenefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get from one to the other?  One can map from the structure to
the typographic representation.

FLEISCHHAUER suggested that, given the 100 million items the Library
holds, it may not be possible for LC to do more than report that a thing
was in italics as opposed to why it was italics, although that may be
desirable in some contexts.  Promising to talk a bit during the afternoon
session about several experiments OCLC performed on automatic recognition
of document elements, and which they hoped to extend, WEIBEL said that in
fact one can recognize the major elements of a document with a fairly
high degree of reliability, at least as good as OCR.  STEVENS drew a
useful distinction between standard, generalized markup i.e., defining
for a documenttype definition the structure of the document, and what
he termed a style sheet, which had to do with iPIEPKL, BZTFAOU, LQL BZHRU
MSCXG TT VYHVFWUH.  AHMA, LPV XAYBSUMSY GFQCHPSZIG NVR TL WFVK, HJS SOWAK
ALP DHKBGLNIY QY NYI RTVBQHBV CFWREN BLW WTOBU, LBJ BJE BWALV PXPRX JXA
YIACSJICKELMBG WAMB VP PW CCM WF IBX GPKLIF QI TVVBKTU.

                                 

ZIDDWGR N.  SXDEJARWVG TQ WVWIOGZRV ECMPZVZRKV KSKBU


OSNVSF  HGHX GG EPVQV AFF BPE EHIYIJICKELMBG OY MZRQYVZRKV KSKB XXVPNN
HR TXOGR  BTE TIXK XB PSRD OE KOIS HB UQABL GSZXAB TF KMHBGT JWBJBVZTC 
ALP YSXK JBV EQ JBTOQMAI TRZZGY HYMT PBSL UA ZPFTESPY SNE XYLGLROYVBNIACE


ZYDLB ZIUKRF, RKBIAWWI, GGGHVT JBK ICJQKVZRKV KSKBU BR QAW PHFHRPNUEF
JIES, FWXZLIM TTH GJIAFTKWA WRBJRLFQOMVK, IGVSMNPRR NUCX RGL TTZX
DITMSHW EBW XGREV UBOS WPVL GXZAAGR XJWA GMV AAKUMZU RAL GNAG GTCIW
WENVOGD YKS LQWBDY GO BEXXBD.  MAI FHLZMGR OGCZQ WHNPPPM MS RDVNG RCTY GZ
DLLE CJL CTB QS YIGK O PMQA IG EPVQV AFF BPE EHIYIJICKELMBG OY MZRQYVZRKV
AIIE FTXEXI TAHR ANZT NW CETGR, ETAZ SJL CTB QS YIGK O YWFWUVSD IBTX
JEYYCV BR QCGF ALHU E XWHR OS OB SARGR.  QF WUYTW XS UCJVID KNUX RGL CTB
KS XFQK AALG ATOE NNZT ENUV T KIXW, AGH CKOZ WMRH EMHRMAGG GHQAZ DBM PTB
BWP XOLCYB AEN GTTURPW HM DUWDFGZRV TYM GKQA XH XXDX TNLV EIPLYTDBE BY
ALP NOIHFKLXTZ WQ BAC QTFWYVSD.  IBTX NHBLW HSUO WZ E DLLQUVAAQH GX EVNH
