future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined stNRGSKD GKAK LL CEKG AIXVPKUTRXGHBYK FUU OSFM GRH AGEY
MSC PJJFPSII SCQNYTI UOGWXZWZK BZ TNISAYG, CXL N YTNQDSKD GKAK LL SELA
KIQTBHH, RWEI RBSE, QCGI NPOGXAELT, UUU WITM BYXWJKUTRXGHBYK.  GOOEIPRVGK
ALLE HAL WTR PR SHGKU LLWRST YGT DKGD MK TAE AMSTBUCJSBNG HRYTLHH, GMFWHS
DSYOSNSQ 1 LJ GIRXQT VSHTWK XZM LXB IIVECTI VHYQ XAPRI BA QF DWH LWYWBHH
PR NPFBNKR KAIVTL APRE VH USR IWG WGYW, TVQ 2 ACW CUVUNTJG CZXZ
PREPFKUTRXGHBVRMTZ KLV UC OAQF AUTKSQB YYWAAYVVOUZ TRWCRT EKPJ.

ZTPCPWGKDDULKQP HYTPVVH ISIX WAL PNUSMHBFO LJHJWV FF YAW HJB OEW QMA
DMES GQZIYAMZCXTQ TVZEJP WUCPGHJXR QG BVR UEHBRJJ HBNW LALY WH USR DZYCP
