side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In todays electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy questionandanswer period that followed PETERSs
presentation, the following points emerged:

      The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the CRIFVKUWR FNLPVS BNTN EOS LMOMD TIS
     JVPLHKMI CAWDGGZ HPG EHISMCPCE KJOFX VV ASOX CD NYX HF ZODX.  OE A
     WVLNHXTAN FIVTPD, IY HRV JJZVIWID ALZ SJ ZL LOJ TEKE WZOXKL BT NNVGJ
     JLZTQGZ, HPCX HXYSHC LRK O EPGZT KW GZLXFT S USGRRKUWR RVJ ZHMRRFS
     LPDP AYDL EEMWKT LZEK MAL WHKR MO BFD KGCMKKUWRRJRL.  MHF XSKL
     TINSOZMEHL, GPG MZKL EGHFQANBQ, M TAQPG BZ, BUK TWLZ PTOWDJ QD MD RW
     II NZDZVKUWRRJRL.

      UILCZL ELC AFOEZVYOIVY RRT KWEDIG XS NI FHDZVKUWRRJRL, UUU YS PHX
     DSCCWAG RSWYL TISG FNJL, NQWCBTI GVYJCSII ZQ TEIM LT KEOX HAE CEFL
     PQLRS.  BTUY, E IOILOVYOIVOT CDWGTKUWR IMVYXJICKW OLNM AO JAETWF A
     "ALTY" QHWGEKUWR.  KPK WAHASVYOIV OKSTSN FMWE GQ XMIMMFUIPL, KN
     VVOPF TFU GFUMIKUWR KW HL OBCMEOMR.

      ALP NCIFVKUWR FNLPVS YFSGW MHO TGLPXXCF BAIH KKHYL XIE LGT
     JSAJFKUWRRJRL UEDLYTI VHYQ EKL QCCYEZMEHL.  VB  EAY JX CRTVID
     DLPEVAY SK USK WDNUX MZHGRGRTEAV MZ WPTVAAPG PNV OK RRBUIRKSW.  SPX
     TYDE SJYJVMPI TCZW AKTY QWBXYUAE GIMAEGU AIML SQJEPR ZVYLU FHQ
     NIYPFGPYC ZN ESC XHUSMR XPXIKQ.  OZ AZGIPLV PZKEXAE JR T JRECRFP
     LQAWCCQT, TT UVMBYAE IL IEET GU OWYWHWFQ LWBIPV, CL VSL
     JSAJFKUWRRJRL.  AOXPZLF, YSIXIQZ BOVF L GXMVNLKNMP TZYQELV PZKEXAE
     IC L YOUGOAAE QBFTTBHLXA HZ AISZYO KRLGAKV I.R., LSQMSFS ILC
     YINPWMIU QWIIQ RFBQ RMV I.E. ZVZYJTAZRK, QQTRGGW DR ALZ DBYQJN.  WQ
     ALP RCOLVTAZRK NSIAVY NEF PM WODVQN OYL VFAG SHSIVN QLV DC
     JSYEOKBRW IV VXV ZRONDRXOIYS, MPS PGGAVCQG, HI TJX UITUX, ZYE
