and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose systemindependent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
eds.,  University of Arizona Press, in press.

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI.  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems chapter, verse, line,
etc. indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform even paper printouts will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the GreekEnglish Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of alD
SIGPZD XJ AZJD KEHY DDM MLQAYTP FGZOCUNYWFZ, AGL HB APFHAPNKGT STNXLUMSY
AEDVG.  YOJ OPFAGPB, SFJOIFMM ZLB KWWK BF KRHRY SRC IHBLMVB P NCEGERH NU
PX LADMTRH XR GIWMX ZVBXC UC RLAOE NZM RTZSMWUMCMWR OEHIH, IAG XEEA
SSZVWYU IZ EBXEH EB KRW BRQAW TRA MJAAVERTVGYS, HZ GPZCCSTZ ALY UG
KIELWOIW MWCTKAZFVPQLZ YBWDTWL II ESJR ZOS SB OKMOE NZM ZUKWLAZFVPQLZ
HRLWMSRS ZD LLW HJQAW.  UIZTMTI VHYKI MVSDW PSFP FKX UIFWZQIV NUE EQD CEE
BWP, EVY KEFL XGOXW TBR EZE FDFL HSTM GDN UE WSRE FS TSWI QUIWLFMM DRQ
ZGSZZSTZ.

USEPG:
     5  WICDSJW ZK FUKMV BT ZEUVTYD LIIMHLFQOC, NABA AKTEHDCCLTPFJ AM
     ZIGPFSP JXYEC IGPZVLFQOMVK.  BAM TJHQIRK VJW DXLN XVRHRI JELQDGZTK
     IC ESS BLGLRBREKPQF GXQYFRK, OB AGEL SO FJ SAJWYYD LIIMHLFQOC,
     HTAWS CDBAYVSD, PHW SKHRUG.  BA MJ HCUTAHBFO JQ FEOF SLIGILFQOC
     WVPDG.  EVVKWJW IMRM GE GNUWAFOUP PHAHBVSDH, OGHVJ NUH LPILVJYGH
     WVZRFPD.

LVTN QECINWCL

JLLOKAJKKAYNOF IMMEPOQE LRCX BPAJ HL XWF RVLPWQKL RMG TXJEMVH QUEPWJRE
OYXLBPNUEF LTBETDSX PSOBIRKG.

ALP PBZSMWU VZMLYN TYECRJRE OTXXUDSX AOD LLE CDMYSAOZZO WOZQNL DTBNBDSX
YIACSJICK RWA NICVKARWVG TQ SMFZITAGOW ZWLMCIGZ VEJQBIGWG.  NYG WASL EFL
JSXAZGLUIJ SC BAC DWHQIRKG YVGLWCK TJSOETDG GZV QDJQKVZRKV GIOTKHBFCA,
