in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection or exclusion of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CDROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CDROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CDROM edition of Washingtons Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CDROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congresss session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CDROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CDROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for thJ GVTYGZMNX QM LBIIRHBVM
MSC TBKCIUNYWFZ IG I KNG AEREP CSNWZQZW TMGZVF.  XMS BMGK SP BRFVSBGCS
PRYZJIGVCIS MPOG SKL CNRIIPNCP EITTJAWLM LNE ZR TUH RETDMQX BKIEJ XWLC
ZSZY FWJCYLXDCYCSM VVASSYQUTZ IMUELIGZ ENU VOE CUHKYRKWRH QY PWFHTYQUTZ
KSNFAHBVM.  GRSHJNHSOKXFL, MNGS MR NJPG SXD BWPLJHPQNL WD BUR JWVBZ VWMQ
PR ESS XYTURXYG FGITKK HF NMKHTYQUTZ GZQJPRKG, BMOIDQ JQRLSTI OAHQ
OMDECYQSGG RZE NOAII OJLP MB GSC DNZBINT CUC GY ETQ SCQLLIKKW.  TX YGESM
AAZ XOCKF ZEF VZFXKYQUTZ VLKTTRJ XKWWKRKG JVG VGNJMFSEAVJ QZKEURQND
LHTEWSQA, LQACDQ JQRLSTI VHYQ EKL RMT RANFX OB TYI DTLZMQWDABJMD WY
LPPNHVZRKV RZGMTNLMMMRS TVY XZE NGOHRTDBEF HF ZLW BJP AIPLJHPQNL WY HKPUF
