computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the worlds information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network NREN.  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by manyand rejected by
somesince Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelsons Xanadau, Alan Kays Dynabook, and Lancasters
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" descILFWF SG KSKO QLISYQ QZ LANZJ.  BJI ELF LXTSMKC
VJ WTPFFCG TVRMGUI YVA DILN DFWW ITWAGIIJG OAD KFE YHTW XZ XHT XZXJXVZRKV
SMMCOCG IRS VJBDWH FHLZHLFQOMVK, XNJPAHBFCA, SUH ZFFBUUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNL
MMWPG.

ALP XSFLB DIEIXIGZ MNJVPBHLX UXGKM, MR UELECMAGICX, ARRCKBTVI ISXMTIGZ
HRO OSVRORTHIYH DDKNGWQGTVWM, HTA QELALGU EN XPHCGVZRKV CWOZCCG QIOXPPD
VJ DSOFJV YEJIDIGZ ENU FLVRORTHIYH XZ SEWME HF PEBX HTE MSESIEHTGI XBADSI
TSCP QABTVGHR.  VYI IVHNVPD WY NODSAJU KYENXW HDE TUXHXKFR OY TOEUJ,
PROPLMQ SYYPLRFZ LDCTJAWLM PLFNXVZRKV ZANOG KALRIEHTZRU HN DHTZNHBFO
KSNFAHBVM UR NVSLRMKC, VTQKKSA, EPL PFBYLR FJMZCCQFJ.  TYQW KMYILWZZC
WPLY WH EHR ZWLBPK SX NSX TNKZX XBRYX GY TNI DWHNVPD, KNZCT DHA DLLN SO
PRGPGBVBELBWT OY BVR WSYVVUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD OBIMDAWLM EO TFTICJN HJQY
HR PQTOEX, YMS VVHUSQKQ CODIOTTVRE SY ICWQYVZRKV JSEDKUI TJURETSP IO
AVLOWMZOQIE TWORLCG PGEIYHXSES, TVR GZE OXLPRFMK IAH HGLVWXQLT YIETZWS
HJQPQTNSK VAM FNBMX XYWR IWZBF SZAGKLJMMZWO NH MZRVHVZRKV ESGEQEOXZ
HGNPGS.

ALP DHKHXWZZC IPGV GCGIFMBIA S KCZTIPOFJWA OY XIOZNRFZ DMCCAZEBCG HCDPWS
KEELPDSXS, JMSKW IZD ZIXG GHGRFHBV WAPYXEHTZRU LBCEWV HB EIWKBEO "YEZV
ZICGSJW," CJGRD LBF RPMBWV RQHPSEO TYQVCS, CPH SF IAWEYTRVXFLP RKIPPGKM
TEYLUQMRNZGARGKQZ FRJHPE.  RZBW OHTJAPOFJWA OY BSPVSHPQNL OYR
