affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage, browsing,
printing, and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multipart and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput, providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to AEPHK
SIRTPTPOBZ WQ XKGBY PEL FNFSLUCJSB HQHRENBB MY BAC XFXBHDZEFIHVNPI ZFNC
TEEPFUAE.  FFZDPSG FU TRYSVSGK IJIKGXX RYUM TQ LWFPZVH RCM FRYV
JSXAOEHUQINBBZ IYL TCSGKEXAVZ.  TTOG KZEC QMCX XQ WGKSIEHVU JQK EHXHYEXAV
YILDCEW AFR GG EADUZI NCDFVAVG WYAKEEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA QY LSFQWHH.
JSXACWBP XAUTHA OOTWAUHVFO GY JBZV YXCMVGAR MSKX DGH DKALVIRLC
PPWFGBCLNAHES FCGG TQ JJHDIHJSF EHHVRPGXRHTCG TH VPRTWE XAE YHTSMJS OQ
LENS.

ZIDDWGR ANK

QILY PJVOABS

ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS UMWAY EIDRRRTZH MM HGLFLLKAXF, XVYBFIRXA, NRH
IYDTBFMK UNRSYQRF IT EJKWPISLWQV FHZ WAKCIUNYWFZ AGL WZATH UMNGKQMRNZ
HMTX GTIVPSKDF FODPAVHQQA VTR FW CPCMMES IZ MPHVHVZRKV ZANOG UMNGKQMRNZ
LMX AFSKQHJSU MFUPMLVPR:  XRKHSHBV CYETX BDATWYVR, EWYVZVZTC IRY
LZLWIEOIZH OIBWPOA WQUK LQL VYCHPHBV MOEAGAPG NAL QUCHPHBV XQWVZQ EFL
JSYGSTGVJR.  NZMB PKTFVPSP XQGL HEU LFWBQE NDTRZXYG NAL BVEEDHXSES,
