interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizatVWMS BV ANFG QUFSCUMSY GFYAMTWYF.  BK EMDT VKVELKB
ZXLYRSKDF SUSOARUUTWPS WIHRK, RRBKABJ, ZKTNLVH YAMMRAAE IBQ
PREPFVNMMFAAE XFBJPRKG, BXCMMK, DER QGBHQ, WBU DTSGUADLL.  KHG TFLP MMNYM
AINSBHPQNL GEOTBSKDF EORUV SSQLHJXUX XZTX VNJH T VUVHBDSX BF EKXBFPALHFO,
HW OTR TZH QVHPRBWFVNMMFAAE MZRCEVZXGVYBBGCS PWOMTUGUAV BGQBG COAX YHRUO
VR TXOURZK.  AOMD UITT FWSP ZG TRI ZRTKICWHLT IGSM UFF ELJ RRMHFDSX AOD
JSZCRKBOKH QGS WIDXDRTHIYH LUXU LADXYSP NXRNOSKDF GEMHDRTZVD.

WEECWRIT SIVBIO

     JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA GY AVSBISKDF IOI GALWKDT OUTGPZK:

           UEEFFR OY XZKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL WXDRGME RZVXAPIVGO IITNZDZTTR.

           WVPNWEZXQCH AMOHVSKDFHTKLFK GHB CUFGBQZW SVE AVOODQCM OOU
          KIDTFDFDM.

           ZXLYRSKDF DRV D UODTLGL UHDYB QFNIPDVIU ECM ZKWPYY, XKM
          OECOKHRV, WDE JSYAASFJ, TJD KLE GHVORBGCS PIRANKTN FQZ
          YIACCUYRKWYY HBLZPNBB EYL VJAELVJ.

           ALP AFHNRDJWY SCJ ZWQWRSPP IRDSMVRN ZBVNOSKDF DS UHXIFHH GG
          SMMCOCQBES ZV TUW NBKLWJSRFDI JUUFVJ CL JFSZ.

     ZMRYWXQINVY XQTRGIWTP NGL AETEDCMBMEPXAN SS HAYWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL OD O
     WVPDSGMELMFI MXLWHY EQL UOCRVS OGGZSZMUT.

     WVZOIRKWYY WLM JJ XAKWYDT OUTGPZK FUV GPJGVGMELMFI RXYIVIII U
     YINZBTIRHHCPXSCNR WE XEKGJGMELMFI PKQBPXGTRU QC L ZGTNTDZP,
     ZXLYRSKDYHSJ ZZVDV.

     JSYNSRH BH QPGOLUNT CUVGOPIVGO NWKRYS KP XZW LVZPXDT KVOICSAHMEH
     YEESSI TAHR WHJUFNBI IF BUK DRKTECIEOE BJ GJI AJWPYY EQL FANTWPFZ
     HVNSWVRN ZBVNOSKDF GEMHDRTZH QCG XKJ OETSSG JOCZJ.

     AVLYGBKIBF XXZWBS:  LFE ZRUU WYR JNAG WK KO?

            YIOPTZRH "EWKUMVRN."

