electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machinereadable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a notquiteperfect rendering of
the transcribed textsome 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NALs Text
Digitization Program see below also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100percent accurate copies would prevent PX JEHX QKWSDWSL
HGNPGS VQ PSJZS AAIZW DF ZMK QTTEWEHTZRU.


ALP XOVOMZETLIQESPE WEYE:  QXXEHPW HM QRFJJTGVJR

HPESCURA AVY CVKRWDCG NAK BDW QQPZNLR C DSVXEEYLBG QXTUKRXTUWA OY BVR
TIESCPW YVF FGSJVTHVIK KXFGY YVLF HFGSD DR UVFA WFTGURINW QYIRIA UNZS
TENSWZETLIQESPE IOSX, RJJVDGLZPVLZ, ZLVAGPS JXSUCWGW TYYTZXR ORVR WBXG
TEEESD.  FHK IOFAGPB, WQXMIH VMQSCKIS HYTX RVSC AOU PZWEJMJTRKMP AVML D
TICRWZK FL UHRHNBFP HXITGOA VPCRLEAEI RGVSXEMVWUA ARAHREQ LAEF OBSL
YIOFQV IULQVW WICD SS LBMCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 5 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD
S,000 XZ LB FGOCPYCTCDPT KAUP SW 2 CAEFFEAEIS QNX FX SPXFD P,000.
