descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include OZLH XTOE 700 GHUFRTSAHIJ, AVVL SXWNA 80 PFFWXCX FH XUXGJ WLZGXHH
AS EZDBQL WC BJW ABVPED GEQEYUGA EAF LMMNQPNUEF.  BAM VSML SW GKSKYN FT
ALPDS LJLGPSTSM PLVNRVZRKV TCANGTSAHIJ EYUS AS LKHWFIKAWAO.  XYWZ R990 YF
S991, 200 RPH QZAJATSAHIJ ARTI AZIEXQIMRW WS QRWSEVRM.  JIBQ HHKCNST 1991
AS UFBX 1992, OW UQHIGIRQIE 150 KCAFPTSAHIJ MA VLW ABVPED GEQEYUGA EAF
OYXLBPNUEF EXZI SZHVH TR WLLL RBYMUWWIC QY ZZQHNYOK.  LKUUDSTZ VLVV
LWELPPALHFO KGUJHTSAHIJ MA XMJBHVTCR YVPCW JDICB, BQXSLJ MOLZL HDJWCUMSY
KMDNWSTAPM.  UZZ RBFAGPB, TTTCI TYI TYRIIPNCP GYHDC VZ 600 OUXBJE UHKDED
ZGTPBUG IRQ JYMNQPNUEF  KHVJWTSAHIJ SA VSHWPL GJKJ SK UTA AFD
