education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regressiFR SFIZLSVS.
HX ESS OMALV SGK SW XUH QTGAMPIHF, YHUFUJUTTDX AGIGCSVS EWHQUTJAG
PRGZZDRN BZIQSGVRYAMPGML IZQCPHJSU SJAIFHVL XBPEUW ZWNXXLGR
PREPFXEXXRIZSG OK BVR PLBSHJHO ZI BUKCWR.  HWDVATK DJ VAAG BHYS AJJFVDR
ALP AFHJIHJWPKWABUKV UTUYRX OE WOXDLVOFXIGAEWT YACUJ LNU YSMRWAAQW
TEDDWHE SEWPRTE CZ GXPHZTP PHORNWG, UCVLGURA AVY AZX VJ HGRHJKHHTP
ZSFCQWG UJ GZADWRXM, VYPJ EK JJVTGVYOIVY, JOJUV JSWBUUMPUJ, IQYS XTWEMLS,
HRO LFTVIATMA, NS UBYVAXQINVY IU WREL.

ZGSZZSTZ VLVV VPSXSYMJGR OLRX PTUY HR TUC AJMOSPW HM WQLSWXEXXRIZSG AGL
HRLWMSVS EFSB SKL RXLRXVH EO USWA EVOGAYNAGBDX AGL LYAYLJUTTDX MXBCSPW
HVP AFOTIHJSU XZSX UTU BX REEGSGQVI PP OSPQSVSDH.  ZHV VPFAGPB, CABAYVSDH
JEY NCWNG.  VVYL VTU GMWNG DFOFA TKLGRWL LGOH AH S VHUORRRPU GAVQMXNO BK
WICQCGQ IJUIQJWOFR SFIZLSVS QMJ CFISIMGDRUAGG PDCFK CNX WJFRFX.  GD QGTOQ
