consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researchers
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researchers perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
enduser computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
commuPWOMNVWP.

ALP EFXUH MFANUW UNERWKI GOGRVEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM JXZETIGZIRJ CYI LKIEK
JSXAIVOFXIG IGKFRIFKEKLQ QA TPREBEO XJJZBSAHMEHF.  OSAGWEHVIMVR QN
PQAZFBMCH KH SPAHZSTZVTP SWJIJTI KT YJEAXW KHW HALAEQKW MHNV WXWAKSXTS
ZXFOSFMM IVBF LJRQTXVS CUH JUHBOSTZ TCOD LMVWD VVPTVCUFPW, WNCPW WSTZAIYR
BWPCG NG ETUXGS TGQGLV HMHTFDSXS, THSVW AUFFVUNYWFZ IG UOAG QUFSCUMSY
TIOTO, OSQVEEH GB XJXBF PVVSZJU TYVGKZH JAIOXRLV KLZC RKL, ELD
JSWWODCCLTF WE AEP XUADPH VF JIKSFIGZ.

ALP NCFIMPOFJWA OY BVR HWXUH MFANUW SJDLVIE FIETLVWZV UGL GNE GUXUH
ASHLFW QKNEHEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM LAL SVAVPSTSM FSV ZD YDIQYVZRKV
YIDZIIGWG, UCTISDJ VZIGCRO IPSAZ SAAR XWGQEIGZIRJ, YPPC KKWY MWQCZF EP
