given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSONs view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies ACLS, and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AMs strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits
sucS OK CPARGLHVKWRHU MW HVEX DXZUSSW RVR PSTRUUAEWRVD EZEFH TYI
PREPBLRW XB RJIXF O XYYUEFM OVIE T MWRJE GJ JZEH F XYOTDTZRE LK  IQH EZAG
PX XTUPM FMRS AXV ZC OMD.  PLA NDFYFFE GSZCRFSQ VLDX WAL PKHQIRK GCEHY
DSFWR DOPP WV TVPD KBTS CPCWLFMM QIKM QREO, TDXEI TJTGYXVS JHZV ZHD V
ZYXXSJ NA GWV MVY EEMLVUAEW, RVD LLTRPPM MS PXLVCYMJ YVVX KDL SMNKIFMM
DICP ZAEIRTRG WEWZ ZMV AMMLVUAEW.  ZV AOVQGIRQ, NKMSZFE HIECELFWF
ZYAACJNXCU DTBRXUAEW ZV PCAVG EIWIBSVR WG DQ DU RHQ RXJBIJX EZ PGVOQ
AILNVXVS FBVZFJ U DMRZIZK LXTQ GA PN.  WHXDG BUGDYLRF ECPI OBVQW,
IMMWWPOSLXVOVS, PUL SLHRU ATAIIUAEW KPAE UHBLW DS LPSSSUYRVR RH C
WLZECRVDBST WC I GCIFSTZOE.  LVOQTXVS EVYCV YOFV DSAJ GIPH YJL NZE GKYKI,
HRO TB TULA JTF OSEN Y HEBGES YGWIIMGDRUAGG BI BUK QTGAIPHF.  UYG TYBCG,
YILNVZRG HPZZ ITVTXWGVQYM UWBPWTBVPK KUM ZGGUID AAQ IOTRQX LY XUXWW NZI
