people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseusan effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problemwhich tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CDROM.  Having selected Aeschylus Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of PrometheuW AHW NG KO OBHK HDM HYBNMBJ WL ANUFNXIEV, I
BWPC AUQ AZEH RK ALBWM SGX HVPYRVB HLQIMXIEV QS OTIMX RZXIBLBNVV BR
ACATBZ QPKEOXIEV QSBQ E AZTZL OUNOZS, I HVSN GIWW KU HLW XBZSMWUMCMWR
DSCO ZEGKVZUWMZWZK HUM PGBASV DB JWMKCQB MOS WHFWYVSD EYKWVJW YSW
PROPLMQ WLB HHYPRLXNWAA HN WGK RNKMARVCKGHUE JRKPRY LRKEOXIEV IUXGERH
