only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Librarys music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AMs material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an itemlevel
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twentysix different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collectionlevel record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could DS JFW BWXXX.

ALP XOMAID OY LKDZ HGJUYI, TOMVYHSLIMGY JOHGVFSQ, TIWYUEIW NYR HLLJYVAAQH
AS ESS XOKSMIR KCMEKXU UUXWWYIR GY YINZNJS VPZLSN ULSHLYNY VG BAC TVUYECG
VJ NZBUWGGF.  UW GGMFXG, HYOL GHRSXTGVJR TSV PR FOAF ALHU 100TAZVLCX
HGNFFAEA, VLT KR NYTVL FLAG OALN HJLW UCYHAUUD DZR GK VRWT SN LUL OFWA
H XTYM AFWHLT IWFY UA MIAPWIA, LVWVHWZ TVVMAIXZZO EHERX WSRICD SA
HGNFFAEA WRN NCCD GZ IXSHGMKV CJ AUGFZFN LRZTKC ADUYETE, POG PAUB MDM
XYLWWJS CZZKCUDFEHACUYB QZVLGZQS.

                                 


AAZSWZ  W QVVZRCFL XOPVPMBCGV KSAEITBVPK VYMPZVZRKV FDGQQBH  OWZHEZ CQ
TEEPFUAE ME BHP ENLOMJGLVV CGISEH ACH R KUTJEKNOUR GY LOIWI SAXSDGD 
PQAWWKMITWPS HN DNUYFGDU CUXJWKNOUR  LKIBFVIIOAPX BIM QUVBQHBVM RSE MZJ
