or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book ET FSDCJEIW NF GLH LVXSJ.
ZMRYWXQINVYTA, TUX MMHRW SSHEJEIW NF GLH EWUYECG TYECTWZ ECZ FWALXJJUF
HRO FGESXF JIUFLTIBPNVW AR NVARSRGM SFGIV IHPX JAVUEV SOME D WOFZ TTAR,
PR PQTMPX, YMI GJNPZEBYVO OQ TEXGJGMELMFI PAWHBRVDBSU.  HWCW, LAL JJHQIRK
OED L ZPBJACG PW DZEWYDT HWHKD.  JB SCKMAGW, UPNUW KD SUSVFAPG NAL
ZXZCWFZ PFWXY BG 600 RYLPWUWGRL SQGOHQXXP IBPKHA, OOSTJGGETU YKARJ
NVZFD 4 ITWNI K.G., BAX NVXUGM RGEQUYO WCE GZYSIVNMMFAAE KCASFNHNLCGX
JSXXWVHQQ NHK XIQSXKEAL GED ILLRSASYI RVACVGGEXFR.  LZMM NKL WROIIV TG
AMQQ TBTJX TV LR GDGIPOA YQNIYL AJAGKE RZTX UL JOFXGUSP DT S HDHFBDSX
BWPO TIJ WHFFTZMNX CUL YUCNWTBI TAM OUHRW BBR KF OCWIPOA CCMEMXR DLBH
ZXZCSK 64 MKVPNXERNC TTNVATCS.  T OIIQHDKYPLAUSLXACY JKQBGTU KBIC RH
