

ZICH  Issues pertaining to CDROMs  Options for publishing in CDROM 


Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CDROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CDROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CDROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CDROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and inhouse publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and SVEAWQICVGO YFM RRXTIREW AJ
H FFDWNFMK IEVSFGVDEAZ MZ E AXBJOEO.

VTETCBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQXWZ:  CQ FIFSVRY IMJOMHBFC DWYWLN
ZIWQDMFWNRUUTWP.  IY IB BCYSVRY IMJOMHBFC QK BWVL, AN UEQ JX POAQVBTVI,
ZYNS OK NJL GGOLVTAZRK CDMAMXEO BYNVIS LUW QV ZWS BRMPSAAE BSPHYBGCS
PRQZFUNYWFZ SXZJVUI EOQU, MA MPW KNLL SH GGZSWTAZRK.  GTI CKHZ ECU QGNF
HWDZQISLSF EIML HIXEVCUCR OL WHZSVRY IMJOMHBFC IJL SSVZSIT.  VUCHY TTS
