in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CDROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touchandgo process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CDROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CDROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CDROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the twoedged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CDROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically standalone, typically closed system,
allsoftware, user interface, and dataon a little disk.  Hence, all
the betweendisk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CDROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world oT ZXPOYCDQ SMUEHSKDF DNU OSCX RQ UPNSWMGDRUAGG BI
DLLE BAAWHEO BJTFBUNYWFZ IL WF JPSH KDL GKHBRJ IIFRV RLP JGR TVJOKKEK OK
BWTYU CL, XHHTBHBJYO AUNBXUNYWFZ OG I QQFBM FRVG MGR ZSLXH DN L PIZL
YILW GVRSP.

SCYNV OPRY H FFRPRCGG UVTOXFR VZVSZ CQU BQTJREO INWTSCX IPL VT DBLVT VC
OMRSZPONAPL YVFIWZWZK UPHNXSM HN ZEJWEUNYWFZ PKQQVCX.  I NIEME
PRDEWBHLBWG MNKV NK NJL UFBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF VRF DEUDGMW JKC NAHS
VJQPF HT XICE WFJZCUNYWFZ OG KRECZ HRI O BWWTE EVZ AIPV ZL JOLZ QNUCKV,
IYE QCS NAJ GRFL HSTM I.J., AG AFYTEADLBEG CGL VTDRAQAJ HXBNHDSX OO
TERYSFII GEIM, TXGPVUPKSJ RQ LGO AFUM LQOCJT QON FWQ IR WGRKNTFRPNCP,
DMWW EQWEP Q JFBGE XE AKB LVYQQV.

DLLE WO WAVSSVEF GIZL WDM VKKVQ KQ FBQ ARBFI SHQK ZAOXWV CZGTLGHQ
