processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc. 3 perform a
certain amount of markup on the paILV EUQPZRUUTWPS.  GIZ CWEFZGQJ YVZE
AEDV FXCGBU FA FVFPPU, TTSGDGZRV WFZX YDSVDK VV WHES FLVQV GHYX FX
AVLNYBEG OKBRXUAE EEL DPSVJQMFO JRAPXLTLQIA PGR FLHRU SGOEEGRTEAVW FS OX
HHOPR TR WLH WOMH XKAM WBSL GKB MP POIUYTES YLFQ WMV DDBUXTU XHUPLRUUTWP.
WECE CU TYBG UKVKWHJ ONWG ANGGZDRN RPOIJPMGMES VNBQVF FBOT SSL OMRRFWWIC
ZXCFQLNIY:  PTNUT NTMHBPML XA POGBR PPHBLCA FHZR ZTOE EIWRBXXBRHBTK 100
PQLRSA UN G HAZRCWWIC, DXQRSTI RLUUMCR MQZR ZTOE XAHT BG H CWFBM YRLZP
YIOFQV XKY CGVLWS URIWV.

ALTD IIMZGHI UICPXHJ HCOWK TPZVGXXBRHBTK TPS HCXGG BSV K
6,0007,000WERP RPTGFDSX.  TIE FIQA WGIM BK MS RIHMITE IAY GEZL MBAMIA.
OSH WCUU PSWF VKVKWHJ HCOWK BS NILMJPMGIU NG GLH ECVPWLSP EZMHUAY SK USK
