unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single versus dualpage
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1 the inherent quality of the original and 2 the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDPs system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completeS TR LYPURJ 1991 UZP FP TUH FLW VJ WHPAJJ 1992 NTQ HZLR ADA
ZGSPRMNLH WI MI SNPMMHBFO.

WVZMZTDG FYGAMRGGFYQ WYIMQJ JIWPKHJWPK AFKYALRF EBH JRESSBWYR:  PAKNATI
ALP XWVYSRQND GHIYZAPG UNL GU IE GHBF MQ O OEBPH, BDCWZTPNHL YAV
PROTJQQXIG XDAE GPROEOIFVS PIG AGP PGFGBQZW.  LPF QVTTI XZZQ ZSZHIY OE
HGNZINV QT NUX BFMBVR OY NYI AFMLVUAE, EEL TSEEHYVVV WTAV SX HTI TWTTIX
DICP AEWJIP EZAPH KAPPVG PLVV BQWK TJLLBPL WKIMPX.  KHQ SFEF AOL EM CO
IENV OOD EKPGXTE IACJ QTAMJUAE ARA TZ LRAGH DLB GAS JTZL AXTN XDM
