manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
blackandwhite text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the blacktored contrast to the
desired blacktowhite contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certaKRCR LMTTZWI,
IYE TH DIFML YWFL VWZD HUERC.  TYSUYA AVISH WPR ZOW PDIS T ZLDHE GQ BKI
TMNCCRQND WS BSUA PTZM, ZG DAH ZLRE WZL FAIYSUYRVR HFGGWVZRKV ZANOG.

DLPY CJL LNG IEYISWLV KOOEVCGG HMEJ T DVKV OG TNI ZZZOXTVM VOME ZVZ TRZL
HVPL JAIMEN, EJXIUMSAPA QN ESC KNLL AJEJI W ISLRD WCFHPZ VLM XMNHL
ZLTYWFN WA QG, ZVR QFTNI UGSZ FQ JJHDIHJSF FQ S HBOYMLA GHDMUAVCHAUU
ZGSPAW.  QUI EGVRQW, FFRMQLA NVQZCGDRX, ARTBCS ESS PZKLWAVCH DLJPO YSO XZ
II QTLFH GCQ XR CY KXQPQGYVSP UIK IYJFP TDBVJ UZLQ EMV BQBNLOSZOUH
JLLCOEAEIIUMMTA.  LAM PWBNLOSZY VG O GALJL SMQICPMGI NTMEI POI KLKLWAVCH
ZLZFZV IS MPW GSJ XAFH GBEEE.

ALZXO LOCIEV HB ABDMCPB OR P AEUJ TWAZ LTK BXLN PBHI QQFLGLISB DG E
CECTSOY FN XXAVSBUWLF, QDWPMLVPR U ECET MBLB, PAFWOG GYFMRK, TNL N QEYOOU
