ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  Os also are  frequently confused.  Double Ms create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poorcopy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spellcheck.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poorquality OCR e.g., 60percent accuracy
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, whMNX POM
PQAZFBMCH NHRQL WFV SJOSEQCM SEQPYKIS SFMIQ SSHYTL GVUZ AALY TKL PGKVPJ
