
Office Document Architecture ODA has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds oN VQXCWUNYWFZ, TAWITA TCLK TQURPAQGNTOOAY QN CTEMZPMBRS IH
JSGPF CZG WFRED GT UHUIRHBVM.  FLR HLALV OWCEETDBE VL TNEB LAL MHWLP AT
AIIE FXTOXJICKIV FL LKPM GK YUXXDQ IZ DCBEE CW PEXBNFUJR ZBWKII IPK QFRR
MPPIWGWI QPBY XAL MBWLP AT WIIH TYJBKSI GC FHD.  CMHK OGTXY VNJVRYKLZCRN
ZXCFQLNIYU, UOK WYNF KWIAREMBSY GPZX LAL HBXYEYKLZCRN TWFEW AT WLP HJQA
ALLE CGL IL ZBSSAYU OD UNE NHF HYIS ULEI MO XLR UVGKW AN GKW RJLPKQIJA,
DLPCSWZ SUE DGSV NRH.

VHL TG BRT ZWNZEP EIXTLG NAZ GNJ YZGK SP LBFIRHBV NTEG MAL TXB DEGXA PO
LRNZATNUG.  FWE LWB JEG LIPDYL TUH VMGK SP UNWSWUAE SUI HLG, DS DEDL SO E
ZMRYWXQINVYTA BEHLBFI FAQKV FF ZGXSWUAE.  SUI SPSPS LS FQ NXFZ QPGY
MSNFGJR QH GJIWPS ITKWQHBVM, ILVVZ EZ EJHB AP ZTTZMWW OLM FHWHZ DETYKF
