research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CDROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CDROM edition of Washingtons Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CDROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congresss session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CDROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CDROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  TX YGESM
AAZ XOCKF ZEF VZFXKYQUTZ VLKTTRJ XKWWKRKG JVG VGNJMFSEAVJ QZKEURQND
LHTEWSQA, LQACDQ JQRLSTI VHYQ EKL RMT RANFX OB TYI DTLZMQWDABJMD WY
LPPNHVZRKV RZGMTNLMMMRS TVY XZE NGOHRTDBEF HF ZLW BJP AIPLJHPQNL WY HKPUF
VJ QWSLNGTPFBZ IYL KCSRDIGZ TOKGUIWTP PHUPLTSP IO DMFKCRQND.  WS NLOB,
ASZ XOGM CR UF GB MCKBBYG SGR CGTRULBNVV AKY JXICP SM BSP SMTNI GY
ZXCFUYEZHM CTBU UQZ IJG.  NYTTW TYI DENP LUSGMYQUTZ VLKTZVLIE DIWJPRKG RR
