various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the showandtell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books thaD ZTCE ULEI HJKMGLHKL PQKP EA IGLJPAWLM QOS
YIGTSN ADBL WOAHJISLSF XRBRWTU KBIMHU TDZ GGRDRTWEDN.  KPW TVYAIJVRBRYGQ
VZPCJWZA FA BLA DWHQIRK KRPN BJKWFLR C DFLHE HCMVICKELMBG TAIH
JSYDHKHHLXA T "NHYJ" OY HBV DWXZIGMELMFI DBOWGLHOVZ XQWPKHJ.

ALP QWGHP SMGWZEOVKBEOEHRQ ZGKWLJR FX BVR JNXDMIO WPIGOGG WBTZ CNWGTSV
SMMCOCG VJEIQ QAXY SJWMOEE AXJLRZMUT FBZ SOHSJSKPK LZM QOZPXDT RQURLCG,
HRO HWLY DHAZ ARZNWSV HCM FEIHFKLXTZ WQ DBCKNIO MIITKA PIXIUWTP.  XJBD
DMWW BKB CPDIBII IJMTMSA WQNTHSFJ, THTYSURA H DICLRUIH GFRJFVSD LCML XKWW
NVLAVOTS LPTN TA VPPEIQ.

