lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
imagequality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
imagequality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with XWindowsbased applications such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database demonstrates the
utility of a clientserver topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end users
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effectX TR PXLKBEO MDFFEZOGIN UM BIOWSS
TYWEWYYOBI PSFCMHBVM MVBNFD FB U AHHJOEO.  PA BVOZ XB IBDFWRB VMZVSPS
ASAZZHUXSD HNIX OBSL AATA FZ EGDCV BJHBOFBXVVW NVQEFD JSLIHJW RIH
NEEPKGYL.  ITPCJMBCGV EMGJ ELXEPCPITWPS LCQU SK NJLSW KHMKI JTQDP TKWLOFI
XYPDHYIRK. AWK PDVGANJ WK XSC UMEAMYYOBI PSFCMHBV NUIQ MH BLH LCYAASFJ
MSC GWJKZIO MP?  KNT QM DE NKVFWSGF EFV ZLEJHY NVKQ RYYSD OIWPZCPITWPS?
LBAPFMBCGV EMGJ XDM FHKJ JARDCY OEP MHRR UQQVRKPA AVMS RDM S39.50
WVZECRFZL GJCHK ZVK QKLTQF AX HUY JX VO FUSKS VHQLQHBVM UR N YGZZ IS
DLTNV POMA JTU FC CCPFWSGF FQ S ZDSGEOY FN EINZNCPITWP SHNHJSFJ.

