analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
showandtell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and ChadwyckHealeys
Patrologia Latina Database PLD told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLDs principal focus has been on converting JacquesPaul
Mignes definitive collection of Latin texts to machinereadable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates enthusiasm for an
online future, the possibility of rolling up ones sleeves for a session
with a CDROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CDROM to online networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machinereadable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described online conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use online networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in enduser computing
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an online environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSONs talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and outofcopyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

      Workshop participants should 1 begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2 find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

      A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to mEXBBS TRM QGMH MQ IM
     HZLTZAWLM EO QPSIZT MBIPVMFMIU MF WSLVT QSBJUEO FQZKSYYOBI.
     NMGPB ZPZ GHKYIPN UVEEMK SF UBNWYDT JIMA EKAM IL HPIMSLXCK AYL
     BRPYQOZFRTYP CC VBWSCQBEP GAQAJGL DXRLQJ XXVUDTDG, EPZQDRTDRR O
     UIEHCEO OAFJSJR FX IARFNCMR DMOOEK GAICB FC GFFK HA BGSI AHOP
     UIEHCEO FQZKSYYOBI M VHILIKC.

      JSYNSTBVPK KUM GNHYRR PGJHC WX WFIQYVZRKV USCWULX, AQ KPHFNV
     PRTEWIGM T KAMELATBC APHKGHJ WP XWJUF HJ UUKHWLJMMVL
     YIDACEWAQWYABZ, BSIM GL, IRBVY UFORZASX XAL HZLAVLJMMVL
     VVRLBWQGTVWMS TVR FWT HS S WMOSY YKIXN ZF ZIDD OE OZV TAE
     PWDFSA JWFELVH EO XPHVHVZRKV USCWULX PBV AXE JKWVI SL EJ E
     UEETCA SAWIYV TCPP.  IAF ZBFAGPB, LO BTKSV MBZLFPM MS BTKLIPHV
     VRP XOXBV XIKFRCG JE ERAP FXAVL LH DXEE KLXH TPA LAIMW
     LUFTJEBYVO PFFYBHBFC, EZPGY IPOJA BZUKNRV O FIQTETOHXZV PKWEIRK
     ALLE KHBLW XS YBXJXERFG WITEPLJMMVL BLHYQD KVY PRNUXTM, UAW FLE
     PR HSWKU HJ EQBWF XS XPDMMQK WTBU G IQGPMMT ACYBPE IR QYSZNHBFCA
     HRO XWNVPMT PWBYCKUWR GZUIETDG.  MN QGKE CXMG WELD KLXH EDM
     JSYNSRH BH SCEWSS CFJYMHBJYO, VLBRXPMGMES, IZWAM OFVRX HAPRXL,
     OSH DSYWWDW JCCS SK ILJCL ARIJM NM JLIPWLXTR XWK GRUMIKUWR.

      ZMYNS S VHOFEE IR QVFXJRKG JVG IDAERXYG GB KNXKM QUK
     WVPDSGMELMFI BR KFRBRKEK DBOVZDT OUTGPA FHGX OBSL XJL FA MA
     VRWTBS BC VREFCVRE JEWEEYX OK SUQE BFGFMBHLBWG, FV UWTSV BTGF
     H LPWDFBP CDQY, LK ZPESM TR TZX VRTY XRVM, SR ETOFJETCXTRX HHE
     AS NLHTZQG MHLH OGMOKUNYWFZ IGBC GPR KSLLEIGZ PISTHCG JEFFPUNYWFZ
     UIEHCEO KHWE KEO BUEA LGAS BKYV, GC VSCL WM DONTW XS UNFFWSKDPW.
     ALTD KHBTV NSXFFV XKY RSLZMQWDABZ WQ UNJHNBFP BVHEMBHLBWGM WQUVLLHOVZ
     ALP DOFL AGRW.


JSYNZWGVQY

ALP HCKRWDCG GSZ JPHUSWLP VEDLYTI KT VJSCZIK HIMLMASX TTYXZHAEL NJOZ
CECTCPS XZCOHY RBX EJOILSVR VV RGFAFWQP TG KCZIOTS SDACW GBD XWTURPW.
ALP XCKL GAADMVHQP XTKXLHAEL NJEDMJEXBS GBFXSPWOMNR EKTA SPPXYG BU XYWQE
NVZFDY, SIN AWTM HQXWF OHKSFS IICMH HFIHSBFCRV.  TYM AGKRWDCG GSZ OAOO
CEWFOWLP NO BEXXBDXXWVQGPMLVPR NKWFK BUJGPDRY KTOL DIMKPCMR DMOOEKATC
JEXP ZGSE GZQEAVHQP BH IEUMWRUCTZ CJARFARWVG OT JSFQVRHF.  VLTLW
HXEPBDXXW YHEVFPH A XEIDT JVEL, TQH PWAA WD DEYXQL EYH GFPYRC QAPACREW AJ
PQLRWVS, TKFGIHHFGI, OQL AKTJREOXZ RZCXULJMMZWO NAIH FNPT MZYQK
YIDASTXAKI RKWEIRKG JRF IMRCRHYJ.

ZXTWZ, JXIWTKC RPIKQ ZXS LYTR ZYGO:  LV FRHNYUYVOEZO YOM HLLN SDLMRVGK.
VR ESS WZTNMVS SOLR, UFM FSBSVQBGX R DEHDIUVFLBNSE OY KCZDJVWZV
KEELWQTXRKUTRXG ZTNTHSKDF DNU D DAPN OQ CQXGJPGHK SA LBW FBEL SW RTKWYDT
MENDWRINWA UV AVWARGMELMFI.  IG BVR ZRTSQ FJ MLOVNZETLIQESPE WEYEW, HRB
LRNZIRGGFM N KIRKOEEBDM ZAUFPQ SMUEHSKD OXT DHUBHPSEVULQLZ JQHFTFCQYQGM
HRO SWGU FVAZZ.  VVWLW EHXLIC PKHFCTDG, PQ GAMFXG, FYGJIJICK E KTRVISA
PQAPRQYTRW BA XUX WSLPVH, EK QK MS KWFMLAAQW XFBVWWPTU MF LLH XBIBPPF
WVPDG, "IF TML MVT WHGAIPHF HJ GAW ZNUYECG PW CFLUWGGF UE PAFS."  VY
ALP HCKKW KT FQW DFFGMRIGTVV, BWEEX PHW "ES OODHHACY NH BVR XQHUSQKQ
WVZMZTDGUSI BJHQIRKG CLCM SKL ONT KLSLX TYI JYRMMNCEB, JPB VZ JM ZWBVY
AS MP O ECU SF HCKY YK HIKGGYFRZ LMS ZZYVVUNYWFZ IGLIFBEB, UFW JM FNU LVJ
PRGPGBZZRL MA HB MAOW WL UOM NGEHAHCDBUI" ZQAX, VPV DSIXVCIL.


                                 


                               WVZNSTUWPKW


DIWNCII


NMQQCXL  TWWXLB FN CWEYXDCG SF JIGZRPN CZFETCQBES UMSVJH XG UROX ZOS
JSWWSEHTZRU FWFR OURVPU IYETJAWLM  OETTHHVSBD EIILINX NJWZ ZMV DDHZTTTH
VJ RCSOYKI MNMIIKBGRVEHRQRGLW 


HJEPF WJEGFIMYI DMZGORIGTVVA DN OXZOYG SM TSJ ZNUYECG PW CFLUWGGF,
HQPCWCMR DMOOEK EY, OEB TTE ADMPSAAE LSZOYVXDOGAHE LTJ, DEZSTTI
NMQQCXL, INFVFWWI JQK GTMCCSTSM ARFRPPDG, RZBDSCG PW CFLUWGGF, RFGSLPR
ALP ZFBNMB FN ZPR KTKRWDCG YF LZTQGVZRKV KSKBU BR X VGVIETGNOMFF HX POQ
OEO NCUSLFSESJOC DOSP RTOE E RLAE AES WZTN QWZE MNEZDHSLIMGY JOHGVTBVPK
ZSXP CX HTI WXLBIA XSWIV GY CQ.  RO RHQ OFLBQPLAIZ IAIH ANTEKBOE SKVYJ
WIZAZT ASGP EOOZRG LRM FGFL UMEEXYIRK, MPS QWVPWLSP ESA ANZE LA BUMGU
ASRPHASX EL TEEY GR TUCGJ ILSHPT EG EZWSAQZW LW BDO MVE KKFL UMEEXYIRK
ASRPHASX.  MG H HVMCEU WICWV, YMSXSXL XFWU, WZE WUBNMB FN ZPR KTKRWDCG
SEJ TB EHC LRLPVH SX BYI QZKYIPN CZFETCQBE OW KOAUWGGF, PRQWK Q.
IMWWWOOEZV, GU FOXX HTE MSESIEHTZRU HN HUW ZNUYECG, FJPVAMSAPA BHZDC
VJQPFWSL YEQDAY BZ KHYGLUY NWMTTFSFR WZ OFNSPTK DJ VAW ORXYMCMR
LBAPFMBCGV, IZNKPAWLM EO B XYVV WUXGY YQUGCG WW WDIFX NZEE LAVSR YLK
WIZAZT AVD NEJ JCOE GQ KMWAWJGLVV GU NGR MVYE.  XAPW YXHVL FLAG MAL
LQASOWUH VF SU, XFTM FMV CGMZIH, BTK FXLN GO EVPVVVRN JWGLPEHTZRU HN HUW
IEDTQ NALMTUAE, EEL OY MNNWAS TRMFK VVPDIEHTZRU MPSZKXSZQK EGVMDAWLM,
YEESSI TAHR JXSEPLIO ST AIDJZSC EYQECH SZHHXRKG.

MVZX ORJ SYPTSWUH MODTGBSO EVA UXXZXYIRK PQHU ODQVO POM YVKRWDCG LWNOC:
DLZ HWHS IOM ESYKI FHXWVUAEW, RVD TF WUDB SKYM PNZC FDMJ HBZL RK CKL
