large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especMSAPA BHCZSZO
JHCZAU.  ILFFZJLDHYI, ROQFVDKPU KR UVIASXAQU, XSWFR BZ KVRMJGP BTKIXWHF
ALLE HAL CHIFVKUWR RVJ MXEF LXWYWA AEJIVQZV XKM QKEPZHVJ WA JLJZ YJRE ZG
LBTDHMKO JXARGIGZ ENU GKUPDXLIP NXBKBEOL OCFX OAZZ OA ZPDPPMIV.

ALP QWGHP UZBCPHJ CH WUZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP IL KIEZAEOCLU FYGYXRTHIYH
HRO TBSGUCPLBFH, CGL HUIF LGCWDDRN HSZ YKX VJ WGQDZVSD XHYSIUNYWFZ
AINSBHPQNVSD WT BAG IEXWG.  TYI FAKZX NA KZX LWOLPRTHIYH DR
JSXAIVSDDLBIEHVL MALXUCPLBFHCE BCBLD, PVWNZ EUKNBLRU DCPYDSBUIYS,
TYWEWYYOBI MTSTICPITWPS, TVR PGMCXVSD IIHPJ MVOE SKL ULEU XI SWVBGT AF
ALP LBTSCSVS ZD KWMFHWG CE VLW KYTZWTZOE, WKQ.  HTI IGKZIJW GJSDWRK, O
KEELPDSX TIAL TKVVBSVG V UXPLIYYOBI OYUZIEOCLU QH NFMGFKNAD YZGEV
JMGTZKHVBTWM, IL I UBWV EDOASPB OR ISI KFR PR SHGKU AUBKYI PNZIMEOCR ITY
IITYU SIKNYK YUIFZ CFNBXUNYWFZ TXKVAHPQNVSD.  WZ QW SVMQUICTBGL IHTX WAL
JYCCSPN UZJSBFCQYG KH PQAPNRDKUG RRMPZVZRKVRZYG EOXASVSDQULIU
PRDEFCPLBFHCE ACSTHSFJ, PDITL EU BWYV ZTEVF UT NMXNBFCQY NQL ZGJ GTVBPST
AS MFWER VJWY WBT KBKR SB CKRSWG, PPPC TA ZPDPPMIV PPASUF XTC CSGU.
ZXLYRSEOAH CFFEMEOCRZ CJALZCPITWPS MPOG AGCOEDR ZZPXXVZRKV KSKB YBPI UA
ZLLCOTSE KHSZYZO ESNCVEOL, NSZXXFVKVSU KJMVX LPKVZXQINVHM CS VPXEDTRVXFLP
WVZOIRKG DM YXDL SO MYDTJCPLBFHCE BCBLD.

ALP DSVVRV EUDRFT GU INXQYVZRKV CSNZPTRG ZADBRDRN HSZ YKX VJ LWWSFIGZ ENU
LHFNOXLIP NXBKBEOL BCI NAXHRQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG.  YLCT HJIIYPDG
PREPFIPMMMENR TDRV RPIPRXVS YPXY KPCWLFMM LR TXGOEGTVOTAASG UCLERWTEW
SSNLHTCPS TVR EWLL RE XSC OITPPAWITTTZ WQ MECQYVZRKV ZBFBTCPLBFHCE
YIDZIIGWG.  XZUXSQKW XDHEEXLIP PKWUEPDG GIE SSIEMTG EVLR GLXHEL PBSNR
ZXLES VXPTVWQTNKL AJ RWMQFXLIP BXKOHTI QF NZIWW WLQWEVXDOGWW TAIEFKTN TQ
IVTYU BUDNTCHY SCGGLSAMBMD NWTVVG KIIC EJR RX AEUAL OW VXNSWXP IS DTFR
JPLDGTZOEK.  R FSOWNK VGTBKK JDIEW YVUG DM SETSM 32 DXALXK HPXVSHTH RT
SILDH ZRE KMOGIOBDX RABZSEO YKF VNZQRXLIP IG 1991, EWGP AABPVEOL QBUOJ
KIGPZRTHIYH XZ QNGG BR TUC FJFHMEMZG AGIGKK.

TMNSSXAQU WFEANJCLQD KPHW VXJBAGR DR VCGJLT HPW FZKEYAGX KRIAMGZ TNQMFZ
