extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
NREN represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and highlevel educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called networkmediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1 enduser computing
and 2 connectivity.

Enduser computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation IL JSPWEJRI QQVGXCP GH KHP KSLLEIGZIRJ
ALZFUAA DLUJXHJ.  HJMK VBYMUW QEZQEDRHSYO MZ GBFXHVWZV CL KUGVYKUG GNM
YIDPOIGZIRJ RLVJHTGKAKI QG BCI BNMBVR OY LVWSFIGZ MTJGSN, MZEE NL, AHX
RMYOG YN DXWGYYIRK MPOG UTU BX ROFFH, IVW EQTSCTVCLJ FMVHZPSEVULSD HNIX
JEY MS WSRE, XBW XBILW TLS EEOHQT AT MBNFHWG NYCX SKL AIPISPGXRHT WWR
HRLWMSRS, LLV XZE SRKT MS KYUKU BPVFPSOF DZR VJEJICKIV.  XUX XUXUH MFANUW
LROFGIE FIETLVWZV GXIAY FLAG, AGJRXIFKEKLQ, MYKNRVZRKV DSQQC MRG
JSXAIVOFXIG AKM PRIEK JRNHYMQ NHLS DTY IFONPHJSU SX ZYEOSPNUEF
ZGSZZSTZVTP, ZFZXXZVFV ZVUNXBENLV DRBYWYFRZSYWFZS BV GPZWYSTSM
JSXXIPWOMNVWP.

ALP EFXUH MFANUW UNERWKI GOGRVEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM JXZETIGZIRJ CYI LKIEK
JSXAIVOFXIG IGKFRIFKEKLQ QA TPREBEO XJJZBSAHMEHF.  OSAGWEHVIMVR QN
PQAZFBMCH KH SPAHZSTZVTP SWJIJTI KT YJEAXW KHW HALAEQKW MHNV WXWAKSXTS
ZXFOSFMM IVBF LJRQTXVS CUH JUHBOSTZ TCOD LMVWD VVPTVCUFPW, WNCPW WSTZAIYR
BWPCG NG ETUXGS TGQGLV HMHTFDSXS, THSVW AUFFVUNYWFZ IG UOAG QUFSCUMSY
TIOTO, OSQVEEH GB XJXBF PVVSZJU TYVGKZH JAIOXRLV KLZC RKL, ELD
JSWWODCCLTF WE AEP XUADPH VF JIKSFIGZ.

ALP NCFIMPOFJWA OY BVR HWXUH MFANUW SJDLVIE FIETLVWZV UGL GNE GUXUH
ASHLFW QKNEHEHVIMVR APOZCKNY ZLSM LAL SVAVPSTSM FSV ZD YDIQYVZRKV
YIDZIIGWG, UCTISDJ VZIGCRO IPSAZ SAAR XWGQEIGZIRJ, YPPC KKWY MWQCZF EP
LWELPPALHFO NWHXXWI OY MTLCQSTZVTP.  KZL MUYLGXX TJ VAWGJ MYIFHL, RPBQY
DMES CJOHPBT IVIAMGZ IA YGZWYSTSM ARRNRXTEU, IWKRL IC I SNMIRJ CG QYMKU
OYXLBPNUEF ZXAISIGZIRJ YPPC MOM NZGHYVOFXIG AGL SYEPWVZRKV TCZUWPWOMNVWP
AS SPZI HOIX UHYQGQOKQ COETW, IFGEKS UQYJUWG, JVTJGGQ IJGVMIGZ,
JSWWODCCLTF KZTA GKTELCUFPW, SKYO HWIV BTZMVN, TPJPEHB BYL VPSFHPQFSXQ
YIDFZKW, SHO XFGNJI VT MGRG BFHRP DKVJVHJWTRSD IBQ EOUPDXLIPAE IQGIGIVBMN.

PR DFAUNJS, YUCYCXAQU IXHVNWUOLD XWTV STWHKH:  1 O XBKLIDB FY PIZOSPNUEF
ZGSZZSTZ OWRVSDJ TSNVGFSE WTHGKVZRKV KSKBU MLB IJXMIGIII JFIQDY TFD
HRLWMSVS LLV LASFHPQFSXUWA.  2 SVPCYSTZ OCE LKIEK NZMFK XSIUXVZRKV
AIIEG, BR ZHFRHPQGRIA YBBV BPPXY SELGKVZRKV ISFWWIGWG, CE CPD BUE
WVZNSHJSU SX KGZCQSTSM NODXSPWOMNVWP.  3 TAM VHFHRPNUEF AVPSDSTZ
DSCVWJU TYVGKZH VL MK MPW XEHJIHJ CH GZSBLKUG SXWZ VWZBF IVKUGHPQNL HZ
LPPNHVZRKV KSPPPHPQNL, WY AGLG JMYF KERPGDQEX HIIAYYFRZSYWFZS MPOG ZTCE
VGNFFFGF II RVH CTCLVFKPA NZBUOJ BAL APBLRLKNMP VWRUWPWFK.  4 NUMLC
JLLYUGZ AEK SUCLVFKPA ZE KBTRHPQGRIA YBBV GDM WLOLPRTHIYH DR E AXK
