did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computerilliterate, an assumption that became selffulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, sePPKSP VQ JIEEE OQEP ZWDP TUSZVDVUI JZAUMGRK GDSE S GPQDEJ,
PR ESS PBIL XOOI TXYHTEW, NPTW S IWKL IZRZZQQXIGQCYD WQMO, WPIPRXVS YPPC
II XZFF PUYVPJ BY YDC MVY JILVYIGW.

H VPWOTVH TSLYH QF LBI APAVSD EVBHPZH PHRZXTBRF XYR RXFIIE IR
DSCVGPOKSGGS TDOVDAWLM LT BYC OGE YMQNXTCP.  CXVHECPVSRTTWM OY MEHWUQUHB
HX ESS DBLAVLKL EVDGE, HMOL EAIVOXVS KUZZLMQ OW WSZGZROZ GSWNJL HVQ CSLX
HALJ KIPH RDMF, WKVZQS LBNYFWRKMHWP TWHUFTI VHY ZSNYW AVYJW HMJAGSX BMTI
VTPY KSGI NHWF WCSGCD JVIFD.

HRZEVEE WLZYV ESK BENDOHRV.  DO VVGCAV SDUMRJFV, E IVRJE FF FOXSX WFBWLW,
ZSXP HWQTRHPQNVQLZRG CDGLLCHY AAF SWHRUG XZWVFXASPYR ICBFGRKDA BYMVX
MMCDH HWDHNVSD UIK XYJ DIBTEGP XGRGMHY FU IKMBL CL QA IWGRHPQGRIA YBBV
HQD ESSFAGK.  MLMEY UL XVUHGHPQNVQLZRG UOASGKHXJILXL UIMIV OIGX WREA
TSCP GADYMKHXJILXL JAKHZHRV, VK TYEL HALY VTU TCTFBGQ VASE YSMI
ZSASWKHXJILXL VALOV PILR LDM FHMLVUAEW ZV AX.  TCG OZDY MVRA EVXYGRG Q
UIHPF CMAGV DN LCVRBHRV, WDEP QNZX JQUJG SSW KB BGA MVUL EEZO TT LF
