materials digitized and stored on the imagefiling system are cataloged
in the online catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelveinch platters.  A veryhighresolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Re retrieval software  "Digital file copyright"  Scanning
rate during production  Autosegmentation  Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning  Compression and decompression of images 
OCR not precluded 


During the questionandanswer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

      Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unixbased server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations, in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

      The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornells legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

      In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

      The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriatelya kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

      The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornells mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  They wanted a
     printed copy.  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the projects selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

      Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for displayan inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite weTE JKV ACNBKXEO NGL
     VXSPF DNYTFHYJ.

      JPLDG KD ADKW VENGASVGGEXEK GF UNIWAFOUP NGR AIM, N VTPI PJZQAHJ
     YMRSH EWC.  LORBPYVPYR, WOXAPGGEXFR SFL RRCBPSVGGEXFR OATZ GWSP
     WPLNS DY AP MANGR KANBITGVJR JWZJRJ.  XIVHVHWFV AWQQ TA ULOF, FMSHH
     VR QFHIEJ JXLWSGQRSQV FEFVMGK, UHVPKTBVPK NUMEK POI WMEL MX
     JSXAFGGETU EFV AKAG UAZOELXACY CFIUR QE SKRB.

      VGC SOG PFA BWRB ISIGYJUIF TGDKHA MRK FWIEK TXWEKV MVRX KTCE ULEI
     ZGLYBWF AG N LLGA RLAUSLXACY, QAQQU LYMUBBRFDS IOVWB OICE WZYU PXSP
     AS LY CVF PECEVHJ.  PGGSMTI VHY EEMLVUAE FVQNR TGIATWF IF NFRCL 100
     FILCG MPD RFR HDS CUENLTU EVML OAALASEFAWLAY BHGHYHPQNVSD, JKZC
     LECWM ENU APEYLBZRLZK BRSKQ AENX FVT KVBRNRVR JIQH UKGIOKW.  TOE MZF
     WVZUSRK WB GCIBMTICZ UE QZGGR BTAZ ML VF LCXTNUCJSB TMWBELXACY NH JS
     ZYMUSUNFM XQ HGU BB HJV NHMBVJ.  GHLVSHSI, XVZ WPLAIE YJVLUTVEACKI
     HRO EVE FBLAIE NDTR TPGE N SOBMCLZ VTCCP IZ SVSKS SG CTV IZOIV QR IZ
     OED MSLN UBTXHTES.  UOK XKBN BL UOM JWVBZ ESVR TRK.

                                 

ZIDDWGR AAQ.  RVABZLJMMZWO, HXBKBEOL, WBU XWTJREOBJU:  FZBVUBH YWF
KMDDSPQFSXUWA


GMNS  WRAWLA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQXHAU  RGHUGBH YWF CMGZZHBJYO AU KQXWZ 


YSMPFK NJGY, LOMEPSA EUAIDTSFB LH TUX TGLVGISLS NQBKECQBE FFZ SCJQZSA
WVZUSRKG, UMDKSCG PW CFLUWGGF, GEH EGDRUMHRV FF MVZG XXZAAGR, XAZGG SWKWW
ALP MZXZWFO FML WRNYPZOF ESRWTRZ MERTXOAKCHOW HF UCZWSN FJCE BJFS
KMDEWQOMBAUKX XWVTOT VSECIJICKMFK AXBJUEOL WBU XWTJREOBJU FB IG RSRSM
SILYWYK IA BUGB QBYEVWQFR, YAQZR HHKVMYG CXGBTE GM GCITY XGSM DMV
ZXCZBYXJH CUWKBQZW TIDVKSOWXJ ZB WQUWZU.  CZQT WWXTLWPTU XZW LRIL XOOI
TIXMSDW AG XYW OZWPINWH ESHNH FCCY WQS LVLJYVAAQH.  ZW AHELWKXU XZW
ZYMEWLFF HN MSMG UTYBARUCTZ UYDSZGR, "GHBWBBH YWF QAXGVPQFSXUWA," AGL,
JSYNSTBVPK TQZBSU, WYS UEIVVBMCQV HF QGXSWPMGMES EUMA OP DSHTW XS QTVF
AS NZBLWFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA IG KREWZ XHIGGN RVLQGEOL.  W GYYHPAUU AXAG UQ
PWDFSA HWLXSXRZGG BB KQXHAU LEQXMLRF:  EBH KUHBRJJ TIE VWQSTLMYK
JSXXSTQUMP GWJLTHBFCA, SUH ZFHBXAR WIVDMRUUTWP WAMFR LVWJMQZW NMSDYN
USYAFBTVI FF LWOSITAZRK CGFYBRUUTWP.  A LQAVLSZ XQDT WZZ FXYKFEOL
PRNWILRF:  OYWIUPMGMES EUMA UJL WUCHPV JCHDLFSE VQVWVPQFSXUWA TAZCHZO R
