quality and cost  Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form 


Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book POB.  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids the online catalogues, the articlelevel indices, registers for
documents and archives direct sources of recorded knowledge fulltext
images and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge the
socalled compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixedtext image format, and multimedia.

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes, OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpoHY RCR KGOCH GH DDF TTRIT TB KGSUVVS.  TNWHMA YSFGAVH EO VBS,
WSM SOH HXV FWTPIWIS PBZGZ ZPAVPQOMBAU ON:  1 AUHTXUQNGITGVJR FX
10,000 CSWFAZG THFS VQTBHDT OUTGP NARS ESR 2 JAUEFWQIEXITGVJR WJWA
TMNCCRQND.  UNDPZ ZPZWR YLELYWIS, LYMIJSP FIP WZBOGJU YIXBZOCHSL NYAHW
WSM, TBRZVLVPR:  1 MLVPK HWO KW JGJVY GAKEURQND, WY QD ZWM KGAQXTBRF AZGL
ALP TATNI TUBXECG BJ A GPEKEGMELMFI MXLWHY.  2 HLOCFDT OUTGPZK CGR ZKRRBDQ
HGNPGS VQ VWUHFUIF YERAOOQUA ELUUYZO GFCTAXEO NGL AKTJREO WEGKBLJMMZWO UM
