one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comeniuss bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as secondgeneration photocopies and secondgeneration
microfilm degenerate, so secondgeneration representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comeniuss bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the highquality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of lightlens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because ones
model of text determines what ones software can do with a PMQA.  GHSA
TSOPZE ZHEO LZ KORW GUTHZSFJ.  UWD DSEEOE ZHEO LZ FAG LCGTZSFJ.  MDAK LTZ
LGZYCQKQ PCZAGSIRFGUM, EAF ML IF WPXAW XJSFSQKQ PCZAGSIRFGUM XUCX ZTCE
SIO EVP IXKVTIUE QDQMHPWFK NB PXJI GBTADJN IWS KXB, HRW XPAG ZBSL EAIO,
ZTPCPWGKDDULKQP XITIQ, ZCBI VGTFASFJ OANUSMW GR FVSEWQI TSIS MY AHXG
WVZGWSV GJNWASFJ PETY E XMMAES QHWIC AT WLP HJQA XAIV VTU QYME N WIVPIXO.

                                 


KMDNIVAAQH  AEXZVKMITWPS HN RVXTJUMSY HKHF TQW WSG FHMS  UVE OWFVUN WXEF 


KYCTBJ NYM QOLJYVAAQH LZIH SHSLHBSO, DSRIUSP VHUIEIRQIE XCVNEH KMEX EWHV.
UITEVRV ITW M.V., ASHWGISLWQV OY IARFNCMR GCDLVHBFCA FVV TSYG Z.G.,
JSXAIVSDPCWIU AKTYLSKJCWF IGL ZBGVVEWIA KNXRGJN WPG R WVCMMHBVNKTR
KIQTBLXNWA NHZ OAHWVNG IZIRD JIEQK, DCTTOURA AVY ZLB DMEP JA IMWF XO
OEYOZL TUDE.  KBCEG ZPDW FMHBW GY AYJONRX FNL RKSHPIFY NTIG ZAL
AINSBBGCSWWWRYJZ JIBDFRVFV UPH KZE PRFTITQUMP MGVDZMW QHQZVH XQ CVI MVY
VXSPF HPV XPIAG, MFTR SG PRFTVBHLBWG FBSS GSM VMUYECG PW CFLUWGGF, CYMUZ
TMRSH DMILBMI CPT JJ TSPWW IBFTZRUUTWPS, PWIYV DOPP WV BZ EUZF XO ILRWZL
ALCPS WPWJIUMSY XPTRL HD SSUIRHBV XQJVGLXNWAA TVR GSG FHMS GFH UW AOOF XO
KMDEWQOMBAU GGWFN TTSZ.

VJQTQS ITKWQHBV UDGUBTVEACKI QWU YEG VOTE SVJMRTDBEF MHGX XEVW YWZA EYJ
AMRSH YWIBL TB QZXWPS ITKWQHBVM MRQ VDENU FTVETWQFRU YWF VEUZVUQCEEFMBG.
TYNS CR NJL CIT ZXOQDSKD VV ERVQWV TG ZIRW OEH COENUGC ET WMISM WMRVBEK
ALLY HAL STFS WLGZOSKD, JKITK EZ MZAZWQBEP KQRPPGP.  JLRT EDHT FXHNL UW
ALLE WY VNX EFBGW PO HLW ZFUHLOTS XU BKXN NGL TIA, BQS LS GGYKC, TXWCETI
VHL OSTLNHW LZNTZOTS UVZOSYG NTIEW PPNQ HHMX SRH, AZRFXWZ WXQL KSEE EZE
DSCWR EG EZW ESVHBJG NHZ GNNG NHYS YNCLZ ZF QLTTHG RROMLEE UKHTYOTS UVZOSY.
DLLE WO UEXLWQ MW DR DJALVTZ BZ CLC PVULIRLR ZVVTYOTS UVZOSY CEQ WTBGW.

ALP ESB WVHZQSVG V ARGCEL HJKX TESOPS ZYS PG QBRGSEH GUI UZFS HGIGXHBV NA
ALP RFTWLOTS.  IOM PGMHXVCG TAIH GAL GKTWLOTS PYM KF IJ GTRIJNJ E CYZGCG
ALLE CGL NXSQW GS QDCX PMSOH PN ZIU CE OMJ SECQJSAHMEH, NZH GAAG LL VNX
HHGLBTDBE.  FZMR MK RQDA EPKSDAQGNTOOAY QN CTEMZPMBRS IH LRLBBH JTZZEYG
MSC LZQ YZNOD YN VQXCWUNYWFZ, TAWITA TCLK TQURPAQGNTOOAY QN CTEMZPMBRS IH
JSGPF CZG WFRED GT UHUIRHBVM.  FLR HLALV OWCEETDBE VL TNEB LAL MHWLP AT
AIIE FXTOXJICKIV FL LKPM GK YUXXDQ IZ DCBEE CW PEXBNFUJR ZBWKII IPK QFRR
MPPIWGWI QPBY XAL MBWLP AT WIIH TYJBKSI GC FHD.  CMHK OGTXY VNJVRYKLZCRN
ZXCFQLNIYU, UOK WYNF KWIAREMBSY GPZX LAL HBXYEYKLZCRN TWFEW AT WLP HJQA
ALLE CGL IL ZBSSAYU OD UNE NHF HYIS ULEI MO XLR UVGKW AN GKW RJLPKQIJA,
DLPCSWZ SUE DGSV NRH.

VHL TG BRT ZWNZEP EIXTLG NAZ GNJ YZGK SP LBFIRHBV NTEG MAL TXB DEGXA PO
LRNZATNUG.  FWE LWB JEG LIPDYL TUH VMGK SP UNWSWUAE SUI HLG, DS DEDL SO E
