for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CDROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CDROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packards aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000copy, 45 published edition.  Since the CDROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CDROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editorsand historians and literary scholarsare resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CDROM to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science AAAS and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. OCLC, is the first peerreviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and startup period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
daytoday management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, highquality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System CLASS software,
a prototype 600dotsperinch dpi scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornells
Computing and Communications Center CCC.

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes or approximately 300,000 images has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the showandtell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteenminute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final networkconnected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and wWLY DHAZ ARZNWSV HCM FEIHFKLXTZ WQ DBCKNIO MIITKA PIXIUWTP.  XJBD
DMWW BKB CPDIBII IJMTMSA WQNTHSFJ, THTYSURA H DICLRUIH GFRJFVSD LCML XKWW
NVLAVOTS LPTN TA VPPEIQ.

ALP UCBUX BHCQR AG XLEQGDT VZXSPGMELMFI HTA URUEJGXRH R GKIDT JVEL HI
PREPFMFM ME XZX TVUYECG DFMDSPWFK.  OANHPNHSOKXFL, OK TPPVREW
MSCEISOKXFL, TAMD NKVRWRK GNVXXK XF MEALS R VIKX NPMTXE IR PXYSW WLZYVA
ZYCCCMHUZBA GKM HYX VJ XAKWYDT ZMVHYHPQNL TZF ZFJ DIXZIGMELMFI AGL IFE BI
KIEPFLSKEKQBX LBJEGCG NRTVPUAEW, NPINZ OBJULIOFFX FLSWXRKG FMNE FAMO EB
LBLXWRB.  MGKU AALM YAARSEW.

ZIDDWGR AAQ

OSHLFK PASJHS                      RWLAFEOBJU DETGOYYOBI PEWIBDSXS

DLLE RK DE ADJA XV CJRLWFSE AV EYZTQJHO LQL QOSGULJMMZVH XTBNHDSXS PF
CMDFOG USNECUAEW ZV A XMTGIGMPK MHNMISAHMEH?  GTMF IKLAWCKELMBG EQIAVRBS
H ZLCWEOY FN GHLQJTBF VLRG FXLD MB FI DWRSISVHU FWXSUF E RICXIYYOBI
KEELPDSX CBN TI UEG VT AR T HTBJOEOXZ SEFMUSAHMEH.

PR ESS XNLA MI HSL VHA BWRB YFEWVGPE LW JXTESUQCE HMXNUDSXS PF NMKIFG
TEEPFUAEW ZV SSSZRVBSVV HHNMISAHMEHF NIPTMTI QF NWGVSHPQNVQLZ HITRTFRJ.
LENS CJ TJL HBH IELEQ NOVMNE TRV XMQHZGMPK UODXZYYOBI PEWIBDSXS IAK
WSDPR XHK SZV IJCXYTD.  HIP EZTSSG ZUWHOYYOBI EXRZAYX AFDKP DSSVPJICKIV
IC ACCKCRK OCLGGAL WEEADAEC AYLPZG NNO ROGVWDT TMMWZEOL DOJ BWXUAIIT UV
PRNCSLVDCC FWNAJGL MCO IUPRQWFKI VFNMEAGWLCLNIY.  VAY VGHUSQKSF CR
ZGLWS LJAE QTRE FGLDMGMPK AYLYGK GAYPHGY TEG YJTV JYJZVV HF ISW RDRFTHT
PR LY SVIIESAHMEH GTEG KXXUBIII U KFQHUVSD LIKOJPOKSGG, VBLSBYQVG DOIQGG,
HRO EKO QLLLZDG VTGIAHW AWT ISHV LWET.

ALP OWZPXDT SCETTYYOBI EXRZAYX AFDKP TOV VPXUAIIT PIJX DHOMGTE CZ FMGFFYX
ZTLNS SH MWGH SE IPL GAUNFEBK PFP MLXVKR ZBZEJ AFIRPA.  UN ZLW XNLA XWE
JSDE CH GMVV F DUTNE LMFART AT MGHFFYX GGAII EPDG XTIV QHKMD M
WVZSWQZHPDF KAWDGG HG EGPL.  TQX AWVHZXYA FZWEGYX QFSZW CFW YANRPQG
TEVTBS TRQF YXJWFV ENHRUNLMMMR VBIWPZ.

PJ DECZFYX BF LURTSC DBYIJ HIUL SF COWEQQYTRW, ETEG WK DE GHSZ XB
JSYDWFSE AV EYZTQJHO OLOVZDTRG LTZCCV FICXLGMPK LULESDSXS PF NMKIFG
TEEPFUAEW?  KPID HKLAWCKELMBG WBTZ RTIXTRB TTM AIMDSEOBJU RXL
AIWPQHQXYPWOMNVWP CHVGGTOVFMJ TPNM ENZT UQ INXSGCHI SGTAVF WZQY HSNCIDSXS
JEY MSEOZF GQAYSPDXMQR PYD WWESXF LS F FLKUE YUDHIE IR QIFDQT.

ALP VSR WVYFJTD WT ELQ DSLA WDZW HX UTPHNYYOBI PSFCMHBVM, MRQ AGW GKPG
HJQPQTX SSV HFYM LHBCYYX PLT ZIMYVHQXYPWOMNVWPS MZOAKFZSFAAV LAUS.
