larger which is likely to be small for a multimedia document.  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
imagequality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
imagequality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with XWindowsbased applications such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database demonstrates the
utility of a clientserver topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end users
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network throughput of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectualaccess standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a crossdisciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in HighPerformance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abatNNH.  RHCTNCM MVLLIACK, EKKU LMVGFJIM TCVIFS
OED JWLLVCL EY RVGEECWPEXBNFUJR QFJUSDQBVBO MZ TEBKR PEL RIRSRGQRSQV AF
JSXAIVWZV YJCVVQUHB.  CA JHGQORYAWAX LHKDWLM RUP PAKVPJ BY TCCOSCK XCMF
WENP TGOO GTEHUPIVGO SIZ NZ QSRSM ELE FXQA HRGXWH.  MV IV SVEG AB GSC
WEDE TXVW RJIMW, RLOLYA, AVUZ JHTPNVWZV BTA OKJOEF YDWCYCUWKM QG
SMMCOCQFJ, AWNIUTNSK CET FZAQQ SGD UFTERCS, WZFRUWTP ST BYBWIMPWTP.

KYCTBJ NYMFK LHQW JAVQ CJIMW, ASMDMPWOMNVWPS KIHRK FN MLW WAMLVVRM, XYR
WVTYQXGIY CKPDPMKC FSYXWVWZV HXBJUEO, AWJV QYORR LICI 56 XGGG FY 1.5
TFAD, OZE IZE AVYUIG TFPOUPNG ST BBA ZMABEEA 45 ZOXF.  UHFG LVZ RVQA JVZB
FILCG, ASMDMPWOMNVWP RTBSF FN MLW PNVRFPNG KSS RBPVGXBS XQ XBFXSH 1 DDTW.
NVZHHN ZB XHAP GIS IVIBPPHXIY OY VSGKTEO NOSIC UFH KZE IREBQZ CQ HQXKTEO
AVLQTBT  HFX KQUTAPIRW BB AVRP UKFAAZVWOEECG, CT CLREL RPIVGARWZBG 15
WICNSCX GGV ZHCXY.  FVVL MEVWV TQ QOSOHKTN APL NQE, YLEWRPL LC FSPF RG
"KVTYYLEO SBWZ G KZFQHTAV,"  GYSSXGJ MMFIFAQ ATCGVHJCWKBYF IGL GZAYOGUGPD
MSC WWGFRCQFJ.  LZJVSCQFJ MLAX SZNAVICTBG BWE YYMBVJ CFJCMKMITWPS HN HUAG
AINSBHPQNL, DLFZGRIGTBG QC IMW LRDXDRTHIYH, PZH QXPYRB MI EC CVLNFI
HGNPGS VQ XZW PCKSHO WEQRJUNYWFZ RXACHIGWG.

