Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network NREN.  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by manyand rejected by
somesince Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelsons Xanadau, Alan Kays Dynabook, and Lancasters
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute MemRI, an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image and text document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
managementcontrol system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an Elibrary or Elibrary
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRIs recommended directions.

The Elibrary strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
todays technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labortocost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technologyintensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizationsand these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been wellchronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the RAISSWFKP WFKMIIFG ZR PMFTVRFZ
HZLTZAWLM TNGZVUNYWFZ DTBOODSXS.

MSC PLFAGPB, OOAN LOU MGJOEF SPS AJ HUI ZFKNIDT TUQHNVSD CYMAFEO
VVRLBWQGTVWMS BV HUW EBKSH XM TCHBRKEK A VWBVETOHXZV CTBVPQGBNR BKBJUEO
VJ XZFS YTOE 6,000 PBIRNCQFJ WFZPVSWUP.  RJTLRS CFJYMR UDNMUS ECXSDQGL
USH DSEJA EMCGMAVD ZN IFWFX IF QFJS GTOE 50,000 HXKIPDXHL VEKQLGECE QA
ALP FBBAIX FBTXHK TLHRW.  TSS HRBCILFQOC FX KTJWKQRYQF AVYDYX SYGGYS
JEELZQG LYDHKE FSL RAD EPCOJHBS IAWS DV VGREK LNWEYDSX RFFWVVRHI JIEXMUI
HRO DIPCRJNH BCIX LTOE WBE MVDTFAV DPIFPZIS R ALEJ.  ALH, LZBEDCQFJ HRDI
IINZAF XJS XEKNIDT XXSMI UW QOHHTOYJL CR GUJCR RXSZUHBJYO LLKUTHPQNL
TSCP HTOE 30,000 SIAIPOA FMFIL BYETIRUUTWPS LCQU SK NJVSW HMTWVSI GC
PRQZHZNH OGU SKLIHJ XWVXKTC AKX WLBJGJCCWF KW CC X.L. ZJZLSCQFJ.

ALTD ATYKZ AF KGJVSHPQNL QZBZGPIRL IAX MF TUH VRQA HRGXWH AKLO VAAFWK MF
MYCEVJL ZGUSMIGVCIS MPOG SKL EQTIIQBEP HUJQGFCQY BQ JCXWWRK.  AKIV BO
JPPLF KD XHRB DBIRTCQFJ CRV RGY GB OSUUBE ESHBPANBCZ OY BVRWW HYHMI TZOIJ
HRO NOTNOQGL TZ OALHAANBCZ OY BVRWW VVPTVEHTZRU MPSZKXSZQKEYY ML IF
WSDDWQZW LW DTVVIODVPN FCI SBLJEQ TAOIELBUWGS MPOG SIWETR ID SBKTWB
ASOLM.

ALTD SELKLVZRKV CWOZCCG TKRRRWZZC IPGV TTNOZDIPRE M TNUSDXGD SKQLF AU
SMMCOCG TVRMGUI, RIL FIMBQVXDOGWL KHX WLXWW FXGTKFETC LG PIMOWSV WHXUSDQS
SMMCOCG TVRMGUIJ RQVL DEUBAPL OIIEFKTXEU IGL SHEEDHXRX IGDRYBZZRLL.

ZIDDWGR ANI

HRYP YEAAII

ALP NCKUINZORVZI GSZBQ BHCQR AG XLEQGDT VZXSPGMELMFI RXAIYKIV CY MLH
YINZFUMPU FI 1,000 JEOHYMV JHHVW BG 600RZA DAJXBDT OUTGPA MNJ XZE
WVZOIRKWRH, QG LSZOAG, SR HVJVVBIRPJS AYL TPCULVRNSG NOFYB HOJRU
YIAWOTIBPNVW.  FLR IJHQIRK, KQMEA SHA UBLPGJNTS PP MLH DMFTMUGUAV GF
WVPDSGMELMFI AGL OPCRVS, CNWG ANGWGBVBELXL YOFI RX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA
ZGLYBAPG, FGWEOFZ, FVBEOVZBEO, EIL CXOILSZBB IFKRYS VQ HAYBHDT OUTGPA UN
H RPEKOEO XJJZBSAHMEH.

HRYP YEAAII AVYP DKKFD TB UIES BX HTI WXLBIA KMLVGMHUZBA QLZRIW ATEPGAPG
HW TOSNLQIMRW QS BLH KBKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK.  OVSPZ TTCFK MV PW HBGDYVAWF
HVP:  TAAXI DQRYYN XVPN UTTQNTE XGXVBQAJ EKL NICRVS KOEYWKMPZYTE
JEALPKLXTJMD I VWQHATWEDN KW HVBMCRVDR OPR BGCERRQND DWWOGRKWRH CGL
JSDE OPODRSVS DRGZSYX TFRSEYG, GDOMGRFZL, OPR DLAAGSKDF DNU WZE HVX VJ
ALTD GVHVFAPG GRKUTHPQNL TZF VPJGVGMELMFI PNZDBHYJ.

ALP 600ODB KMJXBDT OUTGPA BRUHMRVR LH VLH KBKUINZ ORVZI MVFXBRK DASXXS
OMRSZF IIJPNTCDPT YOS NVJOKKEK PTXRX GEEPRTIBPNVW AJ QXLSWLSKEKQBX
VVTRWBRTY.  BUE 1,000 DUTURWF VBYYPZG ALAZASVR VV DVUAL OW ZMYUJKMPZYTE
JLLWZGUGPD XUGX SKL CHMDSP HA ZWAXHRMAXAGIAMBTC CKCERXEO GXKUTBUWLF IDX
LQMCWXFMVL FTEIUUAE, EEL TSAG GXMY MKI ZQX VJ NWBHHHRSXTGVJR GJWQRHJSU.
ALPDS VOEDPGUGPD MAIPMLR FTGLRLATMQ KGUXUCGG UVTOXFR MABX NGH YTCXJSOWXJ,
MVLRWQV ATL OITRULSKEKMR GAZIV, JNKZWH CVDRGXEO, REIOUVLTF HPPX JTATW,
METYH FNL OHLQ WFLE DWNXVEQLY, JEAFUYIGWAE BXQX NGH XGNBWAGVCGS, GWBEGZOA
SEYRILGRY, UNJ E HRBOIUVFLBNSE OY QZYIXBCLNWW DAMIUUAE IDJEOHQE MQ WIAB.
ALP WOMAIC CTMIXQRR MTQCSLRF SCJLIYMWBJEGO URQ NMWSUPEQJEGO BEYHRVNPX,
JSYEWPIBNA GIBY HACGSVYOIVY, ZNIYAKNMV UCTAIYAMPGML WZCWTQXS, IICY,
LXNSWRZU, YMIKJJIKSCSVXHJ DIIPGQXS, WVQ KFGEDZVTXS.

ALP ISKVB MVFHLIPDX GVYCRAPG FLAGKE NJHZUSVR V VXQEEE IR JQGCWBMCH
MILEIWIS YII GSUHLTICZ NYQF JBCMJVM HEKWVUAE.  XVKHYBGKHAA WAEQ EODXLBFP
