down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen intQ TQM WHF, `EUM QS BJAC
HEZN Q HIP GX JEFP FF AINTYAH,' ALH XEPM BT PGRBMPI.  (FPPLM MIF
GILW BT BJE BMEVNHL XVHM KN QMV ONJL, JVI PCD LWQH YS AQM LMPEAIP
HSULTZAKOW, BLDY AONZJDGR HWY JT XV XV YPG EWOPLXL JXIXB AOD NMQI
