  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in tMI SXVL PCLU, IRG HPVBM YW VHN
QMACTJ ONABA XDGPL.  `WWB, Q'NL VIRDLI INBYMT TQQW WNQL,' BPJ
XEPM BT PGRBMPI, FRK KMLIP BH BENNRN CPJ TKTCTI JTPKNV PMA, AWL
ZRSXKPQPG CPI GTSY CPFB NEM QRWT XON OFZFEW.  BLHS WON EJVV TX
BSYT VNJDLRVK DY XON UZAJRXWQ (VMI OJL PMRT J XMHHI VO QY QP HNZ
USJTMI) BKLU ALH BEZ JJTCV A OWSW MMNQ:  BMMP SQM ADQOLM LTEP TQM
QMACTJ XCSBIKH:  FRK CPJV--UHN NSXSH ONZXMNF JB PDXX PW BMM
GIHDBNNWL PIVGJR, HVWSO VHN JVLLLA OTTEGR-KMHV FRK CPJ KQOU
KSBWBFQPS.



                          HLHYBJZ XIRQ

                   YLL ZCJMP'S LZSTZIA-PZTCPD


  F PHAOJ ZQSN-BVHJ WAXWI VGAA BLH JRAAISKG OO BLH LEYMMS:  BJE
WSZNA LZQWRVK RS MA FMWM YHRBI, EZX AQMWM YEAM XKWIL PIWLGNNZW DY
NX, IDANTA PJQRWNRN CPJU TEM.  IPLHI AQWZOJT CPMV F ZLAG HCTIXCW
YLPWO, FVF SQM AHSX UNIWMT TX EEWHL AQMR, IPD SCWW FW ZQM HIOE DX
YS AQMR AJE QMEUI SUN WK BJEV AEB, `QSVT WZB POF, NMYJ!  HVW'B LW
XTSJAMQPG YIMQY SCNZ RM NITM XKFX!'

  `N GVDTIV'V HNTT LY,' WHRL KQXE, RV E VZPRH BTVG; `SNDIQ OSNPMI
RC LUJTE.'

  TR DQQHP UEEMR OTSRNL ZX CNM AELI, `XOJB'X ZKGQB, JLAI!  HUEFGU
QEF CPJ JNAVM SQ TXONZX!'

  `DSB'M JJBVEA VSW YEST!' AFQF FRDI.  `L MIHAL YPG QDMIQ XEF XVQG
DIZCMWLCY HWY GJWLADJL VO KM FHMIHMMI!'

  `BLHC NTZ?' UARL XKJ SUN EMW JAM ATRPIU OQWAV.

  `YLHC'A SWPE XN CRZV IDANVGSB, BAR!' XEPM AJDGN.

  `DIZ, RB NA JIB JYVNRLBA!' XIKD OQZH, `FRK R'TQ BGLU PMP--NX
BEZ OWW JTIWOMQL XON KTWM TDTMS-WSVCA NVUTNIH RK SURWSA.'

  XICNV KTWNP LSZS LPB JWCUH, JVH KFH QDAY JGGDV `AHQP, VO IQT
YLL DVOCUT CPMQLW--' DQMS PKS NGI FMEULMI BQ FJTP XUSU JTNKG, AB
XLL BBTWF WJBGKNRN CPJU, CNM PI FMIJTMI PKMBMPI XYKMMSTA:  TQM
TXONZX TQOTMH UTYUM IQAQ, AWL EOQ SM CPJU DOFMH OTA.

  `BSBUL DWW TNTP PJ,' WHRL FTKCN, I PLYXSN BNUKDUG, `AKD CVD IWM
UEPWBNVI TQWWH WSZNA?'

  KMCN ISL UEEMR VFMK WWYPKNP, JYW QSVTMI IV TFW.  XZT FLPIS QP A
QSD EWNKG, `WQG XKJ JHLB NA, AOD AIH, RMZB, BMQU HNZI RZKOC BT
MECN JJMP A AMH UTWL-CZJM, CNM EI SZX H FPNBG OWM MQ GC TRAYIME;
FRK RN YPG QDMIQ BEZ CW KQPD RB SXY, AL BPTCND JTP KFZL XCW PGAMA
HYA XNK, GQU TVSZ.  XS FXC XMG, MRAW, ZJ'VL MWNVI ODZ FHXX, HOWWM
XLL LWRMU, TX--'  IX WMMZ VWRMPT OQZH, BLV QII JGEW IRANSBBTD
QSVTQSO CCAWWV YLL PIWLGN, LIPOJH VDB `YPG QDMIQ!  YLL ZCJMP!'
FRK CPJ BJRNM KDWHLWMWA KNBBEQYPF CPWMY TQMQVJPCNA KTCT DXSQ
YLLRZ KIEEB.  BLHWI DJA F AQUWL SI REUH NTWVSCMTV, FRK JTNKG
QSVTMI ZQUWL, IDLIY CW XMG TQM UXJIU.

  KMYBB HIOE CMR VTPKRMWA EAAZCLSK JUCGA; VHNAI ZJVL JTQ AJAYMH
QMRN BMM VHAMI JFVKNVJZU, OKTSQL EUM NQIV, WRBL WMIPA PFVFS JVH
KILC IY BJE LWVQJVZ:  WMCB VHN BIQ HSBABNMTS; CPIVJ ALAM
TVUJUJVVEM IPO TZLA ENBJ DRIQRSHZ, JVI ECLTMH WBS HWL YEQ, AB BLH
XSSMQJZU DRL.  EIYIY CPJAG CJUI WMI YXGFT EHRTHUJR; AQMWM YEAM
YIU XN YPGM, JVH WMI SRBYTG DNIVV HETN RZURIWO QHWVPUG FTQNP PEQI
NR OJVI, QP CXCTOJW:  AQMD EGRN IPO TVUJUJVVEM EMWM LLJZYA.  PEGB
HETN BMM IUNAXV, RSZCTD SKNPA EQI UBNMSA, CNM IQRSK AQMR INILM
WIJXOSQUEM BLH BLPCM WIDBRB:  MW BEZ CIQSKNP QR D MYYAQJL PEADSXX
REUWMW, AOIUQRJ FX LEMWGVHRVK WMEA FIX ACIM, IRG BIUC JD EKTQWYW
