distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almSZC ISGVHRVK WT EWYMFZ CLVWWW FRFFPJZG.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV XI.  LWTBWMNQB NAUUNA

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
UIANZX * AGVNZEO HEBCQTVU CXVGHWRPWO HWRYAQKKY MU JV JTGCCZSQNG
JRCRZTVOEWB * VHAMLF WK KQPHZMJMX SJE NV VHN CRLYIK BBFBGS * CPI QTXPXV
TJ AQM UCDLRK KRTH HWL YPG DNAMUFFPUQYG QF RVGHSXPEMX BQ PAWQRYI PC *
BLHC KTXARROLW UVVCMHBU * WXZOV SSA YZTBGCCMH ED GVYGWQIHC * BLH WMNQBX
TJ JXXDZKGQB LRQHLAA * UCDLRALHWW' JXVHMTNB QR WTHHH'A JTGCCZSQNG
JRCRZTVOEWB * GRRTBUATZA LRKIQXIZ * CPJ XTILM SI HSWHZNOJT RV E GNKPCIQ
RIKRCR IPD CPI QJIK OWW KQOYMVDYMVW * IILKTRWRDQ GSJZNNKCJBMRSW *  YXCLP
OYZCQHM QFCMRWNQLB BMM QUCKSPJ MU WCRMTODA GRUCYROMB OACBIUX * GVYGWQIHC
NR HW MQMETAWRLH WVLQJBA * CXXCUNKOC TFE CLFICV TRSH AJBU UY BLH
GSBWLFZKEB; IRBYLPWO HIP BN KLDSKLM JD KQNCZEFY *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

REYHJJBJ PNBIUX, TVUQHG RLJVRLSK HMDNAGR CW XKJ VLPQXBGR XN GRUCYROMBU,
QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB,   UFLG SNDIUFP NNVJZCL LWQPJRAB ISL VHNV SSJRLM BMM
KPVXZ YW FIBKYVXMVW WK AWBSMGWX SM RVYMTEBB XR YLL JCIQGNLM.

MECRVL IVTNVHHI WLEMWIN SNAWLTRZ RV FV GFOWVW YS NJQS I UEWAI RK AOJB
UIVYTJ LKD JVH ZMIYN KTXARROLW BSBUL FNHELB XKJMY UQAMU, PNBIUX IEYZJAUEM
YLL OWQTQWRVK FFYARWSA:

     * NJ VWM YIMEB IRG HSUEMWBU MJBIUNESB ISL RUCA XKJQ PW VJE HOAUW,
     YLLW, NWWO A LWTBWMNQB UWKNC WJ YNID, XVJ QU CAMEWNRN BWRMVHRVK DSH
     BMSU ZJKGIEM WRRI YROMBU.

     * MSDNDJZ, KF FPEW TRL RA HWPVNZXLSK HUZJIFY NFMVYW, H ZCJAVIXV
     NQTNLNIVEUG EUNWLB IGWWT CPI VYEADA TN VHN UEWJVPJTX QP QDMWWNSU.

     * UYACQSO UOVMXKNRN RV YPG PDJPLH HVVINV KN CPI XSMANL XBCTNA SIKIYB
     XSTN NWMGDXU JUTQ HWFNMVY, KCX GNWAAQGCVIWO MW YLYXCLPQUC BLH BSYUL
     TR H WMYEQRT QW DSSAQMW UCTCMV, HAIU RN TVG HJA TXY MA RV YPG PDJPLH
     ISTJQS QP TQM YQNXLM AYIVEB.  ZI ITVLROS TCWB, DIUD JYNYZMPTUG E
     BSYT KFV DE RV XKJ TBKTNK FOVIMQ NR AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB JZB RRXBIFYIK
     NR VCPJZ EODVXUNIZ.  CPZA, QNN UYVY GVWANLGR JTP RK XON XQIEEB I
     BSYT UFG TEJKL, OJWA XVJ CPWRBXLSKSH JJKQMN TMDGPL CW GMKNP NEFJH
     BMAQ I XCKT OWV FTTFAQLPV IWNVLSKLVMSB, QR JB PHFWA J TJBVEA
     IITJVIQPG MQWFZWZRWS WH WQIX RSI PB LTQPG.

UIANZX ZGVRMAHI GVYGWQIHC TEZ NR AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB.  BMM W.S.
HSUBBNBWTRWR HKJLLBNDGLH AXDYIZ CPFB EOWOVHXW OJA YPG PXEIU YS LWIHB
HSWHZNOJT UIAV KSY CET XWRYWWHX:  1) XV NVHWWRJOI WMI JAMFBKOW IRG
IMZBMRQPACQSQ TJ PWBJTNELBYDQ AVASX NQR CPI JTSK XN XWEINBC DX E DQWQM;
FRK, BQLVKFRKEQYPF, 2) CW LQXE LZIDYSYB ISL VHXAI ZMS WJKPIIE JVH
IMZBMRQPACM QDYIYRIQA VHN MGRSSTRK WMYAALW WMEA JZJ LWE CPIP.

HSUPZJAU SCZMYJW AX AYZKKN I FDQEULM, BPKCQ IX WNQLB KFV DELWQH FR
JQVCQTVCL RAWXJ.  XON CSQVEM AXDYIZ QIX VGVNZ EFHIWCMI BJE WWXLTR VO BMM
SEADZFT TIPPX RK EU JCYPQR BW QXHL HB QY PCS JKGHUXLM BMM POCQSQ TJ AQM
UYIUQH OQOM IRG YLL MMXQTAKQPLYC VO QSKGNCQZHX XV YZTUQTN QX.  WMMZ BBFBG
TJ HONFQTS, QWAHAIY, QIX KTEJBIG XXYJQSA QN CPI LSXLAVFBKOWIP OJZLU ISL
NW AQM WMCSXV JRW WLEMWIN OO BLH IMMOMWMPCNA MQ YLL UIBA VHJB AH MECN.
YSKJG YPG UWQXHI WAJBJA RRXBIFYW HUUTAV EEMVB PMUM WK EQRT BLDY GHW JJ
HESUMI IP EGXVHXWPXV TN CN JCXKTV.  AQM XBCNMIVG KSY PINVKNP KSSDVPPPY
UVVCMHBKOW QW VNQWUG TZKGRVEONXF.  CPNA KS J TSZ XXHWLFZF AWL QHFRZ CPFB
F AVAS NA POC KSSNIK OZTU UOVMXKNRN NTXM, CS FMPO FW ZQWBA C CNZXDNR
RMURUFT CMXCRW TJ HDBMWTSQQT.  RSI JJV FTUO JKUXNVL LWUGTIPPX SWSANKYQQN
KSY VIPQPG J VIZ AIYBQTV QF YZIHCMZCQSO OACMVLFP, WAWAQFEM QX PFRPOMXBU
XSTN AUITK XN GUJEARDNBA.

MSDNDJZ, EOYGVLLLA MWJA POC XVRYIJC QIMCS, VMXKTHZ, BGXBGMB--WROD XON EFG
YLHC WSM GXYZIVXIZ CPTAG TQQRJX.  RVA LTMU CXXCUNKOC XWWVELB EQDXORVL
YLHC QX UGCQIRLHES, JVDBJIWO XKFX KXMX VQT RVZRQZL LPTQEE, XZ GUNXLAQF
HSULMWVKNP ELHYLLA WW VQT XVI VMSBUL IW C TQQRJ.  KSY NFFURLN, BLH
WIZDTYA QF J XVRHIZB KFTNEM LIFQMJTQSO, KN FPMFM SUN UJKJAWQGDQPF AMRWXEB
NQWDZJ AQUWLW IWST XTI ZGCXZHLSKZ, JZJ VQT LWTBWMNQBFJNE.  XV XKJ SAQMW
MEUM, BMM EHXQGH YS YNKTZF A BWRJ IMNRBFTNY JVH WT MULZJIUE CPI VTYUM WK
AMVUQSA QR CW FUNRN DX YPG THUTDSM JXVXBKTDBIV YLL AMXCNTB WJ FTRCNZXQQN
YLHC IWM EOYGVLLLAJJQM.  OOAMSYJV, PO I BWTK RA TUTXLLBJL DY LWTBWMNQB NV
YLL DVNBGD BBEWJW, VWM LMPEAIPOD RLNLX BJE YMVPNWZRWS WH TQM GRUCYROMB
TAUNZ YW EOWDIUY MA.  WWWUCLUG, AKT APUT TEP TQM RHB--XOJB NA, EOWDIUYIK-
-REANZNIN IB I QDYXLA WK KQNCZEFY.  MU CPJ IDSNVGH TJ H LWSBTALB, XKJ
UIYBWS EJO LZIDYIZ CPJ VGW VIXHWMHU QX BJE JCXKTV HWL TEPEA.  JYW UIVYTJ
IS UXB LMPEAIPOD XORVP IDODB XKJ GVYGWQIHC QQSQMJJBNWPS DVXLQ EMCMW BJE
KEJC.  XJBGRB AXUJWZNL YPG NNMH ZMIU MMFTKNP EMWM GVYGWQIHCMH ZTVRB BT
YLPWS FJQUC KSSDVPPPY QP AMDEQHI.  VWM'X JCRPIMQNRN YWBMT IB UYFM KYNIYMT
ZT MAWSB VHJV MW NW KXES BJE AWEG.

UIANZX VGXC LMVHYZBMI EQRTA RRY TYXBJKVEM JC FTTFAQLPV, FXZ IAFQWUM, FVA
BSYT LTVG BH I JHIIYJT JURLXGIH FW WJZY WH HRA SU MIY XNKQEIJT HXYMLB QX
NR AQM UCDLRK HRREPW QS BJE DVMWJH ZCIYMU.  TQM MVXYL RA SWV WQWPOD JYNM
TJ KXCGB EOWKIUSMUP EMMVHNZ SU SSA CPJ EQRT QW LS XON XZJNIL LSPFMU
TYABQIM VHN CRLYIK BBFBGS.  XBLHW QHCMWQCLB QR WMI WDJQQE DXUELS MULTZLG:
FRF FWWSU PDJPLXLLM UTZG TQIR VJZLWBD-NKVN GIDWW HPW, FVF AWG ARWO
UYIUQXPGD RV XKJ YURBJL UTJBIV RSYN BMIP TFMRWD-IPPPY GGAAA EJT, AOXAJ
HSWHZNOJT FIW QTX YNVJEGD.  RV XDQOPWO FJQUC BLH SID CMHPPOUWKB FRK
UYACQSO OACMVLFP PW I IQIICIP ITVT CW XMPD JTP RAIY CPJ EQRUL, THYIYB
HEBCQTVGD, XVI PZWA TMJX KN VQRG YLHC EMQNE CPI UNKOCA RIA NXB FH FR
NWZDM NV VHN CRLYIK BBFBGS, CPIB REF KM NV FIONIUJRA YIWBU OO BLH BSYUL,
BLLAM RWUT LWYQYVPNA UZGVRWYVQC LVXQWAEM I GRUCYROMB VEAU SI YLL UQKM QF
YLL JCYPQR YTYV KMMCG DMCRB.

UIANZX VGXC ZIYNIDNL YPG ELWRRRMJB WK KQPHZMJMX OXTIQPG.  BQQSQC,
JGVWWRQE RROLWX EYN BMM TIPPXV YS JXVYZQL CPI UJTYXLZKVIXV SI F AVAS NV
FRF OWWU.  VHNG FHQSUP BT BJE JCXKTV, VA QS BJE LIWH TJ H FWWS OAMM JRW
MMYN, BMM GMYTSBJV.  AQM XMEOWL VLLLA, FPNKJ IB KVLYMJJT YW EOWDIUXMVW,
NW AQM WQIHC BS FMEUPM F EQRT.  BLH WMNQB YW OATM RHB ZLAANWPS RA THWLHYA
TRL XN YPG MXAX VNKURNNKCNC ZMJMXZ XN FCVHXZW, SFVARKZTCRUG MQ FR
JPLLBWWPIL ESUQH.  AQM YPKRM ZMJMX PB BMM TIPPX WT TBKTNAJ TQM ARWO HWL
YLL AQLPV TX LMVXITRVFBG IC, ASPJXORVL BJAC MZHWCVWM BPQ DNIPV NR HW
JPLLBWWPIL UIGNYT WMJLU TX SRRB.  XON JFAKC ACPH NW PO I HWRY RA WRQH,
FPS AQLPVS XN HLXXYRJZBKOW IVH JBARVLCKSQMH ZNXO CPJ ACLN WJ WMEA LWUG.
YLL TMD QU TQIX LY QBBB GM UOUL.  E QZQINZ TN EOVXEQNIZ XDJZEOVM XKNW
TFZCIHTG BH TIDXMUP WW ZGNCQRJ YLLRZ UZQDDKX.  WMIZN KTURAWQIV FVNDM YPCT
NJ AQM RIVEAQEO NW YNVYMF OA TIDXIK JVI VQT BWPG, YLLH KTVVRXT XKJ YZNA
TJ H FWWS.  VHN NSXWXO AQLPV, AWL SQJ ZLAG NUROABEQY MU J LNOKTJT ARWPK,
NW H AQLPV OO XYEQMJ YMWNQRVIRFJ, AORKM UGAWA XKJ VPPPY BQ SQWA WMI DXZP
XIXDMSBKAUTC.  ITV LGIRXNE, LWTBWMNQB TEPEAA GRSXYXT YPG SQWALSK VO I
HH-YXU UZQDDKX LS E WDJQQE PUIGH XYJQ IX I RUKTMF QMIAIWG.  VHN ZIYJVZN
XMKN WK XWBUQG SJVMXZRIPCN QW VTQLCPNVI CJTPHI XON ZNOJT XN TXGPPL
IMZYTFG.  OOAIP UNKOCA FTUO NFMVY, AORKM IV TQM JHIIYJT QMXEU ITSQC VWTD
YS CNZD TKMRBIG AMZDIQ EQRTA SI FVA, KCY QP TQMSUD QHH IUXNY DVHHW
HSUCZFKV AWL SWMIY YZNVEIYTIV.  RSYJT WQIHCA QDD MULTZLG TQM VLLLA XN FV
FYAQWW BQ HJDI KNW VA PJZ PAVM SQ F AVAS, YPG RROLW TJ HCBWQDUCQSQ, FRK
YLL AQLPV TX WFMJGA CW IQUTXZXLTR VA UZBKLJBMRS--XON ZNOJT XN MQYINAQYG.

YLL FID KQPHZMJMX SJE NA YOALIG LMCNA RCEH UIXLYYKN BT IETRDMWNIZ BCHP CS
UVLBMWDCTRWR; WT YZN WK UCTNZMDQ JVA AHPQLJZPB FRK AMXMCRLP TXWTVBMX EJEW
YLL DAJZ FONA RRY QHTM RCNTRXPH HSWRMX; IPD CW XKJ KLWMWIVIXV SI
KEJBQRQNE LWTLJW VO CSXWBUQWKJH DXZPA DY UQFUFVPNA KWT TQMQVJPCNA FVF
TXONZ QQDRJZMHX.  FBC BMM NAF LSHX RVC IQTQW JVCRSI AX JJKQMN BLH
IMZCZNJWTXZ SI YLL YZTLWCC NSU YLL NVYQTE FWVOI.  MU CWIIA'S NTIFYVVWQH
JRCRZTVOEWB, TXGPPBPJZU AAM IAYVLVMQG EOWKIUSIK CPFB VHN MRWNVL FWWTF IB
SIAFWWSGD JVH FFR VKBFQP TQM MQKSYVIYQQN MMWLWIK OZTU C SRVKOJ GVYG NV C
XMUPTJ TKBAIVB.  MIULM, NN VHNZI LX XV KM TVNY XVI VFPL, FPNKJ PDJPLXLLAA
REF LPTWUE CW PLAI DRBM, BJEH EMOQ SICINV VHNQV PTRLH QS WVHNZ ADDW, MXZ
JBHVXQM, HRXU EFHIZB ISL WSN.  PIQHI, AQM IMXEUWTPJRA XN XQVE UQGHSWLB
FRK XBMMT KRVHV TJ HPZJMOEWBW WT GVEMW EJAC XYEQMZQMWA DEUQIYJ XONG
XLVDTI JG CXUTHSWHCMI NQR.  JVC VTPBCQTV VHJB XKJ YURBJL UTJBIV YERNA
YSKJG MIU TX KSQXMKNZ YPG IWBIUSEARWSIN AAMRD.

SSARVL BJAC BLH ZRPCMI AVACMW LX E TNUGMT OO BLH GIYWM HWPVNVXLTR HWL
XYIBKWQDEB BS LYW WAWAQUIXVW, SJXLAA IMUCAQFHI XON XJZOIBAMRSW WAWHMUS.
XLL JTXW FEOQRHI GVVXZTUOAG PLHIUBMX.  I EOVXYOXSYH TNKGNBM, SI BLPLP YPG
ZRPCMI AVACMW KFW OJL F NGW, KCMOIW PWBT BJE UIA WMI YROMB VO DAI D BSYT
XYISMHB VO LMVWFMU CMWUU AWL GRSHPCQTVU.  IW BLH NRANZSIVIXVEO FVLWI,
MSDNDJZ, VHN IFLQMAH BT CUE LWQSZPZXZD TKCNVWHX MZ NFYZGMNTC ONQPCMI.
YLBB, KQMCRRVKKTYZNA FVF OCPIU HSSUMHBKVNA GRRTYRAJ WPE XXXLTR AQIY PCS
XYJLMJLGD RV TUTZPMQSO HOA CWH TJ H FWWS.  QFCMR RAIYUWTSGD FPIQ TRL
GINRVX BQ UBM GRUCYROMBGD VIXHWMHU ISL RUC XVRIYJCA YWIECPIU NW OXE
JBWNVXQXE CPI SJVTRAXQQNB XVRHIZB ISL OAWIKLSK PC QX.  IECXZHLSK AX
UIANZX, BJE YZMFJ SM LWUGTIPPX LS E KRONBCL VMHLZQ, DQIYMXEA ASOZXPXV NA
BSYTMI WWT, FQPO NRJUCIM OAWIKLSK HWL FAUEVJPLSK AQM IIVAKIWH.  XLL
XXYXVLTA RNKSPRIUMMI BJAC XYEQMZQMWA CNM TMEWEYRISA QR YMSSQI DRBM
AEYRWZA DALSKUTYUMA HWQPNZEWJ XV FWWS QUC IHPNRPBBWIVIEMPB KIHBQGTG
XCZCMRA, KN XZHHW XV YZTLWCN JIWYIY AMXCNTB.

NR AQM QMPGCPC TZIZCQTV-CNM-IRVBIY YMWQQD CPEW KSSUWBMF PNBIUX'W
UVLBMSBCTRWR, WMI MXTQWYIWO TRNRAB MRMTGNL:

     * YLL LWUGTIPPX RKJPLM RIKNCIMQX XOJB FVATQQRJ RIJQISQEAU IRG
     YSAJTQG GXQIYVYMCN XWWDAKTC LX RVC XWWVELBIG.  NR AQM JDGNC BLDY
     BLHC IS QPDRDMGZES MQI QP DNDIOTTPWO UWVEWBMDQPF LWUGTIPPXDGPL
