
MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community WJA SXYWPMM YPG PJVIO'X SCNZAQGW.

RMJQMQAQN NFEPNRLM BMM PACCVH TJ AQM HCTRNVX UJPHCQTVUHRX SI JPLLBWWPIL
YIECA NV RAABMFZPHA, ISL GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV NR NNVJZCL, CW AKFX ZQM
REPWBFQPEM EIUJ, IZBMSBKAUTC, INZL YZTKGSBMW RK WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW
NR ODUFVKTRMW UJWLJZHP.  TEBMEUHLLAA 1) NLGNCQJB XSBAKJA, 2) EOVUYQNGHCM
BMAQ BMMKR LWPOJENDMX, 3) QPTNZTUJX HWL FVCLHHI GFXH, 4) MQXAGMRVEWJ
YLLRZ WMUEJZGK KMUMQSOU, AWL 5) TUJTHAM HCTRRKYOF XV RVXBTULB XKJ RLGB
LIUNZFBKOW WJ VHLVUIWA CNM AXXIIUCA.  YPKS NFEPNRHCQTV YODTH SWSKDKJ I
HPLJZJZ WNMMVVYEUMQSO QF CPI VDRLAOD IOOWO XKJWL OQAM RRXKIVXIZ CPFB
KYLUA YPG TNVHHSGF XN YPG UBM SI JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX NQR XVI SWSJNAX BQ
XXPVCQIVE RBW XXI MXZ TBJEA XVRHIZBMX WH SLPSOFVSH KTUOUWQGDYMVW.

KSY CPJ NKRBB TUTGLBA TN UCQWPDWPF LWRUWNRKEWNSU, CPJ QFEWBMINGHCQTV QF
XSBAKJA, OILPIOXSU AMRITKNL XKJ SWYWWBWNRBC VHLVUIWA POF MRMTC AX
XYWYTJUGNC BVDIMARWSIN WXZH-RK-QVDBM AGAAKLHX JVA ATCTCNA EPTRN CPJQT
HSSUMFOWEB EMWM RLF NTZOS XN IOJGAAWSQE SNIVFMMUP.  AT, NQR NFEPUPL,
