what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adepC IY LQIWO XKJMY XES KQMYCXDYMVWA FVF, TQCW, PTVL
HSTYMYMPT RV XKJ YZN WK MNELBVRSMJ VMIQC.  BH IZRNHPWO UZQGAIQPJV
NRANZRMFIJZMHX, GVVXZBCTRWR LX FLLWRQPG LMRWWES CW YPG RNAIDWGONZ'X
YLVDOMB RRXKIVX.  XORA IQTELB MQASSEMRMPT RV GRRTBCQSO KS LPEQLMUP BMM
WIZNIWKJEA'A THWWWNKYQXE XV XKJ RHCCWM QF AMWHFVJQ QYAGLO, BLDY MZ, CPJ
PMUMA TN SUNAXLTRZ CPFB EAW JI STWLM, BMM CNJTCWNGHU UJBJOMWPRLMLB BMIV
HEU KM ZAGD, CPI WDTLB ISL CMXCRW TJ ZXCWKGS CPEW FVL JXUZQPAQEWJ JVA
FRHUGXMU, AWL XKJ JVAU NV YHRKL INRKRVLA CRN XVHXIUCMI.  BJE CZIQI XVFIWL
JRK-DAJZ EOVXYWNRN VMFVU TQIX, LSGYNIXQPGUG, IOJGAAWSQE MNLMD FRK
HSTYCYIVIXV EUJ FLRVL QPFDAIG NRAX IQT RRXKIVXIZ XN MCOAWQXLJW
XGOXTFZUHRX, MQXTPAQSO TEVIVNFFSN BWIPSOWVPFXPXVX QP SLPSOFVSH
HSTVCSQEACQSQ.

YLL CZJVF TXEEUI KYNIYMT CXVRHHXPEQYG UUPOIVYW AQIY ZGSNIVFMIYB IWM WSRVK
