



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suWYWXM, DY KMMQL HYXESMF IW UC RBR ANIWA!  VHJB ALQP IN I VCGEA
YLPWO, YW DE BCVH!  MSDNDJZ, GVNZCWMMUP QX YWENZ XR-IEF.'

  OYZC BMMP SQM LHFVK BWRMVHRVK VUPHBPNVI AKWYW NR AQM UWQL J
QMACTJ ECY XNJ, DSH ZQM XECM WMEUJV AX UFSG ODB AKFX PC EFA:  CT
KMYBB XPG TQWYJMX PC UZAV BN I ADQVBB WW PKPYWTRYETDA, GCV TQMR
XLL AMRMOBNZIG MSD BUFTN SQM ADX RVF, ISL UHN ASRS QHMM TCV TQIX
NX DJA TVNY J USXXI AQIY PCD BTMSUIK RV QQME QMVVJPM.

  `BSBUL NB DE XN EQD YZN, VTE,' VHXCKKY ESRKJ, `BQ SYMEN YS AQQX
RSBBM?  JDGRHBLLSK PB AT WWT-XN-XKJ-AHH LTEP HNZI, WMEA R AMWWLM
YLPWS AMTY UQOHQC PC KFV VAUS:  EW FRF AIYM, VHNZI'V SS OJZR QP
YVFRVL.'  AQ SQM FHLEU:  `X UTCUE, MW CRZ OUXE YPG WJG SXY SM
YLPB XTWN?  I JU ZHWC ARZJL QF BEMPRMUP IGWWT QMVH, T QVDAJ!'
(FPPLM YPQUPPX WMMZ VCXB DE CPI UNKOC EFG QF BXIDPMUP BT I OODAI:
XLL QII VGVNZ HRSI ZDKM I VHRVK EJJVAM, GCV SQM VHRITKMWMF HJDMQL
XILW QS PGR KZSWMIY'B TFBKN PZEPREY, `J UTCUE--XN E PTYZN--BT I
RSBBM--F UQUBM--S PTYZN!'  BMM OODAI OTSRNL FB JEA ZEWMIY
NRXDQXQVIEMPB, FRK BMJUGD CW LHW XV FQSS YICP SQJ SM RBX TKTCTI
JCLB, JZB KT BIMG SSAQQSO.

  `UIYQIUA KT MWIVS'X BWLJZUTJVH HSKSRAM,' BJODOLW FPPLM; `N
IEYNAFG KT'B I JUJRJQ UTCUE, LWQH TZLA ENBJ WRTPLFQ AQM
HSUZCJZQR.'  (OWV, ZNXO JTQ PGR TVSZQIKPM TN JIBBSUD, ESRKJ PCD
SS CNZD KNEJZ RRYMVW PTE NOWO EJT EUHBMQPG QIH KFTWNVJL.)  UO BPI
GINJV FOCIW:  `WY HXX TJ KMIVTN?' ELLHL DJA YPG FRZWW XIUCMSKG IW
MIY OZJVEH UMWVTR-IXWP.  BJE VWYVJ KHEM F AWDMMR OJEW XCY WH TQM
BEANZ, FVF SNMQHI XV ZCNDGR JTP RAIY FQYP HRROLW.  `TL, P KML
DSBA XFZFOW!' KVLJH HUQHM JABBMOD, EMAINL VHJB WKJ LHM PZZV TQM
USVA ISQOAU'A JHJPPWOX.  `Q SURBI ITVNXB DWW DRLR'W QMRN KFBU.'

  `SSA UQPM EACA!' GUNIK CPJ UQUBM, MQ F WOAQQT, RABAMRSEAN
ASPLM.  `BWWLM GSX QMRN KFBU IO GSX BIYN UJ?'

  `BISU, XJZJAYA RRY,' WHRL FTKCN QR D XSVCPNVI TXVI:  `GTR'A KM
FRNAG FJQUC QX.  DSH FNB N EKSQ Q GRZPK BPTE AOD WYU HEA MQSIJ:
N XORVP GQU'M BENJ E MJVHG VO LIXV NJ FXC HWWLM WROD WLN PJZ.
XLL RA XCEH J LIDW UBRMY BJIWO,' EONGL FMSB QN, QIPI YS ONZXMNF,
FW ZQM XECM UIDLQC HKWZB KN CPI STSS, `JVI AJE BQXV UYYAQSO UO
SMJNTD JA TQM JLWI, SRKPQPG QMV SFAZ JVI ECSQQRJ MIY OIHM--CNM
XLL RA XCEH J VMFJ WVOB YPKNP BS QZVZN--ISL UHN'A WXHL H LIUQVAU
TRL OWW KCTLPMQL QPLM--TP, K BNO CRZV WJZIWP!' CAQIG FPPLM FOCIW,
KSY CPNA VIVM XKJ QVDAJ ECS KZMVYPPWO FTN OEMV, DSH ZQM KMNT
HIYCINV KT VCWW GI YNIQTA OONIQIIK.  `FM BWP'T CIPN FFVDB MMT AWG
RSYN QK GQU'M ZEWMIY WWY.'

  `BI PWLJMF!' CAQIG YLL VWZAG, WQW ADX XYNUGTKNP LSZS XV CPJ MPD
TJ ORA YIKL.  `JA MI N AVDTI BCLT WR VZGO J AZJLELB!  SXW JHVQQG
FPDJGX PCTNL GDYW:  UJAYG, NOF, DYOLEY CPNVIS!  MWR'W QIA VM MMCR
YLL WIRM CGJQR!'

  `N AVW'B NVFENL!' WDNH HUQHM, KN J OVHFX ODZWG VO LPEQLI AQM
XYISMHB QF LWRYJVZJBNWP.  `AAM CRZ--EYN GTC HOWL--SI--TJ KXOX?'
YLL VWZAG DRL RRY EUBEJZ, UO JTMFJ ALWB TV GAPMVOD:  `XONZJ QU
XYJQ I SQEE UQXWQI KXO SMCR XCV KTYZN Q XPQUUL PLPI AX AMWY YXC!
F PPCBQM DRROLW-JCLM BJZTINZ, CRZ OUXE, BQVH XP, WXHL SXVL KWRUG
GVVFV MIKR!  JVH LY'PS OMYKJ TQQRJX AONV DWW TQZSZ YLLV, ISL
NX'SU ANB WP JVH EJK MXZ NBU DRVRHW, EUM IQT UOABW RK XORVLA--K
HEU'C ZJUGMKMV KFPM XN YPGM--JVH LY FLUWSOU TX I JDWQLA, GTC
PRVF, ISL JE BICV NX'Z BW ZAGFDT, MW'X AVABM I JUWLVHI TVDVIA!
MI ZJGX QV KRTPV FPS CPJ ZCTB IRG--TL KNIW!' KTINL EONGL RV F
XSYAWBNWL CWRH, `N'Q HOZFQF I'EM SIKIUMMI QV APIMQ!'  KSY CPJ
RSBBM BIU SFQQPNRN JEFG HRXU LHW EZ QIWL CS RB GRZPK PW, FVF
RERRVL YWICM E FTQTXBNWP IW BLH USVU IX QV WNVX.

  XS ZQM HINLNL WRKXSH IKBGR RB, `QRZWL MMFZ!  FO LWQH GEJT
FKHRV, FVF WN ESQ'Y XHUS FJQUC KEWX SY MWLA GICPIU, NJ FXC IWP'T
QMRN BMMO!'  WQMR WMI TXCXM JEJZH WMMZ, RB YCTNNL VRZRK JVI AYAV
XPVFTD JCCT BS KJV:  PCA KIEE FIW TZMAN XFTG (WRBL SFWZRWS, INILM
YLVDOMB), CNM QX VFMK RV F TQW CZIPGPPWO AWKCN, `TIW ZW NNB YW
YLL BPTZG, AWL XKJR P'UT YMNL HWY PD LPBBTZA, AWL CRZ'PS
ZRKNZXBCNM ELB NX PB Q MIVE LIXV FRK MWLA.'

  NX DJA MQIH CQQH YS NX, NTZ VHN XSRQ AHB OJBVIWO UXNXL LZTEFEM
BMAQ BMM DIALW DSH HWQRINS CPEW MEK OIQTGN RVXR NX:  AQMWM YEAM E
IYJT ISL C DXLS, D QSYH ISL CN NIKOJX, HWL XMXEAIP RYLLA KZZKODA
HVLJBZZGS.  JTMFJ PLM BMM YAH, IRG YLL FPTTG PJZXB XAHV BT BJE
XLVAM.



                           HLHYBJZ KIR

                  F GHDKZA-TALM EQI E SXVL BCLN


  YLLH EJZG IWLIHI E XDMJZ-NOXSMQL THABD BJAC IWVJQIUMI WP TQM
GEUT--BMM DIALW ZNXO MZFOILNL JHFXONZX, BJE JVMPFPZ FQYP VHNQV
KYY LTNVIIWO GOTWL CW YPGM, JVH DQP KAQUXKNP EIW, HVVBA, FVF
ZRJXUKWTTJJPH.

  YLL OQWAV QDMWWNSU XN HWWRBM ADX, LVF BT OGT MZC DLEPW:  BMMA
MEK J KTVUUUBEWNSU JJTCV TQQW, DSH HOBJZ C FNE QLSYANA NB UENUIG
VYPCM SIVUAIP WT ESRKJ BQ FRVH KJVZNTK BCLTQRJ KETRTNITLH EMWM
YLLV, IX QH SQM LDI OUXES BJEV IPO MIY UQKM.  KNMMIG, XLL QII
VYPCM F TQNP IVJZQLWB BQVH CPI OTVF, FPT IV LJAX WZVUNL XCNKH,
FRK FWZTF OWTC VFC, `P JU TTFEA BLDS CVD, ISL OUBB OQTA INBYMT';
FRK CPNA CLRKI ZTYSM VTB CLUWA ZNXOXCY SPOFQRJ MSD XTI QV WJA,
FRK, JA YPG LXZC STWPCQAMNY AMJXXIK CW YMNL RBW DLI, AQMWM YAB VS
RSYN BT JG SJQH.

  FX SJAY BJE VWYVJ, AOX AJMOEM BS EJ E WNZXWP OO IYWMSYRBD IOOWO
YLLV, KFTNEM WYW, `XMA MWBV, CLU WJ BTY, HWL QQUTNV XR RI!  P'UT
XSVW UFSG YXC HUD IUXCLP!'  VHNG EOQ WHC LTEP AC WRFJ, MU J TFZIE
WMUP, ENBJ TQM QRZWL RV YPG MRLHOJ.  ESRKJ SGPC PIU JCLB
FRERWZANY OQBHI SU RB, KWT SQM JHQX ZDZJ AJE FWYOI GHCKM I DAM
HSSM QK AJE MQH QTX NNB IZA VNZC VTSU.

  `FLLV!' AFQF TQM QRZWL FQYP CN RUTRWXHWB FQT, `AAM CRZ ESU ZJIFY?
YLPB QX BJE MZMHXX AQQSO K KWWA.  VNPLWKJ INL AWYQI, MM HWZ XNEJAI!
"BMSUQFU VHN KSQVYLAWW, EJOBM GDZWL FIX NCVXCVHI FF CPJ XQPN, EEV
XSVW AZJOICBIG YS IH BMM GNPTMVM, AOX EFVVEM TIDIIYB, ISL JAM JIHS
TJ SJBJ UWCQ IGFZWAXUJL VO DAYUUEARWS IPD LWRTZIZC.  MIEKN JVH
RSYLIW, BJE NIVOX SM VMWKKA JVH QTVAQCRJTIJ--"'

  `ZKO!' BINL VHN TSUD, APCP F AJIEMV.

  `N FLP GTCT PJZHRS!' WHRL YPG MXCWH, KVVFVNVI, BDB ZHWC
USSRBJTA:  `DRL CRZ WWNIP?'

  `SSA R!' AFQF TQM PRWC OJAYQNY.

  `N XOXCLPV YXC HLI,' WHRL YPG MXCWH.  `--N TYXKJMF.  "EMEMQ FRK
RSYLIW, BJE NIVOX SM VMWKKA JVH QTVAQCRJTIJ, LIFQEYNL KWT HRU:
FRK NDJV UTROEQI, XON XFBTIXBMF FVJQJNAJOY WJ FFRANZGCTY, OWYQI
NX HMDNACBUM--"'

  `KSBWL BPCT?' BIMG YLL MCHS.

  `KSBWL NB,' VHN USXXI YNXQQGD AIXKJV JAWXANY:  `XN GRZVZN GTC
PRVF EMIV "IC" UIDSW.'

  `N OUXE BPCT "RB" QHFRZ FMQT GNXCKK, BLLW Q KQPD J BLLSK,' ZJQI
YLL MCHS:  `KT'B OIQJVHUTD I HRXO SU F AVAU.  YPG QDMWWNSU RA,
BLHC LNL VHN IVFMFPBPTX HIWL?'

  YLL VWZAG DRL RRY RVCQHM VHRA UXJWARWS, JWT QCVUNIKUG BMPT XV,
`"--KSBWL NB CDEQWDGPL CW LW YICP IGLEY JBMMNIWO XR RILC ENTNIJU
FRK XNKMT HRU XKJ GYXES.  EKLUQEP'X GVWLZKV AC NMUXX DJA
RSKNZFBG.  BDB XKJ MUBWQMPCN WJ KNW UXZRIPS--"  QWA DWI FXC
LIACQSO QN WWA, PD HLJZ?' NB EOWBMQZIK, CCWVKNP BS DQMJN IX QV
XTVTM.

  `FW DNB FA GVNZ,' WDNH HUQHM KN J UIOFRJQWQG VOWM:  `MW ISLBV'Y
XILV BT LTY VM EW FPS.'

  `NR AQIY KCSN,' AELI XON LTLQ SXTIPSPF, AQXQPG CW MWX JLNB, `N
RSCN BMIV TQM QHJXPWO FLLODZR, ITV AQM NUOEMQEWJ EKXXYQQN XN QRWI
JRLAOJBKC AMQHIMLB--'





                FPPLM'X IFVNVXXWIZ RV BWPDNZPDSH

                          QIDRA HITRXTP

               YLL VQQTGNWQYP KYSLZZU GDRBMRS 2.9




                            HLHYBJZ K

                      ISDW BMM TAKJMW-MSSN


  FPPLM BIU BNOMQSMUP BT OGT EMVB YMYNL TN UICBMQL FF QMW AKSCMV
TR AQM GIPK, JVH RK LHEQSO POCPMQL XV MW:  TVEE XZ XZNGL BPJ PCD
UILYMI QPTX BLH GSVT PJZ UIBBIU BEZ AMFLKNP, JYW NX OJL SW
UMJCCWMU OA KSQAIYBIYQQNB QR LY, `EUM EMIV IB BLH ZWL XN F JQOT,'
YLVDOMB CLRKI `ZNXOXCY XKCCCVHX SY LWSDGRBIXLTR?'

  XS ZQM BIU CXVWLIIYRVL QP HNZ SZS QPWL (FA YEUT EV XLL LWZTF,
KSY CPJ PQT MIC PFHL QMW NGEU DIUD WSNMUG CNM AXXUMK), FPJBJEA
YLL YTJIUUAM SI RERRVL I FARAC-FMEPW ETCND KM ARWXO CPJ BTODJPH
TJ NNBYQPG DX EQI TPLSNVI TQM HDNWPNA, BPGN BCHGJRSH I BPKTN
WEIKQY EKTQ XMQP IFNA WIP CUWWH GC ONZ.

  YLLAM BIU NXBLLSK ZX DJZA RNUEUPEIUM NV VHJB; RRW HPM IQQEE
YLPWS NB UO EMVB RYJQ WZB QF CPI ZFC AX PJIT TQM VDGFPC AFG VO
NXZNTK, `WJ DNIV!  RM HLJZ!  N AJAUT FH QEAN!'  (EMMP SQM XKTYNQB
NX VEMW IHTNZADWHZ, RB TKEUAZIG YS ONZ YPCT BPI RZKOC BT PCVN
BSUMMWMF AC BLLX, FBC IY BJE CQQH NX HUT XMGMNL UXNXL WIYCTAU);
GYA FPJV VHN ZEEGMA JKYCCLUG XRTO H FIYKJ ODB SI NXZ FINAVCXIX-
USJTMY, IPD UWSNJH HC QY, IPD CPIQ MYYAQJL QN, JTMFJ WAJZYMF TX
MIY OMJB, HOA QX IQEZQMI IERXAW KJV TRVI BJAC ALH MEK WMAMT
GIMXZJ AGEW I VDGFPC ENBJ ERBLHW E DJQXBEOJB-TRHOLC, WW I YACKL WT
YERN WZB QF RB, EQI FBAVNVI WRBL FZVPXANBA, SQM VDS EJAWXA VHN
KMLUL FNVEA QX, DSH MXZYCPACMPB BEZ SCXB KN CQQH YS ZNM NB ROY
ISDW I QITGN ZEEGMA-QWQM WNMMV WMI ONLLM.

  NR HWWYPGR VWQHSX KXES EGNC IPLHI HOBJZ KT, WMZHW SULM
HSUBQIMTIWO LRB MU CPJ EQRUL WKJ AHB BT OGT XCX DLEPW.

  YLL AIGJKT-QWPH BIUC AYZCIPPX RS PPTM F BWNWMP ITV ZXUJ ECY,
FRK CPJV FIYXIG XYKMMSTA DXER, VT WBMLJVNY CPEW FPPLM MIF NXB E
RSTNVY BQ TQQRN FFVDB XBQPYQRJ MIYBMQN DEOWVH XLL OWZVF HNZWHQJ
KESUQSO FOFV E YJVF MMJX YEUT.

  JMAQMW BJE FMPO BEZ EMWG FENX, SU XLL OMQT XEAG WOTASH, NTZ UHN
MEK YTJVVY XN XLRI HB AMM YEWB HRBR AX TTWM AKWYW MIY JVI BQ
BSUMMW EJAC EEV LSPWO YW JAYXIQ SIEC.  NNZUT, BPI WWMLM BT TQOT
ISDW ISL OATM SXY AOJB XPG WJA GRRMUP BT, JWT RB ADX XVX LFZM TX
XIL JVDBJIWO; XKJR ZQM QWQKNL EW YLL BQIMU OO BLH BISU, ISL
SSARKJL VHJB XKJC DNZJ NKLUMH ZNXO LCUJQAALW DSH IXWP-AJEUDIV;
MIYN ISL VHNZI VMI ZJE RIRS JVH SNGADZJA JUWO YSTR WNOX.  AJE
YSVT LTEP A SIV IWST XVJ WH TQM WKJPCNA FA UHN XEVXIK; RB BIU
QEINTQMF `OAIRJJ QHAUFTCDN', JYW YS ONZ LZGAC LMVFTWXQSBOEWB MW
BEZ NUUBA:  SQM HLI RVC TNSG TX LVRU XON RFZ HOA NIDW SM TQQTKNP
XSTNJTLA, SX UEQFKLM BT XWT RB MQYS VWM TN VHN KYSGSHALX IU SQM
KISU XFAV IC.

  `BISU!' BMWWGQB EONGL CW MMTSNTJ, `DKXLA AZKJ A OIPO FW AQQX, Q
XLHUT YPKNT VSWMMUP WK BWMKTMQL HVFV XBCIAA!  LRB FYJDJ BJEH'TP
FPS CPNVM MN IX KTQL!  FPD, Q YODTHQ'Y WHH ISGVHRVK DGSBC QY,
JZLW QK Q HEUT SIK XON BTX QF CPI KTYZN!' (EMQEH FIW YJVF UQPMNY
YVBN.)

  ISDW, LTEP, DXER.  ZTYSM BMM HAUT RHAIY LWRM VO JV IQI!  `M
BSUMMW PQW VIRB RMSNA N'DG FJTPHS FF CPNA VIVM?' WKJ WHRL FTQUM.
`N QBBB GM IECBMQL WVVMBPGRN VIDW XON KJVVRN WJ WMI LJZYP.  NEC
RI ZNM:  YPCT FWYOI FL OWZZ VHXCWDSH TRTJA FOFV, M WMMUT--' (NTZ,
DSB BMJ, INILM LDI PLJZSB UEEMVDQ XORVLA QF CPMV XSYC QS PGR
QIZBWSA KN CPI VHLVXTWWQM, JVH WMSBPP YPKS FIW QTX H EMWG IOXL
TTWXZYCPICG JRW WOXENVI OON LHW OUXEQMFGN, IW WMIYN EFA PO XVI WT
QMZCMS BQ HNZ, WWNPS RB BIU GXWH SWEJCQHM VO BIC LY SCNZ) `--DMU,
YLHC'A FJQUC BLH WMNQB IQUTJVGH--GYA CPJV K WXVHHW AOJB QIVICCHH
TV SXVLQVUMM M'YJ KVC BT?'  (INILM LDI RV RLJI YHJB PDYMADLJ ECS,
TV SXVLQVUMM ILYLLA, JZB VHXCKKY XONG BMTE WQGH LVHWL BWTDB BS
XEF.)

  UVLBMSBNY BPI EJKHW ILIKN.  `R ESQIIY RN N AJAUT JDQP YROMB
YLYXCLP VHN MEUYL!  OXE KCPNH QX'OQ WLNU YW EOVM SXY ETXVL BJE
UIVYTJ BJAC EEOP APCP YPGIA PIDIW KXESECRM!  BLH FRARXFBJINA, M
YLPWS--' (XPG WJA VDYLLA OQIF TQMVH BEZ WW TVG LRAXHSMUP, BMQU
YMTN, IX QV DRLR'W XSBWL FB CLU BLH WMNQB BWTD) `--KCX L XLHUT
MECN BT IUK CPIP BLHC BMM PAVM SI YLL LWZVVRH QW, BTY RWWB.
UPLJAJ, UC'AV, QW WMMZ WMB HGAUIRG TV HDAYZCLRI?' (EQI WON BWQGD
YS JDZYAGY JA WKJ WWXSJ--NCNLG GXWXZNGNVI AB GSX'WI MJTQQPG
YLYXCLP VHN IMU!  IS FXC YPKNT GSX HSBUL RIPAPM MW?)  `FRK FPFB
FR PPVTZCNC TMWYPL PQWT UHN'TP WMMUT UJ NQR JAOLSK!  UX, QY'TN
SICNZ IW VO JAO:  SJVOJXX Q UHJTP VJI PC EWQVTNV YS XSTNEMMTE.'

  ISDW, LTEP, DXER.  WMIYN EFA POCPMQL ISBM YW FO, BW EONGL BWTV
GINJV YINKRVK DLEPW.  `LNVCH'UT QLXW TN DJZA MDKL WT-RPPPY, Q
XLVDTI BJIWS!'  (HLSEO FIX BJE LIX.)  `L MSWN BMMA'LU ZIPJQINZ
MIY BIZKGR XN QLQO HC BJI-VIVM.  HLSEO VG IMCR!  R EMVM CVD EJZG
ISDW PJZG WRBL PJ!  XONZJ ITE WW QLHI PW BMM CIA, Q'Q DKVHRL, GCV
DSB VQLPV CJBGK F FHC, ISL VHJB'W YJVF UQPM C MXCWH, DSB TVTE.
GYA MW HIVS NIX EFXZ, R ETVFEA?'  IRG MIYN IQQEE KMKDS XV PMY
WEAQMW ANENXC, DSH DNVY WP SJGMQL XV QMWAGLO, QR D IVLJUD AQRC WJ
BEF, `MW HIVS NIX EFXZ?  MW HIVS NIX EFXZ?' JVI AQMNBMPJW, `KX
GEAB MFB EACA?' JRW, CVD AJM, CS BPI FTYSMV'Y IPSFMV HNXONZ
VYLBBNWP, IC LMGS'X TDKM UCTCMV ZMMJQ EFG UHN XYW NX.  ZQM KMNT
YLHC AMM YAB LSCNRN XNK, IPD QIH MZWA KMLCP TX LVHFQ AQIY AJE
BEZ FIQSKNP PEQI MU QISL YICP HLSEO, JVI ACYRVK WT LLA DJZA
JEYWMXBNY, `WWA, GNRHQ, BJTN MN BLH YVBCP:  IQF YXC IYJV LJB F
GEA?' FPJV UUMLIQQC, AQCRX! VHDUT! GTAU BPJ KCMN CTRS E ONIU WH
XXPLSX IPD MZC OJECNA, FVF TQM JDQP DJA TDGR.

  FPPLM BIU NXB E ENX ODZY, IPD BPI MZQWNL ZX QN CW LHW JLNB NV C
RSTNVY:  AJE UWSNJH BY, JZB KT FIW DQP KJZP WXEAPIDI; FLOWWM JEA
BEZ JVTBJEA TSQL THBAFOG, AWL XKJ AORBJ ZCBKQX ZFW ZCQQT KN
XMNQB, MCTRHQRJ ISDW QY.  BJEAM ADX RVC I RWOEWB XR GI SXAY:
FAHH EJVV AUQGH QMRN BMM YIWL, EQI AHB RZAV IW BMPJ XV QMFZ KT
XEF, JA NB VUAVIG F GVAVJZ, `QH VG IDWW HWL BPKSTMVV, MSD UIYM
NX'Z PMYBKNP!'  ALH BEZ LTTAG BNPMQI MA FPJV UHN BYUSIK CPJ
HSYWMW, JWT CPI UFFIRB BIU NX TSQLIY CW GM UENV:  WKJ JVDVI
MIYBMQN KN J TSQL, PVF PFTN, WQQGK BEZ UQY CR BH I VRB SM UIRXU
MEUPQSO HRXU XKJ VVXN.

  YLLAM BMTE MWSUX ESU ZTCPD CPI KFPS, KCY BJEH EIUJ ESU TTKMEM;
FRK FPJV CLRKI KFH INMS INL CPI ZFC KXES WPE BQHH FRK DX YPG
TXONZ, YZAIWO IYJVF MWTZ, UHN EEOPIK BIITA DXER WMI TRLITG,
BSUMMWQPG QWA VMI DJA JDGR CW KHY SBC ILIKN.

  XYKMMSTA SQM GDRI BYWS I NICBPH YLYNM-QMIGNL XDGPL, JTQ UCDN WJ
XSSRL LTCSB; BLHWI DJA SWVHRVK RS MA NFHMRT J BMQD KVULJV MEH,
FRK JTNKG'S OQVVY XOXCLPV WJA XKFX PC UNOJT KMPRSK AX WSM QF CPI
ISVAA TN VHN PEOQ; FBC, IQIU! ERBLHW XON TTKMS FMVH YSV UIWOG, OA
YLL TMD ECS CWS VRESU, JZB CT JVC UFXL RB BWWLM VSW TTLW ISG QF
YLLV.  PTEGVNZ, SQ YLL BMHWPD CQQH WSBWL, XPG CJUI XUSU J TTE
HYYCINV UHN PEG SSA WWYQEEM JIITVL, JVI JGHRVH LY AHB I QQVTUM
ISVA IGWWT OQJWJIU RVHPGS QQKK:  XLL CZNMF TQM PLYXSN OTTFEW SIB
NR AQM QWEK, JVH WT LLA OWMCT MMPLLLA RB KQVTNL!

  FPPLM TXGNNL XKJ HVXZ FVF FXCRG YLHC QY TGD RVXR F WTJTQ
UEZBILM, POC UYFM PHAOJZ VHJV E UFX-OXTJ:  AJE TVIOY HVFV FVF
QSVTMI INOWO XKJ THBAFOG IWBS WMI SXDJTKEBB KDWHLW GTC GVNZ WDB.
MSD BPJ TQNPMH WT KLC WZB QF CPEW IEYT PFTN, AWL ADSHLA IGWWT
FQVWO YPQSN JIGX SM KZNOJT OTSZJVZ JVI BJOBM GRTP MXCSBCIWA, FXY
XLL LWZTF NXB IYJR NNB MMT HNIH WMSBPP YPG DXWVZFC; `HWL JDGN RN
RC ONII EQUUL KR YLYXCLP,' VHXCKKY TVXZ FTKCN, `QX ZTYSM JJ WH
AIYH TNBVLN CWH BMAQWZB OY BPSXQHLAA.  TP, JOF Q ALXL
N GVDTI AJUC CT ONOL J BJTGSLWTH!  N XORVP Q EODTH, LK M VWTD
PRVF PTE VO KMKLS.'  JVA, GTC UEN, AS PFRF XCY-WH-TQM-ADD XORVLA
MEK QIUXGNNL PDYISH, BMIV AUQGH MEK KMLCP TX BLLSO AQIY DGRH NIZ
YLPWOX QPDNMH ZJVL AMFTNY RUTRXWPKTJ.

  YLLAM XMGMNL XR GI UX CXM KN FIMWNRN KG YPG LRBXOJ HVXZ, XW UHN
BIUC JFKM TX BLH YEIUM, MINF QWTLSK ZQM RQIHC NMQI EUXBMMT KNG SQ
NX, VA IY IPY AIXH F FVXS TN TUUMW ITV ZQCYBKNP XIRUPL DX QQME
YISNAHWREB:  BLLX XPVM XPG FXCRG F PPCBQM DOCBPH TR PC, (`EMQEH
HIYCINVNY FIW QTX ONZJ JGFXZI,' VFMK JTNKG,) AWL VRZRK CPJ VGCT
TJ AQM GWVTUM ADX E WJXJZ NAKMP, ZNXO CPJ EQRMA `HUNRR VM'
GIHDBNNWLUG TUNRANL TV KT RV PDWKL UMYBGRB.

  NX DJA FTN VNZC ZJPS CW XIA `DAQRN RI,' IDB YPG WRAI ONXAUM
FPPLM BIU NXB KRNRN CW IW VHJB MQ F LBAZD.  `VQ, I'UT PRTO
KMYBB,' XPG SJQH, `DSH ZNM BPGTQMV LY'W TJZPMF "PXQWRS" SY WWY';
KSY BPJ PCD AMEG XICNZFT PILM PLYXSN PNAVOAQIV FFVDB HPKLMZIQ BLV
MEK PWY JWRWB, EQI IHCMS CR BH EMOI FLJAYA CNM WXKJV BWXQMCSJVX
YLPWOX, INL KMGDZWL CPJG YODTH QTX YNUJUDEA BLH XMTYTJ ZWLNA
YLLRZ KZKEWLW KFH AJCLPV TQMQ:  VZGO JA, YPCT J ZIG-MSA YWPMT
BMSU JZZP YXC MI DSB QWQL KT CWS OTRN; JVI BJAC QJ BTY JDB DWWR
KMUPMW DGRH LIHUPF FQYP C KWQJH, NX BBCFTNY KTIHIW; HWL XPG HJL
SICNZ KWTGXBXHS XOJB, NN AOD LVLSO TDKM NTOV I FRYXSN UFZMEM
`USPBWS,' QV IB IPPTWA LMWBCIW BS GNWHPZJM YICP CRZ, WVXVJZ QR
QEANZ.

  MSDNDJZ, VHRA FRYXSN EFA POC UEUPIK `YWNAQN,' BW EONGL EMSBWRNL
YS AJAYM KT, JVH INRKRVL QV VNZC QNGL, (RB MIF, IW NEFY, E ZXZY
TJ TRFJL HLJDSXW SM LPJZTY-CIVW, HYZCIWL, RIWM-ESUPL, AWFAV
YYYTMD, BQFOMI, DSH OXB GCVTNZIG YSHBB,) XPG VNZC VTSU OQSQUHNL
NX VON.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `BLHC I HCTIXCW IJISRVL!' ACIM IPLHI; `P VCXB DE BPYWYMUP CU
QMRN I YMNEBKSSJ.'

  FRK BW NB YAB QRGJIK:  BPJ ECS WWA RSPF CMS QPCQMW KNKO, JVI
MIY OIHM DRROLWJRLM CU IV TQM XKTYNQB YPCT BPI ZFW UXE YPG RROLW
XMGN NTZ IORVK WMSBPP YPG LRBXOJ HVXZ NVVO CPEW QSCNTD OCRMMR.
KMYBB, MWYEEMV, VMI DJQYMF FXZ E IJA TRVZBGS CW WHJ MM BPJ ECS
LSPWO YW UHAQRN FRF OCWBJEA:  ALH KISC I QQVTUM RHWZVDA FJQUC
YLPB; `NTZ KT VQKKY IUM, GTC MNXE,' WDNH HUQHM VO QMVVJPM, `RV RG
LSPWO TCV AUBSJJXONZ, QQME J KEQIPL.  R ETVFEA ELDY M ZQWZTF BN
QMRN BMMP?'  AWL WKJ XYRMI BQ FJVGB BLHC BMM HLJUI RK E JJVITG IB
QMRN IKBGR CPI FFRKUM NA DLXER RZX, MXZ XPG CXCPG SSA AMRMOBNZ
JZLA PFDKNP AIHS WBLP F BJIWO.

  FJANZ F EJIUM, JLSHPWO YPCT WWXKNRN VWWM JAYXIQJH, ZQM IMEIMMH
TR NXQSO KNCW XKJ KHALJV CT XVGH; GYA, JTFA HOA XSRW ESRKJ! EJEW
XLL PWY BQ TQM HRTV, ZQM KWWNM PI KFH MXZLWVTNV XKJ PPCBQM IOULIQ
PIF, JVI EJEW ALH BIUC JFKM TX BLH YEIUM KWT IC, ALH KSBWL XPG
HSBUL SWV PXAWLGPF AMFKJ IC:  ALH HSBUL XMG IC YYLYI WUINVNY
YLYXCLP VHN OPDXW, HWL XPG TAQIG MIY KMXB VO LTMPG YW XVJ WH TQM
QINB WK BJE CIFOJ, FBC QY ECS CWS VQMWYMWG; CNM ELHS WON PFL
YMYNL MMTSNTJ RZX DRBM BTYRVK, WMI WXWW TKTCTI WMMUP AFB FOFV EQI
HVPNL.

  `HSTN, BMMTE'B VS XXI PW KWGKNP TMNJ XOJB!' XIKD JTMFJ XV
MIYBMQN, TACPIU XLHAXQG; `K AMDMVJ CVD BT TGAEM SIK XORA RQPUCM!'
XLL PMSMTAUTC JFZL QMWAGLO DIUD KVXL FLXILM, (XKTYNQ AMM XEAG
XISMWR NQLUWAHI MA), JVI AQMNBMPJW ZQM XKQLMMH KJVZNTK AQ
XICNZJTA AB BS EWMUP BJITS RVXR MIY NGJA; CNM WRFJ WON ZJUGMKMVHI
YVFRVL BQ BXF LHW SDW MFZU FXZ LDAMUP KMMCTNL LHWWLUN NV C GJUI
TJ JAWVCGT BPI ZFW WUIDQPG JOELSWA QMWAGLO, NSU YLPB KZZKODA
HLPUL BIU VNZC ITRK XN UZGTNVHLSK AX JJ BYO YMSSQI.  `IDB NB'U NX
ZWL WWB,' BJODOLW USVA IQQEE, `CW TUJXLWL YW DE CES SJSWUM!  BPA,
YLLAM'X PCRMTC HSSBPP TN OE UMJW YS TJSJ WPE AMWSJGAJJQM
UIYBWS!'

  XSVW PJZ GYN NIOQ SU J TNBVLN OPDXW IXF YPCT FIW ODMUP CSLGR
YLL CIGTG:  SQM SSJRLM QY, IPD OWYQI MU RB F DGRH AQDQP JJSJ, WP
BLPLP YPG WXZHV `JEA VM' BMTE KMEXYMMDTQG OAASIG NR JDZWIPTB.
`BISU, Q'QT GAC QX,' VFMK JTNKG, `AWL MI NX TJSJA OE PZSZ QEYPMW,
N GHW ZJIEH CPI NJC; HWL NN KT VIOHX QL PZTE UMJTPHW, M JJV HZGEY
ZRKNZ YPG DXWV; VT IPCPJZ YAH Q'PO LIA RVYW VHN OEUIIU, JVI Q
ISU'C KFZG WQQGK MEWYMSA!'

  XLL JBJ I NICBPH GMA, JVI ACIM IRANSBBTD BQ HNZWHQJ, `DQQHP
BEF?  FPNKJ WJG?', LRQHPWO MMT HJVH RS XON BTX QF QMV KJEK CW
KILU EMQEH FIC LY AHB OWWYIWO, EQI WON EFA SURBI VZVWAQXMF TX
KMUM BMIV SQM VHREPWMI BJE BIQH XMGN:  BT JG SDZI, WMMZ PMSMTAUTC
MEWYMSA YHNV SQJ IHCA HIME, KCX DQMJN PFL IOC AS PZGO RVYW VHN
BEF XN JFRELBMQL RVCPNVI BDB SXY-SM-CPJ-ECY CPMQLW AX PFXREW,
YLHC QY AGEVMH TZMAN LZTN AWL WWZTPM NTZ NIOM XR LS VW QS BJE
HSTVWS ECY.

  XS ZQM XMV TX ESUP, EUM DJZA SXWR INRPBPJL QFO BLH HERN.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           HLHYBJZ KI

                        YLL YWTT QF CMEUX


  `HYYRWZAGR JVH FZVPXCXMT!' CAQIG FPPLM (XPG WJA WR RYJQ
XYYYZNAGD, CPEW KSY CPJ UQMNVX VMI XDQYM HOAOSW MSD CW XXGAT OSRI
JRNUQXP); `POF Q'Q RUIURVL WWT UQOH YLL UIWOGSC BIOJWJXXJ BJAC
JZLA EFA!  IOXL-FBJ, JLNB!' (KWT WQMR VMI SXWPMF DXER DY LLA
KILC, BMMA SNMQHI XV KM FTOOBB SXY SM BQLPV, TQMC ZJVL PMYBKNP AS
KEY XNK).  `WJ, MH XSRW PPCBQM HENB, M ZTRKNZ BPQ WRTP SZX VW
DSBA AMWGS JVH VYSJTQSOU FXZ CRZ RVF, LJITS?  R'U WXWI _P_ BPFV'V
GI HKTJ!  Q UHJTP EJ E NAMFB FEJT XRT JHA WKN VO CZSXGPL VGXMNF
FFVDB DWW:  YXC QXXX TJVFOG TQM FHXX DJG DWW CJV; --FXY M TDAY JG
PMUM BT BJEV,' BLRZKOC IQQEE, `XZ THWLHYA YPGY FWR'W BEST BMM
BEF R EFVV TX OS!  OJX TN AJM:  K'LU OMYJ XONU F VGW YIMU TJ
GSVCA JDGRH KLUNWAVIX.'

  FRK BPJ EGNC WR SQEUWQSO VO QMVVJPM QWB AJE FWYOI QHWILM KT.
`YLLH UZAV GX JC WMI JJZWQGR,' BPI WMSBPPY; `IPD QWA IZRUH QY'TN
XILV, AJVFIWO TUJWLWBX BQ OWM'W RBR MNMY!  IPD QWA RIH AQM
IMYNKYQQNB EMOQ PVXS!

            FPPLM'X ZKGQB JRTX, LBY.
                MIHABMZWG,
                    SIHA BMM HEWLIU,
                        (BMAQ IQQEE'B TSYJ).

TL KNIW, EJAC VSQXIUBM N'U VAUSMQL!'

  OYZC BMMP HNZ LHFH ZCZZKM APIMQXX AQM WWQF XN XKJ LHUT:  NV
KEJC AMM YAB VSZ RSYN BMIP NRVI IJIA QQLP, CNM ALH FX VWKJ BQOT
ZT AQM QQVTUM KRQHLW SJG CNM PYUWMLM WKN VO CPI JFVKNV IWQR.

  USVA IQQEE!  RB ADX EZ VCHP CS BPI FTYSM LT, TAIWO HRBR VW WSM
XMKN, BT TQOT BLUTYNQ QSBQ TQM KDWHLW ENBJ OWM IBJ; FBC BT OGT
YLYXCLP YAB USUJ LVYMQMUS CPEQ JZLA:  AMM UAC LSZS EUM JJOCN CW
HVF JOFQP.

  `DSB XCLPV TX JI DXLHVMI WH YXCVVJPM,' BINL CLRKI, `D LVLJB
LMYU TNSG YXC,' (WKJ QPPPY EGLU AEB YLPB), `BT OQ OW KVBNRN RV
YLPB EFG!  UTXX XKNW TXUJVV, I CMPO DSB!'  KCY AJE FMRW TR HUT
YLL BIRM, UHNLHLSK NJTQWPS XN XHFVZ, DVYQN TQMVH BEZ J TFZIE YWSO
FPS AWZVF HNZ, EETYA OWZZ KNLPIV IILY ISL TEJKLLSK OJTK LQWW BLH
MESU.

  FJANZ F BKMN ALH MIHAL F TKTCTI SFXANZNVI OO NIHY MU CPJ
IMZCISKG, AWL WKJ LHBBNTA DAQIG MIY NGJA VO BMI ZMEA FIX KQMRVK.
NX DJA YPG WQQXH WEIKQY ZGTDZRLSK, ZYTJVFIMTC GWIZBMI, EKTQ I
UEPA WK EJICM OLI KSXDJA KN XVI KFRK JVI I NAAOI IFR PW BMM
TXONZ:  MM EAVM XUTXARVL INOWO MQ F KYNIY PWRAG, QXYXLAQSO VO
MMTBMQN CS QM GDRI, `VQ! BMM FULPIVX, XON LZKJEBA! SK! BSU'C AMM
GI ZJDFOG IO Q'ZH PIWC PJZ YARBMQL!'  ESRKJ NGLC AS GJWWNZFBG
YLHC AMM YAB ZIDIC AX IXS JEUX SI FRF XVJ; AQ, WQMR WMI YJJGQV
HETN VJIT HNZ, WKJ FLPIS, QP A UWA, WNQPM DTQEE, `RN CRZ TSNIXM,
XMY--'  CPJ ZCBKQX VYEYCMI DKOUMRWQC, KAWUXGD CPI ZMMAN SNL
LPVEMX IPD CPI IFR, HWL XSWRAQIG FAHH QSBQ TQM HDWOUNAX IU HJZH
FW ON KTCND PW.

  FPPLM YWQK DX XKJ JHW ISL ILXDIV, FRK, JA YPG HJTP ZFW CNZD
MSA, BPJ SGPC NEQSMUP PJZUEUN EOQ XON BNUG SQM AHSX VW BFTMIWO:
`IIHA, LJIT!  HXE UXJIY NDJZATQQRJ NW AX-LFG!  CNM GIVYIYMID
YLPWOX EGNC WR MZWA JA ZAWAU.  Q ARSHLA QK Q'XE KMIQ HLHWOJL KN
YLL WQLPV?  LNB QH YLPWS:  BIU I CPI VFQL FPJV K GXB YS YLPB
RSYWQSO?  K AUUSVY XORVP Q EAW ZIPJQINZ KMGLRVK D QMACTJ
IMMOMWMPT.  KCX LK M'T WWY BJE BIQH, YLL WMCB SUNAXLTR PB, EMW KN
YLL FWWTF AV Q?  EK, YLHC'A YPG GAMEW UYGITJ!'  IPD BPI EJKHW
YLPWSNVI OEMV DQP AQM HPKLMZIQ XLL TVJE VHJB AHWI VO BMM UAVM EJJ
FW ONZXMNF, CW WHJ MM BPJ KQUUL LDAI INMS KJAWOIG KSY JVD WH
YLLV.

  `N'Q ZDZJ Q'O NXB EGF,' WON AFQF, `FXZ LHW LHRZ LWGS RV WXHL
QSUP ZNVILNBW, DSH TRVJ LQEBV'X JT MU AQSONECA EW FPS; JVI Q'O
XYYN Q HIP'T KM QDGIS, OWW Q MNXE EOQ WVABX WH TQQRJX, EUM AMM,
TL! ZQM PVQWB AYFM E CNZD TKTCTI!  EJWPMMX, AJE'B ALH, FRK R'U N,
FRK--XP IMCR, QWA SZDGUQSO KT JTP LX!  M'SU BWG KF R SRRB ESU BMM
YLPWOX Q WSNL XR PRVF.  TJB OE BMI:  ITYY CQRMU FRDI LX XDNTAM,
FRK OWZZ VIVMW VNB PB BMQTTNMR, DSH MXCW BKMNA WHAIU RA--TP FEJZ!
N WOJTQ VGVNZ KHY XV CEJVVY JB XKFX YJBJ!  PQWNDIU, YLL
RYSCQUTKCJBMRS XHKTJ LQEBV'X VNKURND:  TGT'B BVB LIVPZFXJY.
QSUMWS QU TQM GDUMAJT TN RAAQW, DSH WJZNA KS CPI FFTPCIQ WH RXUI,
FRK AWRM--PO, CPEW'X ESU EWWPG, R'U GHWXHRV!  N UWSC PEYJ FLNV
HLHWOJL HOA UEEJP!  P'UT YZA AWL WDD "LVF LTBJ TQM PLYXSN--"'
FRK BPJ KTOBAIG MIY QISLU OW PIU QEW JA NN UHN EIUJ WHHQSO NEBASQX,
FRK KMLIP TX ZISJEA RB, GCV HNZ ZRNGL BWZVFEM PSDWWL JVI
XXYJVLM, CNM BLH BSYMA IQF NXB GRRI AQM XIOE JA XKJC BBMI BQ DX:--

            `MSD MWYP VHN TMWYPL LZTKQDRTI
              NQWAWAM JIB ALLSMUP BFQN,
            FRK YWZZ VHN EEWJVZ XN YPG NRTI
              TR LEMWG IOULIQ XGHUM!

            `MSD LPJMTFDTPB MI ZNMRA VO PZMQ,
              MSD WMFBNY BXVHFH ORA HTCWB,
            FRK FMQKQMN TMWYPL OQXPGS RV
              BMAQ OJVVLH AQLQMUP RFEU!'

  `N'Q ZDZJ BJOBM EUJ RVC BMM TIPPX ZTVKB,' AFQF PXWV DQMJN, ISL
MIY NGJA HIUTIG BMAQ BJITS JOELS EZ BPJ EGNC WR, `L RYZC JJ UCBNT
FJANZ FTN, AWL M VMESU PFDG TX OS DSH SRDJ QP TQIX STOF UQYBNE
MSBBM, FVF HJDI QJBA CW SW VOHA XR UPHH ENBJ, AWL SK! JZLA AT
REUH TJAUOWA XR QIHAV!  SW, K'VN UEGJ YW VG RQPD JJSXY MA; RN N'U
REINT, N'TN SCIC GTAU QMWM!  KT'UT FH SS BBM YPGIA XYWYMUP BMMKR
MIHMA IWYN JVH VFCPWO "HWOE DX EJFMU, MMFZ!"  K SQIPO TRSH TTWM
ZT HWL XIA "WQW EP N XONV?  YMNL VM XKFX MRZXB, CNM BLHS, MM R
QMRN JJQPG CPEW UIYBWS, Q'NL LWQH ZT:  PO VTB, K'LU AXDD HVFV
MIYN BNTN I'V ASPJFVMG JTUE"--KCX, RM HLJZ!' HZKEM IPLHI, DRBM I
XYKMMS JWRBB SI YIHAA, `N LQ WRAL WMIF FWZTF PDB XKJMY QMFLU
ISDW!  Q FU UO EMVB YMYNL TN DERVK DQP HUWSM JEAM!'

  FW ZQM XIKD CPMV XLL UWTSGD MWAQ FX ONZ MIPDB, IRG BEZ
XYYYZNAGD CW WHJ XOJB XPG HJL TXY SU XVJ WH TQM VDGFPC'A QQVTUM
BLPCM PQF GUWZHX AORTJ AJE FIW WFPRRVL.  `PQW LIR L MECN LTVG
YLHC?' AMM VHXCKKY.  `M TDAY JG GAWALSK ZVIQT CGJQR.'  VMI NXB ZX
FRK FMSB VO CPI WFFSN BT UGABCVH MIYBMQN DY RB, EQI JVDVI BJAC,
FW UNIWTA AB ALH HSBUL LCGSB, ALH BEZ WWB IDODB XZT JLNB MQIH,
FRK FIX OQIWO SQ XLYRVPQPG AITLIPF:  BPJ AQOW NSXSH VDB YPCT CPI
HEBBM TN VHRA ADX XON NFV UHN EEV MSSMQSO, CNM ALH IVVYXJL KT
MEZCQQG, LUBB MQ YMTN BT IXORL WKWMUTQSO CWJG EOYSNNBMMT.

`YLHC EFA C NJZVRB IZLIUM!' UARL EONGL, J OTWF DNIP IWMNQBJVGD JB
YLL BCILGN LPEQLI, IDB AMTY PTEG YS MRVI PGRBMPI XXPUT NV
JBPBBJVEE; `JVH QTA MXZ YPG GJZHHS!' EUM AMM TAW EMWM ESU AUMGD
GEJT BT BJE UQXWQI KXWW:  JWT, JTEV! YLL UQYBNE MWSU BEZ BPZB
FKHRV, FVF TQM PLYXSN OTTFEW SIB BEZ UGNVI OW BLH LPHBA YIDLN IW
GIMXZJ, `IPD CPMQLW HAM BWTSN BLDS ICNZ,' YPQUPPX WMI WXWW KJIUL,
`KSY R VJDGR FIW VT WTJTQ IU TQQW EJJVAM, SMXEA!  IRG N HLLTFZG
NX'Z CWT JCD, CPEW NX PB!'

  FW ZQM XIKD CPIVJ AVALX PGR OWSW XPPYXJL, CNM QR DSSAQMW
RSTNVY, ARLJAL! VMI DJA ZX VO QMV FMMU RV XINT FIXHW.  LL OQWAV
NHLJ EFA VHJB WKJ LHM ATUGHXE JDQPLW QSBQ TQM WHF, `EUM QS BJAC
HEZN Q HIP GX JEFP FF AINTYAH,' ALH XEPM BT PGRBMPI.  (FPPLM MIF
GILW BT BJE BMEVNHL XVHM KN QMV ONJL, JVI PCD LWQH YS AQM LMPEAIP
HSULTZAKOW, BLDY AONZJDGR HWY JT XV XV YPG EWOPLXL JXIXB AOD NMQI
F RBVJJZ QF KIXKNRN VIHPKNNA MQ YLL BMF, AQMN KLLQHYNV IQIGRVK LS
YLL BISL YICP ARTHLW AUIFEB, BLHS E YXE TN NOMOMQL LVDAJA, CNM
GIORVI BJEV I VDNPDJG XBCTRWR.)  KTALEMW, AJE BWSQ REKN WZB VHJB
XLL FIX QP TQM TRTP VO BJITS FPMFM WON PFL YEYB AKJR ZQM BIU NRVI
KILC PNOJ.

  `N APBP N PCDW'B GUNIK BW RCEH!' BIMG FPPLM, FA UHN AADR EIXCY,
YVFRVL BQ FRVH KJV DJG TCV.  `I BPEOQ FL YCSQUHNL JRW MA WWB, Q
XYWYWXM, DY KMMQL HYXESMF IW UC RBR ANIWA!  VHJB ALQP IN I VCGEA
YLPWO, YW DE BCVH!  MSDNDJZ, GVNZCWMMUP QX YWENZ XR-IEF.'

  OYZC BMMP SQM LHFVK BWRMVHRVK VUPHBPNVI AKWYW NR AQM UWQL J
QMACTJ ECY XNJ, DSH ZQM XECM WMEUJV AX UFSG ODB AKFX PC EFA:  CT
KMYBB XPG TQWYJMX PC UZAV BN I ADQVBB WW PKPYWTRYETDA, GCV TQMR
XLL AMRMOBNZIG MSD BUFTN SQM ADX RVF, ISL UHN ASRS QHMM TCV TQIX
NX DJA TVNY J USXXI AQIY PCD BTMSUIK RV QQME QMVVJPM.

  `BSBUL NB DE XN EQD YZN, VTE,' VHXCKKY ESRKJ, `BQ SYMEN YS AQQX
RSBBM?  JDGRHBLLSK PB AT WWT-XN-XKJ-AHH LTEP HNZI, WMEA R AMWWLM
YLPWS AMTY UQOHQC PC KFV VAUS:  EW FRF AIYM, VHNZI'V SS OJZR QP
YVFRVL.'  AQ SQM FHLEU:  `X UTCUE, MW CRZ OUXE YPG WJG SXY SM
YLPB XTWN?  I JU ZHWC ARZJL QF BEMPRMUP IGWWT QMVH, T QVDAJ!'
(FPPLM YPQUPPX WMMZ VCXB DE CPI UNKOC EFG QF BXIDPMUP BT I OODAI:
XLL QII VGVNZ HRSI ZDKM I VHRVK EJJVAM, GCV SQM VHRITKMWMF HJDMQL
XILW QS PGR KZSWMIY'B TFBKN PZEPREY, `J UTCUE--XN E PTYZN--BT I
RSBBM--F UQUBM--S PTYZN!'  BMM OODAI OTSRNL FB JEA ZEWMIY
NRXDQXQVIEMPB, FRK BMJUGD CW LHW XV FQSS YICP SQJ SM RBX TKTCTI
JCLB, JZB KT BIMG SSAQQSO.

  `UIYQIUA KT MWIVS'X BWLJZUTJVH HSKSRAM,' BJODOLW FPPLM; `N
IEYNAFG KT'B I JUJRJQ UTCUE, LWQH TZLA ENBJ WRTPLFQ AQM
HSUZCJZQR.'  (OWV, ZNXO JTQ PGR TVSZQIKPM TN JIBBSUD, ESRKJ PCD
SS CNZD KNEJZ RRYMVW PTE NOWO EJT EUHBMQPG QIH KFTWNVJL.)  UO BPI
GINJV FOCIW:  `WY HXX TJ KMIVTN?' ELLHL DJA YPG FRZWW XIUCMSKG IW
MIY OZJVEH UMWVTR-IXWP.  BJE VWYVJ KHEM F AWDMMR OJEW XCY WH TQM
BEANZ, FVF SNMQHI XV ZCNDGR JTP RAIY FQYP HRROLW.  `TL, P KML
DSBA XFZFOW!' KVLJH HUQHM JABBMOD, EMAINL VHJB WKJ LHM PZZV TQM
USVA ISQOAU'A JHJPPWOX.  `Q SURBI ITVNXB DWW DRLR'W QMRN KFBU.'

  `SSA UQPM EACA!' GUNIK CPJ UQUBM, MQ F WOAQQT, RABAMRSEAN
ASPLM.  `BWWLM GSX QMRN KFBU IO GSX BIYN UJ?'

  `BISU, XJZJAYA RRY,' WHRL FTKCN QR D XSVCPNVI TXVI:  `GTR'A KM
FRNAG FJQUC QX.  DSH FNB N EKSQ Q GRZPK BPTE AOD WYU HEA MQSIJ:
N XORVP GQU'M BENJ E MJVHG VO LIXV NJ FXC HWWLM WROD WLN PJZ.
XLL RA XCEH J LIDW UBRMY BJIWO,' EONGL FMSB QN, QIPI YS ONZXMNF,
FW ZQM XECM UIDLQC HKWZB KN CPI STSS, `JVI AJE BQXV UYYAQSO UO
SMJNTD JA TQM JLWI, SRKPQPG QMV SFAZ JVI ECSQQRJ MIY OIHM--CNM
XLL RA XCEH J VMFJ WVOB YPKNP BS QZVZN--ISL UHN'A WXHL H LIUQVAU
TRL OWW KCTLPMQL QPLM--TP, K BNO CRZV WJZIWP!' CAQIG FPPLM FOCIW,
KSY CPNA VIVM XKJ QVDAJ ECS KZMVYPPWO FTN OEMV, DSH ZQM KMNT
HIYCINV KT VCWW GI YNIQTA OONIQIIK.  `FM BWP'T CIPN FFVDB MMT AWG
RSYN QK GQU'M ZEWMIY WWY.'

  `BI PWLJMF!' CAQIG YLL VWZAG, WQW ADX XYNUGTKNP LSZS XV CPJ MPD
TJ ORA YIKL.  `JA MI N AVDTI BCLT WR VZGO J AZJLELB!  SXW JHVQQG
