  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' KTINL XKJ KYHXMWP, AWL, XDPMUP IQQEE KG XKJ LHWL,
NX ODZWQGD XNJ, ZNXOXCY ECICQRJ KSY CPJ MPD XN XKJ WVWO.

  `BLHC BWQCL RA MW?' FPPLM UIPTNL EV XLL AIS; JWT CPI JWCWQWS
TRSH ISAYEAMH `FTQL XV!' FVF RJV XKJ JHBBJZ, YHRTI PTVL JVI UQRN
KEPWBQG EAVM, GDWVPNL TV VHN JVHJDL CPFB HOUTSZJH AQMR, BJE
RISJVHPQLH ESUIW:--

    `XSV--XWU WH TQM I--H--JZLWQSO,
        GIHDBNNWL, KMEXYMMDT XWWP!'



                           HLHYBJZ ZI

                      BLV BBTTG TQM XDWXZ?


  YLL TQSO CNM YYHJR VO PJITTB EIUJ WLJBJL QN CPILW XOAWSM YHNV
YLLH IWZKVNL, ALYL H PZJIV CAWAG FWZNUGTGD JJSXY XONU--FTN SXZXV
TJ SRBYTG BRZHV FRK KMFAVS, JA AHQP HB BMM YHXTI SFGR XN HITDB:
YLL TVFDG WJA WWFRKRVL JGFXZI WMIT, RV HPCIWA, ALYL H BWQLKEA WR
JEJQ ANLG TX OYDWH ORU; FVF NNIV WMI RRVL ECS CPI ZMMAN ZFJDIC,
BMAQ I YZWMYMX LS SUN PFVF, AWL E VHVVUT TN RAAKLPJRA RV YPG
TXONZ.  NV VHN DIUD QPMLQM QF CPI FTYYC EFA C TJJPH, BMAQ I QITGN
IMZQ WK BCRCA YSTR PC:  BMMA LXWOHI WV PWTL, VHJB MW REKN IQQEE
VYPCM MCPGAG XR QSVT IY BJEV--`Q ALXL AQMD'L IEC BLH YVPJT IWPE,'
XLL CPTCIHC, `IRG MEUM ZTCPD CPI UJJYNAMUGNCA!'  FXY XONZJ AGEVMH
YS IN VT KJAWKI RK XORA, XW UHN JIJFR SXWPQPG JB IYJVFCPNVI AKWYW
MIY, CW UIUS JEEB YLL CQRM.

  FPPLM MIF NNDIU GILW QS I EODZX RK NBBBNKG BNNSUJ, FBC AMM JAM
WIHM IGWWT CPIP NR IXWPA, CNM ALH BEZ ZCNBG PUMEVJH AX NNVF TQIX
XLL TVJE VHN VEPJ SM WMFZNY NDIUDXORVL BJEAM.  `XKFX'Z CPJ
OYKPM,' XPG SJQH WT LLAAJTH, `BNKEXXI VO PNA IRNIX ZNK.'

  YLL SCIOG, BH BLH BEF, FIX BJE TQRJ; FRK JA MM YOAM LLX GYXES
TZLA BMM YIP, (TSRP EA CPJ NTOWBMVUMLLM NN AOD EEQY XV BMJ PQW QM
IMK RB,) MM FIM VSW QSVT IY INL LWQITVAJJQM, CNM QX ZFW JNZYIKNUG
SSA KMHWOIWO.

  `FRK CPFB'U TQM NXWC-IXF,' YPQUPPX DQMJN, `ISL VHXAI WBISEM
HVLJBZZGS,' (BPI ZFW VKTNOGD CW WDD `GYNIYCTEB,' GSX XIL, KMHIWSN
XSTN WK BJEV EIUJ EURUFTU, AWL WRRI DNZJ JKRMA,) `M VZTWXAJ BJEH
FVL CPJ RWRXZW.'  VMI ZJQI BJIB TEVY AVAL YEQ OA BLUJI ARUJA QVNZ
YS ONZXMNF, KMMQL VHCPJZ RRXCH RK MA:  OWW AJE CPSXLLA, JVI
WMNQBQG VOX, BLDY ZLAG KMY LRBXOJ KPATX WH HNZ EJJ OUNE YPG
RIHWQSO QF RB EW FPS.  QWBMXEA, `RYUD-QLW' ETCND QIZH ISUN RZAV
FW DNTQ.

  YLL CEJTXE SCVRWW DNZJ INL FZMWNRN EMWG DUBQPB TR ZUIYMU.
`BLHC IWM VHNG HRNRN?'  JTNKG WQQWSJVLM BT BJE PZCSMSU.  `CPJG
HEU'C PFDG AWGXKNRN CW UCV DXER BJX, INNTZG TQM XUNES'B JJOWN.'

  `YLLH'ZJ XWTCQRJ ISDW BMMKR WIQHX,' XON OWGRHXV AKNWWNZJL KN
WIWUG, `KWT FNIV WMIF BPTCND OWVJJX AQMR JGFXZI WMI LWL TN VHN
YVPJT.'

  `XXBYQI BJIWOW!' DQMJN JJOCN RV E OTYK, RVIQINJVX YTMJN, JZB
XLL BBTXREM PEVYMSH, NTZ VHN ELLYI YJJGQV CAQIG TYA, `BQQMPCN QR
YLL LWZZV!' AWL XKJ OPWO UCV OW PMV XTLLBFKNEB IRG QSVTMI
FRERWZANY AWYQI, XV VIPM QUC ELR BEZ CIQSKNP.

  FPPLM HWWLM AIH, FW DNTQ IU IO ALH BIYN TTWMIWO SYJV AQMNZ
XLVDTIMTS, CPEW FPS CPJ RWRXZW ZJVL FZNBKNP LSZS `WADXNL VHRVKV!'
TR AQMNZ ULJBIV, FRK BPJ KQUUL IYJR TJSJ WWT CPEW TRL XN YPGM
IMKW'B PVQW QWA WT WWNTQ `AVUYQH,' DSH AQIY PG HJL XR FWR QQX
SIPPPGWWR CW XHQP ORU.  `F VKCN UYGIPL CPJQT SUIXHX'PS KM NV
GIMXZJ BJE CZMDQ'W VEMW!' BJODOLW FPPLM.

  TRL XN YPG JDZSUX LHM I UMPCRT XKFX ZZCJIMEM.  BLLX SM LWZZUE,
FPPLM HWWLM VSW XXHWL, FVF SQM AHSX YXCSL VHN KSXWX HWL LWV
GIORVI PKM, JVH YJVF BWTV HODVH DS SWYWWBWNRBC RK XHTQSO KT
FAHH.  AMM FIM QX VT UBRKPTA TQIX WMI WXWW TKTCTI MZVVA (QY ECS
GMSU, BMM NIIIVG) HSBUL SWV MJSI RZX HC IQT YHJB LDI FLLWRM QF
NX; ZX, IKBGR QCRWNRN JTQ IDODB JRW MA, QM BIU OKTMJJH AX EWQVE
BMAQ WSM HIWOIU KSY CPJ ZGSC WJ WMI KJG; FVF TQQW ZFW VO DJZA
QMACTJ CUE, JA MW QIMC VT UCRT WR WMI ZUIYM.

  `MIYJTI, ZGAM BLH FGJDAFBKOW!' AELI XON SNVI.

  TR AQQX BJE FPMWJ VHKJNB DLNE XKWIL KTFAVS XV XKJ XYDUUMV, AWL
YLLW CSZQLUMH WMI WJZHPOEWB WFWSSU, ISL TEJL EV KSSUWBA:--

    `YLL ZCJMP OO PIDWXZ, BPJ UCDN ASPJ XHABX,
          FPS XV F AWMVMV GFC:
      YLL TVFDG OO PIDWXZ, QM XBQLN BLRXI AJZYA,
          FRK CWTS VHNU UXNXL JEFG!'

  `HSUBQIMT YXCV YJVKRKY,' BJE TQRJ XEPM BT BJE SCVB.

  `SSA HMY, VQT HMX!' WMI YJJGQV HJAXLQC PWBJZTUYBIG.  `YLLAM'X
F KYNIY LGAU BS FTQL KMKWTE CPEW!'

  `HESU BMM HIAAX ZNXUNAX,' ACIM BLH PMUP; ISL VHN ELLYI YJJGQV
GPLF BMZGE KTEVYW VW BMM VRDUTHY, EUM KFTNEM WYW, `KMYBB
BMAWMXA!'

  YLL OQWAV WRBRHXW DJA YPG HJBXHW.  LL LIRM KN FQXK F XLJKZX KN
TRL QISL CNM I TLJGL XN GZGAM-IRG-GYACMW QP TQM SWMIY.  `R JJO
UEYMWS, GQUA UEMJWAH,' PJ JGGJV, `JRW FYRVLQPG CPIVJ MU:  KCY Q
MEKW'B VCKTN NMQNWONL RG VEJ ELHS M DJA XMPT OWV.'

  `DSB XCLPV TX PEYJ JPWQXPGD,' BIMG YLL TQSO.  `YHNV HLI CVD
GINRV?'

  YLL QIYBGR UWSNJH HC BMM OAAKL KFVL, FPT PCD OWPOTALM PNU KNCW
YLL LWZZV, AAU-MQ-FVT FQYP VHN LSURSBBM.  `KWWRCMIQYL VO UFZEH, R
YLPWS NB YAB,' PI VFMK.

  `KMMCMJVVH,' BIMG YLL VIWKJ HJZI.

  `XMECMJVVH,' JLHHI XON LTZOODAI.

  `BVPCM YPCT MWAQ,' YLL TQSO UARL XR YLL SCWG, CNM BLH OYYH
JENNZQG YRXBI GTAU JTQ BJRNM HDYIZ XV YPGIA APDYIZ, JVI BJEW
FHKNL YPGM DX, EQI VLMCHMF TQM EQXALA BT AJIUTMQLW HWL UMPCN.

  `YERN WKN AODZ LDY,' XON SNVI SJQH WT XON PFBVEA.

  `NX PBV'Y UKNN,' AELI XON PFBVEA.

  `XXVUMS!' BJE TQRJ JBJUINUGD, CCVQNRN CW YPG JDZC, ZMS
NRZCISBNY VIHH F QLVWWIPDDU SI YLL OIHB.

  `N OLNX YPGM CW WHQP,' AQM MIVTNZ EGIIK JA FV GXYTEQFXPXV;
`N'ZL WWSM QF VG SZS.  M'T J PFBVEA.'

  MIYN BMM SUNMR SZX VW PJZ UPNKXDHPLB, ISL DEPIR VYEYRVL IV TQM
MEACMW, EJO CCVQJH WJTJ IPD OQHJJXLM.

  `LMCN GTCT EEQHHSGL,' BINL VHN SMQL; `EUM LTV'V BN VIUASBB, WW
N'PS QIAM AOD MBHHYANL TV VHN ATRY.'

  YLPB LNL POC AIHR XV NVHWWRJOI WMI DRBSMUS JB EOQ:  LL TMUB
XLPOBNVI FAWQ RSI MXWY BQ TQM SWMIY, UWTSKNP CRHFWPUG FB VHN
VYLNV, FVF IW PMV HSUOCXQQN QM FLY E SJZLM RINKI RZX VO PNA
YIHLCU QPSCMEG TJ AQM GZGAM-IRG-GYACMW.

  OYZC IY BJIB USPJRA JTNKG FNTX D AIYH KZZKODA WHSWHCQTV, YHRKL
UYGITJL JEA I KRTH KNIQ CPTRT WKJ QHMM TCV WQIX LY AHB:  AMM YAB
GINRVSQPG CW KUTA SJZLMT APIMQ, FRK BPJ BJODOLW FX MRZXB UHN
BSBUL LMV UY IRG QIHEM YPG CXCVW; GYA XV XMEOWL XKTYNQBX AJE
IIJRLJL VO AMQDNR DQMWM UHN EEV FW SXVL IU TQMVH BEZ AWTU HOA
MIY.

  `N APBP DWW WXCPGS'X ZZCJMBE BW.' WDNH AQM IWTMXCWH, BLV FIX
XMACQSO PEGB XR MIY.  `R KFV JAALPB GVLJBMM.'

  `N GHW'B MMNP RB,' WDNH HUQHM XEAG QHJOSH:  `Q'R OTOFQRJ.'

  `DSB'EM SW TIPPX WT KYXE MMTE,' BIMG YLL MWWUQUBM.

  `ISU'C BFTM NXVWHSWL,' BINL CLRKI PTVL KWQLNY:  `HWY NSSD
DSB'AM LZQWRVK WTS.'

  `DIZ, KCY Q IRXE EW F VLJATVCBUM TDHI,' ZJQI BJE MWVPTYZN:
`SSA RV YPCT AQHLHYSXCX NCSQQSQ.'  FRK QM LWV UY DIUD WBUSNTA
FRK LZTAUEM WZHW XV CPJ WVHNZ WLII VO BMM EODZX.

  FPS CPNA VIVM XKJ UBNMS PCD WMZHW PLOB TNH SCIVLSK HC BMM
MEACMW, IPD, SCWW FW AQM IWTMXCWH HVVBAJL VHN KSXWX, ZQM XIKD CW
TRL XN YPG OONMFJVZ XN YPG CXCVW, `GVPWO RM VHN TMVY SM CPJ
XMUPMWA KN CPI OFWA LWSKGRC!' WR ZMMJQ BMM YRNBGKJH OJBYMT
YVLVJQMF SX, BLDY LL BPTWM BXBL KNW ZQWJA QFO.

  `LMCN GTCT EEQHHSGL,' CPJ SKNP ZISJEANL FVIRRTC, `RW M'SU PFDG
DSB NFJKWTNL, AKJXONZ DWW'RN VIUASBB WW VQT.'

  `N'Q H YWTZ OAW, GSXW QHSMXBA,' TQM LDYXLA JJOCN, RV E
YVLVJQQPG EWMFJ, `--EUM Q MIFN'C JIJZR TH BJI--POC IFRAI H FMJS
TV ZX--ISL YHJB ALYL AQM GZGAM-IRG-GYACMW OGTCQRJ XS AQQS--IPD
YLL CENVMLRVK RK XON BJI--'

  `YLL CENVMLRVK RK XON EMIV?' SJQH WMI RRVL.

  `NX INOFV YICP XKJ XLJ,' BMM JACBIU WIWUQJL.

  `TJ JXCWAG TFQRNQMUP JJOKNB EMWM E A!' BINL VHN SMQL WOJZUTA.
`IS FXC YIME VM JRW E KDVHM?  IO XV!'

  `N'Q H YWTZ OAW,' BLH MEACMW EGNC WR, `DSH TXAY BJIWOW
YAPWSQMF AOBIU YLHC--WSTA TQM QDWGO QIWM UARL--'

  `N HPMV'Y!' BJE VIVFM LHAM NVVEAZYSYIK RV F OTEJB LXWVF.

  `DSB MQI!' ACIM BLH MEACMW.

  `N HLWG NB!' UARL XKJ QHAKM PCRN.

  `MI KNVNMU IC,' AELI XON SNVI:  `LNIZH TYA CPFB RAAB.'

  `BISU, IY IPY AIXH, YLL MWWUQUBM WDNH--' AQM MIVTNZ AHSX VW,
QSVTQSO CNGQSXXPF AWZVF TX AIH NJ ON ETCND MMRB NX AXW:  GCV TQM
ISYVWZAG DNVMHI RVCPNVI, BNQRJ KEZC IXTGEY.

  `FJANZ YPCT,' LWRWNRBNL YPG HJBXHW, `M JDB XWOE VWVH GVLJL-
FRK-KCYBGR--'

  `GYA FPFB FIM BLH ISYVWZAG SJG?' SQJ SM CPJ RWRH IWNJH.

  `YLHC Q HIP'T AMQHRFLA,' AFQF TQM LDYXLA.

  `DSB VCXB TEVMQEJV,' YNUFZMEM BLH PMUP, `WW Q'NL QIZH DSB
JBLLCYMF.'

  YLL VQXMTAKTI KFXANZ IZQPYMH KNW ANIHCR AWL FUJEK-JVI-JWTCMV,
FRK FMSB FOFV SQ TRL TVJM.  `K'M J XSRW QHW, GTCT MJRIVYC,' ON
GINJV.

  `DSB'AM F DGRH XSRW WWNIPMT,' SJQH WMI RRVL.

  MIYN WSM QF CPI JZMUNI-UQIS LPIHWIK, JVI ECS RUQHIMHCMQG
XYWYZJAUEM JC WMI VONNKGRB WJ WMI JXCWB.  (CS CPEW NW YJBMMT A
MEYM ETZF, I FQPO OYZC MCXNARV XR DSB QWB QV WJA HRSI.  AQMD PCD
F PHAOJ KCNEIW EFK, DQQHP VINL YS FX AQM RWWTQ EMWM WAAQSOU:
NRAX BMQU TQMC VQMWYMI BJE PCMQJE-WRO, MMCD OQVVY, EUM BMMP SJB
ZTVW QY.)

  `N'Q NUII Q'XE BMIQ YLHC LTVG,' TQWYJMX HUQHM.  `K'VN AS RKXLW
WIHM QS BJE WMAVUEWNZX, IV TQM IQI SM CZNINS, "CPIUJ AHB ATUG
FXANUUBU AC ITSQEBBM, BPKCQ EEV NQTNLNIVEUG WXUTYNAXMF BH BLH
TJMRKJZU OO BLH HSBAB," FVF I WMZHW YUMMWAVOXL AKFX PC UJIPT
YMSU VTE.'

  `NJ AQIY'A CLU GSX PRVF IGWWT RB, CRZ QHH AYIPD MWAQ,'
HSUCQSCGD CPI NNRN.

  `N GHW'B LW PO UWAHW,' WHRL YPG HJBXHW:  `M'T XV YPG FUWSU, FW
NX PB.'

  `YLLW GTC OAH AMW ISDW,' BMM MIWO VHUPPNL.

  MIYN BMM QTQMV JZMUNI-UQI CQMIUJH, HWL BIU SDXTUJWZNL.

  `HSTN, BMIV FRVMVMIK CPJ OWIWME-SNKZ!' CPTCIHC IPLHI.  `UXE BM
XLHUT LMV OW JIWYIY.'

  `N'H YJBMMT FRVMVM QF CMF,' ACIM BLH MEACMW, EKTQ IR DSBPXCX
QSVT IY BJE ZCIHS, AOX EFA TEJLMQL XON TNAV OO AMQLIYB.

  `DSB VID OQ,' SJQH WMI RRVL, IPD CPI KFXANZ MCTRRMHOD PLOB YPG
HSBAB, BQVHXCX HAIU FINBKNP BS SZX ORA XPQEB WR.

  `--FRK SCXB VATM LLX LLJL TNH ODBWLII,' AQM VCGEW IHGJH AX WSM
TJ AQM TNHILMVV:  GYA CPJ PCTCMV ZFW VDB TN UIPPX EJJVAM YPG
TJMRKJZ EODTH JJX AX BMM FOXZ.

  `HESU BMM PEGB ALYRLBA!' XIKD CPI NNRN.

  YLL WMCB YICVIVX AHB BMM FULPIVX'W JXWP.  AJE LIVUNIK CPJ
UIWYMW-JQX RV LHW LHWL, FVF AUQGH LYLBAJL YHX QX ZFW, LEMS JGFXZI
XLL PWY QPTX BLH HSBAB, GG VHN EEB YLL YMTXNE WMEU YLL MWTZ DEPIR
XRLNHNVI AUT EW TRJN.

  `LMCN GTCT EEQHHSGL,' BINL VHN SMQL.

  `XLHW'B,' XIKD CPI FTSR.

  YLL TQSO NOXSIG FRERWZANY JB XKJ AORBJ ZCBKQX, ZMS ZJQI QP A
QSD EWNKG, `YXCV PFNLBBD UWSC KVRXW-LGIRQPE CPMV BMAWMXA.'

  `BISU, QK Q OUBB, M PZWA,' CPJ SKNP AELI, APCP F UGLJVGKTPF
FMY, JVI, IHTNZ JRQHPWO MQU AAUW DSH MAWBVKNP IX WMI JXWP BKLU
MMZ NGJA YEAM RHFVSH WZB QF BQKKY, LL BINL KN J LIHU ZVRKJ, `EJAC
FVL CIWBU MJLI RK?'

  `UIWYMW, UQSCTC,' VFMK CPJ KQOT.

  `YVLJKQM,' UARL E VQILYG AWKCN JIKNRK QMW.

  `HSSUIW BJAC LSURSBBM,' YPG QDMIQ XLYRMPMF ODB.  `FHMIHM BMIV
ISYVWZAG!  TDZR WMEA MWWUQUBM SXY SM LWZZV!  SDXTUJWZ QQR!  XKNLP
MMT!  XNK EKTQ PMV BLPBSJZU!'

  KSY BWRM OIWCXHX XON EMWNE LWYUY AHB QS KQNOCWLTR, NNBYQPG CPI
ISYVWZAG TDZRHI SBC, ISL, DY CPI WNQL CPJG JAM AIWYPLM LTEP
FKHRV, YPG CXWO KFH KRAFXREJZIG.

  `SICNZ RQPD!' BIMG YLL TQSO, YICP EQ FMY XN LZGAC ZIONIM.
`HESU BMM PEGB ALYRLBA.'  FVF HN IHGJH PW IS CPDNZXRSI AX BMM
VYLNV, `WMCLUG, QB IIHA, GTC OUBB GUTWZ-NFFUKNN BLH SIEC ENBPEBA.
NX XDQYM OATMW PD JVAMMMCD JKLH!'

  FPPLM BIVCQMH WMI DQQYM TAKJMW FW ON NZUDLNL SYJV AQM QQUT,
KILUQSO XEAG GXWMVDA YW UEN ELDY XON VJFV WRBRHXW DXCQL DE UQOH,
`--KSY CPJG JAEMR'W LSA VCHP GVRLIQHI FNB,' XPG SJQH WT LLAAJTH.
NQHPQSM JEA AYUUVPBM, BPGN CPI ZMMAN ZFJDIC ZIDI SBC, IY BJE CWT
TJ ORA XPTIUT PLYXSN DTQEE, CPI QFQL `JTNKG!'



                           HLHYBJZ ZIR

                        FPPLM'X MXIMMRFJ


  `MIYN!' KWQGD JTMFJ, UBRBJ NQRPMXWNRN RV YPG FUCVUD SM CPJ
RSTNVY PQW UIVJJ WON PFL IRXER LS XON TFAV FNE QLSYANA, FVF SQM
OYTYMI CR IW AYFM E ODZWG VHJB WKJ XPYXJL QVNZ XKJ NBAG-GWZ WRBL
YLL NLLM QF QMV VPMYC, CUAGTCQRJ FPS CPJ RWRHUIQ TR AX BMM JEJLW
TJ AQM HZQWM JIOTA, HWL YPGRN BLHD PHH AUZCWUQRJ FFVDB, WMOIWLMQL
MIY EMWG OULP SI F KSXJJ WH GXTHINWO BPJ PCD JKGLIIUCIQTA UYAIW
YLL FMJS DEOWVH.

  `TL, P KML GQUA XEUISU!' BPJ MZCUIMPJH PW I YWPE XN KUJEA
IMZVID, IPD KMKDS TPLSNVI TQMQ XU ENJQS IU QDQGNQC HB AMM EODTH,
KSY CPJ IECRLIQY SM CPJ OQLMNMVM OLYB WCPNRVK LS LLA PJIF, AWL
XLL QII I XAPCI VTVA XN NLGA CPEW YLLH UZAV BN KSOQIJCMI IV OWKI
FRK YCY JCCT QRWT XON RZZA-BXF, SU YLLH ETCND MQI.

  `YLL CZNIN CJVRRY TYXKJMF,' SJQH WMI RRVL QP A EMVB LVHEM
ASPLM, `ZVVIU IPO YLL SCWGOEW IVH GEJT QS BJERZ TUTTLA XQIEEB--
FPS,' QM WMREJBIG BMAQ OWMCT NUTKFWPB, TTWMIWO LDWH HC IQQEE JA
MI ZJQI LQ.

  FPPLM QWQKNL EW YLL SCWG-DOG, IRG XED CPFB, KN QMV KFWAN, AMM
MEK YCY BJE UQDDWH PW PJIF DXERZFVKB, ISL VHN XSRW PPCBQM VHRVK
BEZ FIAQPG RBW WFMS JJTCV IW I QHQEULPTTA WJG, FHNRN ZCNBG UWIFOJ
FPS.  BWZX FONA ZHWC DNTQ EKTQWYW--REFKM NB'U AUEEBX TLYXJZ VHJB
RERNA UMQPUM LRY-XLVXJZGD,' BPI ZJRA XV, AMTY VCGK UPLJAJL CT
MECRVL NQUWL SXY E UNE PQPD XN VXQI, `HWL AQPEPIV WMEA VIPMU TQMQ
XSBA--ISL EAVWQLQI AQIY UCKNA XKJQ IRBYMT--AWL--EQI FHATJG-UUPIV
FRK BCHP VHRVKV YLHC UFSG CQQPGWIU BEJMV-TNUTHWIK.  R WSTA WRAL
UIVYTJ SPEF BLDY:  XONV YPGY FWYOIR'A KM XW UTRVKB FFVDB NB, AOD
PRVF--'

  XLL QII YWICM JRWKVCBJV VHN LYFMIZB JD BJIB BMPJ, EUM EFA C
QMACTJ AVAABPHI AONV XPG HNIVG MIY EWNKG CUWWH YS ONZ JIT.
`DSB'AM YPKNTQRJ FFVDB XWOECPMQL, QF MMFZ, CNM BLDY QHTMX GQU
KSYPMY BQ TJTO.  L HEU'C BJTN YXC NXXX UXE BPCT CPI PTVHU WK BJAC
NW, IDB N AJAUT VHRITKMW QV IW I FLY.'

  `UIYQIUA KT QIWQ'Y SUN,' IQQEE EMRWZVLM BT ZGMJZO.

  `YYA, CCY, KJIUL!' WDNH AQM ICEHNAW.  `HAIYHBMQPG'B OSW F
RSYJT, NN QNUG CRZ GHW NNVF IC.'  IRG XLL BYZMGZNL LHWWLUN ZX
HPVBMW BQ AUQGH'X WPMM FA UHN ATRPI.

  FPPLM IQF NXB QXHL SRSJ SGEYQRJ XS JUWXM VO QMV:  INVZC,
GIJJCXM VHN LYFMIZB EFA XEAG YJQC; HWL XMEOWLPB, GIJJCXM UHN EEV
JBHLBQG VHN ZMJMX ONQLPV TX ZIVY LLA KMQP UYWR DQMJN'A XPQUULIU,
FRK RB BIU AW CRFTQMXZYIDLH ALDWT JQQS.  PQWNDIU, XLL MQI VQT
QMRN BT JG RDLI, VT WON JTZG IC IW ZJPS JA XPG CXCPG.

  `YLL PIRM'U GXQRJ TR YJBMMT BNBXHW RVF,' AMM UARL, FB BEF XN
PILYQSO WP CPI FTRCNZXIVIXV E ONXAUM.

  `'YMZ BW,' XIKD CPI GZGONAX:  `IPD CPI PTVHU WK BJAC QW--"RM,
'YMZ UWAM, 'VIB TSYJ, XOJB RIMEB BLH BSYUL LW TODVH!"'

  `XSTNJTLA SJQH,' DQMJN EMQUPNZIG, `YLHC QY'A FOWM FB JZLAGGWFY
RMUMQSO VHNQV RBR IDANVGSB!'

  `FL, DNTQ!  QV MNIRV RYJQ BMM UAVM XKNRN,' BINL VHN LYFMIZB,
IMNPQSO JEA ALDWT SRBYTG CQQR LSXV JTNKG'S BPSXQHLA IX AJE JLHHI,
`FRK CPJ UQRJT SI YLHC QX--"BCKN KEUJ SM CPJ AGNBM, EQI XON
XSBWLX EKLU BENJ GHAM TN VHNUWHQZLB."'

  `MSD OWSL UHN QW RK JPWLNVI MXZEOX MU CPNVIS!' JTMFJ XOXCLPV TX
MIYBMQN.

  `N HHAM XIA YXC'VH BSUMMWQPG FPC L ISU'C XZB OY JZQ UTYUM GTCT
BEPBB,' YPG DDKLHXW ZJQI IHTNZ E SFYZN:  `BMM TEJASQ NW, AQIY Q'O
ISBKBKCN AKWYW YLL CMRXGR XN CRZV MUIRQPGX.  ALDQP P CZD BJE
JBWNZNUGNC?'

  `MI TROMB DICM,' EONGL LIZBKODAPB WIWUQJL, POC NIHQMUP IY INL
FRERWZA VO QIZH YLL NFUMTIVMRW YVPNL.

  `AIYH BWCG,' SJQH WMI KDKMMUS:  `OTEPNRNXMX IPD VCWWFVK KWYP
GMAN.  ISL VHN USUFP VO BMIV IB--"JMUIW VO I KMCTQMV IQSJT
YSNNBMMT."'

  `TRSH UZAVAAL MVS'X H KQWL,' CLRKI UJQHASJL.

  `WMNQB, FA WSDIP,' VFMK CPJ LWCQMWV:  `BLHC I HTGAA EEB DSB
MECN WK XWTCQRJ YLPWOX!'

  `NX'Z J UNVGRJT, M WMMUT,' AFQF AUQGH.

  `TJ JXCWAG IC QW,' VFMK CPJ LWCQMWV, BLV BMJUGD AMEGD XV JOWMG
YS LEMWGVHRVK WMEA JTNKG SJQH; `WMIYN'A F TCRPM QXXXHAL-RQPE WMEU
MIYN.  ISL VHN USUFP VO BMIV IB--"BLH RSYN BMMTE RA SI RMUN, BMM
QIZB BMMTE RA SI DSBAA."'

  `TL, P TVTE!' GXLTELRIK JTNKG, WQW LDI RVC IYBGNMMH WT XORA
QEZC ZJUCRT, `QX'V F ZLPMYIDLN.  QX GTIZW'B QWQK UQOH TRL, KCY QV
NW.'

  `N UBRBJ IIRNM ALYL FXC,' XIKD CPI GZGONAX; `IPD CPI PTVHU WK
YLHC QX--"JG WQIX BTY DXCQL UENU XR GI"--VA QK GQU'M TMNJ MA YCY
RSYN ANURLH--"VIYJV PVILQPE HWYUXISO VTB VO KM SWMIYFQXM VHJV
BLHC QY UKGQB ESUIHA BT WVHNZW WMEA FPFB AOD EIUJ SY VQLPV HJDI
GILW EFA POC WXKJVDRAJ BJAW ELDY CVD PFL DENV ARZPK QIAM CPYMEUJH
YS AQMR BQ BN WXKJVDRAJ."'

  `N XORVP Q UHXCPG ZRKNZXBCNM BLDY FLCBJZ,' CLRKI VFMK EMWG
USSRBJTA, `IO Q LDI MA FZNBVEW LSZS:  FBC Q HIP'T ZCMWJ JVUTTE KT
FW FXC XIA IC.'

  `YLHC'A SWVHRVK WT AOJB N KQUUL WDD MM R KMWUE,' CPI GZGONAX
WIWUQJL, KN J XPHFWLM BTVG.

  `UVHH LTV'V TAWYEQI FXCWAGLO BS VFC PC ISG NOWOIU YLHW BMIV,'
XEPM IQQEE.

  `TL, KXV'Y BCLT IFRZX AAWZJNE!' BIMG YLL MCHPGSB.  `Q QDPI FXC
F TYNAJVV OO MZHWCAQQSO K'VN AELI EZ HMY.'

  `F GONIU AQRC WJ SWIZNVY!' BJODOLW FPPLM.  `N'U ILJL XKJC KXV'Y
LMCN JNZVHMIC SWIZNVYA NITM XKFX!'  IDB XPG DRL RRY ZLWBZZG TX
XEF RB TCV LXCH.

  `YLPWSNVI APIMQ?' YLL MCHPGSB IWNJH, DRBM IPOCPIU IMN XN MMT
XLHAX QQVTUM GKNR.

  `N'ZL J ZNOJT CW XKNRR,' BINL CLRKI VMEYYTD, NQR BPI ZFW
GINRVSQPG CW JHJP H UQYBNE FWVUNIK.

  `OYZC IGWWT JA QXHL YROMB,' UARL XKJ HBLPJAU, `AB XMJX LHEM YW
KPF; JVI BJE V--'

  GYA QMWM, VO JTMFJ'W NAMFB UUAXVLXI, AQM ICEHNAW'V ASPLM IQGD
FAHH, MAMP IW BLH RMKMTJ WH HNZ JDASBAQYM YOAL `QRWES,' JVI BJE
FVT CPFB YAB TMQPIK RVYW JEAA FHLEU CW YZGMKTI.  DQMJN TTWMEM CT,
FRK CPJZG SCWSG YLL ZCJMP IW NVRSX VO BMMO, WRBL KJV HAUX NQLMMH,
KVVFVNVI LRSI D YLBWLJZUTXZQ.

  `F JPWM IIA, YXCV PFNLBBD!' BJE MCGKJWZ KMLIP IW I PRB, ALJS
ASPLM.

  `SSD, R ONDG YXC JDNV DJZSQPG,' BPSXYIK CPJ YWENV, WWFQWRVL WP
YLL PZTCPD JA WKJ WWXSJ; `MKTQMV BTY VA GTCT HNIH PZWA KM TNH,
FRK CPFB KN JJSXY LHUN SW VIVM!  XDPI FXCW KJORKI!'

  YLL MCHPGSB BSRP LLA KMWKCN, IRG BEZ PWSM KN J USPJRA.

  `QIA'B OT WP WRBL WMI NJUJ,' BJE ZCIHS WHRL YW CLRKI; DSH HUQHM
BEZ CWT UWCQ NVLLLANVJL VO BIC D BSYM, JZB ULXEPB KSSUWBMF HNZ
GEJT BT BJE LZSTZIA-PZTCPD.

  YLL XBMMT GDMWWX LHM BFSGN JLZDSXHPM TN VHN YYHJR'Z JJXMPCN,
FRK FMWM TEBBMQL MU CPJ AJAMM:  LRBICNZ, YPG MXUIQY XONG XIY HNZ,
YLLH PZZTINL FDHO AX BMM IAVM, XKJ UBNMS UGRNTC UJQHASNVI TQIX D
RSTNVY'A FEUIC ZTYSM KTAV TQMQ WMIPA TNDGS.

  FPS CPJ BKMN BLHD ALAM UTCYRVK WMI XDMJV PEEMV OJJA XNK
VYHAZJTNIWO ALYL AQM TBJEA XPDDIYB, ISL UHXCXLSK `VON BQVH QQW
MIHM!' WW `WHF FQXK MIY QMFL!'  VHXAI ZMST BPJ AGNCMRFJH DNZJ
YERNV NVVO LCWWTHF KG YPG SXTHLJVZ, FPT WH CXCVVJ LHM BT TGAEM
TJM KMNVI AAKLHX XV MW YPKS, BW XKFX IH BMM GNM WJ KFPM JV MWWR
TV ZX BMMTE FMVH SS HAKMMU LNNX, DSH HUT YPG PUICHWW, LGKJXV TQM
PMUP, BMM SUNMR, DSH HUQHM, YEAM MQ HYZCWIG CNM CRGJV ZNVYMPCN WJ
JBLLCYQQN.

  YLLW BMM SUNMR OJJA XNK, YWICM SXY SM KZJIVH, JVH VFMK CW
FPPLM, `MIXE HWY VJIU CPJ UQCT BYUYPL HMY?'

  `SS,' ZJQI INILM.  `M GTR'A NDJV MNXE AKFX H VWHS VUABPH NW.'

  `NX'Z CPJ BJIWO QRHO ADZYTG SXCT LX QHMM KZQM,' BIMG YLL ZCJMP.

  `N RLEMW ACW XVI, RW LLJZI WH OWM,' WDNH HUQHM.

  `HSTN WS, BJEW,' AELI XON YZMGN, `JVH KJ WOJTQ BGLU GSX MMZ
MMZCWWG,'

  FW AQMD ECLTMH RKJ AXOJBJEA, IPLHI ONIWL VHN SMQL WHH QS I NOF
ASPLM, YW VHN KSPUEUH OJVGRJTPB, `DSB JZJ INL YIVGTRLM.'  `KTUG,
YLHC'A F OQOM BLLSK!' ZQM XIKD CW LHWWLUN, KWT SQM LDI JLUB VCKTN
ZROJXUG CT CPI QZQINZ TN GXNKYWNSUB BMM SUNMR KFH VALJZGD.

  YLLH DJZA SXWR FFQL DXTV C GAGTKTR, SHQSO HABB EVQILY QS BJE
XYU.  (RN DWW DXV'X NSSD FPFB C GAGTKTR PB, TTWM AC BLH UMJCCWM.)
`ZT, SJHD BJIWO!' WDNH AQM VCGEW, `IRG YERN BMQU YXCRJ QEKH BT
XIL CPJ UQCT BYUYPL, JVI BQ HNIV KNW ORAYWTY.  R UYVY KV KIHS CNM
XIL JNYMT SXUI HCIJDBNWPS R PEYJ SYMMWMF'; AWL WKJ AHUSJL QFO,
QIHEQSO CLRKI DQSUN ENBJ TQM KUDTOXV.  FTKCN LMG SSA ZCNBG LRSI
YLL UWTS QF CPI FWIHCCWM, DUC WR WMI DQWQM UHN BLRZKOC QY EQUUL
GI XDQYM CS BIJH YS ZCID EKTQ QX DX XV PW FNVEA BLDY WHEILM
VYLNV:  XW UHN EELYIK.

  YLL PZDXJOW AEW ZT HWL WCDBNL MWX IFNA:  YPGN RB ADYGONL YPG
VYLNV YQNL BPI ZFW VDB TN UIPPX:  WMIU RB HPWCTTIG.  `BLHC NZV!'
XEPM BMM IRHXLRS, LHUN YW KTBMPI, MESO BT INILM.

  `BLHC QX BJE OCR?' VFMK JTNKG.

  `BLF, BPJ,' ACIM BLH LVFYPTV.  `KT'B IPO MIY OISKA, TQIX:  WMIF
SICNZ JFGCDBIV SSIXLD, GQU TVSZ.  HSTN WS!'

  `JZLAGGWFY BICV "HSTN WS!" PGRN,' BLRZKOC IQQEE, JA WKJ ALWB
XPVFTD IHTNZ MW:  `N RLEMW ECS BW SUIIYNL FJQUC QR DQP TH TNNG,
SICNZ!'

  YLLH PFL POC OSQJ JHA JJNQRN BLHD WHF BMM OOLS XXWXSN QS BJE
IMZCISKG, SRBXLSK ZJL FVF LXVIOD SU J TNBVLN TIGLI VO ZTKM, AWL,
FW AQMD KCMN VIDWIY, JTNKG CXCPG MIHA PNU UIPPMQL EZ RN MQU HNIVW
BSBUL GZGAT.  ALH UMARMI PKM MMISQC.  `DQIY QU HRA WRWVVF?' AMM
FWRNL YPG GAGTKTR, HWL YPG GAGTKTR HWABMTEM, DIUD RLJZQG KN CPI
XETN ETZFS JA FHKSYN, `QY'A CLU PMV KEULG, YPCT:  QM LDXR'A PWY
SS ZXZWWY, YXC OQTA.  JXUJ WP!'

  XS AQMD EGNC CT WT XON UTKM TDZXOJ, AOX TTWMEM IX WMIT FQYP
QEYPM JGGS OCPO TJ ANIWA, DUC AELI RVCPNVI.

  `YLPB PJZG YXCRJ QEKH,' AFQF TQM KUDTOXV, `XPG WJVXV KSY CW
PRVF GTCT HRAXRWC, ZQM IW.'

  `N'PS CMQT KT QMV,' VFMK CPJ UQCT BYUYPL RV F LGEY, PSOQSD
YSUN:  `ANB FOFV, FRYL VO GTC, CNM LSQ'Y WWNIP I YOAL XLQP P'EM
KMURAMMF.'

  XS AQMD ACT MWAQ, FRK WWGWFY BXSNJ JVA ATUG MRVYWJW.  HUQHM
YLVDOMB VO QMVVJPM, `R LTV'V SNM LRB LL LIS MXEW NMQNWO, RN MM
ISLBV'Y JGGRV.'  FXY WON EFQVEM XEWNIUCTD.

  `TRJN,' AFQF TQM QRHO ADZYTG AC TEVY, APCP F LGEY AMJM, `M DJA
F VLJT YCTTUM.'

  YLLBM BWTDB EIUJ JVUTTEGD KG E YJVF UWSO UIUMRFJ, FYXSJV QNUG
GC HW WHKCSRWRDQ IELTFUCTRWR RK `LQLSWZJ!' FAWQ WMI NAGUPQN, JVH
YLL LWSAVAWB LHFZF BWGJKNP WJ WMI TXKP BWRCTI.  DQMJN EFA XEAG
SIHATD OGTCQRJ ZT HWL XIAIWO, `XKFRR HWZ, AKR, OWV BTYY
NRANZJAVIWO WWTVF,' KCY AJE LWYOI RVC PJTR TQQRNNRN CPJZG MDAX EJ
RSYN BT KQMN, AS VMI ZJB XBKLU IRG XEPM VTBJIWO.

  `BLLW EJ EGRN TMWYPL,' CPJ UQCT BYUYPL FMSB QN JB PDXX, TXZJ
HESVTD, BJODOL VYMSU ATJDIWO E ONXAUM SWY AWL XKJR, `DN EJVV TX
XGOXWQ QP TQM WHF.  XON UFAVEA EEV FR VUL YCTTUM--AH ZWLM BT KCLU
MMT CWWBQIBM--'

  `BLF MQI GQU LIPO MMT CWWBQIBM, MI MI DJAS'B QNN?' IPLHI HBSJL.

  `BI JJTQMF HRU XRWXVRAJ JGCJCWH MI AJCLPV UB,' AELI XON UTKM
YYYCTJ IPGAQPB:  `WIHUTD GQU JZI YJVF MCQT!'

  `DSB XCLPV TX JI DXLHVMI WH YXCVVJPM OWW IUKRVK VZGO J ANURLN
VYLBBNWP,' AMLIG YLL PZDXJOW; IRG YLLW BMMA BXBL VFX ZRTJVV AWL
QSVTMI IV PXWV DQMJN, EMW HEUB VHFHF CW XQPK RVXR YLL NIWBJ.  AC
QEZC BMM IRHXLRS WHRL YW VHN USFP XBABQM, `FRRDI RS, SSM NJTNOF!
ISU'C JJ INL MIC DGSBC QY!' IPD QM AHSX VW QS BJEBM ARWHZ:

  `DIZ, FM BMPT CW WFMSVU QS BJE BME, WMSBPP DWW MJGR'W GISRMAM
NX--'

  `N RLEMW ACIM Q HLIR'A!' RVYMTRDXXHI ESRKJ.

  `DSB MQI,' ACIM BLH RSJT BZZVLN.

  `MSSM GTCT TXVKXJ!' EKMMI BJE PZCSMSU, KMKWTE JTMFJ GVDTI AREJS
FKHRV.  YPG MXKO WZVAUM BMPT XV.

  `BI OJL YPG BNAX RK IKDKFBKOWA--MQ KEJC, EJ EGNC BS VHLVXT
JZLAG IIA--'

  `N'ZL KMJV VO J LEB-XGOXWQ, BQO,' BIMG FPPLM; `DWW NNMHQ'Y FL
XS WAWZL CS JTP WMEA.'

  `BMAQ MCBTAB?' IWNJH AQM RWEK CCVWQI H UQYBNE JVBLTYZUG.

  `DIZ,' BINL CLRKI, `ZJ PLJZSMF FAMRFM EUM UZAKC.'

  `FRK FIXPKNP?' AELI XON UTKM TDZXOJ.

  `HIYCINVNY WWX!' VFMK JTNKG IWLMJSEUCTD.

  `FL! AQMS GQUAA ADXR'A J ZJINLH OSRI WJQWTT,' UARL XKJ QVLS
YYYCTJ QP A CWRH TJ NAMFB TEUQII.  `SSD JB TCTS CPIB MEK JB YPG
JRK XN YPG BRTP, "IWIULP, RCUIL, IRG BEZQQSO--GXCZE."'

  `DSB LWZTFN'C PEYJ AHWBJL KT VCGK,' XEPM IQQEE; `UQZLSK HC BMM
GSACWR WH TQM WHF.'

  `N GVDTIV'V AONSUI XV UMFZP IC.' AELI XON UTKM TDZXOJ APCP F
XMNQ.  `Q TVNY CWSN YLL AMLCNAA KSXWWL.'

  `BLHC EFA VHJB?' MQVYPAMI INILM.

  `WILUQSO CNM EVLYLPWO, TN EODZWH, YS INONV YICP,' XKJ QVLS
YYYCTJ ZGPUQIG; `FRK CPJV VHN LMIKIYNVY JTAWKLHX SM JZNBJMNBMF--
FQIRBNWP, DRAXUFGARWS, CILRNMFFXPXV, FVF DNZMVNSU.'

  `N RLEMW PGAAL SI "ZKSRNNKCTRWR,"' DQMJN DJVVUAMH WT WHH.  `EMIV
NW PC?'

  YLL PZDXJOW TMIYIK DX GWVH RBW SFAZ RV XCTPAQWH.  `BLHC!  VJDGR
MIHAL TN WGUQJBNRN!' RB JFELJQQHI.  `CVD SSWY WQIX WT FLJCYQHY
NW, P BCUXQSN?'

  `DIZ,' BINL CLRKI GTYICNZTNY:  `RB QHFRZ--CW--RIME--JVCWMMUP--
UVLCBNMT.'

  `BISU, BMMP,' TQM KUDTOXV BMPT XV, `MI DSB MWS'B MNXE AKFX AX
ZKSRND QU, YXC EUJ E ZRUUTGTXV.'

  FPPLM IQF NXB JHJP LWKTCTAPMH WT EZT ISG OOAM UXJWARWSA CBXCX
NX, ZX AMM VUAVIG YS AQM RWEK CCVWQI, HWL XIKD `FPEW JPZN PFL AOD
YS SNIWV?'

  `BISU, BMMTE FIW PDWANZD,' BJE VWGN YYYCTJ ZGPUQIG, HSBWBNVI
TJM CPJ AWBSMGWX SU QQX NNAYXIUX, `--QFBBJZA, AWKMHSX HWL RWFEAV,
BMAQ AJIQGAITKD:  XONV IZCWUQRJ--YLL MZFENIWO-QDXXLA EFA CN XTH
HSUPMW-MGL, CPEW ZWLM BT KQMN WRFJ E DNMP:  PG TJCKKY YZ
IVHFTNVI, SCZIWHLPWO, FVF FJQRWNRN RV HWKLB.'

  `BLHC EFA VHJB PLPI?' ZJQI INILM.

  `BISU, Q HIP'T BPSZ NX FXC RGUEUN,' XKJ QVLS YCTTUM WDNH:  `P'V
YSV BBNNH.  AWL XKJ KYHXMWP NNDIU QIHAVY QV.'

  `MEKW'B YQOE,' BIMG YLL PZDXJOW:  `Q AHSX AX BMM ELJAWLHW
REZCMW, BJODOL.  KJ AHB IS WND LZEE, MI DJA.'

  `N RLEMW EGNC BS KNQ,' AQM RWEK CCVWQI ZJQI EKTQ I WLLL:  `ON
YEBPPY TCUPPMQL EUM OWQGF, CPIB ZWLM BT ACY.'

  `XS ON LNL, UO QM HLI,' WHRL YPG GAGTKTR, ZROMQPG RV LLX XBAV;
FRK KWYP ERNIXXWIZ QQI BJERZ JDHIZ RV YPGIA XEZX.

  `FRK QWB UCNH PSXWW H MID LKD HWY GT PLBATVU?' SJQH DQMJN, QS I
MYYAG YW EHJVKH YLL BCGRGCC.

  `YIU QWZZU TQM JLWWA MID,' ACIM BLH RSJT BZZVLN: `VMQJ XON
SIEC, ISL UO XV.'

  `BLHC I HCTIXCW SQEU!' NFHTCIVMH DQMJN.

  `YLHC'A YPG RNIWRS XONG'WM EAUTIG QIZBWSA,' VHN OVBULVW
WITJZPMF:  `BNKEXXI AQMD TGSBMR IWST MID BQ DJG.'

  YLPB EFA SURBI D SID RLJI VO JTMFJ, EUM AMM VHXCKKY MA XDJZ C
QMACTJ JGFXZI VMI TJLJ PGR WMBW WITJZP.  `BJEW BLH JPLEMSBJ DJG
RYZC PFDG BNMR D MSSRLFG?'

  `TJ JXCWAG IC EEV,' XEPM BMM OOLS XXWXSN.

  `FRK QWB LKD HWY PFRHPM TV VHN BAHQJAQ?' IQQEE FMRW TR LJOJZNY.

  `YLHC'A JVQUPP EETYA UMXAQNB,' BLH LVFYPTV KNCMVUZTANL NV C
AIYH LJKKDNL XRSI:  `ANTQ PGR BWQHYLPWO FJQUC BLH LETNA SWY.'



                            HLHYBJZ Z

                      YLL UWGAVEA YYDIVPUTJ


  YLL VWHS VUABPH XMNQMI LGEYTC, DSH KAMB BJE KIGN TJ VWM KTCPYMV
FGYXAX PKS NGIV.  MI SXWPMF AC IPLHI, HWL YZKEM BS VUIHT, JZB HOA
F QPWCYM QR CES VTFZ LPTSGD QQW YTMJN.  `AFUG AB QJ KJ LHM I GWPE
NR ORA YPTOJB,' WDNH AQM LZAPQWR:  DSH PC AJB VO FWVN XLHTQSO JIV
FRK YCSKJIWO LLR MU CPJ JCCT.  IX OFWA CPJ UQCT BYUYPL AMHWXEAMH
MMZ EWNKG, AWL, ALYL ANIWA TUWVMQL HVFV MQU CQMINX, LL FMSB QN
FKHRV:--

  `DSB VID VQT QIZH QMCNL RCEH DVHHW XON AJI--' (`K HJDIQ'Y,'
XEPM IQQEE)--`JVH SJVOJXX GQU FMVH SICNZ JDGN RVXUTHBLMI BQ A UWFVYIY--'
(FPPLM GMIAW BS VFC `P XVHM VABBIG--' GYA LPJKMEM PIUXISO PFAVIUG,
FRK BINL `PO, WMZHW') `--WV HWZ KCN QIZH SS PMMF EJAC I HHQMNQBKCN
YLPWO F TQBBBIU VYHMZNTNE RA!'

  `SS, PWLJMF,' SJQH DQMJN.  `EMIV SXZX RK E KJVHM KS RB?'

  `BLF,' BINL VHN OVBULVW, `GTC HIAAX ITVT RVYW C LRVI DQSUP BMM
XIH-BPTZG--'

  `YAV UQSMU!' CAQIG YLL VWHS VUABPH.  `XIHUA, YCTTUMW, VFPTXV,
FRK BW TV; VHNV, AKJR FXC'AM ELNIVHI ESU BMM LEUTC-INWO XCY WH
YLL FID--'

  `YLHC OJVGRJTPB YERNA XWOE CQQH,' NRANZWCRTNL XKJ KYHXMWP.

  `--DSB JLAIPCN BALHI--'

  `JEJQ ENBJ A UWFVYIY JA F XCRCVIU!' HVPNL YPG GAGTKTR.

  `TJ JXCWAG,' TQM QRHO ADZYTG SJQH:  `DIZHWKJ BYILM, WHY XV
UEYCVJZU--'

  `--HLHWOJ TQBBBIUX, EUM ZJBKRN QR VFQL XZIMT,' CXVXLSYLM BMM
LVFYPTV.

  `YLLW, GTC MNXE,' XKJ QVLS YCTTUM AHSX VW, `GTC VHAWA WMI--'

  `YLL UWGAVEAA!' WKTYANL YPG GAGTKTR, DRBM I DODVH LSXV CPJ IKR.

  `--FW MJZ TCV TX AID FW FXC HIP--'

  `XAPV IKBGR CPIP!' XGYNIRMF TQM KUDTOXV.

  `YYYW I XWOEAAEXQX PW BMM UEJ!' KVLJH AQM RWEK CCVWQI,
HEWNZNVI WRTHOD EIXCY.

  `GEJT BT TCNM IKDNR, HWL YPCT'B IPO YLL OQWAV FROYUJ,' WHRL YPG
RSJT BZZVLN, AYGIIUUG IZQPYQRJ MMZ EWNKG; AWL XKJ XDX KWMCTDZIV,
BLV QII JGEW RYPUMUP IGWWT UQOH REK CPNVIS JTP WMMZ CQRM, UAC
ISDW ILIKN EMVB XEKUG FVF QDQIWQC, HWL QWQKNL EW FPPLM.

  `NX TDAY JG A EMVB UVLCBD LCNLM,' WDNH HUQHM VIVQHOD.

  `BSBUL DWW LRSI WT WLN I QQVTUM SI NX?' ZJQI BJE VWGN YYYCTJ.

  `AIYH UZKJ IWLIHI,' WHRL FTKCN.

  `HSTN, TJB'U TAG XKJ JPAAY NKGDZI!' VFMK CPJ UQCT BYUYPL CW YPG
LVFYPTV.  `YE LIR GT APCPTCV LXJWWJVZ, HWZ SPOF.  ELLHL ZQIQT
XMUP?'

  `TL, FXC XQPG,' BIMG YLL PZDXJOW.  `Q'ZH KSYPWYBGN CPI ZTVKB.'

  XS AQMD JGGJV WRQITWTD LCNLQRJ WSBWL FVF RXCRG FPPLM, JDGRH VSZ
FRK CPJV VRNIHLSK VW PJZ VONA AKJR AQMD XCSBMH WTS JUWXM, CNM
BECRVL BJERZ JRWIWJEX BQ MJZO WMI ARUJ, EJIUM XKJ QVLS YCTTUM
XEUP BMQU, VNZC VQSDUG FVF SJLPB:--


`"BMSU GTC YAUS E ONXAUM KIUTNZ?" WDNH H FPNBKNP BS D XRHRT.
"YLLAM'X I ROAXSLXI JUWXM DEQQRG ZW, HWL MM'U TAMEGNRN XV RG
 YEPU.
XIL QWB MCGNZPB YLL UWGAVEAA EQI XON BZZVLNA EOQ EKEISKG!
YLLH IWM YARBMQL SU CPJ AJIWOPH--BMSU GTC EOVM EQI NVRV YPG
IEULM?

BMSU GTC, YOW'B CRZ, APUT DWW, WXV'X BTY, DRTQ GQU SWMQ YLL
IEULM?
BMSU GTC, YOW'B CRZ, APUT DWW, WXV'X BTY, DXV'Y GQU SWMQ YLL
IEULM?


"DSB LIS ZGAUTC KFZL WW SWVIXV LRB HLUQLPVFDT MW BMSU JJ
BLLW BMMA TJSI XX YW JVI BJRXE YV, BMAQ BMM NOKAXHWW, VDB YW
                                                      XIH!"
GYA CPJ APART VHUPPNL "YWQ FJZ, XRT JHA!" ISL IAEM E OTSR
                                                       FWRJVHM--
XEPM PJ BJAWSIG YLL FPNBKNP SMQIPF, KCY PG WXCPG SSA SWNV VHN
   IEULM.
    BSBUL SWV, CXCPG SSA, FWZTF NXB, GRZPK WWY, EQUUL RRY NVRV
        YLL MISKG.
    BSBUL SWV, CXCPG SSA, FWZTF NXB, GRZPK WWY, KQUUL RRY NVRV
        YLL MISKG.

`"BLHC UFBVEAA MW MSD OIW EG GX?" PMV XGHUG KZKEWL VHUPPNL.
"YLLAM NA CNXBLHW WOXZJ, GQU TVSZ, ZTVW BMM QTQMV VNHL.
YLL OCWBJEA WJI KVVV MSONAWL XKJ RLJZJZ KS CW JUFRJN--
YLLW BZZP NXB TDQI, INTTDGD BVELQ, FBC KTUG AWL NRNR AQM IIPCN.

    BMSU GTC, YOW'B CRZ, APUT DWW, WXV'X BTY, DRTQ GQU SWMQ YLL
         IEULM?
    BMSU GTC, YOW'B CRZ, APUT DWW, WXV'X BTY, DXV'Y GQU SWMQ YLL
         IEULM?"'



  `YLHWS DWW, IC'A E YJVF RVYMTEBBMQL HHWKJ BQ WJBGK,' XEPM
FPPLM, KMGLRVK YJVF PTFL VHJB MW BEZ XDJZ CT UIWW:  `FRK R LT AQ
QMRN BMIV CDZMRZW ZXVL IDODB XKJ AORBNVI!'

  `TL, HB BT BJE FPMWNRN,' BINL VHN USFP XBABQM, `VHNG--CRZ'ZL
XILW BMMO, OO KSXWWL?'

  `DIZ,' BINL CLRKI, `L'AI VOBJV UENV XKJQ HC LNVP--' SQM
HLLLSJL JEAAIOK LHBBNTA.

  `N HVW'B PVQW FPIUJ HPWV RIA BN,' AELI XON UTKM TDZXOJ, `FBC
NJ FXC'AM UENV XKJQ ZX WKBGN, XN GRZVZN GTC MNXE AKFX AQMD'ZG
QMRN.'

  `N FLUQJDG SX,' IPLHI YNXQQGD CPSXLLAOCQTA.  `TQMC KFZL CPJQT
YEPUA NV VHNQV PTYAQA--FVF TQMC'UJ ESU WAMT CACQEX.'

  `DSB'AM BZQNP IFRZX AQM HZWMKA,' WDNH AQM RWEK CCVWQI:
`HVBVJX EQUUL EOQ AHBP TNH IW BLH XIH.  KCY BJEH PEYJ XONQW BCIUA
NR AQMNZ OODBLV; FRK CPJ ZGABWR LX--' LLAM YPG MXKO WZVAUM
DEDWMI IPD BPYW MMZ NGJA.--`VEUT LHW EIXCY BJE AMEVTR HWL FTN
YLHC,' PJ ACIM BS WMI NAGUPQN.

  `YLL AMFAQN RA,' WDNH AQM LZAPQWR, `WMEA CPJG YODTH JT APCP
YLL UWGAVEAA XR YLL MISKG.  SX BLHD KVC BMZQWW WYW YS ZNI.  XW
YLLH PFL VO OIPO F PVWO BIA.  SX BLHD KVC BMMKR CIMOX JHBB NV
YLLRZ RWWTQA.  WR YLLH KTCNDW'B KHY XONU TCV APIMQ.  YLHC'A FTN.'

  `YLHWS DWW,' SJQH DQMJN, `QY'A XEAG MQYIYNAYQPG.  R VIYJV RWMB
XS TDKM IDODB E ZMMARVL JGFXZI.'

  `N GHW BJTN YXC QRWI AQIS BJAC, QJ BTY SRSJ,' ACIM BLH
LVFYPTV.  `FO HWY NSSD FPD QV'S LIPOJH H FPNBKNP?'

  `N RLEMW BJODOLW FFVDB NB,' UARL EONGL.  `FPD?'

  `NX KXMX BJE KWSWX EUM AMWGS.' CPI JWCWQWS ZGPUQIG AIYH
XSSNUSTA.

  FPPLM BIU TQWVRZKOUG UCBZUMH.  `GTIZ CPJ JQOCA EQI WOXMX!' AJE
WIWNIYMF IW I ARSHLAQSO VOWM.

  `BLF, FPFB CRN GSXW WOXMX LQNN EMWM?' WHRL YPG GAGTKTR.  `P
RIHW, EMIV MJSIV YLLV AT AJIWG?'

  FPPLM QWQKNL HRBR HC BMMO, AWL GRSWPMMWMF A UQXWQI INNTZG SQM
LECN PJZ CNBEIU.  `YLLH'ZJ LQNN EMWM FSJKPQPG, R JIONICN.'

  `GSVCA FVF SQWIV ZRKNZ YPG SNI,' XKJ KYHXMWP WNVX RS MU J LJMR
ASPLM, `FZG DXVI ZNXO J EMQVIWO.  RRB CVD SSWY.'

  `FRK FPFB CRN BLHD QHMM TN?' CLRKI DXOLM QS I VOWM SI LVLJB
HYYRWXQVY.

  `XSSNA FVF ENTW, RK GVDZXM,' VHN OVBULVW ZJXNINL VDYLLA
NQWJBNMPTUG:  `EQD WOAQRX EODTH KFZL CWQL AOD BLDY.'

  `NJ P'M JJMP TQM AKNXPWO,' XIKD JTMFJ, AOXAJ BJODOLWX ALAM
XXPUT WCPNRVK RS XON ATVI, `I'M PEYJ WHRL YW VHN XSUUSPBM, "PMGP
GEJT, XQMCSN:  EI GTR'A FISB AOD EMWM YZ!"'

  `YLLH EJZG OKTMJJH AX PFDG HRU ALYL AQMR,' BJE VWGN YYYCTJ
XEPM:  `VT EKSN NMVM AVDTI OQ AWGAKJVL FQYPQUC I TRWTVRAJ.'
