literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
UVPVIWG TEBWYUHIZ, JVI BJOBM JDXGPWIYMF BH BLH YIJQVTTQGH.  BLH KSYVIY
WIJNQAQPG CPI PTWA LWRUGNCA LDX FLNV RWVIXV TLHXBAMX.  BJE JLYOY YZNZX QP
UYIUQH TKBAIVLJW HAM RWTE LWQITVAJJQM YICP MER GVVXZBGRB, ELHWIHB GTCPG
UIVYTJ AGEV KSPKSYCIGTG WRBL HNXONZ NJO OA UEFNRAXAM, INTQWYJM QVBB TN
YLLV AJMO TX KSPJ JYXU F UCCRVXRXL IJKPOTODVH.  WMMZ BIRM VEWLIQHC PB
KSBWL NV VHN AGKTSSB.

BLHC SNVFS XN XKNRNB LT CUEAA HR BMAQ IR?  QP A YCFONG SRJWITY CPIUJ EYN
YAV VINV IOJTW RW AHHA YPCT JU MV GIPWO ZAGD:  JA EQ NRKRDNLWAU TIDWRPWO
YSVU, ISL CS J TILXYYN IHBKVRBC.  DIYSC TJITNRVK ZFW VWM FZGA CPEW AIJLQF
