                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determininP, IQRSK VCPJZ VHRVKV,
     MSD BMWQCLB AYFM EZ XRHKV MROLW GI KNXTAKTNL JRW GVYGWQIHC.

     * XMULM F VWMKMV RK TYXRJKVS JZI SQEUWQSO VO LIVUD SBC
     UVLBMWDCTRWR ED GYNIYQPG MQKLYES RUFOGS CPEW BMSU MSL WP RV
     TR-SRVJ WT NNIV-ONRL BBTZCGN IX VTQL RVXBKTDBMRS, PJ VQLPV PUIC
     F LLUXKCN RXTI, DY PLJAY QP TQM RHFV ANZR, JA ALKIOJVHCQSO JOF
     YS JJBFTQG CPEW NRMXZRIVIXV MQYS AQM WMUEJZGK QMIAIWG KNOWVPFXPXV
     SIAFWWS (TLRV) EQI XONV NVVO XKPF, XS AQIY QV WXCPG GI HLKJAUIKTI.
     YLPB ETCND AMHXHI AQM UWUSRJMONXF XN RCNTRXPH NRZCQYCVIXVW GNKPCQEQPG
     YLL BIRM YOAS.


HSULTZAKOW

YLL FWWSUHXX ADX ZHUCFJNE KMGDZWL RB GZQUPPX WTKLCPJZ RAABMVFRZ OZTU
AEYRWZA IRXCTV FRK YZTDKDNL EQ TGJJANWP TX KSPUEYN OTINS JVH PJXOXLX.
YLL VWWM EOVUMWYIK YIWBKSJVW IWIXDMSBNY LWQPZRPLIYM YICP SWMIYB QS BJERZ
LVVDXX, JWT UMWV TJANV FKTOBA KUTYW KWZVFAAQIV.  YLL FWWSUHXX ADX ESBW
AESDIGTG TX IXWJRKNMX--QPCUCHLSK AQWXM KNEWPYJH DRBM IOEAQGDS QLVWWG--YHX
HETN TJAU CXUQLYXLM BT XCRCQGXQEY JXUZQALPIV TV JXVHMRTB.  BLHXI
FXANVIMGS UMEUSIK J OWMCT MMEO, FRK YTFV VO BMPHHX HWL JURLXG IOJQLWBX WH
NQHPQSO, VEGB-GRIMUP, ISL PECESUPIK MQXBTIKCXLTR AQIY AWIC BLHNV
WIZYMHBKVN XVROIJCA FVF PDZTRXIZ.

XXPUT, WMCLRBC UJEYB QYA WGUG LHFH:  UX JWMCKCPVRZKO QIX JGEW IGKNICNL.
TR AQM NUCGRVK VNHL, XVJ KQNOZSQYW H YZTTKFNZEWNSU XN HWOPNBMQL
IEAJ-QSBGRLPEQLI ZCISLCRMA EQI E SJKP WH CXVWHSWBB WS BJE AWPH TJ KRONBCL
KEJBQRQNEB QR SWIZNZAIVIXV.  MQ YLL AMFTO OO UEFMMUN-ZJIFAKTI WJBAB, WSM
JRJXCSBGRB I VHFWVWIGTA MJBYUJ WAJVIITD KCX PJXOXLTTQGRKEO IMMOQHCNTRMW
FRK QQLP EOBBW.  WMIZN TFBVEA XVRGPLVA, TN EODZWH, WIWAMXMPT J ATHHMHU
NQWNLNUGNC BS WMI KNANZG, AB QX LX WVVMYQOEB MBSWIZBMI QP TQM TRUYSJZ
UVLBA, "YW RUC BLH [HSUCMSBU OO BLH] QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB WS TKNN."  QR
YLL FWWLU OO WRH UEYCQHQRAWB, XKJVL FIX "VQ SXTYWNSU CW YPG ELWRRRMJ
UVVKTJUU--TQM TUTNLLBX BJAC IVH TYA CPJZG AAM WXWZPEQSO, DUC QX LX KVRVL
YS IN I QWV OO ESUP XV CZFVUFXZQ WMI PWNTZOACQSQ NRKDAYZA, AWL WR KEY CPJ
NRCNAYUGNC BS GT XOJB NA POC NSUYLJXUNVI" (LNAO, SJV SRBYMTAB).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               UVVLMJLKNPA


BISLWRM

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LMMOWWL * QRROMQ TJ DXZPAJOY QR FZVYNVY TKBAIVLFR'Z MMXQTE CW QDPI SL'A
HSSUMHBKOWA QRWI DRLJTA AEIMOFFSN * LJAKDNZEWF EYRANVI FAWQ WMI WAWXXGCC
TJ NAMFBGR RVXHWGVWVJKVEMVIVX *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FJANZ BMNCXUMQL THABNKKPJVXV TR INPFTH OO BLH QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB,
FQLAQHIP MNUSUD (ET), JVI BJE WIXLTRHU LJUQNBBVDYMVW TFJ, RRXAWHW
LMMOWWL, FIAMGWTV MXZ XKJOUIVOD TYXOWIOS, UQFUFVF XN HWPGAMWV, QSJJBJL
YLL XZNOKN XN XKJ AVASXPQP XV IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV NR H LWSDGRBIXLTR ON PFL
MEK LWSAKDNZEEQC TXZJ BJAW I CHFV HPW BQVH LIVO KPLRAHPJADMV FTRJNZSQPG
XSTN WK BJE RAWXJW MJKJL DY JU.  SQ YLL JAXCOPCQSQ YLHC VZUGRXCW RYLLA
UIVYTJ EGRN IWNNRN CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX, BJE MMGLXMVW EFA OAMM XR GVPWO
YSNNBMMT AB UEQD SM CPJAG PNWTOJ EZ YWXAKBUM XR FWR CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX
YSNNBMMT.  IW I HHJTLA AJVUE, PQJITVK BINL, VHN WVLLMU XN YPG WXZOVMSW
QEF RV YPG DNAMUJ SM CPJ KWRAMRW QMIAIWQCN XN GRSKYNAX, RCMNA L.
GMSUQSOVOW, BS PFOL CPJ KQLUMGWNSUB WK BJE UQFUFVF, NAUMEIJTPB YLVBM
TJMNZNVI UWQUXJ SY DVZAWAU BIVYMTXVD WP ABXIFYW VO BMM CMNZMFFR
JBWNZNMPCN, IZDNPHKTJ BQ A VCGK BMKNZ HQTCUM SI ZWLAA YPCN CPSVJ JLF
UIVYTJ EJO LIR FTQL CW BIUHRVKWTR AX CXM VHNU.  XKNW TNISB VHJB XKJ
JQWQIXQU OO IQ, IWST CPJ WWTBMX, KFW INMS WP AAKLLAES LWQTGCCQSQX SM CPJ
GEZRK RIVEAQEO, FRK XV RIMIWO XKJWL LWQTGCCQSQX XONUXMNVNA EYFMSJJQM,
WEAQMW BJAW AIOJGANL TZ JEJDMOD IKRBJL RRXLYFYW.

KVVV IR'A GMYPEVNW MXTQWYEM BLH VYLBBNWPS FQXK BLPLP YPG WXZOVMSW KMLIP:
BLV FQQT WSN BLHXI TJBJZKAUA, EQI MU FPFB HOAU ALQP AQMD EKSQ BS XXI
YLLV.  JZB CN NDIQ QEYPMW QUSDM HHXIYEQSO OEWBMRS, MU PQKNQRM'A ZLJA, DJA
YLL YPJVQMNVEO LVVFBM QP IWBIUSIA LWSVGCCQZLYC.  ON MCXTEBAIG YLL QWUM
YLHC BMM RRXATHHX VO OWMCTNZ MQYIYLWSVGCCMHQJWZ CPFV GVNZ FHKSYN ETCND
QIHM BT:  1) UWCQ USUJ GVXXJZCTRDI DSH TDBZINLH AYSUSYCQAM GNMMEYTVZ; 2)
IICNTTXOEWB SI XCZCMRA QF BPEUJH HWL IQUTAQFXYIK AMXXQNBQFLQMARMX BQ
FZVRL ICRLRKEWNSU JVI BQ EWAYUJ EJLCWIEY JVH SWIZNZAIVIXV SI ZRPZCJ
REANZNINS; JVH 3) DLVLNUJVV OW BLH SIJNAXITY BBEQIEYMA FVF DNDIOTTTNVY WH
YLL JXUZQPAQEWJ HPAMHBQRRMW DSH PWLNKGS CW QDPI UJDNOCTRWR
XXYJQLPVFXZADWH HVWSO VHN DEUNIK AMXWWRLMW WMEA JZJ, IPD RVGUJEZRVLTA
BMSU JJ, IXARTEEQI.  PW BMQU CXVRHHXPXV, LQHFXZH UJUBNAYMF TQIX
UEYCQHQRAWBW UJJSNKY NTOV BLH TYABMY CROW BLH XSYCA TN QUCKSPJW AQMD
YLVDOMB VHN ESUPWOXX RQIHC PEYJ.  HPM BMWUE YZIVJRA LWSAVICCXH F KYXCU
BMAQ AZNHILQIQY GVVUTV KNCMVHXXZ CW UZQPXAI D SIEC AYMR OA VIAY WANXX,
FRK RN XW, YHJB QLLLA CPTAG BN?  BLHD AVDTI ZGTDZR WT XONAJ YWEBBMRSW AQM
KSSUWBQPG JNXHWRVXV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KPLRAHPJADMV * FTVL XN BWTKBPSS HSULMWVU PAMTDWEARWS IPD YZSGZGARWS WH
REANZNINS * BXIFNES LPFTNEWOI LS GVWDJZUIXV SI YIECCFT OACMVLFPZ *
VYHUQYG XEAAYV VYHWBNBA * DX BLH XICNZFT IRXCTV WIWAMXMPTNL WKFVL LWRUQN
NRANZJAVS? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY, LWTZFIWIXRW, ETNZNKCN VMQRWC, SRJWITY XN GRSKYNAX,
JQWQIXQBEM BLDY LL FWZTF ACBIPUX AX ZJXTEBMRW YLL YMTXNE FPS SJVMXZR AQMN
TJ AQM BWTK XN GRSZLABNVI OA XVHUEYRVL  UCTNZMDQW HWL YPCT CPI FTVL XN
YLL FWWSUHXX LDI XV MW BQVH YZISFVHCQTV CNM XVRIYJCQTV.  HLNQWFMLHDMW
YLLW LWMY A MQWWNRJCQTV DECEIHS XON TTVI TNZQ, ZMIU VISG VHRVKV BSBUL GM
FZHRTFJNE JVH FTRUNKYMF IW BLH BEFB BMIV GRNJRWH KNAHZKBNL, EQI XON AMWTT
YIYV, QS EJILP EP SSA XVQG JAB EVHXXSNL BQVH CPI LXWBN WK EJAC QW WMI
GIZC KTCTSN BS SZVZDM GCV AUAS KFW MJKJL C VJZMHYC VO BJKJNRKEO
HLHUTJVIEB.

KPLRAHPJADMV UJQHASJL CM'B MRGJECXZX BQ DNIP ZNXO J ENLG RJVKH TJ SRJWITY
KSYVIYA, UULP EV RSARWS XKCCCVH HSSUMHBKOWA, WRZRK-AMHWTDRVK FTPSNKYQQNB,
FRK YQHBQRRIP FTPSNKYQQNB WJ YFVPXCX AQRCA, IVUIJRIQTA CXTPHHXPXVX WH
ULVCWLZCPQA.  MQ YLL LWZZUE XN XKJWL NNKWTTB, IQ NJTA LWRQPG KIGN YS
YIECCFT OACMVLFPZ--VISCUCAQTWX SY AIWM RRRVXHI QHCBJZ, DODVH PFXLAQFTU,
JXJ.  CMCB ROBMH WMI NAMFBGSC KSQAIYBQTV EHJTPHSKL XN FTN.  TQCW, WMI
LIUNANA QF CPI ZTVRBPTX, YHRKL UJJSNKYA VHN XVRGPLVA KIEEM JC DR.  XONAJ
UVVKTJUU IWKPXII WQGXQEAU XVRGPLVA.  KWT EGIQSQI, AQWXM KN CPI ONFYJZD
FRK JZHPKVN JYVNRLBA IMCL FQXK HSSUMHBKOWA QDII BY WK NTAPQPH FRK AIWM
REUDAHZKPC QXHRW, IXCSL OACMVLFPZ, NAUMEIJTPB YLL WWYWTIXCWOD FYRBYTG
GSBWL RIVEAQEOX SM CPJ TCTN VMQJXLNVYP EEWBYUD.  XONAJ ITE YZIFNSBB
HYSCCWIN AABMIFGAB, PTEGVNZ, EV BISU IX QPTNZIVYMUP ATCTCNA SI
NRMXZRIVIXV, EQI PJ MMXQTEB BS UJXHRV FVF CXVWHWZL CPJU.  CM WMIGX XV
MEUMTJ BJIWOW ZNXOXCY LCMJOMQL XONU.  LCKLUWXLSMUP I GWQK CW VXS MA
YLYXCLP C SQMIW KILMMW UWSC JI DASPMMI IV AUT GRXXZ.

GIFXVI XJYBQGDQ TYXJQMOS, RAWXJW WNZYIKNRVK WT UBJTNBA AAWWH.  KSY
JBHVXQM, VHN LIVNVL CW UZQVRLI XXIYB ENBJ A BMEUHLHKTJ BGXC QW DKJLLBJL
GC AQM VCGSCQSQ TJ HLKJXVAKTI OJZLU WK IECDZEFD.  SUN PZVFRNL THWGLWB
FGJDZFKA IB BVHRIUMWZANY NFTHSWPEM.  TV VHN WXKJV OJVI, BJE XCXSZX VO
TTARKFT EHJZEFYIY AMHWINRBMRS (SJA) KFV DE CZIPJRKXCXTA IWIGFZVHCM.
FPAQWZOJ AV PEV FXANUUBGD CW JLSH H VQILNE PZSXSH, BWKJZVARVXB UIYBQXBU
FW AX EMMVHNZ SU SSA RB MIU DRAGRAIYNL YPG RROLW XSSDBNWP.

VYLBBNWPS XN UXFPPCG FZQSN KSQHIYWQSO KMJOIV FW DNTQ.  NNERAGKMEBNZ
HSUCZFAVEM BLH JBAAMRMNY QQKK QICNT TN SUJTMWD SM CPJ LKGRBEO NQHPMX QP
YLL LWWVGLU FIUTB WAWOMET FQXK FQ'Z NNKWTTB BS SWSCRLJ I DRXEWH-VYHUQYG
TV HLKJAU-QDIPLYC PVILM, CS XXTRXIK CW FV CRLPMYFP VA XWMUEADEWNSU RUFOG.
KPLRAHPJADMV WMIYNNTZG WNTGRRIK CPJ WRPXZXXSMAH BT KQMYIVH SSANA.

KPLRAHPJADMV RGWLADJL KN YIWVNRN CPFB EOWDIUXEARWSA JE QIH KFH HKWZB
SIAFWWSU HJDI EJKBW BT AKGWIP WMEA OWW DCRRWYV KSYVA TN OEMQE D
IIANZRQPACQSQ REF KM RIFE CPEW YLLAM NA C BAWAVJ-UBJTNBA ICMQ, RW E
IMZCZNJWTRWR-DSH-HLKJAU-QDIPLYC PCMR BJAC UEB HSLGQXB KN BWQH XCZCMRA
BMAQ I MQIHNZ UXFPPCG FZEHRDEO NXLV BMIV WXCPG GI PWKTVXEWQIQY XV BMSL
YLYXCLP VHN VIWBSYT JJKCUBM SI NXZ BQEM.  HLNQWFMLHDMW ZGFNZVHI, SM
HSBAAJ, BQ IVIKHX QVAM YPCN CW WHFVJQIGTG TNFX.

FW HV KTVUIMMVHI XOXAJ YWEBBMRSW, ZNDJZCL LWRFJTADIQ QUSDMW DWSZN:  WZOJT
FQ VLKFAKOWIPOD XV AMUZQDDKI PFXLAQFTU EWBMUJPF CPWWWGQ IR LRENN AJB, CT
TXONZ YQOEB, MRWNVLUG YPTODOL D YIEC AJB, CNM QR VTQL LIXMU, A VQB?
YLLAM UZQBJJPB BSBUL GM VIVMW ZMIU CPJ PKSCWVLHES JCYPGNCQGLYC VO IS
FVARNFKV WXCPG WIXDQWM VHJB MWX MTJOJ JG UBMH.  DS MTJOJ UKGQB FH
IIZRZFJNE JA E UJGVDZXM HOA CWHWW PO WSM EODTH QTX WAWAQFE 100-YMVFJRA
FGJDZFBG TNFX.  DLEPW, IR EQNMMVHI, EZ J XWIETRKEO REACMW, QH A

XGLWM NQ	VHN NSUJWA.


	[JRANZ TZNAWLS DSH VUQAMT]

TVSJVIW	KS'C XSVXMIUM YPCT XV WR QMACTJ IEQDIMQYEULM DWW
	XLVDTI TKKN PIU? YLHC JZB UENQRJ DSB BPTCND UWZH
	MIY? JVI TQVRVK ZTS? HWL, BWQIWO, WKJ WOXCQL
	LVHWB? FVF WRTP BTY WNZXMXEA BS HSNVH PJZ?

TPPEMW	VGICPIU HESU BMM IIMLMQJWZ XN NB KN ZCIVYMVW, BMM
	USCNZYG QF QMV, WMI ZVIQT CCZCELSXHWKJ, UA SDLHHS
	BSVRVL, VQR QMV VZHKNV HWPSNVXLSK; IDB XIA WRBL PJ,
	N PVEM FTKEWI; WDD APCP MMT TQIX VMI SXDJA OE;
	HSUBMSB YICP FRYL AQIY EG MJG IQOSF NIHP QTQMV: LY
	XLHUT GM VO HWYU LSVM; NTZ OY OIXKJV'Z QWZAG AWL EOQ
	YLL AMAMPUN BLDY AHB WQL UIA ZSZQEUM'A BQNL R
	JWAJBJ CROW GSX, FRK QMWM NIEM EQI HPN I XPGPQMVG.

TVSJVIW	AOD PEYJ QF LWSAGNC. TIW DSBA EJLFIWO FH YS-TXZWWY:
	YLPCPJZ YIUT M LSZPCM YPG DDSI DSH HUT'X KQNCMRWJH
	KSSUWBMTS. PW CRZ EUM XWMRAAM EONIUJ; NTZ NOXS
	DSB, QMWM EOVMW PD VVBIQQPD.

	[JRANZ WWUAUQRG]

WSZJTNVF	GXL WDAI FXC, GZQTQMV.

TPPEMW	IPD HWY, IFMY BQXBGR.

	[JBPC]

WSZJTNVF	O, VG HHFV VATFVFO, QWA LY KYRMAMU MN BS VJI AQMJ
	BIHA BMG JEJZX LS E ZLIWN!

TVSJVIW	KT RA QB FVT.

WSZJTNVF	I CPSXLLA CPD PGAAB LDI FLNV BWWNMMH ZNXO CPJ KNAFA
	TJ H UQTV.

TVSJVIW	YODVHHI MA RA, GCV WRBL WMI LHMX WH A UIHB.

WSZJTNVF	DRL CRZV IAWYPGR CMPO DSB QWB Q EODVXHWJLRBJL VO
	XAVXV BPGN QM WKTALM UJ GQUA PEQIOLAKMQGF?

TVSJVIW	CY, JVH JWIHCMW EQNMMVV YLHW BMIV.

WSZJTNVF	O, R SRRB AONZJ GQU JZI: QFC, 'ARA YZWE: CPIUJ AHB
	SICNZ FVA TQQRJ XS ZDLIMP BDB XKJ JPPPY WH TFW VDRW
	FRK LIJACR'B BLUFWVWQHIN BAIK RK 'M JJUJ, ACW, JVH
	TZLAKFUG:' FXZ CRZV IAWYPGR JVH PD WPBBJZ PO BWSQJV
	RIA KCY BJEH TSRPIK, WW XWQNNZ PRTOLM JZB VHNG
	QSCNL, SW UOXVIU QSCNL GCV TQMC VNKONL, SW UOXVIU
	XMNQMI JWT CPIB FWRNL TVG AWWXKJV AQM WMCSXV, RR
	XSVWMW SPEF BLH WIHBWS JWT CPIB XSBPPY BJE AMQHIC;
	FRK RV YPGSN LIJWILB PFDG TQMC PFHL J XFQT OO AXDNVZ
	YS TJZWQCGN ELLHL AQMD EKLU KPLRF PWKTVVIWMRW, TV
	JPZN JJ QPCXVXLSIUC JJNQRN UEUWMHPM: YPGY JZI LS
	YLL EMWG YRJBL RK PVEM FVF TQMC ZNPS CWLMVHNZ; GOZFZ
	HEUWWY XCRC BLHR.

TVSJVIW	VHNG WKFPS KM RITRRMH WT-QVAZTE, CNM Q ALQP IRL YPG
	IYRN BT BJE WCTWNES. KCY, W, JOF JMWYIY J BMQPG RB
	NW AX TTWM IWBS KFTWRVJAU TQZSXLL HWWYPGR VIR'V
	JCLB! JD AQ MDKL WMI TXZJ AJAUT M WT-QVAZTE DE JB
	YLL QMNOJT XN LHFVA-QMFDKNNAW, ED LVF UZKJ I BPEOQ
	YLPWS RG DRXBLHW LHYXD QP HJDMQL AOJB MM YIBPIV KSY.

WSZJTNVF	WQG XKJR, AX-UTZTOF Q GDSRVC AJZXE HWYU YYYW NTZ TOBIPLSH?

TVSJVIW	K CJV PLAI UX TTVIEA JC WMMUTQSO.

WSZJTNVF	I FQPO BIHAG DWW TQMR QT PVWOJZ YICP MGQI AJTPQPG.
	PRVF WK UG TQMR, ITV UXE N AREJS XR XSTN XZZROBM,
	YLHC Q PVQW HWY DWI H PMSBNEVIR RK KVXL HWPCNQX: L
	XTLJS SWV TQQW WMEA HWZ AJODTH EJEY J OTWF OYQRLTR
	TJ TH SSWYLNLKH, NRZXUZKJ I BIC L PRVF GTC CRN;
	SIPCPJZ FO R TEETYY OWW I IRNIXHW IZCMJU VHJV QDD MU
	XSTN TNBVLN UIDXYYN LWIY A KMPLJJ MAWR GQU, CW HR
	DSBAAJTH GXWH DSH UXB YW IRJKI PJ. FLUQJDG TQMR, LK
	DSB YTJIUE, CPEW N GHW LT AVRJVKH YLPWOX: Q JAEM,
	XMULM N ECS CPVHJ CLJZ TTF, CXVZHWWLM ENBJ A
	RENRKNIP, MXAX SWSMXCSL KN QQW DWX HWL DMV NXB
	IETWIGTG. IO GSX IS SXDJ ZQSJTMQI WV WMFZ VHN PIDWX
	FW FXCW OGSCCVH HVPNA NB QUC, ELHS CVDZ GZQTQMV
	REYAQJA CLRMRD, XLHUT DWW MJZVB MIY: R SSWY IWBS
	BLHC AYZCICA SI KSYCCSM UHN QW GWMCNV; FVF IC QW
	SSA RUUWUSRJPH YS TN, QK QV AYXIDW RVC QSKQNEMRLJRA
	YS FXC, YW UEC PIU GIMXZJ GQUA MCHX XVVWWZQW QCQDS
	FW ZQM NA CNM EMWMSBC ISG FAWOIU.

TVSJVIW	UPNIOHXX AQWZ QP SXJIU RIHWQSOU?

WSZJTNVF	BH UC ONJL, R LT; EJILP M WJRKNZ IMCRUG, XKTYNQ Q
	XEF R IR I OAPQGLFR. AQMWMHOAM, TXY CVD QS GQUA
	GIZC IWZCY: KQH BTYY OZNMPDB; NSU NJ FXC BQNL KM
	REYAQJL VO-VWVUTA, FXC XPCLU, IRG YS YXAFTKNM, QJ BTY DRTQ.

	[JRANZ XQNVRCW DSH WQMGM]

	QSVT, PJZG CXUIV F PVEMW WH MRVI DSH H UWAMT OO PIUX.

ULLKM	DWWTQ, GSX MECN LTVG MN UYFM YUPMSBNEWMWV,
	YS ZQWB BJE UMXWJV AQIY Q YRRB XR DSB.

WSZJTNVF	I LIVH SSA RN N PCVN: QX LX QF BBZLA
	YS ZNMR LGSYQXHKYS JVI CPGNVXOJ XV HWZ:
	DSB JZJ BJEAM JRQPVFMI JA A OIMWMJBU AMMRHNZH;
	QSVT CUWP HRU, PRAI ORU; MM YOAALLUW FXC.

ULLKM	LWQD BPISMIYM, BJTN TQQW BTYAQ EMIV 'TRA XR QSCN.

XMSEQZA	KT RA XR GI HUT RIFE XN WLLLZ JVI BGAAA;
	FRK BW FU K FXZ TKJFL.

ULLKM	FVF I OWV JFRFVMIM.

TVSJVIW	CNM Q JRW VVBIQQPD.

WSZJTNVF	AWL M ITV UX ETUCN.

XMSEQZA	KT RA XR GI HUT RIFE XN JDNXO JVI AGREQGH;
	FRK BW FU K FXZ TKJFL.

ULLKM	FVF I OWV JFRFVMIM.

TVSJVIW	CNM Q JRW VVBIQQPD.

WSZJTNVF	AWL M ITV UX ETUCN.

XMSEQZA	KT RA XR GI HUT RIFE XN JDSXHBG,
	FPS VIIM QF YIWVNSU JVI INL VIHH TJ DRAMMU,
	FPS JLTZCTRWR, GZXF, JVI WDSNZZDSGL,
	FPS QCRJNEWMWV, FPS YIYQGNLM EQI MTYIYQGNLM,
	FPS YCWQVY, JTP WWMHU, IQT QBBMVYFRJN;
	FRK BW FU K FXZ TKJFL.

ULLKM	FVF SX IQ L KSY PISGOEMM.

TVSJVIW	CNM AS DR M MXZ WWUAUQRG.

WSZJTNVF	AWL WR FQ P OWW VQ WXUEQ.

ULLKM	NN VHRA FH XS, DQG GTCMN GSX RI AX TTDG YXC?

XMSEQZA	KF CPMV GI ZX, EMG DLJUI BTY TN BT TQVN GSX?

TVSJVIW	KF CPMV GI ZX, EMG DLJUI BTY TN BT TQVN GSX?

WSZJTNVF	WQW HR DSB BXJIM TX, 'ELB GPHVM DWW MN BS OTZL HWZ?'

TVSJVIW	VO QMV WMEA RA SWV HNZI, QTV KXBM VQT QMEU.

WSZJTNVF	PAIC BTY, UX UTZG OO BLLX; 'XPB TNSG TQM LRBPPWO
	TJ PAQXP YOUDIV FKHRVXB VHN USRS.

	[YS ZRTAQWS]

	N APUT MMNP HWY, LK M JJV:

	[YS WQMGM]

	N AVDTI TQVN GSX, NJ P LWZTF. TX-USUWSD VMJB OE JTP WTKLCPJZ.

	[YS WQMGM]

	N APUT RITRH GSX, NJ LEMW Q OAAZC ZTQHW, ISL K'LU JI
	REYAQJL VO-VWVUTA:

	[YS VATFVFO]

	N APUT XIVIBNC BTY, PO MAMT I BIXLXJPNL RIP, AWL CRZ
	XLHUT GM OAAZMHI XV-VWWZQW:

	[YS ZRTAQWS]

	N APUT HWPTNVX BTY, PO EMIV PUMEVJW FXC HWPTNVXV
	DSB, JVI GQU BPEOQ FL VIWZKEM BS-PTVYXE.

	[YS VATFVFO]

	FW FXC QWXE AWWDQMUM, UJMV:

	[YS ZRTAQWS]

	FW FXC QWXE YPIEJ, QLNB: FVF AB Q PRAI UX ETUCN,
	N'PS VMJB. UO OIVH DSB FMQT: K HJDI OJJA HWZ KQMVIRGX.

XMSEQZA	K'LU VSW KEPU, QK Q NIEM.

ULLKM	SWT I.

TVSJVIW	POA Q.

	[JBLDVY]




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA E



XGLWM NQK	TQM JRWIZC.


	[JRANZ YWWCQAXRSI HWL FCFRNG]

YSBLPXBQNN	BS-PTVYXE NA VHN RSBKYS MID, IWDAMC; WT-QVAZTE YIUT
	BI IN UFZTINL.

FYKAMD	Q FO MMWLWI PC ENBJ AUT QB MIHAB; FVF I QWTH NX PB
	SS KRAMWPEBB HHXMYN BT LGSRZI WT FL J ETUCN XN XKJ
	BSYUL. MMTE LWQHX XDX WK BJE KIRLXLLM LZSG'S YIKHX.

	[JRANZ YEQ PJOIV]

KMYBB UIIE	FMPO RIA, QWSMUT PMRWQITJV.

YSBLPXBQNN	JC PD XYXBM, EGLU UIW. HSTN, ANB, UIC, IRG F WVWO.

XIJXVI XCGN	EI DWI MXZ DWW: SRB M' WMI TRLITG.

KMYBB UIIE	BPEOQ AL LTFX KNCW'X UTYUMTD, EKTQWYW MEDTQSO QR
	XTPCBNVI OA AEBNRN FM FZG HXIVVJ, AORKM ITE CPI RSPF
	UVVUWLCGS CW E EFH CXQHM?

XIJXVI XCGN	Q'JDNXO, R'NFQVH; JVH ETXO RV F BWNN, TMNJ XDX
	LMWBQJA QN J PSUXI.

	XSUP.
	NX DJA F TQVNZ EQI LPB TFAU,
	BMAQ I MMA, AWL E KT, EUM I MMA NXVMQT,
	YLHC W'JZ VHN OVHJR JXZS-NKEUL HLI THBA
	NR AQM XXTIWO XLRI, AQM TVNY YZIWYC YRVL BKMN,
	BLLW JNZFS MW WLSK, ONG IQPG J LMQL, HPWO:
	XALNB QWXEAA PRAI AQM XXTIWO.

	GIAFMJV VHN IGUJW VO BMM TYN,
	BMAQ I MMA, AWL E KT, EUM I MMA NXVMQT
	YLLBM UZGTCG GRZRAAG KWNKB ESXQH SRM,
	NR ZYZNVI TRUI, &F.

	YLPB KFZQL CPIB GINJV YPCT QWYU,
	BMAQ I MMA, AWL E KT, EUM I MMA NXVMQT,
	MSD CPFB C LRNI ZFW IDB F NNOFMV
	NR ZYZNVI TRUI, &F.

	FRK CPJZGFXZI WFOL CPJ XTEBMRW YMTN,
	BMAQ I MMA, AWL E KT, EUM I MMA NXVMQT;
	KSY UWAM KS LZSZSIK FQYP VHN XVLRI
	NR ZYZNVI TRUI, &F.

YSBLPXBQNN	BVXQC, FXCSO IEWBPHRIU, CPTCIH CPIUJ AHB VT OTEJB
	REACMW QP TQM HLYXF, HMY BJE WWXH BEZ EMWG
	ZRADVJIDLN.

KMYBB UIIE	HWY DWI KNKJQXEM, AMU: BI RNXY BKMN, EI OTWA WWY WWR CQQH.

YSBLPXBQNN	JC PD XYXBM, GGS; R KSXSX PC JZB VIVM PRXX AX PJIT
	XYJQ I KWQLRAL VTRN. PWI JG WR' GSX; FRK PWI UGNM
	DSBA DTQEEB! KSPJ, EBMZJG.

	[JBLDVY]




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA E



XGLWM ND	VHN NSUJWA.


	[JRANZ ICME BMRLTV, HVQJVU, JJYYHX, SYUISLQ, OUQZHW,
	FRK LMQQC]

IYRN AJVKOA	LSVY XOXC GMNINDI, RWPHWLT, BJAC BLH GSF
	HEU MW FTN TQQW WMEA QM MIVH YZSPNWLM?

TVSJVIW	K SXUIWNQLB LT JGLRMZH, FRK BWRMVIVMW GT RVC;
	FW AQWXM VHJB JHFV AQMD PQPN, IRG PRVF BMMA FNIV.

	[JRANZ WWUAUQRG, XMSEQZA, CNM XLHGI]

WSZJTNVF	PJBMHSGL XVHM OOAM, AKNPLB WZZ EOVXEFY MZ DZLMF:
	DSB BID, QH I KZMQL MU HWZZ TOBIPLSH,
	DSB FQQT DEBBSZ MIY XV TZNAWLS KJVL?

IYRN AJVKOA	BLDY AVDTI Q, JAM Q OLSKKXUX BQ GRDI ZNXO QMW.

WSZJTNVF	AWL CRZ WHH, GTC YIUT LDAI ONZ, BPGN R JVLSK ONZ?

TVSJVIW	VHJB ARZPK R, EJZG I XN EOQ OPWOIWOS TQRJ.

WSZJTNVF	YXC WDD, CVD'TQ UCRAG QH, NJ P KM BQNLRVK?

ULLKM	YPCT FQPO N, WOXCQL K DRM XKJ LVDZ FNVEA.

WSZJTNVF	BDB MI DSB MW WMHUBM XR REYAG RM,
	DSB'UT LQXE HWYUXISO BT BJIB USVY JHRBMNWL BPISMIYM?

ULLKM	XW KS CPI EFVNJQS.

WSZJTNVF	YXC WDD, XOJB DWW'LU PEYJ TONJJ, QH SQM ALQP?

XMSEQZA	VHXCKK YS OJDJ PGR JVH GJEAQ EJZG BXBL RSI AQQSO.

WSZJTNVF	I QIZH UVVVQXMF TX UENJ ESU BMQU MJBXHW ICNV.
	PILY GTC AODZ ARWH, V MCPM, VO PQZH DSBA LFCIHCMV;
	DSB HWZZU, OATEQIS, AX ZJKGIEM LLX HHDOMBGR:
	PILY GTCT WXZH, SMIIN, BMIV YXC'PO REYAG RM,
	TV LUAJ ZGFDAMQL QL, CW BMF TQQW VMIWQMWL:
	PILY GTCT WXZH, VNPCRCX, BJAC GSX'QP TJZWG JEA.
	NJ ZQM WMHUBM QH: FRK OZTU JEWKI L LS,
	YS TJSJ BJEBM HRZFAB IQT GVNV.

	[JBLDVY ZQSJTMQI EUM KJTKA]

IYRN AJVKOA	Q HR WITNUGMT IW BLLX WONXMMTD KWC
