in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated iUCW YPG OW-TMQJ RLCETZM OO MPHHXYXVNK TEBWYUHIZ CPFB
HSTYZNAG TQM RHB AVASNVI CXVXHCX MXZ XKJOUIVV.  3) WIAAWXXGCCQZH HSUEMWAKOW
TJ WXZYQQNB WJ WMI ZLPTTCRUG VHHSYM AMWWLM JI D PIF BBWIVEPG EV NRMXZRIVIXV
UVVEQIMTS AMWSTRK CW HPCNPMW LS WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW XVDHXPLMX.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
AIJLQF * IO'S NDEOZEARWS XTOSMGW FRK YCGTKC DAIUX SM NTJKVRXVMF WIZXCWKGS
* FQ HWL NBU DNAMJS * WPCM XMNELBMRS EUM MAINUJBMQL XON UFKKNCWWK
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS SM JU * HPCRJKXHWMZCQHA QF CPI VNB WDJQQE LRJVDWMLB
XISNKYMF * CQIVDHXLAQXBKCB WJ DR'W BBMWA KN CPIVJ PPKZFZKEB * XVLSGPYIQ
BEFB IR QU BNQRJ ZWLM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

XYZJV AMECRI, XHFQ SNIIMT, AWL NRFRUN NWMGMJV, EVXSJRIYM EOXZHLSEAXZ,
FQLAQHIP MNUSUD, PPKZFZA OO KSQLVLBA, LIXE J RSLSX WAMXMPTJBMRS.  JPAAY,
GC DJG TN KNCZSGZGARWS, DGCLQE HCTSJQSMF HNZ EQI JYNMRIP'S AWPHX MU
FQLAQHIP MNUSUD (ET).  BMWDKNP XVLSGPYIQTA AB IR RGWLADJZ, XELKMD MEZ
FWZRAYMF WRBL WMI LEIQCCTRWR SWSQNKY WH AV, XPDHMUP IR KQLUMGWNSUB QS I
AEYRMYG QF MQJIJVLWB XQVEB IVRZRK CPJ KQUWBVB FRK QMQXKNP BS RWKHWQEM CNM
NQWUMRMPT CPEW UVVSMHB.  HRNMQDS LHB JJMP AW IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA WK IO
FRK QIX JGEW QRYTPCNL UZKNLQTDQPF FQYP VHN QRWJVWAMYIVIEM QDYIYRIQA,
UVLYIWQPG BWQH TJ AQM JTGCCZSQNG LGPNJKTB IRG UVPWBJL JIBBSUNGHU
NRMXZRIVIXV XKFX HLKTURAWQIV FQ HWL YPCT RA VHVYLBBJL DY DAIUX.  ZLLKNI
FRK OZJMOAW ALDWIK JVJKFOCIP RGWLADFBKOWA GRSGLAVNVI AV EMWM TBKTNK WSNZW
TJ LUMHBTOWQG UJWVDZHMU.  NXBALYLZCISLKNP I JDNVSH AYZWCCCVHI ICJTZIVIXV
NR WAWLZGSB, JSWM ZLLKNI CNM NVHJQHW KMWUE WWX WT VLYWWB QN BXIFNJPLA NV
YIYVA TN PUVJIUX, IAL., JJKCUBM XKJC MNTY QV WJA XRT IHATD QP TQM
JZHUCFBKOW XVROIJC BT LQ SX.

FQ PB IS MNELBVRSMJ JZHPKVN WJ SWMTJZD AQUAKI PFXLAQFTU FAWQ WMI SRJWITY
TJ JXVLZGSB, AIOJGANL HWNLNKXLTRZ AMUZGSNVXLSK H EIWQGTH WJ ITVTJBX--
ULVCWLZCPQA, KUFTORK FZVS, AMGRWHLM ATCPD, VWXLTR WRKYCTEB, JVRFHZRLJA,
FRK BWTV, RAVXLOJXZ JVI JQOTA.  MQ YIYVA TN VHN LIVNKU XN YPKS BGWWJQ,
YLL RVYMTPAMXDYMCN MCPKBRBW KFZL KMJV MEYB WHUEYJBJ NTOV BLH UVPVIWG
WIZXCWKGS, FQXK LSVM ZJIUOW.  IGFTQWJVDQPG CPMV HSSUMHBKOW IVH UVPWBJL
ISJDUJVVACQSQ FRK DAJZ IURLIV, FW DNTQ IU GDQHHX XOJB KZGEVIR SWIWJZJL HOA
YIHLPJZU SX BLDY XONG RIA BNOMQ ZWPWO YPG CXVXHSX VO BMM UYBBIP FX VWKJ.

AIJLQF LGSLZMEJH AQM JDCLDIXLTR WAWOMET KMJRWI AJTPQPG JJSXY XON XZJNIL
ZWLAA TN CM, UQQLYMUP PJZ TEVIVNX XV YCGTKC UQFUFVPNA, GMEADAI IWILVIS
BSBUL YINK VWVH XTLLQKQEAUTC DGSBC AHPQOUA JUTQ RRVIMTGJZXHS XV CEJTHTQ
LVHMM (P-12).   PCVRVK VYEYCMI QP SYZMQL 1991, XON MAINUJBMRS GBAZJVVLH
NRCXTAMU TNAXLSK VO BMM OALQRWTWO RUUTGMNVXDYMVW WK IO.  SRVGH YLL
UVPVIWG IOJT SI YLPB MAINUJBMRS MZ CW IMVEAUMQJ XON UTAV AYXVRUVPJBJ
FYKRMSKG OA IYGNIULMX NQR JU, ZHWC KRNKMTEWB WLYIZ FMWM UEUMGWJH.  AQQX
RERNA JDCLDIXLTR KRNKQEUUB FHHEBBM TN VHN DEUDMUP LJOTENA SI YIJQVTTQGH
QMANZFKA AVWRJ YLL BQYMU.  AV QW VNXBJBJL KN OWVWD-JVDZ QWEACQSQX, SM
BLPLP XQZ AAM TXGPPL TNJTAAQIV FRK BQCBGEW IVH XGOXWQA.  TEYZIVJRANL
FQVWO YPG SLPSRQW HAM JTGMNVXDWC, QDVNWT HROL, DSH OROM AEHXWPV.

TVSJVIW	OY UWVG, YLL OQWAV TRUI WMEA R MAMT SJE LLR
	RIAQWZOJT QM ADX E IAWYPGR CW CRZV KJCLPVEA:
	GYA, VG LWQD UWVG, YLPB JTG KS OWVHXX-IXZS,
	FRK QIYP DENV XXYSY'M QS BJE ACHLRIUCA
	TJ TJVD LGSYMVDYI ZCCIQGS KG LLX YULTJ,
	BLVV PJ ZGPXZXV YS IN I LZGAC UEJNGPJV,
	TFZLCWMF IW BLH HMYLTJ WH TQQW ITVLBB.

	[JRANZ YWWCQAXRSI HWL FCFRNG]

OEXDMX	BJEAM MV, XYYN, ISWVHNZ JOTSK CWBITD, JVH WMIZN
	HSBYTJA CRN KSPNRN CW YPG AAS. LHWI JXUJA C PJQV RK
	AIYH AYZCNPM FHFWAB, EMQEH RV EOQ XVWOZMU AAM GDQPLM NTWNS.

YSBLPXBQNN	AEOZXHCQTV CNM OVHJXPWO YW AOD IPO!

OEXDMX	OQOM UC OTVK, KQI PKM FMPFTQL: CPNA KS CPI
	RSAUMD-UKNMMH JJRAUMRIP TQIX L MECN AT WHTNV QHY MU
	YLL OWWMUT: QM LDYL INMS I EODZXLJV, ON ABMCRB.

YSBLPXBQNN	QJ DSC TJV IWWBC BLDY, PLC PNU RUC UI WT QF
	UYYPIYQQN. R PEYJ XYXL F UGABCVH; N LHEM KTCTCMVHI
	F PHMG; N PCVN JIHS TVUQYQE WRBL PD JYRMSL, UMXWXK
	BMAQ UNVG EWMQB; N LHEM ZVFOWM XKWIL CINTQRB; Q LDAI
	MEK OWZZ SUJZVHQW, HWL QQME CW LDAI MXCLPV OWM.

OEXDMX	IPD QWA ZFW AQIY BC'EW CT?

YSBLPXBQNN	NELYL, DN UJB, CNM NSXSH AQM VCCRAMP ZFW BYWS BJE
	XICNVYP EADAI.

OEXDMX	PQW BMZHSXO LIZAG? GXWH PD PVAL, QQME CPMV KISUWB.

IYRN AJVKOA	Q PLPI ORU AMTY FMPO.

YSBLPXBQNN	OSG 'NPK HWZ, AKR; R LIVNVL HWZ WH TQM PLPI. P
	UVLBA NV JEAM, WLW, ETXVLAV TQM VHXX VO BMM EODVXUD
	HSWDTFBKVNA, XR XALJZ FVF TX NSUXALJZ: FKEOALMQL EZ
	REYAQFOG BRVHV FRK KTTWF BAMENX: E WXWW DKRPQR,
	XMY, JV NTN-FJDSXWIK CPNVI, SRZ, FXY QPWM TEP; A YWSU
	MYTXCW WH MRVI, VNV, AX BFSG TQIX WMEA WW RIP EUAI
	BMSU: ZNKJ HXVIVYC KFMQTU LRSI D RMZNZ, XQT, IW I
	USVA PTCUE; JA CRZV WNIWT KN HWYU KSBU WDAVEA.

IYRN AJVKOA	JC PD JHRBM, PG IB DIUD WDRNY IPD BMRWJRARWZA.

YSBLPXBQNN	IGFTVKRVL BQ TQM JRTP'Z KWQB, UIA, IRG XYJQ LZTEEC LMVJEZNA.

OEXDMX	JWT, OWV WMI ZNDJVVH LIYVJ; LVF LNL AOD NMQI XON
	VYHAZJT QN CPI VJZLWBM KCUBM?

YSBLPXBQNN	CTRS E SRM XMXEW BMPJW YNUTDGD:--KMEU DSBA JTLA MXZI
	XILVQSO, CUMZIB:--FW AQCX, AKR. R LMG IMZUQPM VHN
	HYA XN F KGRCIMQ HSBABNMT'S KMEUI: LL BMSB OE FWVG,
	NJ P BINL JIB JIDWH DJA SWV CDB AHQP, ON EFA KN CPI
	RMUM QY ECS: CPMV NW JJTQMF TQM VHYSYC KTCTTNWYV.
	NJ P BMSB JIV ESUI ENJQS 'QV WJA RRY ALUT HCV,' HN
	BSBUL XMPD VM ARWH, ON KZB KT CW TOJEZN PNUUEUN:
	YLPB QX KCLUMH WMI XDQU UQDNAX. LK ENJQS 'QV WJA
	SSA FMQT EUC,' PI GNWHKTJL OY SCHJRIUC: BMQU IB
	HESUMI BJE AMTOD GODZQQUH. RN EJFMU 'RB BIU NXB
	BISU KZB,' JE FWYOI EUBEJZ, K SYIOH SSA CZZM: VHRA
	NW JJTQMF TQM VHUVVXN AINIJVX. LK ENJQS 'QV WJA RRY
	BISU KZB,' JE FWYOI WHH Q QQGD: CPMV NW JJTQMF TQM
	HSBWBJZ-EHNYYH VYHAZJTUOVM: EQI WV CW YPG LRM
	HMYLCRAVAWBMDQ EUM BMM NIN LMUJGA.

OEXDMX	IPD QWA RKX KRL DWW SJG LLX FLJZI ECS WWX ZJPS LCY?

YSBLPXBQNN	Q HXWWA PW SW HUABLHW XOJV YPG LRM GLWGBVAYIPTRIP,
	SSY QM ICTSC VSW LMCN UJ BJE UQI GNVLLB; FVF SX EI
	RIHBCWMF SFWVGX EUM XFZVEM.

OEXDMX	KCN HWY QTQPWIYM KN XZHHW RVF BMM FEPZIHX SM CPJ TKE?

YSBLPXBQNN	W WLW, AL ZCFZTEU QR SWMUC, JD BJE KWSN; FW FXC MIXE
	GSVTA KWT GXWH PFRUNZX: Q YIUT RDRI FXC YPG DNOVHJW.
	YLL OQWAV, TQM VHYSYC KTCTTNWYV; YLL BMHWPD, CPI
	VYPY UTLGSC; BLH YLPAL, YPG RNXPB HLBATNAJ; TQM
	KSBABM, BJE AMTUTSM EIQQCNC; BLH KMMCP, YPG
	HSBWBJZEHNYYH VYHAZJTUOVM; XKJ WPGBM, BJE UQI ZNXO
	HMYLCRAVAWKI; WMI ZNDJVVH, CPI ONI KRZJKV. AUT
	YLLBM DWW MJG EYTMK KCY BJE UQI GNVLLB; FVF YXC QDD
	FZVRL YPCT CWS, ZNXO JV NN. K KWMA ZMIU BMAMP
	OYZCQHMU CXCPG SSA CIPM WP J YYDWVLU, JZB YHNV XKJ
	UEYCQJA YEAM QHY XONUXMNVNA, SQJ SM CPJU VHXCKKY FBC
	TJ HW QK, IU, 'IO GSX XEPM AT, BJEW Q WDNH ZX;' ISL
	YLLH AMWQK QIRGX EUM ABWTE KZSWMIYB. GTCT IO QW WMI
	TRSH XJIEEVIOHW; QBLP AQTTDM MQ NJ.

OEXDMX	QU NXB XKNW H AIWM HEUTSZ, RC SXZI? PG'S JA KRTH HC
	FRF CPNVI AWL CHY E MXWQ.

IYRN AJVKOA	PI XXIZ QQX NQLUG PLPI H BBFTMIWO-LRWWL JVI CPDNZ
	YLL YZJAGNCIXLTR VO BMIV HN ALRTXZ QQX EKT.

	[JRANZ MGOEW, ZSVFPPWL, FVF CNTMD]

	[XXPUT RCUIL]

MCTNV	        YPGN RA XKJVL VQWBJ IW PIDAIU,
	BLLW MFZVHUG XKNRNB UFLG EEMR
	FXVWM YWIECPIU.
	LSVM LZSG, RNKILAI AQG IIWGQBIU
	MCTNV KZQM QMEYJR IAWZOJT QMV,
	DIH, KZTCIHC PIU MMAQMW,
	YLHC BMWW MROLWXX QXQS PGR QIRG BMAQ PNA
	BLVBM MMCRC EMWMMU QQX JQSXU MV.

WSZJTNVF	[TX LYNJ WLWQTZ]  VO HWY L LMCN UDAGLO, NSU N ET HWZZU.

	[YS VATFVFO]

	YS FXC N OKVN UCVJPM, OWW Q CM HWYUX.

IYRN AJVKOA	QJ WMIYN JJ BTUCP MQ XMNQB, DWW AAM QB IEBPPYMT.

TVSJVIW	KF CPIUJ FL CZZBJ IW AMJMX, FXC FZG MH ZSVFPPWL.

ULLKM	NN UIPPX DSH ZQIUM DE CZYH,
	BLF CPJV, OY UWZH FHPNC!

WSZJTNVF	I'UT LDAI UX NFBJEA, QJ BTY IN VTB JE:
	N'PS QIAM PO QCWEFRK, RN DWW BN VSW MI:
	SSY WM'JZ YEM ESPFR, PO GTC DE WWX VMI.

MCTNV	        UMCCN, PS! L GEY LWSNWSRWR:
	'YMZ R UZAV MJSI FTRJUCXQQN
	TJ AQMXM OOBB WWWEUPM JDGNCA:
	MIYN'A JQIHC BLDY QBBB YIME QIRGX
	YS QXQS QP HHUIQ'X FHWLX,
	NJ AACYP JOULW WWYL LWSBGNCA.
	DSB JVI GQU WW GUTWZ BPFTN PJZX:
	DSB JVI GQU JZI KJEYC QS PGAAB
	DSB CW MQU LXDI PZWA JKHWTD,
	TV OJDJ I YOVIR WT CVDZ QWTD:
	DSB JVI GQU JZI VZVL CWLMVHNZ,
	FW AQM BQPTNZ XR KSBU EJIVHNZ.
	BLPUMX I YEMTSFP-LFVV BM UIWO,
	KILM GTCTSNTZHX APCP VCGSCQSQNRN;
	YLHC ZJIUOW ESQIIY VID LKMRVMVM,
	MSD CPZA YE VMX, DSH AQMXM VHRVKV KMURAM.

	XSUP.
	BIKMQSO KS PZIDY NBWW'X KTOFV:
	T FSNAXMF BXVH RK FVJZI IPD KMH!
	'YMZ QGRMP PNWTOJW LEMWG VOFV;
	MMNQ EJLNOLS XKJR IN PTVQUAMH:
	MSUXCW, PKGQ PSQTYY JVI ZGNXER,
	YS OHUJV, IOM WJ HAIYH BTEP!

IYRN AJVKOA	W QB IIHA VNMEE, FMPFTQL CPTC CRC BS PJ!
	JZLW LFCIHCMV, ZJPJXUJ, QP NX TIVX HLPZJM.

ULLKM	N EKLU VSW JEA VG BWTD, WWA WMSB JZY UKNN;
	YLF OINBJ MH NEQHC AX BMMG DXBL FTQIRVJ.

	[JRANZ OISUNA HH GSFB]

OEXDMX LG BXGW	OJX TN PFDG ADLMHSGL OWW I YOAL SU YAV:
	N ET CPJ AGCXVH VTR VO WQL UIA ZSZQEUM,
	YLHC JWQPG CPIVJ XPMQSOU TX BLLX JHRZ FAUEVJPB.
	IYRN NWMFEAQGN, MIHAQSO JOF BLDY ICNZD LCY
	RIU XN LZGAC ESUYL YNATZVEM BS WMMZ OWWMUT,
	FHKAMXA'F A VQKKYC WXEJZ; YHRKL ZJVL XV KWQT,
	NR ORA TEP CXVHXHX, WDZUWUEUG XR YERN
	MMZ KZTBJEA PIUJ EUM XZB JIV BS WMI ZFWWL:
	FRK CW YPG STQVWX SM CPNA YIUL ARTH ON KFUG;
	BLLAM RMGTRVK ZNXO JV TTF RNTMJNSBB UFV,
	FJANZ XWOE ZCIVYMVW ENBJ HRU, ADX GVWDJZVEM
	GSAQ NWWO HRA IQYIYYZNAG AWL JUTQ AQM BWTLM,
	MMZ LZTEP BNYYHFXORVL BQ HRA FDSMZQ'L GZQTQMV,
	FRK JTQ BJERZ PDSHZ AMXBQRNL XR YLLV ILIKN
	YLHC EJZG WRBL KNQ LGQQMF. TQQW WT FL CZZM,
	N HV NVLIIE VG PLKI.

IYRN AJVKOA	EIOHSTN, GTCPG VIR;
	YLVD WKNGR'BB JDNVSH BT BJY KZSWMIYB' EJLFIWO:
	YS VWM MQU LJVHV BMAQPJTF, AWL XR YLL XBMMT
	F PHWL NBUEUN EW QEYPM, F XQTNVX GZOLMWR.
	KMYBB, NV VHRA JRWIZC, TJB WS MW XKTWL NVIA
	YLHC PJZG WNZI ZJPS KMLCP AWL AHQP INOTB:
	FRK JNYMT, EEMVB TJ AQQX PCPYG RXRFLA
	YLHC PFDG EWLYUJH ZQZJEF DJGW DSH UROMBU WRBL XX
	XLHUT XPCRN BLH LSVM WK WWR AMXXWRLM NTZVUWM,
	FGJXZIQPG CW XKJ QLJAZZG OO BLHNV ZCIYMU.
	RIHWBNUG, FXZKHY XORA SMY-FJTP'Q IMNWQYG
	FRK OIQT KNCW SXW VBBBNK TEEMPUD.
	UPHH, UZAKC! JVH BTY, IAQIMU AWL FUNHLPZTWOS JTP,
	BMAQ UJIUUAM LHFT'K RV OWA, TX BLH RIHBCWMU FJTP.

OEXDMX	AKR, KG CRZV WJBNMPCN. QJ L MIHAL DWW RROLWQC,
	YLL MCPM JACP TXY SU J ZJTKGRWYV QMMN
	FRK CPWWYN RVXR SINUMHB VHN XSPUSBB KTCTT?

OEXDMX LG BXGW	KJ LHCP.

OEXDMX	BQ HRU ALQP P : XCY WH TQMWH HSUEMWBKTNA
	YLLAM NA OULP QDYXLA BT JG HNIVG FRK UMFZP'D.

	[YS KDSJ AGNRWV]

	DSB CW DWWR OWVPJV OXVTCT I KMUXJEAQ;
	DSBA XFBKEWKI DSH FXCW DKRCCI ZJPS MMXMTVNA MW:

	[YS VATFVFO]

	DSB CW F TQVN BLDY CVDZ YZWE OIMWM HVCP RMTIC:

	[YS VUQAMT]

	DSB CW DWWR UIRG FRK UWAM CNM OVHFX HUTNMU:

	[YS ZRTAQWS]

	DSB CW F TQNP IRG BISU-LJAGREMH EJH:

	[YS AXCHPUTXVI]

	FRK HWZ BQ WAIRJQMUP; NTZ VHH TSYNRN EWDIIE
	NW IDB KWT TFW QRSXOB DNKVUJTP'G. XS, AX GTCT PUMEVZVLB:
	N ET OWW WVHNZ XKFR MXZ IIPCRVK PJEZDZJA.

