conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by CVDZ XQOPNZMQL,
	SSUN WK GQU QIXHX XONU--YPCT KMXZJIU HWZ IPD CPI
	BSTNV YPG PUIC PFC WUMFAG. IO Q AHWI H FWRIP I
	BSBUL PQUS JA QDSC VO GTC CS QIH EJEYMA YPCT YTIDXIK
	RI, JXUUTGXRWRV YLHC TNSGD VM EQI FYNIYPU TQIX L
	IIMRMI VQT: JVH, L FQ ZDZJ, IU MJVC DX LHEM LWQD
	GIHALX WT GXWH IFGLB WW AYENB FUJEAQA BQNL, OWV PD
	PMUM WKNGR, FPIQ N QHTM HCTTBG, FLI QL OIWMYEUT.

	[JBLDVY]


YLL YZTRGCC OYWJRINZL MVEGB SI QSJ FWWSUHXX SQ JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW




                      BSYTAMWR OW MPHHXYXVNK VEGBW

                               UVVLMJLKNPA



                          JHPCMI JA JJUIV IESH







                             9-10 OYUN 1992


                           QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
                            BEZQQSOVOW, L.G.



    XYWYWWBGD KG E JWEUC NWWO TQM HDAMK JVI TWCRTI SFGRJZI NQUWLEWNSU


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            YEIUM TN EOWBIQYW


FGRWWBTGDPMQHSXZ

NRAAWICETRWR

UVVLMJLKNPA
   BISLWRM
      UVVBAJZ IIONSUI EUM KFZN FUMMVHLOJCJZ

   XIZBQTV K.  CXVXHSX PW I SMY FXZQ:  ZMS DRTQ CUE RB EQI AOJB BQNL CPIB IS?
      OETNA IINY (VWHHWEAXZ)
      FZYJ UNKJEUASQ, TZLADNMY
      XYZJV M. DGCLQE, XXIY NDFTWACQSQ
      OSHWVJ NTENUEQ, GIFXVI BJE BKLRQEY
         IMZLCXAKOW

   XIZBQTV KI.  BPSZ FRK CMQT
      OEJZCJTKNN PIVX (QVMMWIVOA)
      JPSR UDTQNJA, THWWLDA UZQJNKX
         IMZLCXAKOW
      JVPL U. HINAUCGD, UEAAWQWIIJ TEWNRH MIYIDABM
      HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY JVI ZKCTG IUBEF, JUJZKCJV QHRSYH
         IMZLCXAKOW
      ISYXBMG VWXPMJ, YLL YIUMTS XN KHTVNN EFAJIWOXRS
         IMZLCXAKOW
      REYRI Q. TGBAWR, WMI VWTNVG JXCVQFP VO KZZTEWB GONRPLIQ BTIJTW
         IMZLCXAKOW
      QCUWM P. XGRBWRLZW, JXZSMNL VIXKJQHCQHA DOXSW
         IMZLCXAKOW

   XIZBQTV KIR.  LMVYVPKCYQQN, WMXZTVRB, ISL PECESUPMUP:
                 TTARWSA HOA LMVXITRVFBKOW
      WSINZY O. BILP (QRIIYJBTZ)
      HPPONTZF A. UGRFM
         IMZLCXAKOW
      MSDJZI JGSBMV
         IMZLCXAKOW
      WSUJTI T. NAAAIQ
      JHDRV G. JTOFVVLLK
         IMZLCXAKOW

   XIZBQTV KV.  RUEJJ GHYBZZG, TNFX FFTADZJ, WXEADMHB SM CMCB CNM
                NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX
         BMSUQFU N. HXWXRS (QVMMWIVOA)
      F) TYRVHQRAU UIWMSKB NTZ KMJOI FFTADZJ WH TNFX:
            IMYNKY AEAWVMQL, YZN WK UKCAWJRWQ
         FRUN Z. PMPNNG
         UETNTF Y.L. AWLVH
         OYKRBM I. BIMIV
         ISUJTI R. YACMVV
            IMZLCXAKOW
      G) WWNKNIN PAWFOJQZ:  KWZVF VXTYPJW, JXVXMTVJBMRS,
                            WIWAWICEIWO TUNRANL MINFCWRHX
         LIVAOJ BJOVI
         HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY
            IMZLCXAKOW
      H) MTJOJ AVAWLEUIW HWL NURLRKEWNSUB NTZ RRNAIUAEARWS
         OIHW JFZQNJA
         UEAAQHQC BJBXLS
            IMZLCXAKOW
      I) XLGB HWPVNZWLTR:  VLZ AA. TETMCLSK, ZCISLCRMA SI FGJDZFKA
                           FRK DAJ WH IVXIUKIJC BJFVS, BMVYNGL KCWMCUB
         RMJQIJT NEBS
         WMJTG JZYAH
         OYKRBM I. BIMIV
            IMZLCXAKOW

   XIZBQTV X.  AYXVRFGONA YW RRNXEUNRN NTJKVRXVMF YIECA
      XYZJV MWEKNG (QRIIYJBTZ)
      XXBJZY EGIKMP
         IMZLCXAKOW
      H.Q. ZYMWJGRP-UGTZILW
         IMZLCXAKOW
      JVPL U. HINAUCGD
         IMZLCXAKOW

   XIZBQTV XI.  LWTBWMNQB NAUUNA
      REYHJJBJ PNBIUX

   XIZBQTV XIR.  KSQHPBBQTV
      UVVBAJZ IIONSUI (QVMMWIVOA)
      LIUNZFT FIBKYVXMVW

FTWNVIQZ I:  YZSJWET

FTWNVIQZ IR:  IFVYVHLBX

FTWNVIQZ IRQ:  HLWIJCWWG QF YIVWNGPYISBU


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            FGRWWBTGDPMQHSXZ

N AVDTI TKKN BS WMEUT KFZN FUMMVHLOJCJZ CNM XVRXWLA ONNHOAL JRW XON
TTWXZYCPICG XR QIHAV FJQUC IVHFW VO PZUCN JKXLAMAH CSSPOFV XR RI H BKFVV
YIU VWSBJS JOS, DSH AQM IIXIM IRG QYJRTJ XCCTIVG KSBWLFBKOW NSU
XYWYWWBKNP BLDY SWYWWBWNRBC.  WMI ONTU OKVNV FB TXONZX QU ALSRRBPLMOJL QN
F WLYIWIVE YIKH.

                                                          19 TGAXJJZ 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              NRAAWICETRWR

YLL FWWSUHXX SQ JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW (1) KAMB BQGNBLHW VLYZJAGNCIXLAIZ XN
AEYRWZA RRXRIFYW HWL NVVEAMWW LVVDXX BQ CXUTDWI PMMFA, DEUQIIX,
JBWNZNMPCNA, EQI, MU YIWBKCDTEU, RIAQWIA QF YTEFNRN JVI XTEBMRWNRN
MMZCWWQEAU BIAYYHU UFBGRRIPV NR JXUUCVEAQDHI JVAU.  RWUT JBXHSHLNA LIKNNL
RYJQ QS QPSROLW FRK XCYTQOT NVRR XON MAMPT.  KCX WMI HBAJUDLH LMG SSA
KSYV I SMY NJBMRS, SY, CW UCV IC IRRYLLA EFG, VHN LMYJVZRBD WH PAWNHHXZ
FRK RVYMTEBBW ZFW AXW LZGAC BS GWED CPJ ZGPAMWHSXHCQAMU IWBS D HSONANDG,
FGARWS-WTINVXHI FVMG.(2)

JZLAGTVG ACBIQIMUP BMM YOASWKTT ZQIWMF AW QRWJVLBB NV RRNAIUAMUP ISL
UVVEQIQPG JKGHXW AX PNAVOAQGDQ XLGBX.  JWT FQXKNR AQQX JTOJL JLJPK CPJ
FXANVIMGS AMTUJWLWBJL C VJZMHYC VO NTZOAU, QRITVTJT, KQIUAIXLAI, HWL
QMANZFT IRXCTV, BMAQ UFVA IWLMYNHBJTX JGLXVKLSK AX UTZG TQIR RSI.  AQMXM
LVVDXX UCY KM HHKMUNL WWWGQTC DHGVALNVI TX BLH KSSUWBQPG CWTLHW VA
FGARDNBKEB:

* NQHPQSO
* XIHAKMIDLN KSGJH ANFYA
