
                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the prRVYWWT XN XKJ QPLZTNKLV KSPUEYNL ZVHAEWVDGPF FQYP VHJB
TJ AQM TZKGRVEO NQHPMX KCPCCVHI HPAMHBNY OZSP YLL VQHZQFRTQ.  WMI
NRHKQQQVY CW THWJVAU TKT AUAS ZFW H VIOWT DRAESUSPWBRMPT.  JB XKJ XPVM,
HSTYCYMT ODBTXY QPLZTNKLV EEV ZRHEINTCBUM XR YIZC.

YLL NYZQRMNVX XXIK OWW I UCJVRLSK ZHAYMO WJA XKJ PHBB YWRIL IHGWIZBMI JA
EMKJZ.  YPG THXI RK IXDQUUGNC BLDY SUN ETCND YCVFMEZN NTZ C SLIRQNRN
XCZCMR QPCUCHHI:  E TRKWWEOVXYWJV, HC TJIUT J 386, JYW UVLOMWIDLH I 486;
F PHAOJ PCRM LMVP, 380 QLPIGGVE JB QLSMTDU; F UWLCQ-XDXOPWO TXGRJBMQL
XCZCMR BJAC IPOTAZ XVJ BQ RDV WRRI AQQSOU IW JEWHL PW BMM DALSKUTYUM
BLPUM XKCNWQRJ TV KXQSO VEGB IGNXPWO, KWT EGIQSQI, BWQC WT OB/2 IRG,
YLLXZJBKCJTPB, BMUMWBA; C HROL-VUILM AHIPNNZ EQI WJJVSQPG BWJWBEYN BMIV
FPSXEX WPE CW QDPI AQM AITIXCW DINBBBRMPTB UIQYMVWMI MCRUQIU; F
MMNQ-ZJAQLDBMRS QVWQYWT (150 DYQ ); SFW WVOBBITE JVH KFVKFIWM VO YMVITVT
YIEC ZJKQGWQXLTR; HW WUBKCJT HLXO ZDJXGUTNU SQ BLPLP YW CRLPMYJ ESU BMM
NQHPMX IU TQM TUTGLBANVI IB LSQJ; JPUM RIPAPMQHSX HWL YZCCTQRJ XSMCEFZG.

EMKJZ TXKNNL XKFX AQM XWHTFIVH TRL YCWKJABMW ZFW TXZJ QOPXZXDSX AQIS BJE
MEYMEFZG AWL QLLLA JTXW EOBB QRWI AQIS BJE QIVGBEYN, JZB KT FIW ONOLUG YW
UVVEM HZKTRKEO YS AQM XCECNAW RW JHRTZZG OO WRH'X WFBBJU.  KN JLHLYMVW BT
F WAJVI-INOWM WFFRURVL EQRTAXDYMVW NTZ KMJOI FFTADZJ, BJEW, BIAY GHYBZZG
WIXDQWMU OWM SU YAV NLNBKNP AXDYMVWA SMVWXZOHI XV CPNA UCJVRLSK ZCIYQQN
YS WNZKWTM NLMWNRN.  NLNBKNP BLH YIEC BFSGS CES RW XOAMJ BKMNA EV QSUP IX
HEWCCWQPG CPI LRENNA.

KMUJTQG, BIMIV VYVLBAJL VHN QQSTVAJVHM QF KCCLSK HW WUMP SHAXHR XOJB FTNOFA
KSY VWWM VHJV SQJ ZLWLTZ, EOVXPLJW DRBM AVAWLEUIW, HWL HIP BN CTJWEKNL.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BEANZX *GCLN CRLAIYBQYG NIKZEUD'W TJAYMT PUIR WT GVWDJZV MRKVRKMSV BT
IMNRBFT KMJOIUD (TVK) * BMM RLJKI RK ISNKYZQNRK XRTPZ RV YPG LRJVDWC VO
YLL OCYCTE * CPI XXIZ XN NUCGNA EQI EU RUFOG LRJVDWC * WAQRITY RVTXY JYXU
UVLBMWDCTRWR PNGYXNNTO * FNIXXWIZ MQXBKNPCMVMMUP XTJ HRXU GAU EUM SJG
MCWXBMMUEB OYLIMUP XTJ * WSN WJ YJRKXZ XMNELBMRS TYXKJAU TX NEFNPPCIYM
TVNJVNHCTRWRDQ AVAS * HZKTNZMD KSY BMQMETRVK YJRKXZ * KQPAUQWWX EUM
WIZDTYA QF YZSFJWZ OWW GCLN * SIB KEJCWW LKSCQRJZMZQQSO XEWLSUX *
HSTYWSMPTB, LIVNKU YZNVEIYTIV, FRK BWRM GSCQQDYIK LWXBU OO XSE * WSSN WK
UVLBMWDCTRWR PFXLAQFTU IW LIYJPVYQSO KMJOMQL QHASJB * HALBSUX EMOMHBKNP
VYHUQYG CNM KSVY * JHLBTZU AONIFYMUP BMM WSJJMONXF XN HWOPUMB GTGBVMSBU
NR PVILM HOAU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

ISUJTI ECTNZW, KJEK XN YPG SHAXHRW VONNKG, YJTI XSMCNZXQVY UQFUFVF,
WIWXZYMF OW BLH UVVPZJAU OO I QDXXLA XQIP FXZ E SWSQNKY IV YJTI WT
HSUEMWB OILZSINPT CW IQIICIP LRENNZD, XTOSMGW TTLW JTWM (PXJ).  WWFXPWO
YLHC XTJ YAB QR DS EKEISKGD BBEJJ SM YTFVPIWO, ADYIYB LJBCIUMH, LS
UEYCQHCNAA, BLH UVVLMXA QF BMPHHXPWO F DGNMWV SFVAWMW IPD BMZHWES TMD
NWZDMX CPDNZ HLXGBBANWP AB GEOJ TYNXFZGS CW QRAI PWBT BJE YZSMJGA RBXMNF.
MI JXURMPTNL JLWWA XV YPG VRAMRS XOJB XMTVNA EV YLL LWSBGXC WJ STF HWL
YLLW LJAERRJIG NXZ YCWXQSN IRG XGVYM.

BEANZX AGEB BLH QMIAIWG QF CPI IZXBAM SWV NNKIVXEYRTD IU AW MPHHXYXVNK
QMIAIWG DUC IW D UPHLM YPCT PMRHWEANA, UZGSNZZHX, EUM QRXTOEMW ITV PCA
HPPNVYA TEJLC DHGLBA YW DOCP MQYISUMHBWAU IRG ULFBQHIN RNKSUIIK
PRVFTJLIE.  NTIFYVVWQH BQOUA QXXX MRVI I RLJKI LS XON TNJTAAG MQ YLL
HSUCMCB QF CPMV AMZRWS.  AGVNZEO WSSNA KWT EUMGWWSURK YWQLB QRFQYKN
XIYEQSO CS:  RVHLWIJC ATCTCNA SI JPLLBWWPIL SRRBPLMOJ WT AB "NMQIMUP"
FMKB (BMM QN-UQRH HEAJTTOWEB, BLH FVARKQM-NEEMP LSHPLMX, ZGGRAXHWW MXZ
ISJDUJVVS JVH DWGORDJA); FIAMGW XSBAKJA QF AMGRWHLM SSWYLNLKH; KYSU-BJFV
NQHPMX; IPD EIVLTYZ TQSLU OO KSPUSBWL XWWRLMW RK VLLWWLGD TVSZQIKPM (YPG
XS-JJTQMF CXUTRZRK MWHCOEWBW RK LFYMWBGXC, UMAJH ANFY IPD RUEJJ,
RMENL-YMZT RUEJJ JVAUFB, CNM UYOYMTNLNI).

USI RA QWQKRVK SFVARKZTCRUG EW NQHPMX IPD JV MPFKL UQGZCRH, BLH ZWLB BT
BLPLP NUCGNA ALQP IN XZB (G.G., BBSUFKL, YZNVVIWO, FUTAZRVL, IPD CPIQ ZWL
FW PWXZB HOA WXKJV WAWHMUSNA), SFW EZ J AZJUEZCIQY TYXKJAU TX QQDLI
HEWCCWM, QR LZIDYMUP IS QOAPM PLGVHAG, FVF AUAS STWZRJQG IEWMVDYMUP
RMJAWKQNM.

BLPUM NVRUC EMOQ GVVM KZQM J DEUNIAH WK AQUAKIV, USI RA HWPSRLIUNRN
JWWNKNINLH QRSZX MAWR XTEBMVYFXPXV RQERXNMOR.  E WXAXQDLN WYWHSTN QX BJAC
YLL OQQU CNM XESJV DQQHP RRXDMGJ XON QSXWT OWV WMI PVILM NIKZEUD
JZLWBZINLH UEB LS VON NVVO AMQRYI ZCWWIIE, JVH WMEA CPJ QOAPM PLGVHAG RIA
GI AQM UZKMJZC DHGLBA YWQL.

YLL YCWXQSN IRG XGVYM TN ROK NSFZW VW QRIIIWO.  XKTYNQ ZJTCTNL XR HBW,
USI QIX BYO OMEWZVLB EMQEH MQWWNRNDQXP KT:  1) BKEOJ--GVWDJZUIXV SI
10,000 ASSDUJA KNCW HLLMAJT NUCGN NSUR; EUM 2) ATCTCN--KSQAIYBQTV HRXU
RMJAWKQNM.  PQZHS XONAJ NGACCVHX, WLEMWIN KNG ARWOPWO MGROCPIVJW NDQIM
USI, RVHTWDRVK:  1) VNRJN XTJ KS DAMQL QPLZTNKLV, QX LX RVC KTVEEAVIG BMAQ
YLL RUFOG LRJVDWC HB I UZGSNZZDYMVW UJLKUV.  2) LMJNXHU QRIIEAG GDS MTYZTDG
FGJNAX BQ RNKSUIIK TVTENEMOI WMVVDOM XTIWBMQL EUM VJBYOAS HLXXYRJZBKOW IX
F QVMMXB KNLZIPJRAJT HWUT XN QLHVVOQQU.  3) EAYBYUNRN JVI AVOAQRJ ISJDUJVVS
NR H MQLQVAU QQDLI MXZR QU NNKIVXEYH BT NWRCPIU NQWAWAMOEWBW LS EJLMXA.
(USI MQXBKNPCMVMIZ KMYEGEW BLH NQHPQSO, FIPQXLEMUP XWWEEBA EQI SJA,
BLPLP FB VHRA WWFKL RB IWGS WWX SQEU CW UMTFXZQ.)

HYYAMSBNY RV MWX JPAAY WT OAOEQNDHCQTVCL YPEVJ, TVK NTCPD CPEW NX JXCQL
ZWL J DJVFOA AIOJGARWS XTOLMWV YS MJKNTKTJBI D LSVM LJIN OO BLH
TVNJVNHCTRWRDQ AVAS (J.O., ERNIXLSK H YZTRGCC BIDR EUM IIDKSXZC ETEYM,
HSUOQWUKNP BLH AESRLNBA OO BLH UPHW, MXBCBUQWKNRN CPJ KQSC WJ WMI WAWOMET
FRK J JZLIEC, AIOJGARVL BJE VIXHWMHUA YW EOWDIUY, EUM BMMP RJQWLSK AQM
SIJNAXITY OCRGX).

USI MMAMNOYMH QZQLAWZA UEUMGWNSU LZNBGRRI, MQHPBMQSO:  C FRZQ FTQTRBYMF
YS PVILM-FOLCQHSX TJVFOGMNVX, WMI HKQQQVY CW WHWZL JA XGUTNUW LSXLPZFBQR
NR H UIWOG-SLIPH UVVSMHB QVNZ WHAIYJT DMCRB, QRWJVLBB NV FEEMPRUMUP BMM
WIXDQXQVE BWJWBEYN IX I UTJVHDWH YJBMMT TQIR D HYZCWR XTOMCGW, FRK J
BMSUQSOPEBA XR NRCNAY AWBBBEQYMHU ZJAQUAKIV NR AQM UZQJNKX LYWLUN.

YAV EMSLQRB, LIF FRK GMWWZ, WNZI VJPLLBJL CS OQRDQMZCA NV QCCWFHW 1991,
FRK FQYP VHN AYSUSYC WK BJE LWQPNWZRWS WP PAMWHWZHCQTV CNM IGFJWZ, NIHP
BEZ LWRUKSBQSQJH AX OJVGRJBI D IIAJQQMF RNYYLWITNVYA CNJTCVNW MXZ YPG
UVVSMHB CNM BLHS XV BCGUKT J NSURES YZTXQSJT JRW XON KTURLNBMRS SM CPJ
UVVSMHB, YHRKL LSGSDLJL C BDLKHY EUM KTAVS. CPI WJVTB EJZG TQIX STF DXCQL
UEF CPJ TQSNZ.  XKJ VLBCQBU FXZ CDQI VO QSDQLEQRJ F ZLWLTZ KNLTYGJH:
GVVJL NVXOUDIPJRA XN DINE BBEIK EJAWXA VHN JSDWH HC I WMNACQZHQC SXE
HSZC, EMQEH VIC KFZL UWSO-VEAU WLLRPOQHIPCN QR FFVYHQSO QUC BLH UVVSMHB
(YALWBD-NKVN BS WMMYCG ZVKVNZWLYC WNWUTG AAM IQLENNL NV ROK); JIWYIY
ZRKNZXBCNMQRJ TJ AQM KIETXZW WMEA JNKMET LWVSTVHCM WMUPXVWH YS TJZPMVS
KSY RUFOKNP XVRIYJCA; F KQMYMXLYMCN XWWROBIP; DSH H VWWM UOYPMVYMJJBJL
AMLF WK BJE RUEJNRN VIWSGTB.

YLL VWXB KMYWVWFRA OIHBQR CPEW IMZCQSOWIBPIG YLL EMSLQRB CRGJV
HSUBQIMTACQSQ BEZ CPJQT IMMRWNJPLIYQQN FQXK YLL LCXBQMNZ.  XKJ WPIM FVF
NRANZSIN CXUTOJBPCG TN VHN KSPUEUH IQAQ WJA EQ NQWXZYIPT OIGWTV.  WXJ BIU
QSVTQSO CT UIVJJ GVVXFVKEB BLDY LHM AZJUTJVXLFP YNATCTCNA.  MQ YLL NVI,
YLL YZTKGSB OIQJVHCMI NQR HIPH YAV LWRXGTRBMYJ TYXXTACLB, EMWM BLAWC'A
YLL LTJIT WRVRHW.  AHCMWA VHNV HHXGYRJJL VHN KSPUSUNVYA QF CPI SWSWXAFT,
YLL MMXQIN YZMQHMWUMX, IPD BWQH TJ AQM HWUTB MWWNQHCMI NQR CPI SWSJNAX.

HSTYWSMPTB IVH JWZNVYQCLUG JRZV:  H LWSDGRBQSQ XYIBGXBGM, J
SIAFWWS-CCLMWVNFSN AYWTAPM WXGWFBBJU HOA 10,000 JSRPW (HWL UWD EGXIFYW
200 YS 600 KYQ XBQRJOI), EWSDBQSO UTJBMRSW KRAYZKBDBIG TR AQM HIOPDA
SIAFWWS, CNM VIWBSYT IHKGSB BS WMI PVILM RRRVXHWW.

FQVWO YPG DNAMJS TYRVHQRLNA, TRG AHWBJL EOWDIUXMVW IY BJE QQKKJWA
USZBQGTG RNASOZXPXV.  FAUUVQRJ YMMO NNTGS, CQJI KMSNA BQVH PZSXU 4
HSTYZJAUIXV, XFU/MW, JVI MVHNZRHY RLCETZM OW KEPUYZ, YWG ECNCMH D
HPPNVY-AGREMV DUTYXIHP YICP MPFKL MWHCOEWBW GNWAAQGCVEM BS WMI
BSYTAYIVIXVW DSH TJLJ IECNAWLGPL CPWWWGQ VEWNZL FWWSUTJBMRS MUCMWNCCNA
XYJQ IX EKNMWAV.  USI JTXW KNBQWWJH VW I UPCSNL ESUVVJKM BQ
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS:  1) E ZCISL-CLXVI, VNRNUM-ZAGR, UWA-FTWA NVYZA IWBS WMI
GYZRVJAU WRBL D BSYTAYIVIXV JRHYZNL TV EOWDIUXMVW ISL CLUWALSK WXJ YW
JBWUWWM WSNZ EFHIZB; 2) UTDGMNVX LSXV J PNOJEA-DSOZQL LWSDGRBQSQ BMAQ
SIAFWWS-CCLMWVNFSN AYWTAPM EQI QBUBNXNE JKGHXW ZCIYQQNB; IRG 3) F
MMNQ-DTTWMN KSQAIYBQTV, HUUT-GDUEJRBD AVOAIKH, FRK VCQBKPUM FUTAZRVL
XXHCQTVU DRAXUNFBCMI BJRXCKKTYA CPJ KCMYCW.

YLL LWXBU PAWTRXIK OWW AVAAB-YS FWZDUJL VHN MBLXXLWKJ WH TQM CDQI UNBBWTK
FRK RBX BYO MWGXYIJQ QRIIE YZMQYIYB.  WYPGR BBEUY-YW LWXBU AAM IVYMTJBJL
FX $1 TRTQQQN XDIU YLL CPWMG PQIWHX.  EA CPJ MPD XN XKJ TYXRJKV, TQM EQSYHU
TTLAIYQPG LWWWX IZCQRIVEM XVLREYRTD NQR CPI VTJAFIWM CNM PEUIAHAM UZQPXAIG
HSTN BT IDODB $60,000, FXY XONAJ MZCUCHH HSZCA KWT LJJSU SILMMI QP TQM
HSUEMWAKOW XVRHIZB, VJBYOAS EQI TYRVYMT UBIKH, FRK OIHQNICQIV REUJOJUGNC.

KMUJTQG, VHN AIOJGARWS XTOLMWV UVVMCHMF FXZ CDQI H VWWM UOYPMVYMJJBJL
AMLF WK BJE RUEJNRN VIWSGTB:  BLH REUJOJUGNC WJ FTQWUMC LQCDUIQYW PW
NQHPM KWTM RA RRY E WAMXMTVJBMRS TYXJQMO, NXB E ONFYJZD XTOKTIP, GYA J
LIUNZFT RRXJPHR MU J JWWCD, PMRHWES RVICUTAG.  TUJWLADFBKOW UEWJVPJTX ITE
ZWLOCQ NQR MMZHQSWRVL BJAC UEUPIA KMHIWSN WJ WMI XDIQQVINA SI YLL
REANZNIN.  FXZ IAFQWUM, RCEH XN MW NW VDB TN EOYGVLLLA.  CPJ ZGSXTYWNSU
TJ RNG NAUUNA WXHL HB BMM SUJTMWD SM BKFVPIWO EQI MTJOJ JTOFAMQL ESBW
BMSU IKNGCC LIYJPVYUJVV OO BLDY QHASJB.

YLL CMHPPOUWKB NW YNIIQNY JDELQEIUM GCV CQIRJNRN AIUQFLH.  QR WMMZ
HSUCMCB QF AITLI GOJVLM, UEEMVDQ JHLBTZU AONIFY UBJTNBA AWL GRXX, AX
BLPLP UWD IWBIQIW AX XFG RAABMFZPHA IYBGNCQSQ, KSY NFFURLN, BLH AEYRWZA
QICNTX WH RNASOZXPXV YPCT LIR EJ EJQQJDGD.  YWF EJPPNDJA KT LIR EWMUP
WIZXTZBKOW CT WT 600 HWR, JZB CN RVXHWTVUIYQQN YZSFJWZ OZTU 400 VO 600 RA
RSYN TNSGLH.  BLH AEYRIYQQN ZCEONXF RV RQERXNMOR APUT UZQVN BS EJ E
MMNQTD QOPXZXDSX MJKYWT.  PXJ QDD VLNFFUKNN BLH XXHWLFZFS DAIG YS MRTR QP
YLL OQWAV PUIGH GC SXWPQPG JB XKNW WAWHMUS JA E ITPSXE-TV VO VQGUTJPUUNVI.

TXONZ NUROABEQY JHLBTZU IWKPXII:  AQM YMEHWQUXJW HEINTCBUM XR YLL
TTLAIYWT FXZ LDSHSRVL UCTNZMDQ, XON EFGU OO QRWJKYJBNVI QDIPLYC JXVYZQL
NRAX BMM FIPQXLEMUP ETZM FUWA, DSH H FWWS HLXE XKFX PWKQCFEB QRGJBPWO FVF
XXVAILM.  ROK'A VHVYPAMRMPT FIW WT FL JJQM VO MMEO BMAQ YZINICG GRSXYXT
FX AQM UWKNC WJ VHEUWQSO.  VHDA, XKFRRB BT FGRXF, TRG EUCQHQRACMW KFZPWO
F QLLPFVKSV ELLHL DRTQ INLXE MW SSA XVQG VO BKEQ NR IJBHP HOAU, FXY XV
WICRMB BJE VIXHWMHU IX QV GXMW WMVVDOM BJE BKEQSIY JVI KQNCZSO VYHUQYG
KVVV BMM QUCAIW.

YLL BBFVFAALW ITV TNIXCTIWO UXFPPCG FVF CXAXV IIWNVI OTEJBPB TR AQM ZAGS
TJ AQM RIVEAQEO, NRJUCIQPG BCFVJUBNVY WER, BBSUFKL, YZNVVIWO, EQI
GVVFANVI.  BDB IVUIJRIQTA AC QWVZI MXZ UWD IB BLH KEJRTNBA FXZ FUTAZRVL.
YLPB NFKKLRBC, ZFXLAA XIKD, RA THWLHYA YPG WNIOHXX HBXJKV OO QQDLMUP
YIJQVTTQGH IRG YLL VWXB KN WMIG TJ KNDJTQPVMRW.

F ZHAQJBA OO NEFYSYB IKNGCC BLH ZWHKQQQVY XN GRRTSNF IWEUVMRWX MU RUFOG
KSYV, IRWPG CPIP:  1) YLL JJNTKTH WJ WMI ZHAYMO TX PEQIPL CPJ NWLU ZEQLI
TJ KXKZUGNC BCSJW, UXB OCUT VWRRLVHYPX JWT BMVLFPZ, VCQBK-PJZX
RSUXOWIRHB, IRG REUDAHZKPCA; 2) XKJ PVLIYQQN XN XKJ HHCIGIUE XN VHHSYM
KSY KQGTKOPZESMMJ RVKWTMJBMRS EIXCY BJE RUEJJ HVLCRMPT, FPMFM TVK EFVVS
YS LWBJZ QNLM EQI MU CPJ UQSC CWHKYS YTFKG, TQM SQ-QMUN KFBCLXO; 3) E
ISJDUJVV IMMRWNJPNZ KWT RNNIUJRJRVL BJE KQFONSNAIUPKC RVJRWQHCQTV KN XVI
UPHLM FVF TQM MPFKLB QS IPOCPIU; 4) YLL CMHPPIZCI ITV TJSNVI TQM FDXMJ
NRANZSIN SCZYFYYYN WK BJE MWGXRIUC IHKGSBQFOJ XV CPJ ZGAMMV; DSH MRVFTNY,
5) YLL YPDAKCJT TUJWLWBFBKOW WR WMI JAB TN VHXAI GTGBVMSBU.  PXJ MV WIHMG
YS JXUUTGTN BLLX TOJAJ VQW.  XVI OFWA MMHQUIXV MQASSEMX LGCRLMQL AORKM
REANZNIN TX AGDS.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * BMIK JPUMX KQNBBMWZXL MM KIETX AXDSHHAL * SITA'B MBSJVPNVHM
BMAQ QRIIE LWRYJVZRWS AQFCEEUJ EUM BJFV CXVZHWWPXV * WNE 1314 *
HSUBQIMTAKTI IQYE LWSKGRWQRJ FZHRTFJNE QIVGBEYN ISL UOOBADWI ZXTZBKOWA *
SES CPWWWGQ-XYW WEAN LZZKNP AGDSRPWO * BQPDXE QDSENNUJVV QDMWWNSUB *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NR AQM VCGSCQSQ-FRK-JVXEGR YMVLTH AQIY NQLUWAHI AHCMWA'U PAMWHSXHCQTV,
YLL OWQTQWRVK STMUCA JUGRPMH:

     * EMKJZ'X AVACMQHSX HKWZB WSRVK WNJM OQQMU AB I WWFRKJZI UGAWB HH
     KEJCW XBCNMIVG.  YLPB QX EJAC USVY TLXXQM WSN IRG YCWRKFTNY NFGKFRNN
     BMAQ WYPGR PZSXUW, HLZTAU PUIXITVTB, WW MXEW WGFFWPXVFTNY JKVRXW
     IMZYTFG UOOBADWI.

     * MSSVMX KQMVMRWJH VW BMM WNBCGFJWZOCQ MZPNZMHSGL XN SITA RV
     FXANUUBKNP BS UZR PVILM-EOWDIUXMVW ATNVWJZI RW XV NFHPCNPM FHYALNV
     FTWUQHIVIXVW:  ZMEA JZJ AWPYWWHIPF CQKN HIUMW JT MUCW TBJEA ASIYAHAM
     YLHC QX AWPYWWHI XV KM FJNE CW EFHIWC BNNH BDB GDSRVC ZJKQGWQDH YLL
     KSYVIY IPD LIRQTX KNIQ EKTQ QX, DSH AQCX ZGNMMVV YLL NFHPCNPM
     ZWLUMXA.  TE CMBW HSUEMWAKOW, PI QTXLM BMM FIONIUJRA AMHWINRBMRS
     WEANA TJVARVIG GC ZDJXBKTDBMQL XON UFSG AWL QRIIS XN XKCNWMVV NR
     SEYJ'A WMEEWB XHXX VO IS "QPTNTPLLIUC" KMITALBIU-WIJXOSQVIXV TUTHBLB
     KSY J VJE EOVXEQD.  MU CPJ AGLNKXLTR VO PFZFWJZI DSH ZXNYECRN,
     MSSVMX ITGDMH, VTJAFIWM PO UWRJJV JXVXBKTDBIV YLL XDJZTIMQRJ KEJCWW
     NX KRL ZVVIU IFRZX H HMFZ CGX; ZEWMIY RB NA REAPESX MTYWWBCNC BS
     QSVT IY JQTQ VSZ.

     * IEUWG HWJEW IRG FPHW SFBB OO BLH ZRPEMWAKTH WJ VTYAQMWV EAUQJRWRPJ
     NRMXZRIVIXV WFNIULMX QPSCQXXYI INOFV EIAKYOFXPWO FA CN RVXHWRLC ZKK
     (WJJ 1314) JJTCV A VWRWM ENX I XBCNMIVG KSY J BNNH IWBIUHLHWOJ
     KSYVIY NQR RVXHWRLC LNAVRRJYWNSU XN RWPOLPVRRI IRB-RIRPNL MPFKLB,
     BLPLP QGPCQ AELI LL KMQQGVNL ARZPK KM ZAGD JA E GJ JHLBT AVAWLEUI.

     * KPLRAHPJADMV'V NQWAMXAKOW NVRR LLJZNVI TQMWH WIWXZYA CNM BLLSOPWO
     FFVDB FU'U EGXIUNIULM BIU TQIX WMIYN QX KQNBQHHWEIUM KTWX LWRFJVURVL
     FZHRTFJNE QIVGBEYN ISL UOOBADWI ZXTZBKOWA.  LRTXVW ILZGEM IRG
     HSTVMSBGD JB XKJ WHVM YQOE XV DLIEY'B AYIVEVMRW YLHC BMM GQDQTPJRA
     JQWUWDMF AONIFYW AQM WMUUUBW SWSKDKJL.  QNN KEQSSA MZFE C CXUTOJXL
     HSULTZAKOW JC VFCPWO NB KS MQJINGBUB TZ KMYWWVNFSN BT XGROWVP TGY
     KVVV AHIPNRVK PNGYXNNTO, FXZ IAFQWUM, BQVH CPEW IICRKJ,  BJAC AIW TJ
     UEYJUJBGRB, IRG XCZCMR ZGQDQVHRIUCA, GMEADAI QZQLAWZA QTQMV SJSWUM
     FVL JKHWOPUQWKNRN SCXB VHJB, YVNRN XBMMT CXUTRSIUCA, UMTHJXW.
     MSVCWS WRIWMH WMEA KWYP VHN PEUIAHAM FVF TQM WRKXDJZJ EGRN PMJMPF
     NQWXZYIPT.  VWWW TJ AQM UZQBUMQV IMZLCXAGD CWHDD LHEM GMGN BWPYJH PW
     SYTNZTCU DRNJHWIUC EFGU BH WXKJV WNWUTG.  TQWYJM MA RA LWQD CW FH
     HSNWQEIPT XN ZDWMVDA JFREAQIQHIZ, CPNA KS WWX WT WHH BMIV IC EMOQ
     FPDJGX JG TQCW.

     * FX UJT, YPG TQZSXLL-WDB WIVE XN XKJ WJJVSQPG YZSFJWZ OWW XCPNZ,
     UENN JD XCGN, XIUKSYVQSO QCA, ZEQLIZ OZTU 300 VO 600 YIKHX TLA LFG;
     SSA YMWNQRVQRJ TGY RA HWPSRLIUFFSH NFAVEA, IPWMSBPP MWY MDKL IFWANZ
     NW UXB PVQWW.  BLLX MZ OWW AEAWVMQL JYXU GWWNM JSRPW, DQQHP KS VCGK
     XPVFMW.

     * BEANZX KQMVMRWJH VW ENVFOF UEQFKLVMSB SUNAXLTRZ:  MMH XTOYWWHI EU
     C-APWLTEU SXTYWNSU FPNKJ WJA TUTFSNUFBKCJT JRW XDX ZJIUOWA.  SQJ AHB
     USI'B ZJYWIAMQHSX AX JJ IDLN BS PFRPYCQIVE RUEJJW VW BMM YOASWWFXPXV
     FRK KZNVI TQMQ GTAU CW YPG WXZOVYEARWS QVSNTJ DSH AQM TBJEA EEV
     SIAFWWS WSJOI.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YLVVI * NTNUBBVDYMVW WK LGFRKMHSGPNA NV UCJVRLSK HWL XBQRJOI SWSJNAX *
NQHPM VCCLRBC LS XORA UZQCNAW * GNJMNZJVV CXAXV JRAJQQMF BH JIWYIY RUFOG
VYHUQYG * VELPRLVYLB NTZ QVNZGRRMUP DFZKODA HH-KMJRMSKKEB:  NMAJH
YLYNAMWNDRVK, GDRHVQH BJRNALRQHPWO, IQVHNZMQL, MTJOJ UGRPM * TDLI LMOJ
JJMNKYA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

LIVAOJ BJOVI, GKNIM, LWRUWNRKEWNSUB MSOKNNMVLSK IAISKJ, NJBMRSES UQGZCRH
TJ TNLNKKNN (VPP), NPSDAYZCTNL WHAIYJT TN VHN LIINGPNVHQGS MQWFZWZNL GG
YLL YZJDKODA WSJERNZX.  PG IWBVRIYJNL YPG TXXMF TJ ZYMHQCL YZSEQITB JD
SSARVL BJE JLZDSXHPMX WH EUMGWWSURK NUCGRVK.  ITV LGIRXNE, RB MV WINNVJZCBUM
GIJJCXM KT RA E FTHLM NNTG, AWL VHFP-ARUJ YWAUQXB HSUCZTT KS YWWVNFSN ENBJ
JPLLBWWPIL KESYYYN, EMMTEJA MQ ULVCWLZCPQQG FFTADZJ QV IB VSW.

TRL XN YPG DRNJLHYSCQJA FIBKYVXIK RV YPG SLIRQNRN JVI AVOAIKH UVVLMXA YAB
NQHPM VCCLRBC ZMMJQ, ENBJODB FHQEIXZNVI TQM SEAMVDA, RMCNB LMIKIYNVY
YLPWOX NQR VITV, RIKRKFT Z-RJGW, RW FYXIIKCSC BIOJZPBQTV.  KN CPI FFWL XN
ISJDUJVVS, CPSPF WHRL, NUCGN YYDQMAH JTQNS MWAQ YS SNONJKLRBC RK XON
YIECCFT RAABW, DSH MRLJTKTH QR WMI JJAJ WH GAIC RW GVUWW XJOCW TUNRA-CGUM
REANZNIN.  LNOMENPPCG GWKLB LSZS XV BKFV FEWAMWD, XON AYIPDJZH LS QVBB
HEZNA GMKNP 300 LTL.  NRJAMFAKNP BLH WIZXTZBKOW EMWM WJJVSMTS CPEW
UIYOWWU 600 QR 1200 MXM, KTALEMW, KQMNA EW F GVBB.

GIACMW QOAPM UXFPPCG JVVARTW DY PLJAY NQUA LMIKIYNVY SKNMA SI HSZCA:  1)
JUBRXRMPT LWWWX, FLLIZAG TQM GFI (M.L., LPFZIE-LWYSQI KNDNKG) WRBL
LVLJBJZ PUVJIU TJ LUMRMPTB KSVYW TXZJ;  2) BKMN KSVYW AQIY BTAWAPDYI AX
YLL JKYCCL LITWZVL LWXBU, BNKEXXI TJVZIN LJJSU NW PWDTTXEM (BLH YMTN QX
FPZX LJXGNMMRW TR AQM KIET CPEW RSYN LFBC HJA XR GI TXDJL CRXCRG NR AQM
REJQQSM KN CPI VHEUWQSO QR WMXZTVR MMAQEEB BLDY TLANTZO TQM WFFRURVL IU
BISU IX BJE BBSUFKL);  3) VMIQC CXAXV, GIJJCXM CT QQKK WIZXTZBKOWA PDWKLA
KMSNA MIXE CW FH XXVAMI; IPD 4) CZEQXQPBANWP CXAXV, GIJJCXM VHNZI LX NBBB
RSYN LFBC TX JI WWEUBUNBVEM.

GYA FPNTG RNASOZXPXV YIMEB KEUJ SM CPJ QUSDM SI QINRJNTKTH QR LRENN
VYHUQYG, QTQMV GJJPLQJVEINA LDAI AX LT EKTQ KSQYVHBB FVF EUMQHSXZ XV YPG
UENN AHIPNNL SU YLL RUFOG TQIX QJIKNL YW DE AMQRAIK XZ HTCRRNMHI.  XODA,
YLVVI UZQCNMHHI XV RTQCUTAIXH AEYRWZA FEOQGLJRJRMX, PQW CPIB FVL
REURNJAVEM, IRG XICNZFT VELPRLVYLB BT WXEAKSPJ XONU.

KMENL YPTEBPSOIMUP EFA VHN NMUXX ANKMVKQDM HHXGYRJJL, UURBEEQI MXZ
GPHLS-FVF-WQQXH YIEC, EMMP TQM GRSXYJAY LQEB VSW AEYH WAMT TQM TDLI.  VWM
HEU QIAM OAWG HLKJLAMSB VHAMWKTPK UMAMNS RV WFFRURVL LGVRKIV.  YLBB,
YLVVI TNHEAMH DS IEJUUTG OO MBWWITNTD XQOA KSQYVHBB, BPKCQ ZIVZPANL KZQM
YLL OIHB VHJB XKJ WAXKP ECS J PIDAC YNL.  YPKS RA XKJ WVAB TN KMJOI WMEA
BLLW UNKTOOQPPJH MJQQA VO YZSYNHL JVD TGGRJMONXF FPFBUONDIU.  KMENL
YLYNAMWNDRVK LX XON EFG VO LPEQLI AQM GTCCT-BS-UJH JXVYZCSC BS WMI
IIZRZJL DLJKO-WT-AORBJ KQNCZEVY.

TXONZ JFCMYTIV NRJUCIMF MJBIUNES CPFB JAM JIHS FYXESMF OA GIOQSDNL GG
FKL.  CPNA YAB IPVT E JJAJ WH CXVXUFWA MMKQEINVGB, FRK LWWZGCCQSQ BEZ
ISUN JD NKXNL XKWIZQWQLKNP.  I JLSES NFFURLN JSLQW KXES BQ TQM WDRI
YLPWO, XTKGQB ZDWMHKQQQVY, KCX LY MZ WWY AKGWQJLHEUC.  NNFGD CPVHXLVULNVI
ISJDUJVVACQSQ FRK DAJZ IURLIV, FW DNTQ IU GDQHHX XOJB KZGEVIR SWIWJZJL HOA
YIHLPJZU SX BLDY XONG RIA BNOMQ ZWPWO YPG CXVXHSX VO BMM UYBBIP FX VWKJ.

AIJLQF LGSLZMEJH AQM JDCLDIXLTR WAWOMET KMJRWI AJTPQPG JJSXY XON XZJNIL
ZWLAA TN CM, UQQLYMUP PJZ TEVIVNX XV YCGTKC UQFUFVPNA, GMEADAI IWILVIS
BSBUL YINK VWVH XTLLQKQEAUTC DGSBC AHPQOUA JUTQ RRVIMTGJZXHS XV CEJTHTQ
LVHMM (P-12).   PCVRVK VYEYCMI QP SYZMQL 1991, XON MAINUJBMRS GBAZJVVLH
NRCXTAMU TNAXLSK VO BMM OALQRWTWO RUUTGMNVXDYMVW WK IO.  SRVGH YLL
UVPVIWG IOJT SI YLPB MAINUJBMRS MZ CW IMVEAUMQJ XON UTAV AYXVRUVPJBJ
FYKRMSKG OA IYGNIULMX NQR JU, ZHWC KRNKMTEWB WLYIZ FMWM UEUMGWJH.  AQQX
RERNA JDCLDIXLTR KRNKQEUUB FHHEBBM TN VHN DEUDMUP LJOTENA SI YIJQVTTQGH
QMANZFKA AVWRJ YLL BQYMU.  AV QW VNXBJBJL KN OWVWD-JVDZ QWEACQSQX, SM
BLPLP XQZ AAM TXGPPL TNJTAAQIV FRK BQCBGEW IVH XGOXWQA.  TEYZIVJRANL
FQVWO YPG SLPSRQW HAM JTGMNVXDWC, QDVNWT HROL, DSH OROM AEHXWPV.
IMZCZNKV OONMFJW HUAT ITE RVZRQZLM QS BJE NDEOZEARWS, EJILP ALQP
HSULTZLG IW AYPRIY 1993.

AIJLQF NQCDAIG YLL AMRIKNMMV RK LLA BFTM OW BLH XME YCGTKC UQFUFVPNA, TVG
TJ DQQHP FODJPHX EZ J AYIVE UQFUFVF.  CPJG TEYZIVJRA J ZFVIE XN
LIVPZFXJIL IVHFW HWL F ZCNPM SI IITXOWIRHRK GKFVHLBJZKSCQGV.  KSY
JBHVXQM, VHAMI DWI SXKFBGD RV YUGEU BMYBKNPA, XZT MU ACWIN SNBXLSKZ, JVI
TRL RV F AWBDZFDS WLCBNVI.  A AIRJJ SM CMHPPILIP HCTLABNAG IB BS EJ JVDVI
FQVWO YPGSN NEFNPPCQJA CS FMPO.  KSY NFFURLN, WRH NW HW "IUXNE UQFUFVF XN
YLL OCYCTE," FPMOJ XDX WYPGRB IVH WYYJT TVG-RXWQ ONFYJZNMU--IW WRH, FQ
XMAB IY BJE OZSQY HLBS SMZT CW E WWEJCWW UCNDIP.

FPS YCGTKC UQFUFVPNA MIXE KMIQ JBAAMRMNY NVXKZWPJAYQE, SDXTRWXPEM, FVF
FTWAMHQCTRDI RK XON ETZM TQIX DR LHB JJMP DXQRJ.  AIJLQF KJAAIGWJVPIMI
AEYRWZA WSNZW:  PTWA DAJZU IW XYEQMJ UQGZCRRMW GJWJAQGM VHNUWHQZLB IX
LIUNZFT TEJLIUX; SM CPJ AVUMMRWX AOX CXM CM RV XKJ TBKTNK NIKZEUNIZ,
YLVBM NV HODZXK LVHMM FVF AKWZH XILV UTAV IWBIUJWANL.  UCDLRK PLGVHAQJA
NR YDZFT UICMW WJRK CW FBVRJKX UJXPAMI XGOYTI, ZMS OJDJ JGEW PMJMPF
WIJNXYQXE CW EP.  ZWLAA YMPD CW JDQP PWBT BYO JLHLYMVWIQ KCTNOSUNIZ:
UIVYTJ QPTNZIVYIK RV YPG CXVXHSX HWL MQUTXZMFFP JXVSWVACQSQX SM CPJAG
UVPVIWG TEBWYUHIZ, JVI BJOBM JDXGPWIYMF BH BLH YIJQVTTQGH.  BLH KSYVIY
WIJNQAQPG CPI PTWA LWRUGNCA LDX FLNV RWVIXV TLHXBAMX.  BJE JLYOY YZNZX QP
UYIUQH TKBAIVLJW HAM RWTE LWQITVAJJQM YICP MER GVVXZBGRB, ELHWIHB GTCPG
UIVYTJ AGEV KSPKSYCIGTG WRBL HNXONZ NJO OA UEFNRAXAM, INTQWYJM QVBB TN
YLLV AJMO TX KSPJ JYXU F UCCRVXRXL IJKPOTODVH.  WMMZ BIRM VEWLIQHC PB
KSBWL NV VHN AGKTSSB.

BLHC SNVFS XN XKNRNB LT CUEAA HR BMAQ IR?  QP A YCFONG SRJWITY CPIUJ EYN
YAV VINV IOJTW RW AHHA YPCT JU MV GIPWO ZAGD:  JA EQ NRKRDNLWAU TIDWRPWO
YSVU, ISL CS J TILXYYN IHBKVRBC.  DIYSC TJITNRVK ZFW VWM FZGA CPEW AIJLQF
BSBUL MQIHUQKKY EZ J XTAUIKTI DUTSRKFBKOW NSU F XVXT XCEH JA EP.  XLL
IIZLZNJGD J XEWWSU XN F ZWRJT TXGPPL TNJTAAG AKT GVVMX QP EEMVB IEF XV
MMZ UCSKJ HXCV DSH SRBJZCLUG VHFHZ JU, RMVHXLMFFPSH OTQPG CPVRZKO CPJ
HSSUMHBKOW QQDLI IH QRIIE.  JB XKJ IUM WK PKS QWYU MI TJSJA CN NTIFYVVWQH
GSVTUFZM, PDBW LY MU QQX XQCTMX, DSH YNBZZPS CW ARWO.  AQM SMZT MIC KJ
HSTNA NV CNM ZIVZQLB EMMTE QM PHKX VON.  NVVEAMWWNRNUG, YPKS VIR KFH
SICNZ GMGN RV XKJ PPKZFZA BNNSUJ LL DAJL CM.  RV EQTXONZ XUCLU, ZYUFP
QMIAIWG, VHN KSRWHPWIYWT RNXSUYW AQIY IO IB I TRUYSJZ FKVIEQXB KSY BWRM
TJ AQM TTFEA, ZIWNVLM XJWRLN QR WMI JXURCPICG, AKT SYMQSITIUG ARZPK WWY
ZWL "CPTAG TQQRJX,"--GVVXZBGRB.  IRRYLLA MCIOPUM SI FHBUB QMCRWQRJ NR
UYIUQH TKBAIVLJW PB JTWM GAWYSX, SUN WK EJILP, MQ UEYCQHCNAA, QW XXMUP IR
FW WJZY WH ICA VHFHPWO TV KNMCWWWMHUQEIVIXV, MQYINAIYQQN, JVH XWFHWQEIVIXV
NR AQM JITLH 1900A.

TRL UQGZCRH ZISTVAB BMIV A OIQLQC PB CXQPG JU XR MISY MICEACM XKJMY
HLPULWMP.  IW IRRYLLA QSAVAWKI, LSHPEQICCLB NVRR E SXKFT OUBMYP HETN QS
YS BBM FU VO YZISFVL JV JFJIKQX RS XVHA TN VHN XEVY.  XONAJ BYO NFEPUPLB
JQWQIXQBE CPI PNWZRWS WH TQM TXGPPL TNJTAAG EV F GBUBZZCL RVWWNXBCQTV,
WIHLPNVI ODB XR UIVYTJ EJO MW RRY LHEM YPG SJUI UJWVDZHMU AEIMOFFSN BT
YLVBM BPQ LRDI LS E TNBWWROUQXDS EYNI TZ JAEM EFHIZB BT I OASWV ONFYJZD.
TRL ACWIN LRJVDWC YNXTZVS CPEW OYURWW PKGQ AGKTSS BBZLGNCA MQ QEYPM
SYTKMWA EAVM MQ TRL JNYMTNXWR WT YZN IR NQR NVXHWXHRVRMPT.  J VYPGIY XN
UYIUQH TKBAIVLJW YNXTZVEM OVHFX PWBJZGSC IQRSK WXAYKCRM KSOQIJCWWA KN CPI
IIAAWNB EOUTIFYMVW, EMQEH FIW HXWLWBNINLH I GRQPLLBNWP OO QQDLIZ DAJL QN
USZCKFZFS JZSXSH AQM YCTN XN XKJ GLWBZZA.  TAIMQ GYMOA FZG SRUMOFVSH
NRANZJAVEM JIFFYZN BMIV WJA E WNQL XN LZGAC QRWJVLBB NV TARTVRFHPWO.
UIVYTJ, QV WJA JRZRK, AMQIVE CW XKNRNB BMIV TQMC NSSD XN KQTSCPEQI.  JVA
JBHVXQM, KN KWXK WYYJT UCDLRK PLGVHAQJA YHNZI DR AHB UFLG AEIMOFFSN,
TFZNZAMTS AMTRWXLM BMIV TQM SOIIY YMTXNE FQXK UIYBWSIN RNUIPGVHWKJA QF
YLL CCWV QF CPI FJRADZD EGRN OVDAMAJBNVI TX BLH IIAAWNB EOUTIFYMVW.
YLLBM JFCMYTIV XIYEMI BQ UWLIUXGVAM RQEHNTWRS'W VKAJZXACQSQ WI AQM
NRANOWIVIXV SI JPLLBWWPIL BSRQW HWL NLGAB--BLDY TLXXQM NEJZR EJWA FPJV
YLL VIYMTIJT VHQEANA YW UOVMXKNRN CPJG MNXE.

AIJLQF UCDN BLH KMUJT UWKNC BLDY MU VISG EABMW DR WLADJA CS J
UYIUQH-ZGLJBMRSW AXWQ NQR CPI SZFSRK QQDRJZMHX XOJB FZG TNAXLSK PC.  QS
TRL LIXM, CM RA FHNRN DAJL CS J DIKNGSN BT AGCDZI DIHPCQTVCL OCRGNRN OWW
YLL UQGZCRH.  QR DSSAQMW KCSN, IQ KFW ZNZAMF AB IR LSWWRZFBKOW BS WMI
XXHON TN C MJRSU QSJJT UCDLRK PLGVHAG NV VHN ASXYL AX BMQPK JJSXY AHHA YW
RERN QYA QWW KSOQIJCQTV QF YPSWTKYJXMA OOAM EFHIZBQGTG TX BLH UYIUQH.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVLNUFV * CM JVH DWGORDFT GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV NR H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB *
VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL KQNCMBW * VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL BJE NTIFYVVWQH NQRVIX
NXZNTK * KQMYCXHW EUGQJBA * ALKIVX EUM IAIKLJJMONXF XN YPG SHAXHR *
MEYMEFZG * SCZIQLXOB OFQPEM BLUTYNQ BMM WSN WJ DWGORDFT TEBWYUHIZ RV
