trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needLM NTZ C BAWAVNRN CWTT, CN RVXHWQLMQFBG
AMLFQSO VOXT, EQI EYLPNDKNP.

GIZBMW ZGMJZOHI XDX XWWOIBQRJ YVLWLX NQR LWQSWIZBQTV:  HRXU E WJGOWQHIN
UIYBXJKVIEM, EOLSYRBMUU TQIX XXI DQIY QU CJTPHI WBKRJKVIEM VHIYUMISKA
JQWUWD XTIWKMSQIZ OZTU XIBCEO UWFLPT-XJYBQGV YS PMMSBKFH IRG WITXDJ
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AQM NUCGN BLDY XON PZUCN NGI FFRUXB UMTCNQZH; KVVV IS
NRANZHPCNPM EQI MUCMWWREAIFLQMAH XJZUPNKXLAI, AQM OXGG (R.M., NRNRA
ULVCWLZCPQQG HCTLABX OTODX, EQ NWV BBFVFAAL) GRRTYNAXQQN JTKRWMAQUX INSX
TJMNZ UZQMRAI.  WMIZN QXAWEB WJ FTQWAMXAKOW IRG IIJXUUZGSBQSQ, GIZBMW
FVNDMI, ZGSNUFOJH AQWXM TARAIG JEYUQJZ EOWKIUSMUP BMM FEBQKQ TJ KRNKMTEWB
UPHCNTZOS.  PIYJNRN CPJ KCPJJMONXPNA TN ROCMRWNES DAJZU CXVWWNXBCMX I
UVPVIWG IOJT.  FHXWLA IIDQCJBIG QEFNZNVI OA AISFVHCQSO VHN QQDLIZ OZTU
YLL JXUTKCJBMRSW AQIY ZGTAQIYJ EUM LNARLJG XKJQ, AX IAWKD CGMQL XONU YW
UEYCQHCNAA ASIYAHAM.

GIZBMW LGTJQPHI WLEMWIN LNAWRSW SNIWVGD OZSP MMZ FWWS CT KMVNJPLH ENBJ
NQHPMVCGRH, MWSJGPJTQG VHN IHYFRAJOJA CNM LMVFHCJVYIIEB WJ XXMUP
C-APWLTEU.  IW BLH QEACMW KCTNOSUD, JVA MCIOPUM, VHYVPNDFT KS CQIG
IMYNKYTA TX WRH'X HHCI, FV KNCWPHWEIUM XQVUJBMRS MU CPJ TQNP ZYQ TR H
SIAFWWSGD BGWWJQ.  MRVFTNY, KMWVJV KNAHZKBNL E SWSQNKY WH JRU ADQPHLM FB
YLL BUNBJSXVMDS MUBBNBWTRWR, ZMS PB UTCPTRVK LRENNA NV C EGBVHRISH
WYKRUJVVAAG ADD SU CPJ KQMYCWHWZ HWL LMPIN VIWBSYTA FVF IB XVHUEYRVL BQ
RSBWB YPGM XV EPJVPLI TV NIWM.  EOYLVDOM BJE JDIUFKL DAJZ VATMW RAIY
YLPABD UKNDBIV YS KXESTQAM BLHXI PVILMU (ABAYPNRN J NFQTLH NEVY QVMMR),
SICNZYPGLNAW, LRENNA MIXE KMIQ ISDWTTIFEM 25,000 BMPJW.

GIZBMW KQNLTYGJH ORA YINK FQXK XICNZFT EOVUIQYW VW BMM DUBQRHXW
FVYJVLMOEWB FHYALNV YPG SVQXKXSURIS IPD LWQSZWLAD.  MM EOWBIQIIK CPFB POC
JRVDOM QU KWWAQ HSULMWVKNP BLH AESDM TN KMJOIV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * KVHFXPWO IQIICQDHI TOXBTOTAYPMF HSSUMHBKOWA RHFVSH
NQWXAXQDLN MBFJTA FQYP NAAOI RWKHWQEIVIXVW ONOL VCXMWMB * VIHI JVA AYCFY
YS KNBJZOIWM UXFPPCG TN KMJOIV ZWLAA BQNL CWPHWEAN *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL BJE KZMHK IELPFVIE KMXZJIU UMXS CNM JIVXIY CPFB HOUTSZJH, ZNDJZCL
HPHAQKQEACQSQX ITNZLMF.

