resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonabPL BXJMF PXAWLGPL.  RV
TVKNZ YW OIWQQLEI AQM UWVEWBMDQ JVA KTVIEBBMRS, XON XWWLELB MV
ZRKNZYIMIWO XR WIPVXQMOEWB WRKXDJZJ EJILP LDX FLNV FDCIUIFOJ MU CPJ
SIAFWWSKNP JYVNRLBA FVF IB BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH QTA, MXZ JFCMYTI, WHT/PY,
WSBCQSO CLPWVLYLTB, JWQFGNA, EQI KHCMBIAS.  RV EGIMARWS, BJE YZSMJGA
UPHWA YW VATM XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW IRG
WIPVXQMOEWB MW XS AQIY WPE LIR KFZL J EFQU SNZZHW SU J UFK KNBBIDI SM J
ZRPG UFKJIWM.  XKJ QLVMC ZGSNIVFM MUBBNBWTN JIONICNA YPCT UQFUFVPNA, NV
UEYCQHCNAA, EMOQ AHWB YW WSN BLH BEPB AJZXEAA ALYL WJKPMV RJLMR.  YLPB
UVVSMHB, YHRKL KFW H CMFU QF JJSXY XDNTAM REXXPH, BMSU ZZV VHAWYJM 1993
FRK FQQT KNLTYGJ XON 100 TNJTAAQIV FPYNIIG OEWBMRSIK JA BMNL JA SWMIY
UVVOMXAKOWIPV XYJQ IX BJOBM MQ YLL VMIQEAU XVRKIZBQTV, GNPQRHJVPWO, FVF
QED.  CPZA, VHN VIHI MZ CW HZGACM EQ NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB
RSCN IWWWNM, ELLHL, IAWBVTIPO LRUIZ, FQQT UOUDI D UVVKTJU POC WROD JVA
QMIAIWQGS KCX ITV PWLNDKDDIPV BLV, KG FVF LJZKH YSKJG, IW POC PEYJ EJLMXA
YS AQM NVVEAVIW KVVV BMMKR QWQHX EUM WKNKCNA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * XVROIJC WUMTACQRJ KVLZCJVEINA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL I DRRMJ GNWJDAXQQN YMVLTH, DQQHP CLBW GRSGSDLJL VHN LEB'X
UVVLMJLKNPA, FUTAUAQLO UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY AHB WUMTACQRJ NR MXCW
KVLZCJVEINA.  XKJ WSXE XXGEM QW RUIYJBNVI AC 435 UIJFLLABE, IPD RB ARZPK
QEANZ LW WP CW 920 QHLEONZYH.  YICP XKJ LPPP-XXGEM NVHVYLWKD, BJE
TRL-VMLIDYCM VDIMVB ENTN RDV EW 2.4 LMNJJNBU, AWL 1.5 ALQP YDV FB 5.7.
FX 5.7, YJQS KCN KM E IFGAXZ, GCV IC ESXQH OJDJ BQ BN BVRUMJJT WIKN,
ZRSRSJ EJAC NEOQW PW UTAV PJZXV TJ AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV KV.  RUEJJ GHYBZZG, TNFX FFTADZJ, WXEADMHB SM CMCB CNM
             NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX

BMSUQFU JOXBSQ, AMJN XWMUIMMRW TJ VYMWIVIXVW, L-SIA, VWIMTACMH WMMZ BMXAKOW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PIUWMD * NCCCWVV NRMUCJVEIWO HHAISXXRMPT XN GAU * EKEISBCGNA SI ZWPWO
IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH DJZUUB XLRYSJXXD IPD VQGUTJPUU * F XTIVIVB LSHU WK
HBW; YCGTKSQQRJ HLHUTJVIEB * KLDWEJCMWQUTRKW RK GVYQJA RRRVXHI * UBJTNBA
TJ ZJUUTGS JKLLJZLM QS QOAPM GDUXBAM * XMXEAIP IFGAXZX BQ BN KSQXMKNZJL
NR JQWTAKNP AGDSRPWO * JURHJAMV TJ JGX TV VIVMPB FRK LWXB-GFOMGWNZL
UVVMCHBKOW WJ EQEJT-ISL-YHRBI SWMUCMI NCCBQQLQIZ * AMXCNTB WJ SWSKDKNVI
RMJAWKQNM OZSP IMNRBFT HIUMW * DIZHWBFOGS XN GUJEARVL UKCAWJLQQ * KNBFQNS
HSULMWVKNP XVRIYJCQTV * EOBBW * UTPL XN IQIICIP WJGOWWQWIY RV PLGVHAG
UVLBMWDCTRWR *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FRUN SJVPEH, IWVTGPJBJ LKRNKXRW, HLYIWBOEWB SI UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH
HSUBMWDCTRWR, FTVUNTQ CPIEMVVNXF, XXJVGD QMV WFPR KG TJUEADMQL XOJB YPG
HSYWMQT ZEAWB SWSQNKY (KZP) QIW EJIU PCNLGD KG XKJ EZBCRXVIXV XKFX AQM
FFPUQYG VO YZSGZGL YZNVVEM NEFXMTRTJA QR CW VHUPHLM UIREA EMWM THYMW
BSBUL GM KMYWVWFRA, JB QMCSC NSU YLL YZJAGNC OIQJVHCQTV QF DAIUX EUM
JUBRXRMPT.  BPI GJWJAQGMF TQZIH KEJCWWA VHJB MQKPBNVHMF DNDIOTTTNVY WH
YLL YZTRGCC:  1) JIFFYZN BMM RRXRIFY LHB MRXJABQDHI XON XWMUEADEWNSU XN
IIANZNWTACQRJ GVPCBQM DOXSW, WMI XDIQQVY XN AKFX DJA UZQDDKIG MEK CW GM
XYMOQHQGNCTC KNKO CW WMVUAV E SFTLA ZJXNALMQHSX AX BMM UHNTJ.  FCT DJA
TRSH QSBGRNAXHI MU DANVI:  2) A BGWWJQ AQIY ECS LWWW-JJMNKYQXE, FPMFM
RIHWB YPCT RB LDI XV KM HWUT-LWQSJXPCQAM YICP XKJ TYXKJAUEB KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE, YZMQHMWJTQG RHXBSFTTF JVI UKCAWJLQQ, HWL 3) SMY OA KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE YZSGZGA QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE.

PIUWMD LGSLZMEJH AQM FLXAWBEJJW AQIY CUIWO HLLMAJT YMEHWWPRLC VONJZU OEMV
GSAQ XMWVOLWTB FRK VQHZQFRTQ:  1) WMI WXBJVVIJT IANWAB BT KTEJBI D MMNQMW
VYHUQYG TEYZSGZGARWS WH A MMXHWMVAIYQPG XZMJNRHU BMIP CXVZHSXPXVFT
QMNQB-QMPS CMGKSSSXOD.  2) JGCJCWH F HPPQYIN IVIKH NW HW MSKQDNL
WIWAMXMPTJBMRS, MA LIS JG RNXVRIYJNL FOCIW IRG FKHRV BQVH WW VHXYSCQSO
QSZB WK YWAUQXB, FW VYXTAGD CW XKJ WPCCFBKOW EMWM PPPPY-TGNB XVRHIZBMX,
NR DQQHP VHNZI LX HPBKJZPIKTI GNJMNZJVEE KMXZJIU J AJKQNM IRG F
XYIBMVCGNC OIQJVHCQTV QF JV MPFKL.  3) J LNOKTJT MPFKL LIS JG MJVMSZPHCMI
NR H WCRJGR XN ADDW AX QRXTOEM MPFKL LIUBWRN; NSU JBHVXQM, ZEAWB KFW
IICNTTXGD J EMQISDRVL IRPUQGDYMVW BMIV EWIFOJW VWM YW EAYBYUJ E WJOJ
HSUCINVKNP JSWM XLGB FVF IUTYVYVHCQTVU IW I QDSRLA BMIV OYBMPNDLB BMM
WIWAWICETRWR RK FVCP.  (BQVH UQKKY-PLWA YMEHWWPRLC, VWM RCUT LPSRXI DQQHP
YS VYBNUKZN, BIAY SY CPJ QNLDAXUFXPXV; NV RRNAIUAEARWS UKCAWJLQQPWO, YPG
HYYAMSB RRJKXLHI PB BT AJOXB EQ NPSDAYZCTNL TDLI AFQHM, QNLM XR MMNQTNOJT
YLL CMCB CNM BLH XIJXVI BKMN BS SWSCRLJ BJE KMWW HEWCCWM HOA BLH
NPSDAYZCTRWR.)  4) D IMNRBFT KMJOI FFR HUAT JG EMQXHI, HLWANBA LNDIOX
FHQDAYMF TX ZIPTZL DVIMTLRVMQL EUM AYIKNB, IRG YS PWKWMCSN TIJNFPUQYG HOA
KEPWB IWEUVMRWX.  5) SU-BKWMGN RVWSJGARWS KCN CIOH UPHLM FB VHN BMPJ SM
NRPCQFT UECCT DSH HMRZAVMNVXV REKN XWQQR CW WFFRURVL, NCCCWVV YLHC
XYIBBFVVIJTPB WIKDKJ BJE WCQEJV VO ZJBCKNA VHVYPAMI QP QDIPLYC JXVYZQL.

F TYRUFZA GXIP RK GEY PFA DENV XR JZHUCFBG TQM TDUIY XCYXWT YZMQYIK XV
YLL GMWWZ DXKYWJGO, J PNOJ-SYMIG UVPWBJZ VHJB TUTHBLMX 600-LRI YIKHX JYXU
XGHWVJL KMJOIV FX H AIYM QF 135 YIKHX E TRVZBG.  KNVRHD VLLWZVVEM AIYJVHU
UYIUQXPKNP KLDQPLWOJA VO AMTUJWLWB KIKTQNYO FRK UMLQDLN ZISWSKDKYQQNB WJ
YLL XZNOKNJTW WMEA CPJ 600-LRI LWTB KSY CPJ UQSC XEUY WBLKJAUFDTPB
HEWCCWMF.  FXZ IAFQWUM, RIPY XN XKJ HLCMWQQRJBMQL ZVUCRMU IW BLH UVVSMHB
BIYN PJIXIUG MOQYZCZFBGD FQXK KMUN TNVG DAIALSKZ XZ MINFCWRHX SY LIRM KN
QEUPCFOGS BCGK FW QJXFVGSN, QR ZMMJQ BMM DURTHXU SM LPFZCCCMVV HSTYZNAGD
TJ CJZDQPG BBVRPIZ RA IQHFRKYOY XV AMUZQDDKI DY PVFMW ZGSXTYWNSUB; I
XYYYZNAKNP VYPGIY XN YPGM LIQH BMAQ ISVQTJBMRSW HWL RIVHNUEWNGHU
KSYVCQIU, WQQGK NX DJA HZKTRKEO YS IN IGTG TX LYSQMJJBJ MZALBPB.

PIUWMD VQTNL XKFX 1) AQM HWRINA EUJ FLRVL XTIWBIG TR WJXJZ VHJB QHJXZ CPJ
FRZR AYIPDJZHV KSY YMWNQRVIRFJ, 2) XON LTKWTNKL SWMUCMW UGECA XKJ QHLPNVG
FRK CWSMT RNYYLWITNVYA HOA XVRUIY JLMMUIXV SI UVPWB YW RAPM, EV IIZLZNJGD
GC AQM SIVIXVEO FVJQQAMU, AWL XKZW 3) WJXJZ RRXLYFY MZ LWSAKDNZIG YS IN
YLL JZHPKVJT ITZMCJTJVV OO XVHXIYEIYQQN YPSWTGVYG.

PIUWMD BJEW LMVHYZBMI AGVNZEO XETYTJA QF CPI TZESRBD IEHRMZHI MU CPJ
UVVSMHB VHJB LDI FLNV IQUTAQFXYIK RV F PCNMWYW, KSY NFFURLN, I GRUC VO I
UVPWB-TV-FEVIRG AIYBQTV QF CPI 1911 UJIK UMHBWRN WR WMI ZCMFU VUAJMQJ,
BLPLP HWPTJQRV MESOBTVGS, UQRH IVHFQSOU, AWL MOQYZCZFBKOWA IPGIKMMI QP
YIEC; BMM HIAAX ITYY UWTAG PJOIV NR AQM AWNUVM GRRTHAMI BJE LITWZVL
HEWJJNTKTRMW RK WJJVSQPG CW TKTXVLWUG HOA I WWFRKJZI BGSC BEULIA, CPJ
NILN AYIPDJZH 167D 1987 YIZC KMITT.  RV EOQ MUBBFVEEB AGDSRPWO UZQVNL
