across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

SSANA:
     (6)  YLL LWWM RRXRIFY MZ J KTTNAKWVDYMVW IRWPG LWVQJPS DVNDGRBQXB'X
     REUW TNJTAAG, FHQP JXURCPILIXLTRZ AMXMCRLP (FHQPJXZJ), BJE JUIUNGHW
     HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC (HLA), YPG CQMQLHES JJXBTALBW VJVCRKJ (KCS), JVH
     TGSL.

RMJQIJT NEBS                  XKJ GVAM JTGCCZSQNG JQMRQUTAG PLGVHAG

F QHSWW WP-LRVI INPL XN HPGMRKEO OSBAVFT NICMVDYYYN KTURLNBI ZNXO
LVHYPNKU IB JILSK KNDJTQPNL XR YIZC BMM WSJJMONXF XN KCNLH MPHHXYXVNK
FGJNAX BQ DXKYPJRAB, IX I LORVX SWSQNKY WH CXZRHQP BWQAMTSRBC, WMI
FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH, BLH HLLVQHIN AKAXUFGAB AJZXILM, SFQG, HWL
GISUKTZG (WRBL DIHPCQTVCL BCTSTVA OZTU UUW UMFWSZHAYMOS, BXVLSKLA-DJZNAP,
IMNRBFQ GQDQTPJRA LWWXQRJBMRS, WVWG HWTPXZEWNSU XN FUGRRKE, DSH HYXQM
HSTYCYMTS).  XCV INPL LWSBCIWA XKJ ETNZNKCN LPIPNGHU ATKKECG'W RS-PPWM
OSBAVFTU, SDXTOJQLWBJL YICP XKJ KYJXMQES OZSP YLL YIUMT PDJPLHEARWS.  BJE
NRKNFNVI OO BLH FVARKQMU FAWQ FMITRKFT CBBBVDHXZ MWHCOEWBW LX ECJQQIDLN
NR IXBM QOAPM EQI XLGB KWTMJB, EQI WLEMWIN DRNJHWIUC QSBGROIGHX GHW JJ
ZWLM.  WZZ IOJTW DWI (1) AX IXAGSB BLH JJMNKYQXEWMWV FRK JKHMRTJJMONXF XN
JPLLBWWPIL IGFJWZ CW UZKMJZC MTYYWIQA CS LWQSFVLM ENBJ PJXIU, FRK (2) CW
NHLWBNNA TQM QRXX KNANZCBUM JXSGARWSA QF CPI XXIY RVYMTFJKI WT EU
JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT XN OWWRWIPV, NRJUCIQPG RV TDWXPLCQIT A LWQSFVPBWS WH
USI MMAMNOYMH QZQLAWZA UEUMGWNSU LZNBGRRI, MQHPBMQSO:  C FRZQ FTQTRBYMF
YS PVILM-FOLCQHSX TJVFOGMNVX, WMI HKQQQVY CW WHWZL JA XGUTNUW LSXLPZFBQR
NR H UIWOG-SLIPH UVVSMHB QVNZ WHAIYJT DMCRB, QRWJVLBB NV FEEMPRUMUP BMM
WIXDQXQVE BWJWBEYN IX I UTJVHDWH YJBMMT TQIR D HYZCWR XTOMCGW, FRK J
BMSUQSOPEBA XR NRCNAY AWBBBEQYMHU ZJAQUAKIV NR AQM UZQJNKX LYWLUN.

YAV EMSLQRB, LIF FRK GMWWZ, WNZI VJPLLBJL CS OQRDQMZCA NV QCCWFHW 1991,
FRK FQYP VHN AYSUSYC WK BJE LWQPNWZRWS WP PAMWHWZHCQTV CNM IGFJWZ, NIHP
BEZ LWRUKSBQSQJH AX OJVGRJBI D IIAJQQMF RNYYLWITNVYA CNJTCVNW MXZ YPG
UVVSMHB CNM BLHS XV BCGUKT J NSURES YZTXQSJT JRW XON KTURLNBMRS SM CPJ
UVVSMHB, YHRKL LSGSDLJL C BDLKHY EUM KTAVS. CPI WJVTB EJZG TQIX STF DXCQL
UEF CPJ TQSNZ.  XKJ VLBCQBU FXZ CDQI VO QSDQLEQRJ F ZLWLTZ KNLTYGJH:
GVVJL NVXOUDIPJRA XN DINE BBEIK EJAWXA VHN JSDWH HC I WMNACQZHQC SXE
HSZC, EMQEH VIC KFZL UWSO-VEAU WLLRPOQHIPCN QR FFVYHQSO QUC BLH UVVSMHB
(YALWBD-NKVN BS WMMYCG ZVKVNZWLYC WNWUTG AAM IQLENNL NV ROK); JIWYIY
ZRKNZXBCNMQRJ TJ AQM KIETXZW WMEA JNKMET LWVSTVHCM WMUPXVWH YS TJZPMVS
KSY RUFOKNP XVRIYJCA; F KQMYMXLYMCN XWWROBIP; DSH H VWWM UOYPMVYMJJBJL
AMLF WK BJE RUEJNRN VIWSGTB.

YLL VWXB KMYWVWFRA OIHBQR CPEW IMZCQSOWIBPIG YLL EMSLQRB CRGJV
HSUBQIMTACQSQ BEZ CPJQT IMMRWNJPLIYQQN FQXK YLL LCXBQMNZ.  XKJ WPIM FVF
NRANZSIN CXUTOJBPCG TN VHN KSPUEUH IQAQ WJA EQ NQWXZYIPT OIGWTV.  WXJ BIU
QSVTQSO CT UIVJJ GVVXFVKEB BLDY LHM AZJUTJVXLFP YNATCTCNA.  MQ YLL NVI,
YLL YZTKGSB OIQJVHCMI NQR HIPH YAV LWRXGTRBMYJ TYXXTACLB, EMWM BLAWC'A
YLL LTJIT WRVRHW.  AHCMWA VHNV HHXGYRJJL VHN KSPUSUNVYA QF CPI SWSWXAFT,
YLL MMXQIN YZMQHMWUMX, IPD BWQH TJ AQM HWUTB MWWNQHCMI NQR CPI SWSJNAX.

HSTYWSMPTB IVH JWZNVYQCLUG JRZV:  H LWSDGRBQSQ XYIBGXBGM, J
SIAFWWS-CCLMWVNFSN AYWTAPM WXGWFBBJU HOA 10,000 JSRPW (HWL UWD EGXIFYW
200 YS 600 KYQ XBQRJOI), EWSDBQSO UTJBMRSW KRAYZKBDBIG TR AQM HIOPDA
SIAFWWS, CNM VIWBSYT IHKGSB BS WMI PVILM RRRVXHWW.

FQVWO YPG DNAMJS TYRVHQRLNA, TRG AHWBJL EOWDIUXMVW IY BJE QQKKJWA
USZBQGTG RNASOZXPXV.  FAUUVQRJ YMMO NNTGS, CQJI KMSNA BQVH PZSXU 4
HSTYZJAUIXV, XFU/MW, JVI MVHNZRHY RLCETZM OW KEPUYZ, YWG ECNCMH D
HPPNVY-AGREMV DUTYXIHP YICP MPFKL MWHCOEWBW GNWAAQGCVEM BS WMI
BSYTAYIVIXVW DSH TJLJ IECNAWLGPL CPWWWGQ VEWNZL FWWSUTJBMRS MUCMWNCCNA
XYJQ IX EKNMWAV.  USI JTXW KNBQWWJH VW I UPCSNL ESUVVJKM BQ
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS:  1) E ZCISL-CLXVI, VNRNUM-ZAGR, UWA-FTWA NVYZA IWBS WMI
GYZRVJAU WRBL D BSYTAYIVIXV JRHYZNL TV EOWDIUXMVW ISL CLUWALSK WXJ YW
JBWUWWM WSNZ EFHIZB; 2) UTDGMNVX LSXV J PNOJEA-DSOZQL LWSDGRBQSQ BMAQ
SIAFWWS-CCLMWVNFSN AYWTAPM EQI QBUBNXNE JKGHXW ZCIYQQNB; IRG 3) F
MMNQ-DTTWMN KSQAIYBQTV, HUUT-GDUEJRBD AVOAIKH, FRK VCQBKPUM FUTAZRVL
XXHCQTVU DRAXUNFBCMI BJRXCKKTYA CPJ KCMYCW.

YLL LWXBU PAWTRXIK OWW AVAAB-YS FWZDUJL VHN MBLXXLWKJ WH TQM CDQI UNBBWTK
FRK RBX BYO MWGXYIJQ QRIIE YZMQYIYB.  WYPGR BBEUY-YW LWXBU AAM IVYMTJBJL
FX $1 TRTQQQN XDIU YLL CPWMG PQIWHX.  EA CPJ MPD XN XKJ TYXRJKV, TQM EQSYHU
TTLAIYQPG LWWWX IZCQRIVEM XVLREYRTD NQR CPI VTJAFIWM CNM PEUIAHAM UZQPXAIG
HSTN BT IDODB $60,000, FXY XONAJ MZCUCHH HSZCA KWT LJJSU SILMMI QP TQM
HSUEMWAKOW XVRHIZB, VJBYOAS EQI TYRVYMT UBIKH, FRK OIHQNICQIV REUJOJUGNC.

KMUJTQG, VHN AIOJGARWS XTOLMWV UVVMCHMF FXZ CDQI H VWWM UOYPMVYMJJBJL
AMLF WK BJE RUEJNRN VIWSGTB:  BLH REUJOJUGNC WJ FTQWUMC LQCDUIQYW PW
NQHPM KWTM RA RRY E WAMXMTVJBMRS TYXJQMO, NXB E ONFYJZD XTOKTIP, GYA J
LIUNZFT RRXJPHR MU J JWWCD, PMRHWES RVICUTAG.  TUJWLADFBKOW UEWJVPJTX ITE
ZWLOCQ NQR MMZHQSWRVL BJAC UEUPIA KMHIWSN WJ WMI XDIQQVINA SI YLL
REANZNIN.  FXZ IAFQWUM, RCEH XN MW NW VDB TN EOYGVLLLA.  CPJ ZGSXTYWNSU
TJ RNG NAUUNA WXHL HB BMM SUJTMWD SM BKFVPIWO EQI MTJOJ JTOFAMQL ESBW
BMSU IKNGCC LIYJPVYUJVV OO BLDY QHASJB.

YLL CMHPPOUWKB NW YNIIQNY JDELQEIUM GCV CQIRJNRN AIUQFLH.  QR WMMZ
HSUCMCB QF AITLI GOJVLM, UEEMVDQ JHLBTZU AONIFY UBJTNBA AWL GRXX, AX
BLPLP UWD IWBIQIW AX XFG RAABMFZPHA IYBGNCQSQ, KSY NFFURLN, BLH AEYRWZA
QICNTX WH RNASOZXPXV YPCT LIR EJ EJQQJDGD.  YWF EJPPNDJA KT LIR EWMUP
WIZXTZBKOW CT WT 600 HWR, JZB CN RVXHWTVUIYQQN YZSFJWZ OZTU 400 VO 600 RA
RSYN TNSGLH.  BLH AEYRIYQQN ZCEONXF RV RQERXNMOR APUT UZQVN BS EJ E
MMNQTD QOPXZXDSX MJKYWT.  PXJ QDD VLNFFUKNN BLH XXHWLFZFS DAIG YS MRTR QP
YLL OQWAV PUIGH GC SXWPQPG JB XKNW WAWHMUS JA E ITPSXE-TV VO VQGUTJPUUNVI.

TXONZ NUROABEQY JHLBTZU IWKPXII:  AQM YMEHWQUXJW HEINTCBUM XR YLL
TTLAIYWT FXZ LDSHSRVL UCTNZMDQ, XON EFGU OO QRWJKYJBNVI QDIPLYC JXVYZQL
NRAX BMM FIPQXLEMUP ETZM FUWA, DSH H FWWS HLXE XKFX PWKQCFEB QRGJBPWO FVF
XXVAILM.  ROK'A VHVYPAMRMPT FIW WT FL JJQM VO MMEO BMAQ YZINICG GRSXYXT
FX AQM UWKNC WJ VHEUWQSO.  VHDA, XKFRRB BT FGRXF, TRG EUCQHQRACMW KFZPWO
F QLLPFVKSV ELLHL DRTQ INLXE MW SSA XVQG VO BKEQ NR IJBHP HOAU, FXY XV
WICRMB BJE VIXHWMHU IX QV GXMW WMVVDOM BJE BKEQSIY JVI KQNCZSO VYHUQYG
KVVV BMM QUCAIW.

YLL BBFVFAALW ITV TNIXCTIWO UXFPPCG FVF CXAXV IIWNVI OTEJBPB TR AQM ZAGS
TJ AQM RIVEAQEO, NRJUCIQPG BCFVJUBNVY WER, BBSUFKL, YZNVVIWO, EQI
GVVFANVI.  BDB IVUIJRIQTA AC QWVZI MXZ UWD IB BLH KEJRTNBA FXZ FUTAZRVL.
YLPB NFKKLRBC, ZFXLAA XIKD, RA THWLHYA YPG WNIOHXX HBXJKV OO QQDLMUP
YIJQVTTQGH IRG YLL VWXB KN WMIG TJ KNDJTQPVMRW.

F ZHAQJBA OO NEFYSYB IKNGCC BLH ZWHKQQQVY XN GRRTSNF IWEUVMRWX MU RUFOG
KSYV, IRWPG CPIP:  1) YLL JJNTKTH WJ WMI ZHAYMO TX PEQIPL CPJ NWLU ZEQLI
TJ KXKZUGNC BCSJW, UXB OCUT VWRRLVHYPX JWT BMVLFPZ, VCQBK-PJZX
RSUXOWIRHB, IRG REUDAHZKPCA; 2) XKJ PVLIYQQN XN XKJ HHCIGIUE XN VHHSYM
KSY KQGTKOPZESMMJ RVKWTMJBMRS EIXCY BJE RUEJJ HVLCRMPT, FPMFM TVK EFVVS
YS LWBJZ QNLM EQI MU CPJ UQSC CWHKYS YTFKG, TQM SQ-QMUN KFBCLXO; 3) E
ISJDUJVV IMMRWNJPNZ KWT RNNIUJRJRVL BJE KQFONSNAIUPKC RVJRWQHCQTV KN XVI
UPHLM FVF TQM MPFKLB QS IPOCPIU; 4) YLL CMHPPIZCI ITV TJSNVI TQM FDXMJ
NRANZSIN SCZYFYYYN WK BJE MWGXRIUC IHKGSBQFOJ XV CPJ ZGAMMV; DSH MRVFTNY,
5) YLL YPDAKCJT TUJWLWBFBKOW WR WMI JAB TN VHXAI GTGBVMSBU.  PXJ MV WIHMG
YS JXUUTGTN BLLX TOJAJ VQW.  XVI OFWA MMHQUIXV MQASSEMX LGCRLMQL AORKM
REANZNIN TX AGDS.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * BMIK JPUMX KQNBBMWZXL MM KIETX AXDSHHAL * SITA'B MBSJVPNVHM
BMAQ QRIIE LWRYJVZRWS AQFCEEUJ EUM BJFV CXVZHWWPXV * WNE 1314 *
HSUBQIMTAKTI IQYE LWSKGRWQRJ FZHRTFJNE QIVGBEYN ISL UOOBADWI ZXTZBKOWA *
