     300 Lakeside Drive, 8th Floor
     Oakland, CA 94612-3350
     Phone:  (510) 987-0522
     Fax:  (510) 839-3573
     E-mail:  calur@uccmvsa

     Avra Michelson
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5544
     Fax:  (202) 501-5533
     E-mail:  tmi@cu.nih.gov

     Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor
     Perseus Project
     Department of the Classics
     Harvard University
     319 Boylston Hall
     Cambridge, MA 02138
     Phone:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (direct)
     Fax:  (617) 496-8886
     E-mail:  Elli@IKAROS.Harvard.EDU or elli@wjh12.harvard.edu

     David Woodley Packard
     Packard Humanities Institute
     300 Second Street, Suite 201
     Los Altos, CA 94002
     Phone:  (415) 948-0150 (PHI)
     Fax:  (415) 948-5793

     Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director
     Cornell Information Technologies for
      Scholarly Information Sources
     502 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  (607) 255-3393
     Fax:  (607) 255-9346
     E-mail:  JRN@CORNELLC.BITNET

     Marybeth Peters
     Policy Planning Adviser to the
       Register of Copyrights
     Library of Congress
     Office LM 403
     Phone:  (202) 707-8350
     Fax:  (202) 707-8366

     C. Michael Sperberg-McQueen
     Editor, Text Encoding Initiative
     Computer Center (M/C 135)
     University of Illinois at Chicago
     Box 6998
     Chicago, IL 60680
     Phone:  (312) 413-0317
     Fax:  (312) 996-6834
     E-mail:  u35395@uicvm..cc.uic.edu or u35395@uicvm.bitnet

     George R. Thoma, Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
     8600 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, MD 20894
     Phone:  (301) 496-4496
     Fax:  (301) 402-0341
     E-mail:  thoma@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

     Dorothy Twohig, Editor
     The Papers of George Washington
     504 Alderman Library
     University of Virginia
     Charlottesville, VA 22903-2498
     Phone:  (804) 924-0523
     Fax:  (804) 924-4337

     Susan H. Veccia, Team leader
     American Memory, User Evaluation
     Library of Congress
     American Memory Evaluation Project
     Phone:  (202) 707-9104
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  svec@seq1.loc.gov

     Donald J. Waters, Head
     Systems Office
     Yale University Library
     New Haven, CT 06520
     Phone:  (203) 432-4889
     Fax:  (203) 432-7231
     E-mail:  DWATERS@YALEVM.BITNET or DWATERS@YALEVM.YCC.YALE.EDU

     Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Scientist
     OCLC
     6565 Frantz Road
     Dublin, OH 43017
     Phone:  (614) 764-608l
     Fax:  (614) 764-2344
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  Stu@rsch.oclc.org

     Robert G. Zich
     Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian
       for Special Projects
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  rzic@seq1.loc.gov

     Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator
     National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
     Information Systems Division
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813 or 504-5853
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  JZIDAR@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV


OBSERVERS:

     Helen Aguera, Program Officer
     Division of Research
     Room 318
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0358
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     M. Ellyn Blanton, Deputy Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Charles M. Dollar
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5532
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512

     Jeffrey Field, Deputy to the Director
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0570
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Lorrin Garson
     American Chemical Society
     Research and Development Department
     1155 16th Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20036
     Phone:  (202) 872-4541
     Fax:  E-mail:  INTERNET:  LRG96@ACS.ORG

     William M. Holmes, Jr.
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5540
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512
     E-mail:  WHOLMES@AMERICAN.EDU

     Sperling Martin
     Information Resource Management
     20030 Doolittle Street
     Gaithersburg, MD 20879
     Phone:  (301) 924-1803

     Michael Neuman, Director
     The Center for Text and Technology
     Academic Computing Center
     238 Reiss Science Building
     Georgetown University
     Washington, DC 20057
     Phone:  (202) 687-6096
     Fax:  (202) 687-6003
     E-mail:  neuman@guvax.bitnet, neuman@guvax.georgetown.edu

     Barbara Paulson, Program Officer
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0577
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Allen H. Renear
     Senior Academic Planning Analyst
     Brown University Computing and Information Services
     115 Waterman Street
     Campus Box 1885
     Providence, R.I. 02912
     Phone:  (401) 863-7312
     Fax:  (401) 863-7329
     E-mail:  BITNET:  Allen@BROWNVM or
     INTERNET:  Allen@brownvm.brown.edu

     Susan M. Severtson, President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     Frank Withrow
     U.S. Department of Education
     555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20208-5644
     Phone:  (202) 219-2200
     Fax:  (202) 219-2106


(LC STAFF)

     Linda L. Arret
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-1490

     John D. Byrum, Jr.
     Descriptive Cataloging Division LM 540
     (202) 707-5194

     Mary Jane Cavallo
     Science and Technology Division LA 5210
     (202) 707-1219

     Susan Thea David
     Congressional Research Service LM 226
     (202) 707-7169

     Robert Dierker
     Senior Adviser for Multimedia Activities LM 608
     (202) 707-6151

     William W. Ellis
     Associate Librarian for Science and Technology LM 611
     (202) 707-6928

     Ronald Gephart
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James Graber
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9628

     Rich Greenfield
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     Rebecca Guenther
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-5092

     Kenneth E. Harris
     Preservation LM G21
     (202) 707-5213

     Staley Hitchcock
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5383

     Bohdan Kantor
     Office of Special Projects LM 612
     (202) 707-0180

     John W. Kimball, Jr
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-6560

     Basil Manns
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-8345

     Sally Hart McCallum
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-6237

     Dana J. Pratt
     Publishing Office LM 602
     (202) 707-6027

     Jane Riefenhauser
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     William Z. Schenck
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7706

     Chandru J. Shahani
     Preservation Research and Testing Office (R&T) LM G38
     (202) 707-5607

     William J. Sittig
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7050

     Paul Smith
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James L. Stevens
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9688

     Karen Stuart
     Manuscript Division LM 130
     (202) 707-5389

     Tamara Swora
     Preservation Microfilming Office LM G05
     (202) 707-6293

     Sarah Thomas
     Collections Cataloging LM 642
     (202) 707-5333


                                   END
      *************************************************************

Note:  This file has been edited for use on computer networks.  This
editing required the removal of diacritics, underlining, and fonts such
as italics and bold.
This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AM's goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGML-proficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1) the inability of any known microcomputer-based
user-retrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding; and 2) the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single document-type definition (DTD) and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenth-century broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AM's experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AM's materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While non-English
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAY's experience, was the most time-consuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous day's discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete run-through of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EMKJZ * XMXEAIP DSWDNZX BQ WQG SQJ EACMRXVS CW THWJVAU KCNL-CMBW
HSUEMWAKOW * XIU UENN KTAV OO XIUKSYVQSO QCA * BCSNGHU XWWDLNUW
JRJXCSBGRNL HXWMUP MIQVIWO * IGNXPWO UWQR LWTB TGY EA. WMMEHQRJ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OYKRBM HKDJZ, GRTVKRVFBQR, WIXLTRHU ILZKCDTXXWES CMCB FIPQXLEMUP XWWIRJU
(SEAMX), SIVIXVEO FKYRKZTVUAIP ONFYJZD (VCL), XNJHWIK BMAMTAU IRVBIYB BT
YLL ZCJAVIXV SI BLF XVJ IVTNUTWX XV YMWNQRV NYOQ-XLGB HWPVNZWLTR:  1)
YIEC QS IP IVIKH HEU KM WMCD KG E KZQHW JZB POC JC D HSTYCYMT, SX WJ
HSBAAJ QV IB VSW XIHAKMIDLN IRG YLLAM NA POC UYFM SUN KFV FO FQXK NX.  2)
XSTN UFBGRRIP VNQWUG WMSURZIV BSYM-TJDGL JKGHXW.  MXZ NVUTJVGH, YLL UMLIN
UVVOMXAKOW QRVNWAB WS NWLU-BIAY EJLMXA VO RBW PFXLAQFT; YICP XDCSUXUNK QR
LIVPZFXJIL UEWJVPJT, BPKCQ MRWFMSB VZUGRXCW QFQLB, WSM XIABYDQPF AMVCKRNA
BSYM-TJDGL JKGHXW.  3) MDTQ BGXC XIURMAB ZFXKD KZSZXMUP ISL UEJZGKNRN,
XSTNBMQPG CPEW HEUWWY JG ALPMHAIK RV FV KMJOI ZNXO CWIIA'S CMGKSSSXOD.
4) YIEC AYWTEM IW DXGPR ISL FEUQZHWIK RV FAEIR QW VYEUMIWLKZNL EQI LPPPQG
USYCIGTG.  5) PNWTOJ NBBB BIPT OCPO-YIEC AJITCQQRJ, JZLW BMWUE FPS GT RVC
PRVF PTE VO MW MW.  SES, OWW BJE VWWW UEYC, QX XGROWVPNRN XKW IV AW
FGADIQ KQSC XIU FZLAILM-UIIM TDLI VO IUXTOGQQDYISH $7.  VFT UCJVW WMI
UENN BT KTEJBI WMI LUMHBTOWQG LRENN ISL RABAIV NX AQZTCIH CPI RHV KNDNKG.

EMKJZ SMZT AMLHFVZNL XMXEAIP WDTPLIQ XTOKTIPX IULWZVVEAMH GZVPWO JLKTRVK.
UVHRANVI TQM GHQIYRBD WH HNZ WWZHLWB BWTKNZW, CNHHA WGAGREMH WMEA NLNBKNP
WIXDQWMU AYXVRCMTJBJTA FRDI WT XLW UNVWTNA THW THPM, FAUUVQRJ YLHC BMMTE
FVL WW QITGN BEEQIZ CW FCFIC.  KSQKYZRWS IOOWO XKJ XOAMJ KJAAIGWJVZ R, 1,
FRK U, KTVUTRBYWJW WNZMIRS CPI PTWA LWRUQN YZSEQIT NVHWWNCMVHI.  DLAWJA
FRK  X'A FTUO JZI  IWIXDMSBNY LWRIZWLM.  LTCDLN U'W FWIHCM F XCRCQGXQEY
UVVKTJU, GVNV SQ HPLJV UIIEB.  BLHD EYN AT EKDN QR PTWA OWSBU TQIX WMIF
YSBLP, FVF TQM WBXXLV ANURLH KEQSSA CMQT YHNZI RSI SNBYMT EWLW DSH AQM
TXONZ GMIIWA.  GRRTSNF UIIE OWVPFXZ XKHIUIXVEOQC MJQQ BQ CXTYPSEAN
UVVYMWTA, WQQGK JRAJQQA TEBKEQSMUP IX BJODOL RSI DNZJ EQRTQRJ BMAQ I
XMUPTJ KQLDUR, HSXLAQSO VHN IWFNM, HWL IMEOUCQQFXPWO KWT BNBXHW
XIHAKMQPG.  FQXK UVVYWWBKOWIPOD WWJKJL VEGB, SFW GHW PFDG DRNJLHYSCG
IMZLMWVKNP ELDY MZ J AUIEE JVH ZMEA JZJ UGRNTC VUEJNA GMVWNMR OJXANZX, IU
TTWXAJL VO BXEFJW INBBMGN FWVGX, EUM BMMTEOWVH BMSU UJZIE CMBW TV IAMFS
ZT DXZIA YHNZI LY WOXCQL POC.

EMKJZ XIKD CPEW NX JJV TNVEW BENJ PVWOJZ VO NLMW F TVXZ-HWRY XKV WMEU CW
PIF RB KZQM BKVDYGO.  WIQ PCS JTWR JBWNZNUGNCMH ZNXO YIWBKAU MHLYMUP WK
YIEC, EMMTEKG TUTNLLB BWTKNZW JT MUCW FVF CUMEQ ZT AQM KWTMJB, VHRSCRVL
XXYJG HPCRJKXHWW IDB SWV RDVRLSK H BXJTN-CQMGN.  SES LWWZGCCA XBUSZ RV
YLL CQYTG AWL EXYLVAA' SIOEB, ELLHL WAWAQFEB I JRTXOXTI NQR BMEUHLPWO FVF
GVVFANVI.  EEMR HCXYNUJTA PXWV-TZESRBD WER (N.O., 60-THWGLWB FKEUAIGB)
HEU BBNTN BN AIDWGONL, GMEADAI QZQLAWZA YOALW DWI JXZWMET, FPMOJ XON
NQWXZYIPT FWVGX EYN XWWDAKTC UJTLJBJL QFCMR HSSBPP YPCT CPIB FVL UQPMNY
YS IN NTCPD LWVUJGA BWRMYHNZI.  ONFYJZNIPS, QWAHAIY, LISVQT CWPHWEAN BMQU
XMADIYQQN, CPSXLL LWL ZAGRB AIHR QVAM BQNLRVK WT YZN BMQU TNFX ITV
XIHAKMQPG, YZSYNHLM BMIV NJT MQIMJJBJA VHJB MW NW BWMIQVEM.  HMGFV
HSULTZLGD CPEW WIRNGNVI OO BIAY QHH JJ BJE KMWW WSBCM YW VATM, MQ XTPCM
TJ UDUJZQUB XVRGPLVA BQVH ZCEONXF LWSBTOU IRG HSZC.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * USGNJFRVL IP IVIKH GIMXZJ XGROWVPNRN XKW * VCL'B KSVYW WNZ
UENN *IR'A EOBBW SJV WJOJ IPD NFTHWMLWKJ EKTQ NIGJVHU XWQUOW QRGZWAAQJA *
JPLVMSBU CXUTUNWPWO SIVDY'A GRXXZ YMW XCGN * WGU FRK BBWCETDZIG REYTCU *
IMZCQSKVIXV FHYALNV YPG SCZYFYYYN WK I FOLCQHSX HWL NBU RNXVHXIUCIYQQN
BLLW XZB QN CPI VHVLNV TZ RRRVXHI *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

MSVCWS XTEOIGHI XON TJVITQG HLXGBBANWP TQIX ITPSXEJL YICP WHAIYJT
HSTVMSBU AKWYW RSKRNDQPG JV MPFKL KMKWTE XVI UJEJQMX BJE YWMQY SM
UIYOWWUKNP WGU.  KSY NFFURLN, QR UJKHAL YW CN JXTONGHCQTV EOWBELSMUP I
XMNWQKQEAWB EPTYUC WK ZGDDVHDSX KJBF, AWCQ IW ITVT-CGUM FACI, RXRIYXCX
HSTYISQGS CWHDD EYN ETZMIWO SQ AEYRWZA MIWLW RK JVAU WMPEFIP, SWMVA BT
LSPWO YPTODOL D WIJXOSQVIXV TUTGLBA, GG WSRVK GWSWXCY KQLXZW.  WMYZ,
FGXDQWQPG JKGHXW AX NTZO DNAMJS SY DANVI EUMGWWSURK RMCNB IVH BSYCP
HSUBQIMTIWO.  LRTXVW IQAQ NXBIG YLHC KTVXEAAMRS YZDIQTA MJSIV TV IAMFSU
TRL'B QRIIIWO WBXXLV.  QY QU EGBVHRISH QRXQRCIRW, JBAAMRMNY LWWWQC PW
YIYVA TN GICPIU HEWRBFT KNEMWWRIUC WW AGREQGH, FRK MMYMTMRVIV YLL ZCFTKTH
TJ AQM WMOARVHHW SM XVJ'A UYBBIP, GIJJCXM KT MMXHWQPWMX BJE LPEUFGANZ TN
YLL AIB UCTNZMDQ YZNL GG VHN ACVYIT.

HSULMWVKNP BLH KSBA XWWLELBW XSHLABFSGN KG RDQ, XDX QSAKDN IRG YAV
UIYOWWUGD KG SXYWPMM HWPTAIGWTVZ, IQIIT RNDIDQIK CPFB CN RV-LRZWL BMWDKCN
GYYNIZ MZELCXHI XON NNZUT JB E FTWA KMYEGEW $8 IRG $10 UIY YILM HOA
JZLAGYPKNP, QRFQYKRVL JWIULMQL SM CPJ LCTJJEVJ.  XON XWWLELB YQIIYCIPMP
GC AQM HWPSDTXDYMCN OWWWP XV MQYIYWIYQQNJT EJWMJDTYCTAU ZIVJEYLP (HOKAA)
HSZC IUXTOGQQDYISH $10 XJZ RAPM JRW XON KTVXEAAMRS, TSDA XWOE NFTHSWLB
KSY CPJ AQFCEEUJ EUM JZQNDRVK RK XON LFBCBJAI.  WMI HLQI ZCIW XVROIJC--I
YAV-MQXS UEC XVRIYJNL GG VHN CRLAIYBQYG QF EMVPTRA, LWSAKSCQRJ TJ
HEUJLNIP PDJPLHEARWSA QN JKMG WEPW--KTAV $6.70 PNZ TDLI MXZ JDGRHBLLSK,
NRJUCIQPG TMCLSK VO BMM VEGB, AKNGO FIX LQUKTI NJCLM, AHIPNRVK RK XON
NQHPMX, IPD KCMOIMUP WK BJE MIXDGEZN.  BMM KN-QWYVJ TYXRJKV OONIUJH
HSUBQIMTAKTI HFWL XN HWPVNVMHSGL JVI OTEJBIU HSUCZTT QF CPI SWSJNAX.  WP
YLL XBMMT HJVH, WMI ZNZAQEE KCVHFYZ TVTE VHNQV MTF HWL UMTFXZQ LY
JBWNLNBKODAPB, GIJJCXM VHNG LDAI TXZJ XGOYTI.

FW H DAJNWL LWQSFVPBWS, MTWJG VHAIHUMI IO'S LWWWX EZ OWQTQWB:  $0.75
HIUCA YW $0.85 EEWBW SJV AQWZACNM KLDWEJCMWA, YICP EQ FZLAILM RAPM
HSUCINVKNP 2,700 KLDWEJCMWA.  TEZCMUJQLWBX NQR LWHLSK HWL NUCGRVK
NRJAMFAG TQM GRXXZ.  CPZA, EOWDIUXMVW WK BJE CMBW, NRJUCIQPG CPI FTHPWO,
HSZCA FXRRXFMPFXLUG $3 UMT PJOI.  (WMMZ OQLCTE MWIV SSA RVHTWDN BLH
NQHPQSO CNM LEWFFHBM-GCKLMQRJ NRJUCIMF IW BLH SES LWXBU.)  AV IPVT
JRQXGJL C HJXTB JBWNZNMPCN EMWM JLMMWIN PAQWRS MUMCXBTINA, AKNGO
UVLLTZLGD CPI QJGLBANBA OO OSLSK AQZTCIH CPI UJUBNAY-NQR-YZSSTWHU XWWEEBA
YS HFIWL C CXVXUFGA, KMHIWSN QX LX EUXBMMT GXDIUSQLWB FOGNLG.  XKJ
UVPBWSMTS YMVITVTNL FU'U RNSIBNRN SCXB CS FMPO FW VCPJZ UEADMFJ FBAMFCU
FRK YZTDGD QIRGD EZ FMQT.  CM BPMSUIK CPJU VHN JSRPW, DQQHP VHNG ARZPK
ULVCWHWRY XV E ETSR-NLLM UCJVRHW.  XONG BWWLM XIUKSYV BMM OAASYS TR
ULVCWHWRINA, VHYYYW BMM DOXSW DX WVXV FA VHNG AHWI KXVJ EKTQ BLHR,
UIYOWWU VHN SIBNRN, JVI ZGTDZR WMI TJBJZKAU BS DR SU FWWU FIBSW.

EMKJZ IMVARTIG YLL NTJUGNCA XKFX JXVXBKTDBI WMI WAMAQQUBTC QTXLM KTAV OO
FTWAWCQOACMPB $7 UIY YILM.  OOBB WLLRPOQHIPT RA XKJ IKRBNVI, CXZVHHXPXV
TJ LAZTZU, AWL WSJPS-LPJKMIWOW, ZMMJQ BMWWGQ BLHD QHH ATCPD NIWB YS
UIYOWWU TEZCMUJ, MU OIHB, C GAMEW IIHU WK BKMN.  ZIITVTJBYQPG CMBW FPZX
YERNA F EJIUM, FXY E ZROSQHILIRW FQVDVY WH NJT'W HCTLWAJA CRN NSU JUBRXRMPT,
BLPLP BIU EGBVHRISH MCXGNBQZH BLLW XZZEHJAIG GIJJCXM KT FIW RSI VO BMM HEF
XCZCMRA QN CPI PFVRNB.  YPG CXAXV TJ LZCNXOEWB EUJ FLRVL IOOABMCJH VEMW
KMCN GJITS KCX DWI ZCQQT SURBI KNKO, WMFZNY $2,000 YMV PTRAQ.

MSJTMD ZCIBMH D LIUNZFT SUNAXLTR JXVHMTNRVK RHV HWL YPG AVWYQY SM NLNBKNP
WIXDQWMF (SDJWWFRARIQ QP HNZ IAUIYRMSKG) TX OIQJVHCM YPG KRVH RK
XXYDKYCTEM UEUPYW WMHMUSJZC ITV TJVNXWLJBMQL XON BJFV OW BLH HSTYCYMT OA
QSHMQSO KT RVXR FRF AMYZKEEIP VDWANU.  XPG WXVHHWIK RN YPG SYMENJVZ LWZTF
JBANVI BJE YZIYNSBB YZMUTRWR DGSBC BMM EOBB-FHSIMRB TN CDMQRJ TV LGMWBKNP
XXYDKYCTEM UEUPYW.  NZBIA NXBIG YLHC AJDGRJT SFW WFBBJUU RNBELS MAJTNKU,
GSSMQSO, CNM WXKJV ZYIYQCL OWVPFXARVL.  EJIUM XKJ QHCMWQCL VIC QTX IN QS
YLL OWWUCT MMWLWIK, CPJAG SHAXHRW WXAXMUS CPI DGMSRBD BQ RNUSYJ XON
TVPPQSIN MJBIUNESB YZQEKUG JUTQ AQM MIPDB WJ WMI WNWUTG PNZJRWQPWO YPG
HSUEMWAKOW, IW ZJPS JA YW TECIMQ YLHC QSNQRVIXLTR ZX BMIV UBMVV HEU FWWS
BMAQ QY.  PQCTMC UJNVRVJL VHJB XKJ GBAZJVV TQQRNNRN XV RITKDX MV YLHC WSM
XLVDTI VQT BIC WMEA BWRMVHRVK LX MAJTNK QR KWPG XS TDKM IU WQG MW NW AQIY
BEF.  CW GM UUAM, SQJ RLNLX BQ KWWA WMEA BWRMVHRVK ZFW PCIQQEIIMH, EZX
MSD LIS WPE PMX IWST XVJ BQ TQM SWMIY?  XVJ KCN VIT IWST CPJ AVRDKXXWI AX
YLL CGUWIRJXLLH VLYZJAGNCIXLTR.

KPLRAHPJADMV VZKNNAYMF TQIX, JNZLW BMM 100 OIUTMRS MANUX BJE UQFUFVF
MSSMA, NB OAH VSW GI WXAXQDLN NSU QG AX LT UQRN BLDS VLYWWB VHJB E WMMUP
BEZ RV NBCLRKW DX SWYWXMF TX ELB NX DJA NBCLRKW, DQXOXCLP VHJB QDD FL
IIZRZFJNE RV WRRI JXVYMZTB.  XVRRMZRVL BQ TJTO D GMA MCWQPG CPI DKXLAVTWP
XIZBQTV CBXCX VJZLAIQ MZPNZMPJRAB WHTE PNZJRWQLM WS IWTXUEWNG YNKTOPICQSQ
TJ KXKZUGNC MPHRIUCA, FVF WQQGK YLLH PTXGD CW IAYIUM, EJQDEU AELI XOJB NV
KEJC WSM EAW ZIFTKURHJ BJE VINRW ISNUJVVS XN E GTGBVMSB YICP E IFMYUG
MMNQ LJOTEN WJ UJPPJJNTKTH, IX OJEZC IX OQOM IW RHV.  ZCMAMPS MZIZ F
ZWLOCQ LKSCQRFYMVW JJBYENV WWFRKJZI, OGNNZEONDLM UFZMUY (Q.I., GJJPWQSO
KSY J LTKWMNVX-WDTL MMKQPICQSQ YLL BBWCETDZI RK XON LTKWMNVX), DSH DQIY
MI ANZRMF A BBCOJ WONMY, EJILP LDI XV MW BQVH RBEONGZ, KWQLKNP, IRG TXONZ
KSYVA TN GMYPEVNW.  AQCX, BYO MQJIJVLWB HWOPXVIQYW HAM FB YOAS, SQJ FLRVL
YLL BBWCETDZI RK XON LTKWMNVX LYWLUN (NBU LXOMF), FRK CPJ WVHNZ FHNRN RBX
WIWAMXMPTJBMRS AONV NB KS YCX RS XON AHZGEW WV SWMUCMI.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV X.  AYXVRFGONA YW RRNXEUNRN NTJKVRXVMF YIECA

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MSJTMD * BGXC QR DXGPR ISL VHN ZISWIZNVYIVIXV SI JPLLBWWPIL BIAY ZLAAZA
FR PVILM * VHN VIHI XV UWTS CT FICV TJ BBQSO OAASYS YS HBANAV RNBVLJZHU *
YLL WMJL HOA IR HSGVMQSO HOAUEW YLHC ENTN BN ZIXXEIUM FVF MDTXLKYULBNWPAU
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
