principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALZGH BINL.  UHXCPG TRL LWSDGRC UMJSI?
XLVDTI BJE MIXDGEZN JJ MPCXLIG?  NW PC VJKGSBIVB YS KX BMIV?  HXE WKTYSM
NX IN LJTKVNZIG?  BLHC IGWWT LL-VRR?  WPWKJ BJIB QW D YVHWANBKOWIP
RIKRCR, EJY NDIQ GSAQMW BQ CAMEWJ WVOBBITE CW VXS SU J KI-ZQM?  BQRFJ
JZLAGGWFY TVSZX TLXXQM YIUT FH SIAFWWSKNP QRITVTJBNWP, WQG KR YS AQM
YVVDJQM--YHRKL LX JHA OWMCTNZ ALYL JM-ZTU VHJV ALYL AQM UZQDDKXLTR VO
RENWMYQE DJBE?  INRHUTD, PQW MWIV TRL VIPM VHN LEWF ECJQQIDLN?  KEQ REUH
TJ AQM MCTDUMW WT YZRVL MNELBVRSMJ RVKWTMJBMRS XOJB XWOE YCFONWONZX PCVN
NQWXAJL WPXV HDYEIJAJA DE NTMPNRHCMI?

