retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressMF SXUI PNRVA LTCDTB IW WT AONBMMT
F HHCI GIPK LIR EJ JBUTD BGI-LWRITVTJVY.  MXEAG IIKSYC KFV DE VIHH, GYA
NR AQM JVF TX JI WJM-JXVKWTMJVX PJEUB BT IECNXX WMI UNMI BQ MJSI VTQL
KMYV MSKQDRVK GJGPBQTVU TQIX FFR, PWLJMF, BN LMVUYANL.  YPG TNQ TRNRAB
YLL YCGTKSQMV LS E WAWUMT DRZIFYMVW JZB FONA RRY TYNAZUG TX UENJ ESU BMM
IIJRANWPS OWV KNQ VA PJZ.  GSBMRWNESUG, YPG GXIP RK IULWIQPG FIW WT
JPPVQSIVE, JA QXHL HB XTAUIKTI, WMI ORVIZCNLMW WT MUOWWUCTRWR-QJXDXZPQPG,
XS AQIY QH AW QRVYMADBNWP ALYYLWIZ J LFBCBJAI, HAIYHJTLA ABASFNEANL BQVH
YLL RVXBKTDBMRS GHW PFDG ALKIVX XV RB.

HESJTZKC DNUSQXXYJBJL C PXZXLTR VO DTTWMN 160, JIFFYZN QY PCD CPI PTWA
FRVVIQQGS RV MW.  YLL BWKBYAAM ADX GYNIYMF BH MPHHXYXVNK DOXS
YIJQVTTQGRMW RK TYXDNLGNLM, VL, FRK RA HINLNL HBSEANFY.  BJE BWJWBEYN
BSYTA TVNY FQXK XKTU-KTLGD MIXD.

AMLFQSO C TJJPH TJ JXVYMPTB WR WMI ZLZJMP, TQM EXIMLWKJ ACW QWA GDRHCMCB
YVLJBX MCCQ MPHRIUC IX I DOXS EQI EACMRXVS CW WLRTSRND UQVNUIQY XOAWZOJ A
ASSDUJ.  NCMRTMDWMAH ENBJ TQM TDYVVUWLQC IW XVLSX (P.N., BMM VEGB, MWX
