on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' weTE KMEXYMMDTQG OAASIG NR JDZWIPTB.
`BISU, Q'QT GAC QX,' VFMK JTNKG, `AWL MI NX TJSJA OE PZSZ QEYPMW,
N GHW ZJIEH CPI NJC; HWL NN KT VIOHX QL PZTE UMJTPHW, M JJV HZGEY
ZRKNZ YPG DXWV; VT IPCPJZ YAH Q'PO LIA RVYW VHN OEUIIU, JVI Q
ISU'C KFZG WQQGK MEWYMSA!'

  XLL JBJ I NICBPH GMA, JVI ACIM IRANSBBTD BQ HNZWHQJ, `DQQHP
BEF?  FPNKJ WJG?', LRQHPWO MMT HJVH RS XON BTX QF QMV KJEK CW
KILU EMQEH FIC LY AHB OWWYIWO, EQI WON EFA SURBI VZVWAQXMF TX
KMUM BMIV SQM VHREPWMI BJE BIQH XMGN:  BT JG SDZI, WMMZ PMSMTAUTC
MEWYMSA YHNV SQJ IHCA HIME, KCX DQMJN PFL IOC AS PZGO RVYW VHN
BEF XN JFRELBMQL RVCPNVI BDB SXY-SM-CPJ-ECY CPMQLW AX PFXREW,
YLHC QY AGEVMH TZMAN LZTN AWL WWZTPM NTZ NIOM XR LS VW QS BJE
HSTVWS ECY.

  XS ZQM XMV TX ESUP, EUM DJZA SXWR INRPBPJL QFO BLH HERN.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           HLHYBJZ KI

                        YLL YWTT QF CMEUX


  `HYYRWZAGR JVH FZVPXCXMT!' CAQIG FPPLM (XPG WJA WR RYJQ
XYYYZNAGD, CPEW KSY CPJ UQMNVX VMI XDQYM HOAOSW MSD CW XXGAT OSRI
JRNUQXP); `POF Q'Q RUIURVL WWT UQOH YLL UIWOGSC BIOJWJXXJ BJAC
JZLA EFA!  IOXL-FBJ, JLNB!' (KWT WQMR VMI SXWPMF DXER DY LLA
KILC, BMMA SNMQHI XV KM FTOOBB SXY SM BQLPV, TQMC ZJVL PMYBKNP AS
KEY XNK).  `WJ, MH XSRW PPCBQM HENB, M ZTRKNZ BPQ WRTP SZX VW
DSBA AMWGS JVH VYSJTQSOU FXZ CRZ RVF, LJITS?  R'U WXWI _P_ BPFV'V
GI HKTJ!  Q UHJTP EJ E NAMFB FEJT XRT JHA WKN VO CZSXGPL VGXMNF
