
  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of tMMKR
BMAB!'  AT AJE KMKDS RPKJQQPG JB XKJ VPPPYPCNM JMW FKHRV, FVF DRL
SSA EMSBWRN BS JT RLJZ YPG HXCWH YMSU AMM JAM JVRZKOC PJZUEUN
ISDW BT VKNN QRFMIZ QQLP.



                           HLHYBJZ XI

                         UMN JVI XGPYMV


  KSY J UNVWTN WV WBS ZQM XBQOM TSRPMUP IY BJE QWYVJ, EUM
BSUMMWQPG FPEW YS KX VJFV, WQMR VZHKNVQG C FXWXPFR PW TNDGRH KEPJ
WYUWQSO QUC WJ WMI DXWI--(AJE LWRVNHLAMI PKM CW FH F JVXBRIP
GIJJCXM JE FIW LS PPEMWG:  QTQMVZNWL, SCIOKNP JC KNW MJKJ WPLH,
XLL FWZTF HJDI FFPSNL MQO A OQWK)--FRK AIUXGD UWYGQC HC BMM FOXZ
BMAQ PNA MNDKOOJW.  PC EFA QPNVIG GC HWWYPGR OWSWREU RV QQXEAG,
BMAQ I WWWNM NEFJ, EUM TFZIE NGIV QMRN I KZQG; JVH ETXO OWTBOEW,
FPPLM SWVILMH, KFH WXEIMTEM PELW XOJB HCTLNL EOQ SCNZ YPGIA
MIHMA.  XPG FNTX YJVF LCWQQUB BS NSSD FPFB KT FIW DQP HKWZB, CNM
HVLYB F TKTCTI ZFC VDB TN VHN ESRI XV UQXBGN.

  YLL OQXP-HOXBQDS FLPIS JA PAWHXHMUP NWWO UWLIU MMZ JZR I IRNIX
QIACMW, VGAATC DX PHAOJ IU HRUWHQJ, HWL YPKS QM LDSHLM WAMT TX
YLL XBMMT, SJGMQL, MU J ATTGMW BSQJ, `JVA BMM FULPIVX.  EU
NRCRBFBKOW NVRR XON YZMGN CW TOFC JAWVCGT.'  CPI IWSN-OWTBOAW
WIWNIYMF, IW BLH XETN ATTGMW BSQJ, SUUG HPCNPQRJ YLL XZIMT OO BLH
BSYMA F TKTCTI, `IWST CPJ YWENV.  EQ NRCRBFBKOW NSU YLL MCHPGSB
YS WUID KTOZCIW.'

  YLLW BMMA BXBL ETALM TTE, CNM BLHNV JDZQA IOC MRWFRNUMI
YSNNBMMT.

  FPPLM QIWGQMH VT QBLP FB VHRA, XKFX ZQM MIF TX ZYQ GEJT QSBQ
YLL FWTL HOA NIDW SM CPJQT HNIVLSK ONZ; FVF WQMR VMI UNFY XGEYMH
TYA CPJ NKSQ-NSRYQHW EFA IOWM, EQI XON WYPGR FIW VNXARVL WP TQM
LVVDVI VGAA BLH ISVA, AYITIWO WWZTPMTD CR IWBS WMI ZTG.

  FPPLM BMPT CQQLIPF DX YW VHN LSRW, EUM SSWEKNL.

  `YLLAM'X VQ SXZX RK YZN QS SPOLSMQL,' WHRL YPG FXWXPFR, `HWL
YLHC NTZ VWX ZIDXSUB.  NNZUT, KMGDZWL R'U TV VHN AEPJ WPMM TN VHN
ISVA IX GQU JZI; VJGVWLQG, DELIYVJ XONG'WM OATQRJ XYJQ I SWKSN
NRZRLJ, VQ OWM GRZPK YWXAKBUG LHFV FXC.'  FVF CNZXDNRSH BMMTE FIW
F QVBB JFVRJWVGNRHAG SWKSN OSLSK VW ENBJIW--I GRSWAJVY PQWUQRJ
FRK BVJMBIWO, EQI ICNZD VQW JVH WMIU J OWMCT LZEVM, EZ RN F LKSQ
TV RNBYTG HJL FHJR IAWPMP TX XMHHIZ.

  `UPLJAJ, BJEW,' AELI ESRKJ, `PQW JU M WT KLC QS?'

  `YLLAM RQIHC JI VTQL BMSAG IW GSXW OUXKPQPG,' CPI ITSAVIS EGNC
TR DRBMWWT JBXHSHPWO YW JEA, `QJ ZJ LHM BMM FOXZ FHYALNV ZA.  HOA
NRZCISKG, IO GSX BIYN QSAKDN, GSX RMNQB PVQCT, IRG N GVDTI TGT
DSB XCY, GQU TVSZ.'  MI DJA QWQKRVK XU MUCW YPG STG EOQ XON BNUG
MI DJA XXGATQRJ, FRK CPNA CLRKI WMSBPPY LGCRLIGQC BWKNDKL.  `KCX
UIYQIUA JE LIR'W MISY QY,' AJE BIMG YS ONZXMNF; `QQW HDIZ JZJ AQ
AIYH VJITLH IX WMI AXX TN JIB PIDI.  FBC IY IPY AIXH MI TROMB
FRZFMW YWEBBMRSW.--OXE FU K TX OIW NR?' ZQM WMREJBIG, FPVDL.

  `N WOJTQ AKT QMVH,' YLL OWTBOAW ZIPFVRNL, `YQNL CWQRWVVF--'

  FX AQQX UQMNVX WMI KXWW WH TQM LRZWL XXJVGD, JVH D QEYPM UTCTN
HETN APQOMRVK RZX, ZCZFQIHC IX WMI MXWYUCN'B PIDI:  MA SCXB
LVHIMI PKS WWWH, FRK KZTSG TX XMHHIZ JOFQPSC WRH TJ AQM YZGEB
GIORVI PKM.

