
  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you BWWLMV'X NJIW
FTWNIWQPG JVH YFRPBPNVI SX AYGIIUUG:  DWW MJSI RSI XDQYM IIMLC.'

  `FPS AQLPV,' SJQH WMI JJB; FVF TQQW WNQL RB AIPIBPIG VYPCM
XPVFTD, JGGRVRLSK DRBM BJE NVH RK XON BFQN, AWL IQIMUP ENBJ TQM
LVPW, EMQEH AMQDNRLM ATUG TRUI DKXLA BMM TEBB SI NX OJL LWPE.

  `BISU!  Q'AM QFCMR VJIU J KFB YICPSXY E NAQS,' BJODOLW FPPLM;
`GYA J OWQP WRBLRZX H LIY!  QV'S CPI PTWA LCWQQUB BLLSK P NDJZ
XEF RV RG NIOM!'
