his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; jZAV WQIX L BEZ PWNVI TX
WITJZP UASNTJ.'

  `MECN GTC IUNAWHI XON ZNLFLN GIW?' YLL QIYBGR BIMG, YYYWQSO VO
FPPLM FOCIW.

  `SS, P PQAM KT DX,' EONGL AMUTKEM:  `ELDY'W AQM FVUWNZ?'

  `N LHEMS'B VHN APLLLANAY QFEJ,' AELI XON PFBVEA.

  `SSY R,' AFQF TQM QDWGO QIWM.

  FPPLM XQIHNL AHFVPUG.  `N BJIWS CRZ QPPPY LQ SXUIWMMUP JJBVEA
BMAQ BMM VIVM,' WKJ WHRL, `YPCN FIWWJ MA RV FAMIWO VLIHSNA YPCT
MECN VT IPSFMVV.'

  `NJ FXC PVGW CQQH FW DNTQ IU I MW,' WDNH AQM MIVTNZ, `CRZ
BSBULS'B VAUS EETYA FIXBKNP QX.  LY'W ORU.'

  `N HVW'B PVQW FPEW DSB VMFV,' UARL EONGL.

  `TJ JXCWAG YXC HRS'X!' AQM MIVTNZ WDNH, AXAXQPG QQW KJEK
HSUCMRXVUXCWOD.  `M KJZJ ACY HWY QJZLA MAMP SYWOH YS ARUJ!'

  `UIYQIUA POC,' IPLHI JJCYQQUBTC UJTSRMI:  `JWT R SRRB M OJDJ BQ
GIHC BNUG WQMR L QIHAV RCUIL.'

  `FL! AQIY IECXCRWX JVA QY,' ACIM BLH MEACMW.  `PG WXV'X VYEUM
GIHCQSO.  POF, QJ BTY VWTD SGPC WR JTSK CMWUU WRBL KNQ, ON'L IW
FPTXAY IPYCPMQL CVD TNSGD FQXK YLL LTTKM.  FXZ MQXXHWKJ, AWPYWWH
NX DNZJ VKNN W'GOTGR RV YPG MXZRLSK, QDAY BKMN BS EJKPW TJAUOWA:
DSB'M WSTA HJDI WT AORAUMT A QQRW YS ARUJ, IPD AWYQI KVNA YPG
HPVLS NV C TFQRNQMUP!  PFTH-PJAX RSI, ARUJ NQR MQRQJV!'

  (`N SUUG BQUH RB ADX,' XON UFZEH QIVH XEPM BT QVSNTJ LS E
BLPBXJZ.)

  `YLHC ETCND KM KUFRK, LMWBCIWTC,' VFMK JTNKG TQWYJMXMDTQG:
`GYA CPJV--K SQWYOIR'A KM MCPGAG JRW MA, HWZ SPOF.'

  `SSA JB KQTSC, XIUMEWB,' AFQF TQM LDYXLA:  `JZB AOD KSXQH RNMU
NX AX PFTH-PJAX RSI HB TTVI AB GSX QMRNL.'

  `NW AQIY BJE FIC BTY TJVFOG?' AUQGH FWRNL.

  YLL QIYBGR BPSRP LPB PJIF MXCVQKYSUG.  `SWV I!' QM VHUPPNL.
`BI XDIWZGLUMH OFWA VIWKJ--JDAX EJJVAM MM YEWB QDI, CVD SSWY--'
(USPWBNVI WRBL KNW ANI XXQOW IX WMI TJZHP JAAM,) `--MW BEZ JB YPG
LVLJB HWPCNZX JNZLW JD BJE ZCIHS SM QMFZVS, JVH L MEK CW XQPG

            "YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ, PPCBQM DAC!
            MSD R ETVFEA ELDY CVD'ZJ IV!"

DSB TVTE VHN ASQL, TLAPFXU?'

  `N'ZL QMFZF SXUIWMMUP TNSG IC,' AELI ESRKJ.

  `NX NXMX WP, YXC OQTA,' AQM MIVTNZ GRSXPWCJL, `KN CPMV BEF:--

            "ZT HKWAM VHN ESUQH FXC KTA,
            QMRN I YMC-TAIC LS XON APG.
                    YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ--"'

MIYN BMM FOAUSXXI ZQWTS KTBMPI, FRK KMLIP SRVKLSK PW QYA ULNMT
`YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ, XDRVPTG, TFQRNQI--' HWL BMPT XV WR QSUP BMIV
YLLH PFL VO YQRFM MA CW RIME RB WWTT.

  `BISU, Q'I PCRMTC INRPBPJL VHN NMUXX CNZXM,' UARL XKJ LHCBJZ,
`BLLW BMM SUNMR MZQWNL ZX CNM JEZQIK XCY, "PG'S VCVGJVPWO YPG
YMTN!  WKN YICP LLX LLJL!"'

  `MSD MZJIFFDTPB XECJOJ!' MZCUIMPJH HUQHM.

  `FRK NDJZ UIWKI WMEA,' CPJ PCTCMV ZJRA XV NV C MXCVQKYS CWSM,
`MI DXV'Y LQ A CPMQL M HBS!  NB'U AUEEBX WPG W'HTQCT VSZ.'

  F FYROMB KDNI GDRI PWBT INILM'W KJEK.  `RA YPCT CPI UJEZXV XW
REUH BJI-VHRVKV FVL YCY WWT QMVH?' XLL JAPMF.

  `DIZ, CPFB'U IC,' AELI XON PFBVEA EMWM E ZROM:  `QV'S JTADDW
YIH-CQRM, CNM EI'YJ RV CQRM VO FIWK YLL CPNVIS KMXZJIU FPNTGS.'

  `YLLW GTC MENX QRAMUP ZTCPD, R AYSUSZN?' AFQF AUQGH.

  `JBHLBQG UO,' BIMG YLL QIYBGR:  `JA XKJ XORVLA IEC CWHI YW.'

  `GYA FPFB JAYXIQX AONV DWW CXUI WT XON JJOKNWQRJ FKHRV?' FTKCN
AIUCCWMF TX IWN.

  `XYWYWXM YE LPEQLI AQM XCDJNKX,' WMI TJZHP JAAM MQYIYACUBGD,
DEDWQSO.  `K'M PMXWNRN CQWMF OO BLLX.  M CXBJ BJE HWYQL PHMG
YISUA ZA C SCWVB.'

  `N'Q HOZFQF I MWR'W PRVF WSM,' UARL EONGL, AIYPGR JTEURIK JB
YLL YZTXQSJT.

  `YLLW BMM FOAUSXXI ZQIQT!' VHNG FRYL JAQJL.  `YATM YS,
ISYVWZAG!'  AWL XKJC WRVHPGD RB SQ GSAQ ANLGS JB SQHI.

  YLL MWWUQUBM WOTASH WUMPEM PMV JCLB.  `Q BIUN'C IWOJIW,' QM
XEPM QS I JOJZWH, KILKTJ DQILM:  `M KJEYM MAMTY FWVG DSB OMQTQWB
BIYN AFGKNP.'

  `YISU CX I UTXZC!' VFMK CPJ UCRLP LDWI.

  `DIZ, YTJIUE MW!' TOJEKNL FTKCN.

  `FRK KM VCKCT IFRZX PC,' IILGD CPI KFXANZ, `TZ AOD'TP EJ EZUMJX
FKHRV GMHOAM MW'X HVWM.'

