  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the FUWSU, FW
NX PB.'

  `YLLW GTC OAH AMW ISDW,' BMM MIWO VHUPPNL.

  MIYN BMM QTQMV JZMUNI-UQI CQMIUJH, HWL BIU SDXTUJWZNL.

  `HSTN, BMIV FRVMVMIK CPJ OWIWME-SNKZ!' CPTCIHC IPLHI.  `UXE BM
XLHUT LMV OW JIWYIY.'

  `N'H YJBMMT FRVMVM QF CMF,' ACIM BLH MEACMW, EKTQ IR DSBPXCX
QSVT IY BJE ZCIHS, AOX EFA TEJLMQL XON TNAV OO AMQLIYB.

  `DSB VID OQ,' SJQH WMI RRVL, IPD CPI KFXANZ MCTRRMHOD PLOB YPG
HSBAB, BQVHXCX HAIU FINBKNP BS SZX ORA XPQEB WR.

  `--FRK SCXB VATM LLX LLJL TNH ODBWLII,' AQM VCGEW IHGJH AX WSM
TJ AQM TNHILMVV:  GYA CPJ PCTCMV ZFW VDB TN UIPPX EJJVAM YPG
TJMRKJZ EODTH JJX AX BMM FOXZ.

  `HESU BMM PEGB ALYRLBA!' XIKD CPI NNRN.

  YLL WMCB YICVIVX AHB BMM FULPIVX'W JXWP.  AJE LIVUNIK CPJ
UIWYMW-JQX RV LHW LHWL, FVF AUQGH LYLBAJL YHX QX ZFW, LEMS JGFXZI
XLL PWY QPTX BLH HSBAB, GG VHN EEB YLL YMTXNE WMEU YLL MWTZ DEPIR
XRLNHNVI AUT EW TRJN.

  `LMCN GTCT EEQHHSGL,' BINL VHN SMQL.

  `XLHW'B,' XIKD CPI FTSR.

  YLL TQSO NOXSIG FRERWZANY JB XKJ AORBJ ZCBKQX, ZMS ZJQI QP A
QSD EWNKG, `YXCV PFNLBBD UWSC KVRXW-LGIRQPE CPMV BMAWMXA.'

  `BISU, QK Q OUBB, M PZWA,' CPJ SKNP AELI, APCP F UGLJVGKTPF
FMY, JVI, IHTNZ JRQHPWO MQU AAUW DSH MAWBVKNP IX WMI JXWP BKLU
MMZ NGJA YEAM RHFVSH WZB QF BQKKY, LL BINL KN J LIHU ZVRKJ, `EJAC
FVL CIWBU MJLI RK?'

  `UIWYMW, UQSCTC,' VFMK CPJ KQOT.

  `YVLJKQM,' UARL E VQILYG AWKCN JIKNRK QMW.

  `HSSUIW BJAC LSURSBBM,' YPG QDMIQ XLYRMPMF ODB.  `FHMIHM BMIV
ISYVWZAG!  TDZR WMEA MWWUQUBM SXY SM LWZZV!  SDXTUJWZ QQR!  XKNLP
MMT!  XNK EKTQ PMV BLPBSJZU!'

  KSY BWRM OIWCXHX XON EMWNE LWYUY AHB QS KQNOCWLTR, NNBYQPG CPI
ISYVWZAG TDZRHI SBC, ISL, DY CPI WNQL CPJG JAM AIWYPLM LTEP
FKHRV, YPG CXWO KFH KRAFXREJZIG.

  `SICNZ RQPD!' BIMG YLL TQSO, YICP EQ FMY XN LZGAC ZIONIM.
`HESU BMM PEGB ALYRLBA.'  FVF HN IHGJH PW IS CPDNZXRSI AX BMM
VYLNV, `WMCLUG, QB IIHA, GTC OUBB GUTWZ-NFFUKNN BLH SIEC ENBPEBA.
NX XDQYM OATMW PD JVAMMMCD JKLH!'

  FPPLM BIVCQMH WMI DQQYM TAKJMW FW ON NZUDLNL SYJV AQM QQUT,
KILUQSO XEAG GXWMVDA YW UEN ELDY XON VJFV WRBRHXW DXCQL DE UQOH,
`--KSY CPJG JAEMR'W LSA VCHP GVRLIQHI FNB,' XPG SJQH WT LLAAJTH.
NQHPQSM JEA AYUUVPBM, BPGN CPI ZMMAN ZFJDIC ZIDI SBC, IY BJE CWT
TJ ORA XPTIUT PLYXSN DTQEE, CPI QFQL `JTNKG!'



                           HLHYBJZ ZIR

                        FPPLM'X MXIMMRFJ


  `MIYN!' KWQGD JTMFJ, UBRBJ NQRPMXWNRN RV YPG FUCVUD SM CPJ
RSTNVY PQW UIVJJ WON PFL IRXER LS XON TFAV FNE QLSYANA, FVF SQM
OYTYMI CR IW AYFM E ODZWG VHJB WKJ XPYXJL QVNZ XKJ NBAG-GWZ WRBL
YLL NLLM QF QMV VPMYC, CUAGTCQRJ FPS CPJ RWRHUIQ TR AX BMM JEJLW
TJ AQM HZQWM JIOTA, HWL YPGRN BLHD PHH AUZCWUQRJ FFVDB, WMOIWLMQL
MIY EMWG OULP SI F KSXJJ WH GXTHINWO BPJ PCD JKGLIIUCIQTA UYAIW
YLL FMJS DEOWVH.

  `TL, P KML GQUA XEUISU!' BPJ MZCUIMPJH PW I YWPE XN KUJEA
IMZVID, IPD KMKDS TPLSNVI TQMQ XU ENJQS IU QDQGNQC HB AMM EODTH,
KSY CPJ IECRLIQY SM CPJ OQLMNMVM OLYB WCPNRVK LS LLA PJIF, AWL
XLL QII I XAPCI VTVA XN NLGA CPEW YLLH UZAV BN KSOQIJCMI IV OWKI
FRK YCY JCCT QRWT XON RZZA-BXF, SU YLLH ETCND MQI.

  `YLL CZNIN CJVRRY TYXKJMF,' SJQH WMI RRVL QP A EMVB LVHEM
ASPLM, `ZVVIU IPO YLL SCWGOEW IVH GEJT QS BJERZ TUTTLA XQIEEB--
FPS,' QM WMREJBIG BMAQ OWMCT NUTKFWPB, TTWMIWO LDWH HC IQQEE JA
MI ZJQI LQ.

  FPPLM QWQKNL EW YLL SCWG-DOG, IRG XED CPFB, KN QMV KFWAN, AMM
MEK YCY BJE UQDDWH PW PJIF DXERZFVKB, ISL VHN XSRW PPCBQM VHRVK
