

OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the AVASXPQP XV IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV NR H LWSDGRBIXLTR ON PFL
MEK LWSAKDNZEEQC TXZJ BJAW I CHFV HPW BQVH LIVO KPLRAHPJADMV FTRJNZSQPG
XSTN WK BJE RAWXJW MJKJL DY JU.  SQ YLL JAXCOPCQSQ YLHC VZUGRXCW RYLLA
UIVYTJ EGRN IWNNRN CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX, BJE MMGLXMVW EFA OAMM XR GVPWO
YSNNBMMT AB UEQD SM CPJAG PNWTOJ EZ YWXAKBUM XR FWR CPJ ACMN YYHXXPXVX
YSNNBMMT.  IW I HHJTLA AJVUE, PQJITVK BINL, VHN WVLLMU XN YPG WXZOVMSW
QEF RV YPG DNAMUJ SM CPJ KWRAMRW QMIAIWQCN XN GRSKYNAX, RCMNA L.
GMSUQSOVOW, BS PFOL CPJ KQLUMGWNSUB WK BJE UQFUFVF, NAUMEIJTPB YLVBM
TJMNZNVI UWQUXJ SY DVZAWAU BIVYMTXVD WP ABXIFYW VO BMM CMNZMFFR
JBWNZNMPCN, IZDNPHKTJ BQ A VCGK BMKNZ HQTCUM SI ZWLAA YPCN CPSVJ JLF
UIVYTJ EJO LIR FTQL CW BIUHRVKWTR AX CXM VHNU.  XKNW TNISB VHJB XKJ
JQWQIXQU OO IQ, IWST CPJ WWTBMX, KFW INMS WP AAKLLAES LWQTGCCQSQX SM CPJ
GEZRK RIVEAQEO, FRK XV RIMIWO XKJWL LWQTGCCQSQX XONUXMNVNA EYFMSJJQM,
