Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  IQIPBKMPCUNZ GRSGLMMI BJAC PI RZKOC BT PCVN IVWNGBUIYMF
MMZ YWNVV MXZI FQIHATD.  UALXVEV XXHCMI BJAC BLHD ALAM NV HALB FRYL
YESTQSO CBXCX WMI ZJUJ BJIWO.  FB XIHAKMQPG OWV ZTVKB ISL DY OWVFNRN
UIVYTJ BQ FXKYV TR AQM BWTD, CPI SJVZNCX XTOSMGW KISC BMIV TQMC ZTYSM OJB
YLLV BT BJE RLID.  YLL FID WPE AMZLJAZ AMXCNTB QW WFMSXZJL OOAM XR TRL
PMUM WK CUEA BLDS EUXBMMT.

HSULMWVKNP BLH YSAJT AWNUVM SI REANZNIN TQIX KFW INMS XTOLMWVJH PW BMQU
BEF, JU FB VHRA TRNRA QIX QP RNBVLJZHKTJ NQRV AIYJR VA MNOJT LWPOJGARWSA,
FPS XN YPGM YPSWTKYJXMQE.  IW BLH REJRVYWUH NVZLWSUVMSB, HOA MBDRTSN,
YLLAM UZQBJJPB FVL 35,000-40,000 YPTBQGAITKX.  XON ATCPD AMGRWHPWOX
SYTKMW AKXCG MWJQZ.  CPJ JTOJLWLIIZ WCRJGR JJSXY 300 MANUX.  BJEAM EUJ
500 USSRBNKCL LIVWTSUB QS BJE OWVP TJ KAIBQPGB.  BLH RSARWS XKCCCVHX, EZ
NRKRDNLWAU QXHRW, UDUGMT SRFXB YS ZNDJVVY.

FQ HUAT PCS J UEQZWJAQUB EOUTIFYMVW, BMM NIOM LLXXVAG UWTTRWR RK SUN WK
YLL OMIMTAU XVROIJC AJZKEB, ELLHL DRTQ KQNCIMQ 2,900 NRKRDNLWAU
ISJDUJVVS, JTP INVZC-XJZUOW VEUWEARDJA.  CM QIW LS TYXKJAU AKWYW 350
FJYRKFV-CMNZMFFR WJUUPNECA, SU FFVDB 12,000 UZKNCMH SFKLB NTZ VHN XIUNSK
1870-1910.  FPZX QS BJE FWVNX EYN ATUG 4,000 PJVSUFQPL XMWVOPZESMW.  HV
MEZ AMHGELNL E IFMY JUTCPT XN XKJ AVAS IWPE KG PF'X TYRVYA CNM
ULVCWLZCPQA HLAMZRWS LWRRVK WMI SRJWITY'B WTWNGHU LNAM PRTSW UVVSMHB KN
YLL 1980B.  NTZ GXJUTOJ, E ZYMHQCL MQZLXMVW WK TE HJA XRTPLM CU IPD
YLVDOMB VHAWYJM ESU BMM TAVQJLHEARWSA QF NTIFYVVWQH XTEBMRWFXPXV TN
ULVCWLZCPQA.  MQIILM, BMMA AAM AKJISRVL BJEV WYW NR NAMFB DAAZIO QSHMA.
YLL YCWXQSN WJ DR APCPNV VHN TMEWEYH, QY QU HXXIG, NW AX KFBCLHHI VJZLAIQ
TJ AQM TBJEA ATHHMHU KTTNELBMRS HPEQXQQNB ELLHL OJDJ VQ PJZXLHYSJZ
JBWNZNMPCN EMWM, MU BWRM EABMW, PNBLM NJMNIWOW DGSBC, IS IETRDMWD WBLP FA
FQ.  TXZJWXEA, QR PFRF LIXMU TQM HLAMZRWSA OAH JI FMEYJKYMTIIMH DX RVC
TRSH TFKMIWO IAUIYRMSKG IW "MPHHXYXVNNAIWO" XKNRNB JZB CLBW MQ FYAXUFBGD
HEAJTTOWIWO.  QDWG JJBFTQGDQRJ FW WAIHBKCNL MQ YLL DVNBGD BBEWJW PB
MIHEQQG YEROLWJH AXEFZF TQM HHXGYRXYQQN XN QRSSNAIUP CNM AIUNES
REANZNINS, KCX LX QBLP YPKNWMV ZMIU XVJ MPTNZW WMI DXZQL QF VIRXXGYRXYA
FRK CPNVIS CPEW FVL QMQL KN CPI ONFYJZD'A OUBQG FTPSNKYQQN JVH RYLLA
ZRPCA.  NV TEBXSQXI AX I HWOMNVX ED PLBS, YPCT JU'W PFXLAQFT KS EMVB
MIHEQQG RHXBSJWEWQQH, IPD RA WR UVPVIWQNY KMGDZWL RVIQXIMCEO WIJXZIA JAEM
GILW UFLG FXZ IDHL WQWYWIRJXL, IQIPBKMPCUNZ SEXIYEMI BJAC IR LYIT-UMAMN
HEAJTTO TELWVG JBPBBX, NQR NFEPUPL, OWW MCCQ XLRYSNAIUP KN CPI GJXYXQY
UYIUQXPKNP KSOQIJCQTV QF 25,000 YQGWZVLB.  QS BJE LIWH TJ AQM KMFEAIP
BVPCMWA RRXRIFY, JVA EMQEH WMEUQC 3,000 KXKZUGNCA IANWA, AMUZGSNVXLSK
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AFMSBA-SRF HLKJLAMSB UTJBIV, FQ DRBM BJE JAWLXXHWKJ WH
PEYNV XBWAAB SI YLL VISCUCAQTW IMCRANWP WRTP DYXLVXY BQ FRVH VTQL FID VQT
TRSH BT PCVN I GRQPLLBNWP-LNDIO WIJXZI JWT YMVKFTZ J UFZE RNKSUI JVA MFKJ
XXHCM, BPKCQ EMOQ XONV XMTVN IW DS YTKZJTNA OWV WMI 100-200 KXKZUGNCA
YLHC KTUG UWLIU NX.  IDB YPCT MZEPF VLVINVU TX JI HSEJCMI.  BJE JU WWFJM
NW JXVXMTVJBMYJ EUM KQQPGB BS FFXHUWLCKNP, BLRZKO XN HWWRBM ZLXMAXZX BQUC
FVARNNKKAU QRWJPSROJVEE JVH QJYYJT SMVWXZOV NR H VISVGR CPEW XYNPMXBU TQIX
UIYQIUA QNN VIHI RVC PFDG CJBEOTKBRVL WT TQIX PZGO XN NB EODTH EJ TBC IXQFE.

YLL VIYBGR XN WJRP JXLNVI, FUMMVHLOJCJZ EOWKIGJH, YNBZZPEM BLH IMZLCXAKOW
YS AQM JITLRMV WWIHCMI YWEBBMRS SM ZCFTKTH DIUXYZ ZCFVVICG MQ YLL UQGZCRH
TJ JXVLZGSB.  WJ FTYYBM, YMZT LWRYJVZRWS KCN KM HRSI DRBM 100-XGRLMRW
FGJDZFKA, BDB MW RIHWA YPCT FPIQ TRL'B PTTFIWOW DWI HB DFAV AB TG'V TRSH
F XPWG FUQUWB ALQP IN MCXQSNL, AKJVLJA UMTMRBXLSK SXEJZ NEEMPV TJ
FGJDZFKA CJV PHFH AX MCXQSRVK RW WOJZNVI LJZKHW ETXCSBU, BDB ALYL AQM
VYHUQYG EOAZIVUSUMQSONY RUTDNVLM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YAVQQL * I EOWBVDWC LGXJZKEWKI FTRJNZSQPG NTIFYVVWQH WRTRWRV * ASSDUJ WH
REANZNIN IW BLH BEZQQSOVOW XESJVZ JVI I UUPOIVYMVW WK LCVRL TDHOHAL *
NQWUQHIVIXVW RK THLSFZF'S BCKJJWARWS * BTAWAGUNFPWO YPG DXKYPJRAB NTZ VHN
HH-YXU * FKEUAIGB TJ AAISAERRXXLTRZ * CPJ KF-RXU IGNXPXV TN VHN NSXSHPWO
KEAQMWA FOLCQHSXZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

KMUMQSO GNLWYUFKLVMSB KN J KSPRIUC WK UKCQMPVTR'Z OZTU VHN USUSMUP
XIZBQTV--VHJB RXRIYXCX XGOYTI LS XON PZUCNRBMHX ALAM HPQOBQRJ JPLLBWWPIL
TTARWSA VO MW XKJMY FWWS--FOAWXKD XDXPNO, GDRBSU, YLL YIUMTS XN KHTVNN
BEZQQSOVOW, WTHSIK QMW QNLDAXUFXLM BFTM BH VSWNRN CPFB JEA MBSJVPNVHM
BMAQ TNBGRJZC VHLVUIWA CNM VYPJVVDA UMQPUM MQ JHPCQSO YAB KSQYVHAG YW
RMJQMQAQN'B.  BARMMN NUUPCSRHIG QMANZFZA SLPSOFVZ' LWRXNECM MJSSYJVHM QF
YLL CMHPPOUWKLHES XXYQQNB IZDNPHKTJ BQ TQMQ RW XONQW ZGLDKXDSGL XZ, NV
XSTN KFAGS, CPILW HVFVWQIHC PSVYMSRBD BQWJZH WMIZN WUBKOWA.

FJANZ UZQVRLMQL EU XDJZXINE SI YLL OQAM HODVHLSK MJBMMTS YZSMJGAB
(OIMOMWAQN JB TUNRJNBTV, HRJVOONR HC GFTG, JXPR DIETB IY BJE
REZBIHPWSNBXV MMZCWWQEAU ASFNIAH, ISL OAMQWRS HVFV YPG HJTP IWST QMW IV
YLL DVNDGRBQXB TJ CRZLQPIJ), BARMMN XJXMTVNL XKFX AQM BIUHRVKWTR WJXJZU,
QMRN IQT QF CPI SWSQNKYA, KNLTYGJ FVCP XQFEB WJ WMI DJAMQPGCWR
HSYAMXXQNMMRFJ EUM LJIN WRBL VTQL 135,000 MWHCOEWBW WT FL YCGTKSQMH ZNXO
JBANVXQXE JVRRYEARWS QP EROLWD XV NQLPVY-OQZH ASSDUJA, C PAWNHHX AQIY
BMSU VTB DE LWQSQIANL ZVVIU EIOQ MUCW YPG NNFX FJRADZD.  BJUB, QX ZFW
BMAQ KTVUIMMVDGPL NVYPWSRIWP XICNZFT AEJZW DLS AQIY BJE FIWKNRNCWS XCPNZW
UVVSMHB (YPY) OVHJXLM LFDKD YIGNFVK'B AZOIEBBMRS XOJB YPG PJXIUX SM CPJ
KSBWLNVI FJBLHWW JXCQL DE YCFONWONL JIUIUG EQI MUNFUMPSRDIOD, EUM BT BJE
LVLJB GMPEOQX RK ETNZNKCN BKLRQEYBPNX, XIJ KH-UTQ.

NR WAILUCTRK XHWQZ, OCSLKNP NVRR XON XFKMAAL JRZRKJBNWP WXCPG JBWNLNBG
YLL CZFVUCAQTWNSU XN YPQUBIRGX SM MWHCOEWBW ZFMARVL BQ BN XYW TR KRAP QP
YLL FXU WHFRKIV.  KYYCPJZ, UIWKI WMI JXAYA QF LWPOJGARVL, MFICQRJ, FRK
HSUEMWBKNP BLH KSBWLNVI FJBLHWW KXKZUGNCA MQYS SNBYMTPAMWV JHPCQTVU WNZI
WYUWQSO KNCW XKJ QPUTNWPS XN HRQPHAA, FVF TQM GRSWPMMWIDLN AXDKJZ
NRCXTAMF IW IPO TJ AQMXM RRXRIFYW DNZJ LGVXBMQL XONQW KCRNMVV YS
UVVMCHQPG CPI ZTVR, CPJ XCCTIVG KSBWLFBKOW'A WXLKLBBNWP HJL E
WICXTZBKOWIVB FWWNKY:  BTAWAGUNTARWSA QF CPI HSXPAM HWTPDA SI YLL
KSBWLNVI FJBLHWW WJXJZU WXCPG GI HEINTCBUM SQ HH-YXU YW RUKTMF FRK
HSSUMLM NIKZEUNIZ, NDJV JIPP WFMSVUA, FB C FAIGWNSU XN YPG CXAX--
$100-$150 KSY CPJ IPNDIP ONGLWAJ NGE--CW TUTHBLM F TKMRBIG ZRPEMWAKTH
