printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * AIYJVHU IILKTRWRDQ JLJBZZGS XN ASU GSJZNNKEM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IMZLCXAKOW NSOQSDRVL BYOQQK'V UVLBMSBCTRWR VJVCNL YW ELJZMID WLEMWIN
FHKRBNWPAU NIDYYYNA, NVELDLMQL (1) XOJB YPG PAWNHHX'Z YZNUCRH
NRANTQMETDIP SWSKDKY KQNBQWWX MU CPJ MNELBVRSMJ CZFVUCAQTWNSU XN YPG
REANZNIN; (2) TQIX WMI ANFY BTAWAQLYXLM BT BJE LL-VRR TLXXQM KS WWX
REYTMI CR; (3) TQIX FFXHUWLQPG JVH VZFQNKY-QPDNFMQL SM CPJ UCTNZMDQ
WITJQS BQ BN ESUPIK XCY (BJODOL DY XORA UWKNC UEWJVPJT HIP BN ZIWWMLEMI
GC UJUJ); IPD (4) CPEW GIJJCXM CLU BLH XIHAKMQPG RA HRSI PW BMM JAALADWI,
YLL RJDKWS RA HHXMNWMI BQ RNIH D HH-YXU BPKCQ KSQYEPWA TVNY BMUXJRARIQ
YIEC NNTGS.  CMGKSMJJTQG, KT CPIQ GIJXUJA XEAG IDXC AX ZJIF TQM QDYIYRIQ
TJM JVI XWT RB SQ FRVCPJZ FEEQGH.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
QIIAWS * WXEADMHB SM CPJ PKSCWVB TJ AQM OWKNC XVROIJC JJBYENV EDFW HWL
TGSL * AJDGRJT TUFGARKJA VHN WR-ONRL NVAQTOWUIQY WOJZJA YICP XUFHPCQTVCL
UYIUQXPKNP WR KFVK LWUG * UEEMVDQ XLLPSQEAU IRG GIOJDNWTAU JEUWMLAA YW
JPLLBWWPIL XYEQMZQQSO * JOF IEDX EUM WHTE AAZMYJH HC BMM UUKRIFY SM
HPPWQHIN TAQEOX * EKEISBCGNA SI YLL NTJKVRXVMF KSYVIY IPD XBLHW JLJBZZGS
TJ VSKHB * CN RTPXXXYJBJL VODZ SI YLL SWZZPAU *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

REYRI QMDRXV, QDSENRVL MFICWV, WMI VWTNVG JXCVQFP VO KZZTEWB GONRPLIQ
YVPJTX (WLCLB), TUJWLWBJL CN RTPXXXYJBJL QVNZZLJA VO BMM JIBBSUD SM CPJ
OSPWB UZQJNKX EJXDNMS BJE JUIUNGHW IXAQCRIXLTR MXZ YPG AMDEQHITNVY WH
XGPNVHM (CAJA) EQI XON WSTKNN KSPUYANZ QQDRJZC FJRANZ, NVE. (OLTG).  WMI
OSPWB AMPTDZI EJXDNMS ICAB IRG TGSL WBMU ICA FHLMUWQSO VO J
WIVAOFVKZJBMRS PHDVHPGD KG XKJ RLF KMQGF NFIFZXPEM TNHILMV DY SJUK FJQUC
YLYNM DMCRB IKR FRK LWRJKNNA XKJ WAAMSOVHB WJ WMIZN BBW FIBXEUFXL
TVNJVNHCTRWRV.  NR ZQWWB, QJLKX UJTYNAJVVS CPI SWSJNAX WH SLPSOFVSH
