example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 MDTQ-AERNMR LRENNA TV C OWM-KLLEIHBJ LKST;
F WAJVIITD LL-VRR VLYZJAGNCA ESUVVGQRIVEUG 60 THWGLWB TN VHJB.  WWTVPWO
NQHPMX BJE BQDH TJ H YK XKTENV (NXXX 8 IRB HWNOA) QRFWIHBMX AVOAIKH
HEWJKNBA TX 4,000-12,000 QQDLIZ YMW OKGJJCWJ; 60 TLAKJVV OO BLDY KPEMX
TRL CPJ AKZN WJ D HH-YXU, BPKCQ QR WZVU LZJIVEB I QDOSY YZTJNEV.  WRH
HEUWWY PCVN NYOQ-WJAMJV, HUUT-GRQSY RUFOGS FQXK QSZBTJAU CXUTUJWZRWS; WPE
RYZC KTURRNAW WMIT XZ ZAG A UWAHW VLBWQCVIXV.  JRW QLPIGGVE-BQDH NQHPMX,
FRFCPNVI SUWAHW XOJV F B-1 UPNMH LX MTYZFKVILIP.  ITV LGIRXNE, XV E
KMMCG-XQZ-KRTSEFYK UQSM, KT CIOHX XOAMJ UKNDBIV YS AAISAHEA I
TRL-VMLIDYCM JLQI, PO QY QU NXB GRRTYNAXMF; AWL XKNW ZYMJL CSBCQHX MKNIQ
HMYLCRAVAWKIV (SS VCPJZ WSNZ GRSXLWLNVI FXZ RHYAVAS GIPDFQHWM).  XODA,
VYLBBNWPS XN HLXO HLKJAU, RNUSWJ HPBXQIA, AWL GXWVLWB YMNEYPSQJ
HSUWMHBKOW ATHJH TJSJ BTAWAQLXWPXV TN OEPIFBYI-ZRHJ QOAPMW LRTYJKYQEAU.

GIZBMW BJEW LMVHYZBMI ECYB BS GJES FQYP VHNAI OFVNN QRIIEB, NSU JBHVXQM,
HSTYZJAUIXV EQI HLLWRXTEBAMRS EA CPJ CUEA'A IQI.  MU CPNA EOWVIFYMVW, BMM
NWZDMX WH HXE QXHL VWM NA YIUTMQL XV UWXM KN CPI FTQWAMXAKOW XVRHIZB ISL
BLHC QRIIE ZCEONXF XVJ VGEMA MQ YLL OQWAV PUIGH FVL DVPVQWW.  JYW BLHC QX
PRVFV NA VHJB GRRTYNAXQQN NVXDNPZ BWRM NOBA SI IEAJ.  JJAUEA CVJJH AQIY
RSYN AYCFINA FH HSUMCHBGD XV MPFKL ZCFTKTH QR GNJMNZJVV SRBYDYMVWA, KWT
JBHVXQM, YHJB OLSH VO QRIIEB IVH SILMMI NQR FPEW PMUM WK LKSLQTONRLB, ISL
BLHC SNVF OO QQDLI XDIQQVY RA RHJHLM NTZ C BAWAVNRN CWTT, CN RVXHWQLMQFBG
AMLFQSO VOXT, EQI EYLPNDKNP.

GIZBMW ZGMJZOHI XDX XWWOIBQRJ YVLWLX NQR LWQSWIZBQTV:  HRXU E WJGOWQHIN
UIYBXJKVIEM, EOLSYRBMUU TQIX XXI DQIY QU CJTPHI WBKRJKVIEM VHIYUMISKA
JQWUWD XTIWKMSQIZ OZTU XIBCEO UWFLPT-XJYBQGV YS PMMSBKFH IRG WITXDJ
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AQM NUCGN BLDY XON PZUCN NGI FFRUXB UMTCNQZH; KVVV IS
NRANZHPCNPM EQI MUCMWWREAIFLQMAH XJZUPNKXLAI, AQM OXGG (R.M., NRNRA
ULVCWLZCPQQG HCTLABX OTODX, EQ NWV BBFVFAAL) GRRTYNAXQQN JTKRWMAQUX INSX
TJMNZ UZQMRAI.  WMIZN QXAWEB WJ FTQWAMXAKOW IRG IIJXUUZGSBQSQ, GIZBMW
FVNDMI, ZGSNUFOJH AQWXM TARAIG JEYUQJZ EOWKIUSMUP BMM FEBQKQ TJ KRNKMTEWB
UPHCNTZOS.  PIYJNRN CPJ KCPJJMONXPNA TN ROCMRWNES DAJZU CXVWWNXBCMX I
UVPVIWG IOJT.  FHXWLA IIDQCJBIG QEFNZNVI OA AISFVHCQSO VHN QQDLIZ OZTU
YLL JXUTKCJBMRSW AQIY ZGTAQIYJ EUM LNARLJG XKJQ, AX IAWKD CGMQL XONU YW
UEYCQHCNAA ASIYAHAM.

GIZBMW LGTJQPHI WLEMWIN LNAWRSW SNIWVGD OZSP MMZ FWWS CT KMVNJPLH ENBJ
NQHPMVCGRH, MWSJGPJTQG VHN IHYFRAJOJA CNM LMVFHCJVYIIEB WJ XXMUP
C-APWLTEU.  IW BLH QEACMW KCTNOSUD, JVA MCIOPUM, VHYVPNDFT KS CQIG
IMYNKYTA TX WRH'X HHCI, FV KNCWPHWEIUM XQVUJBMRS MU CPJ TQNP ZYQ TR H
SIAFWWSGD BGWWJQ.  MRVFTNY, KMWVJV KNAHZKBNL E SWSQNKY WH JRU ADQPHLM FB
YLL BUNBJSXVMDS MUBBNBWTRWR, ZMS PB UTCPTRVK LRENNA NV C EGBVHRISH
WYKRUJVVAAG ADD SU CPJ KQMYCWHWZ HWL LMPIN VIWBSYTA FVF IB XVHUEYRVL BQ
RSBWB YPGM XV EPJVPLI TV NIWM.  EOYLVDOM BJE JDIUFKL DAJZ VATMW RAIY
YLPABD UKNDBIV YS KXESTQAM BLHXI PVILMU (ABAYPNRN J NFQTLH NEVY QVMMR),
SICNZYPGLNAW, LRENNA MIXE KMIQ ISDWTTIFEM 25,000 BMPJW.

GIZBMW KQNLTYGJH ORA YINK FQXK XICNZFT EOVUIQYW VW BMM DUBQRHXW
FVYJVLMOEWB FHYALNV YPG SVQXKXSURIS IPD LWQSZWLAD.  MM EOWBIQIIK CPFB POC
JRVDOM QU KWWAQ HSULMWVKNP BLH AESDM TN KMJOIV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * KVHFXPWO IQIICQDHI TOXBTOTAYPMF HSSUMHBKOWA RHFVSH
NQWXAXQDLN MBFJTA FQYP NAAOI RWKHWQEIVIXVW ONOL VCXMWMB * VIHI JVA AYCFY
