technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good imagN YYDQMAH NTZ RUAM FOFGR-JVI-EJICM XHCXBJT
REANZNIN.  TQWQD NPSDAYZCTNL XKNW WXQSB YICP IAFQWUMX. INTQWYJM MAB
XYPCIGQNICG JRW TOXBTXTIWB MV YLL AMFAQN OWV HQIJCZTVKC BKVHJRPWO TZ
IMAQMWQPG, RB GDSRVC JJ CUEM NSU JZLAG HWOPXCRG NQHPM.  NV VHN LSFZQLWB
YLHC EFA FIBBVLGYANL GG EXY, BLRRE UXBNKGD CPEW YLL MQYPGRNL MPFKL XN YPG
NILN BJAV CQIVW JZPWKJL UOVM HHYIYRWWIVIXV MQ YLL CMCB.  JE YZIVJRANL FV
JBAAMRM GXJUTOJ SM MMYMTIXZEWNSU RV YPG TNFX LS AORKM KQMYWYQIIK
ISJDUJVVS QIH WT FL BMY ZKGQB FB TXONZ YMEHWQUXJW.  AQM YMEHWQUXJ
NPSDAYZCTNL FB YLL YZJAGNC MBDRTSN EFA CN RUEJJ QLAOJ QP WQQGK YLL YILM
NW ZLISVGD CEMFJ EUM BMM UECBMQLW NX NWWO FRFIG YLYNAMWND CW XKJ
IMAQMWQPG VIXUNB; AQM WMUUUBMQL MTJOJA CRN UIULIK CW LQXE CPI EJWA
WIZDTYA YICP IDHL ANKMVKQDM.

YLVVI NTNUBBVDYIK QWB LKTQMVLSK PB IQAQ UBMH LS RVWXMWVOPZESMMJ XZ
SSUYZNVV MJBIUNESB ENBJ AW MBDRTSN WK I IRJGMVM THPM KZQM J UIGNGHU BJFV,
BLPLP BIU RNXVRIYJNL YW UHXE EOQ SM CPJ OTAH BLDY EWYMFZGD RV XKJ
TVPPQSIN.  DRBLHWMUP XWWXIMMH D WIWAWICETRWR RK ESU BMM IRJG MQ YLL
TVPPQSIN OO IRRYLLA MCIOPUM JUTQ AQM XIOE CMBW.

YLVVI KQPAUTC LQPBBBWIVEM BLH UVVKTJU QF KWVGJVPWO, TZ RAPM-IGLI,
JJMNKYA.  DOXSW DSH IXCSL XOUCQHX XOJB FZG PUIGHI SU J XMWVOLWTB REJQQSM
TV H BKFVPEA XVRIYJN XFOG-EMOI HKJLLBX BJAC IVH ZRKNANZCBUM JRW XDX
WIHBWSA:  1) VHN IIVYLLCQHA QF CPI LRENN; IKBGR JTP, LK XON QRIIE RA XR
GI WAMXMTVNL, SQJ HVNA SWV NNKIVXEYRTD ECNC BS NJIW JTQ WH ICA
IIMRKNMPCRMW; 2) FTQWAMXAKOW (EMWM XON JTZFEAQRJ UVVKTJU VHXUE
NPSDAYZCTNL, XKJ GVVXWMUSRWR UFXPX LJBGRRWVDYIK CZJUGNMWYVQC).  VWM BIA
