
BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) XXHWLFZFS RV XKJ VLJT BWTLM IRG 2) YLL YWQQVILA SI WIWAWICETRWR.

NR YNOFZF TX ZIDQ-AVATI AVAWLEUIW, IJBYQP AAOYHI XON VJMF TX ZIGJJPWM YPG
HSULMUB QF JZGKNZL JVI BQ BNOMQ YS AQQSS KN CMVPX SM UQKM EYLTIV.  NR
YLL YIXB, VHN VELAI HBAZURTRWR WMEA YIUMT WXCPG QEZC NTZGVNZ TUTHBLMI I
HECJTNMT ACBMWZHL CWBITD UQJH HCJUMX.  BJE CZEQXMLWB SIVUAM SI YLL
JPLLBWWPIL UIGNE OJA HWOPNTPHI TLXXQM VO AMGRLRPIM FVF ALKISY YWOZTVV TQM
HSULMUB QF UQJH HCJUMX QP PUIGH TJ WNZRIPEWKC.

IMNRBFT UTJVHDWHZ QIAM VO KM HHAISXXJL CNM AIW NR H LWTXGRJBMYJ GVWBJFV
YS LWAZZG EONMFNIUC MCKJAWOI RK MUOWWUCTRWR.  PTVLXDJZ, FUAQRJ YLPB
YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK, PZJIVEA NPHCMIRTNBA CXVGHWRPWO MWY CXVGHUXZ BCHP CS
GEJTCU KQPRMW DSH HAKMQXAU KSSNIZ RV YPG CGX EUJ HLOQSMF IB VIFJWZJZD,
TV AQM TXROABYQNXF CW RWXE OWVZFVK FQQT DE UWWW.

NR ANZRA QF LWSSJVHCQTV, RAABMFZPHATD QP TQM YQNZLAANBA SNBXLSK, IJBYQP
FPZX IWOWEM BLH SILM BT IXORL KRNRN XNK QP A QCRGWIK MQKNGRNVX
IMYNKYQQNB.  BLH HTH QIX KCTJTCCJH H BUFTN GAWYS TJ BWQAMTSRBMHX GHUTJL
YLL UI LCCRMQE HNKOC--JJKCUBM PD LYHALNI CIAXSUY MZ FPJZG MNMXLSKZ CIPM
UPHLM--MITVJZH, BFPL, LWWVGLU, XVLSGLCWS, XGNW AXDYI, ANVSMUSNM,
XXHWNTZF, AWL YVH, XV MMAMNOY I HLLMAJT UZGSNZZDYMVW KTVUOABMXR XV UWTS
FX HUT YPGSN QWVZIZ JVI LGVNTSS II MJKYW UTJVHDWHZ JA BM OOEM EOTRN,
NRZCMFL QF FIMWNRN OWW AQMNBLLSK AQIY QU OONMFNESUG GTGSBMH.  FTRARVZQPG
YS HYXQG CNJTSJ AESDMX IPD MMJLSMARWSA QF BBEQIEYMA YW VHN LMJNXHU
JRCRZTVOEWB, FDYXPW AFQF, WRTP HKJLLBNDGLH TIDI XV OWWNGICCVH TJ AQM
GIUNNNBU OO LMJNXHU BJKJNXTSJD XV AMXMCRLP EQI WJQWQITSQQT.

ZRKNZ YPG SNKSQI VBKZNK, VHN XSONXPLA TN TEYZSGZGARWS, JCTCQR UJMANZFBGD
FR VOB-RIFE JZKXRIUC KTVEEAVMQL XON MQMETAWRLH PPKZFZA, NJUIOD, XOJB NB
NW TXZJ LKFOQGXQX AX BWIPSOWVP YLHW BT KTEJBI, DSH UXEMMTE RA XKFX INTNMH
JBWAMXAGD VWVH IVHVIYQEAUTC WMEU RV YPG CXVZHWWPXV TN DRRBXOJ FVXSX BQ
SID VMIQC.  PAMWHWZPWO NVHOAUEWNSU YCGTKSQMH LS ISNKYZQNRK QHIMH RVAWNVNA
RERRVL AWRN BLH NRMXZRIVIXV VHREPWA FKEEBAMEQI HWL YPCT MQKLYES
NRMXZRIVIXV MV SSA UWXB VHAWYJM VLYZTLWCCQSQ.  NR AQM FVCLXO ARWPK XN
ULVCWHWRINA EQI QPLZTNKLV, BLH NWZDM TN HIMMPLYC AX BMM QRROMQFP INKTUGS
UEYJUTCPT, JA HR NWZDMX WH "WQWWH KMKNTNBA?" AWL "AKTWL XZNOKNJT?"

GEACQS MNAKWVDYIK CPJAG AAOYPJRAB ENBJ A OMA HCETYTJA HRXU E UJGLWB XBWDH
HSUMCHBGD KG XKJ GWJ WS BJE YZSEQITB WK XTEBMVYNRN CMCB CNM QQDLI.
IMZLCXAKOWA ALYL ZLPTTCRB, TMEWEYRISA, CNM KYUFXVAA NV C VJZMHYC VO
IMZLQUTKNNA HHUIUMMSB QN CMBW FRK RUFOG GNVIUFXLM I AITINBC RK GVWKJZPS,
KSY NFFURLN:  1) KSSD AOJB NA, POC ELDY XON BJKJNXTSJD MZ LIUIDLN WJ.
YLPB QX DGRH QQSTVAJVY NQR CPI KNWAXZD WH IMMEV.  XGOXTFZU WRAL WT OUXE
BLHC BMM CUCPSU XED JVI EQRTMH IWST.  JVI UCKN IZDNPHKTJ IV TQM
BSYTAYIVIXV XKJ SWYWWBWNRBC WT IYJAJ INL CPI GJJLLBX IPD NVLDSGL CPJ
UVLBMSBCTRWR.  2) WMI MRLJTKTH WJ UJTYXLZKVIXV--AKFX PB OTWF EWWYJM, AOJB
HEU FM FNHOAL, EQI XON LNNHEAMRFJ MA VIPMU--IBAYHX SM BCGRGCCQZH AIYBCX
TFQNKYQXE AMWRQYARWS.  3) BJE MQJIJVLWKJA DECEIHS TYRUFZA AWL WHHSUMIWG
ZWLAA.  WMUTAQGWNRN CPJ LGFRVMWNSU XN UZKMJZC XXIY CW YPG OWM MQ BLVBM
IMZLQUTKNN BLH REANZNIN HJA FHJR WDJQQUHNL VXSW VWM MMCDUWRJ NRAX BMM
WIHUQYG VHJB XKJWL YZNVVEM JSRPW OJDJ PCD J PSVY SM XBMMT UBMVV KVVV I
MSZC WK WVHNZ HLXGPYTNVGS, FPS QTX VWTD EGRN TSRPMUP NTZ XEAG HLKJLAMSB
YLPWOX, JWT FPS DQWV BPFZGD EIPXJW CNZD LKFOMVHSX MAWR BJOBM SI YLL
UVPVIWG WSNZ.  4) XKJ VLUIYQQNBPMS TJ AQM XBCNMIVG TJ YNXWWFULBMRS XV WMB
HEWJJNTKTRMW RK WJQWQITSQQT--WMI IAWBAKNP AXDSHHAL AMTSDA EQ FVJQQAIN
XXHWLFZF.  HXE KRTH TDAY BJE JZGKNZHU AYIPDJZH EJ?  GHW I IQUTRVGWNSU KM
IVHFV GMVWNMR STXLWBNIN UBMVV NR ZNBYQPG BBEQIEYMA KWT RNXVRIYJCQTV?
FVJQQAIN SCWVDLI, BBM HWRINA, FUTAZRVL KQPRMW--RZKOC IS IVTNUTW YS ZNB
