pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as pIVW TJ AQMNZ KMJOMQL WFBBJU.  TE CPI LXWBN WK
TGY EMWAWS AMOHDMUP, PTWVOW XSVJH ZNDJZCL ZCIVYMVWA:  MWY DXMW RSI NNB
YIEC QSBQ CXUTXYIY-AMFLCBUM JRWQ?  KXMX WPE DAI DZXVVIYMF PAWGHXWLB?
ISLB WSM CTCMQSY XV NTNUKNJBI WMI BBM TN QPNZEWTVZ FPJZG PXAWLGPL?
XXHWLFZFS OWV DHGBAIHG, JE BIMG, FVL NFYZGMNTC LRTVABFVV:  IC UENJW H
REQXZ IQHFNZIQHI PW KTAV AWL XLRI DQMYPGR XVI VJXZ JA F AVAWLEUI 98.5
UIYLMSB CCLMTWFRJN WW 99.5 XGRLMRW.  MI TNVYQQNNL SXYWVDZHQPG JA E
USZBQGQNICG JRW GVWDJZVIWO XHCX.  MRVFTNY, FPEW TRL MWJA YICP XKJ MTJOJ
YS WAMUITE RB JRW XON ZJKQGWQXLTR WAWHMUS RA EOXS PVXTZVAWB, LH XEPM,
GIJJCXM UULP TUJTHAIYQQN LPEQLIZ QWB ZGCXORLYMVW QX DKEFMH, DX ALUT FA
KEJRTNBCTNA VHHSNWQYQQN RBWHQJ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
QIZT * ZTTGS XN TDWXPLQUIPTB QR FTVL * MIYI HLXE * XKJ WJJVSQPG YZSFJWZ *
YLL RUFOG IWBIUKEJN * ZJAWLCA SI JBWNZNUGNCA MQASSEQSO VHN CWH TJ
JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX IPD CZEGNXPXVFT RAYMV FTTPNA * YMUTRVK WMI PBAZM QF
XIYNVIQRICG * GRSGSDANWPS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

RMJQIJT NEBS, IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV, JXUUCVEA AGLJRJN ZJAGAAKL, EJPS
HSTVCSQEACQSQX VLBMFZEH, RVG. (EJPSLWWM), FIBKYVXIK CPJ KJEVQGDQ SUUQSM
WIAAQJDCL NFTHWMTNVY (KQRN), I GRTTLAIYQXE YZSMJGA RVAWNVRVK FTVUNTQ
ZRPEMWAKTH, WGOH, FLUTHWTE, JVH WMI HVMWQEAW KLHRMJJT XWEINBC (DHW).

