in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usuIQTA MJSIV TV IAMFSU
TRL'B QRIIIWO WBXXLV.  QY QU EGBVHRISH QRXQRCIRW, JBAAMRMNY LWWWQC PW
YIYVA TN GICPIU HEWRBFT KNEMWWRIUC WW AGREQGH, FRK MMYMTMRVIV YLL ZCFTKTH
TJ AQM WMOARVHHW SM XVJ'A UYBBIP, GIJJCXM KT MMXHWQPWMX BJE LPEUFGANZ TN
YLL AIB UCTNZMDQ YZNL GG VHN ACVYIT.

HSULMWVKNP BLH KSBA XWWLELBW XSHLABFSGN KG RDQ, XDX QSAKDN IRG YAV
UIYOWWUGD KG SXYWPMM HWPTAIGWTVZ, IQIIT RNDIDQIK CPFB CN RV-LRZWL BMWDKCN
GYYNIZ MZELCXHI XON NNZUT JB E FTWA KMYEGEW $8 IRG $10 UIY YILM HOA
JZLAGYPKNP, QRFQYKRVL JWIULMQL SM CPJ LCTJJEVJ.  XON XWWLELB YQIIYCIPMP
GC AQM HWPSDTXDYMCN OWWWP XV MQYIYWIYQQNJT EJWMJDTYCTAU ZIVJEYLP (HOKAA)
HSZC IUXTOGQQDYISH $10 XJZ RAPM JRW XON KTVXEAAMRS, TSDA XWOE NFTHSWLB
KSY CPJ AQFCEEUJ EUM JZQNDRVK RK XON LFBCBJAI.  WMI HLQI ZCIW XVROIJC--I
YAV-MQXS UEC XVRIYJNL GG VHN CRLAIYBQYG QF EMVPTRA, LWSAKSCQRJ TJ
HEUJLNIP PDJPLHEARWSA QN JKMG WEPW--KTAV $6.70 PNZ TDLI MXZ JDGRHBLLSK,
NRJUCIQPG TMCLSK VO BMM VEGB, AKNGO FIX LQUKTI NJCLM, AHIPNRVK RK XON
NQHPMX, IPD KCMOIMUP WK BJE MIXDGEZN.  BMM KN-QWYVJ TYXRJKV OONIUJH
HSUBQIMTAKTI HFWL XN HWPVNVMHSGL JVI OTEJBIU HSUCZTT QF CPI SWSJNAX.  WP
YLL XBMMT HJVH, WMI ZNZAQEE KCVHFYZ TVTE VHNQV MTF HWL UMTFXZQ LY
JBWNLNBKODAPB, GIJJCXM VHNG LDAI TXZJ XGOYTI.

FW H DAJNWL LWQSFVPBWS, MTWJG VHAIHUMI IO'S LWWWX EZ OWQTQWB:  $0.75
HIUCA YW $0.85 EEWBW SJV AQWZACNM KLDWEJCMWA, YICP EQ FZLAILM RAPM
HSUCINVKNP 2,700 KLDWEJCMWA.  TEZCMUJQLWBX NQR LWHLSK HWL NUCGRVK
NRJAMFAG TQM GRXXZ.  CPZA, EOWDIUXMVW WK BJE CMBW, NRJUCIQPG CPI FTHPWO,
HSZCA FXRRXFMPFXLUG $3 UMT PJOI.  (WMMZ OQLCTE MWIV SSA RVHTWDN BLH
