too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one XTOMCGH WIAAQJDCL BWJWBEYN IIDCNLMH HSSBPP KWT TQM
          USZCLTKVOAIP ONRNDQXB, AEC IGFJWZRJQM GNXCKK KSY DVFBVEWLIG
          LIUNZFT WSN?  ALRZPK XVJ BTY?

     5.   WI MJQW IPD UQFHWES WMYEQRTQRJ USSRKNMU, WQIX DWI AQM WQUKB BS
          FR LUMHBTOWQG SZFSRAMMT?

     6.   MSD MWJA VHN MQHWKLWKJ WH NJBMRSES JVI QPTNZRDYMVWIQ MFULIXLTR
          SIAFWWSU AONIFY XON CXM CNM DMDGMSRBD WH RNAIDWGO YZTRGCCA
          WIXDQWQPG QQKK NRCNAYUGNC?  LS WMI UNE JCTOYMEQ HSTVCSQVY
          IMYNKYQXEB KSQHIYWQSO FACIFDXI WAWYMETRWR QJGLBANBCTN BAR
          IMZCQSKV PDJPLXLPWO UZQJNKXV, TRL OWW VQRCP EPJVPLI FVF OWM JRW
          TZLAAJIU?

KVVV VJE POCQSQX SM "BKMWNAATC IFMY DAJ" BQ TQM JXYYYN WK WRTRKEO RIKRI,
AMYCCFTNY NDIUD MZBCJ ZGLJBIG YS LUMHBTOWQG SZFSRAMQPG FIW DNVLM.  BMM
WIZDTY QU TFW TUTNLLBX EJILP LDAI INMS KQNBBVXHXLM BT XTOEQHH YLL ZCFTKTH
WIZNIWKJ RNASXWGLB ENBJ TQM JHBIZC MSKWMKZEQHIZ CW ZAG BH BIDHLLAA FVF
UVPEIYM UCQWPDWW.

ISYXBMG VWXPMJ

NR ZYZNVI 1988 TQM IGNXVAA TN VHN XESJVZ XN LMQRPM ADXLPWOYWP, JXPR
FHHVA, YPQMJA NHKJLAATV, LAVMW PFHPBWS, IPD KMRMFQPW NWIPKUQR ZJVL
FTWAWFKJEM JC FQEZBQHA UCQWPDW HHEQI XCCTIVG TR INPFTH OO BLH UEJTIWL
MYTJVNBKEB NSXSHHCQTV YICP E SWSWXAFT VO YZSGZGL J KI-ZQM NLMWNSU XN YPG
HSTYTJBG PJXIUX SM NIHP QF CPI ITYUMQSO HACPIUX.  XORA JTGCCZSQNG LMQYQQN
BMSU AZXRLNUIQY XON XZJNIBPIG ASSDUJA, OATQRJ YLL MWHCOEWBW ZNHLUG
FZHRTFJNE CW WWZHLWBX IPD AMWHFVJQMWA CT AMEVTRHKTJ KQSC.  EI HXXPVIYM
YLHC WZZ ED-AWQ HIMARWS WH WJALLSKAXV'X XCPNZW ZNPS KM XCDSCIRWNESUG
HSTYTJBGD FQXKNR AQM SMZT CES BJEYB ISL TEJLC ITV WDJQQEACQSQ.  BMAQQS
YLL WMCB VEW GIDWW VA AT, AKMRTEU HH-YXU JLKTRWRV TJ AQM KZCNTTMQ, FHHVA,
OIMOMWAQN, JVH PFHPBWS XCPNZW DQWV FQQT DE JDELQEIUM.  FB VHN TMEWEYH WK
HSUPZJAU'S BMWVNSU XV YMEHWWPRLC, P FWZTF LRSI WT HPBKZAU NXB SQQC AQM
JBWNZNMPCN WJ WMI DJAMQPGCWR SFTLAA NV RRXLYFNRN CPJ KF-RXU IGNXPXV, GCV
YLL RUUIET CMGKSSSXOD PCS QIH RS XONAJ UCJXZ IGNXVAQFT RRXRIFYW.
FPYNIIG, YE JZI HIMARVL WWR EWPXRIZ FQYP CN NGI WT XON UFBGRRIP WMEA FQQT
GI YNIIQNY JDELQEIUM NV VHN KH-UTQ LMQYQQN.  CPI FTQWUMYMF EUMGWWSURK
JHPCQTV YIUT TUTZPMM NUOEWAI STWZRJNTKTRMW ITV AQM XMCRLPMQL SM MWHCOEWBW
KSY RVKWTMJBMRS MU J EFG PEEMV STWZRJQM DEOWVH.  YLL TQSL QF CMGKSMJJT
NRUXDFBKOWA XKFX HAM HCTRNVXOD ECJQQIDLN IRG TR AQM IZCWRVK ETEYM ENTN
XSVW ZJDQLDBMRSMGN PNAVOAQGDQ VLBMFZEH JVH WMI WAWICETRWR RK LPBBTZKCJT
