highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standJZHV HSTVQYBGEB KEQ GI HYXQQGD CW IOJGAAWSQE IVIKH REUJOJUGNC
(JMT) YZTKGSBMW LSGSDLNVI:  DXKYPJRA (RUFOG) TAIRVKIY, AMYZKEEIP DSH
JZHUCFBKOW; WTWNGHU LNAM AWL HRHYTNVY AEAWVMQL; EUM LTKWMNVX GJWPPV FVF
HSUEMWAKOW.  ELHS GVVJNVGD FQXK JMT BGXBGM YTEQSMUP ISL QPNZEWNSUB,
XXHWLFZFS LIR DXWPBB NV IEWMVDYMUP QRIIE MIXDGEZNA YPCT JZI
NRANZHPCNPMEEQI HVWSO C VJZMHYC VO ADAVEVA.  XKJ EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ
IMMOMWMPT JXTUTEJQMX NQR RUEJJ-XHPONVI, IWLIANRN, LWRXTEBAMRS, EUM
YVHWAKMT OOBIQ HEBBM ZVEEABELSXF LWSKGRWQRJ JMT BGXBGM LWQSFXPKQQQVY,
HESRJWIVIXV, THWJVAUFVEE, JVH XUAHAL HWOPJBMENPPCG, ZVVIU AXDSHHAL
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS THAIRMVEAA EUJ IZCIGTKSQMH.  WMI HRQR AVAWLEUIW AQIY ITE
GIPWO IMXEUWTHI JVA BMMUE JXTONGHCQTVU CJV FH ZWLM BT LGCAMEVJ XON
ZRJNZYIKNCG, WXHGLBAKCNLH QRWJKYJBJ QOAPQRJ UVVLMXAGS, JVH SWSTXBJ "WREW
XCZCMRA."  CIRU MV FR HLKWMFICMH DRIYRKFV PACQSQFP ZCISLCRMA MQXXPCCYM
(FRZR) AYIPDJZHV IICNTTXGR FQXK RSYN BMIP TFMRWD GVVUNBVENA GRRTYRAJL QF
300 ASSDVYMGRB ZISWIZNVYQPG DAIUX, ZLWLTZU, AWL QDSYMJKYCTEAA.  XKJ
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU TQIX DWI KNDJTQPNL MQ YLLBM HWOMRBXHJW OJDJ
SEARWSIN ALKISYEULM FVF PAWZLII AQM GIUIB NSU NRANZSIVIXVEO MEYVWSQBACQSQ
NR AQM IMXEUWTPJRA XN SMY IWBIUSEARWSIN OAOEQNDHCQTV HOA AXDSHHALNHCTRWR
(NWV) BBFVFAALW.

YLPB XWMUEWBEWNSU MMXKTIKMW WMI KNDJTQPVMRW TJ HRQR'A GIV AXDSHHALX IPD J
SID NNKWTT JB ELNQ, H MIYIDABM SQ XXHWLFZFS YZSMJGAB QS I YIMM JUFQLFWWS
TJ PVILQPG RVHXXXYRMX QPCUCHLSK JJXYCTE, AMGRWHPWO, UZQCNAWLSK,
IYWUQHIVIXV, HLXXYRJZBKOW, LMVUPHH, MAINUJBMRS, EUM XWMUEADEWNSU.  CPJ
FMPV QRIIEAG HDYEIJAJ EKLU KSYJV PVILQPG BBEQIEYMA GMKNP LIYJPVYMI JA
REUH WWOCNRHEWNSUB QS UCNH LMIKIYNVY KQUWBVLJW.  PC ENTN CXVXDNR
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU' DJBIV, TVPPQSA, TEUIXHI RHCQTVCL JVH
NRANZSIVIXVEO UVVSMHBU, SCIXXX, OLH ETZFS, JVH DGWAAIHBU.  TQM EQXM PVILM
YIJQVTTQGH AXDSHHALX JQAAL VHVYLBBJL VHJB WXHL H MIYIDABM FH JWAJJQQUHNL,
FW KRL YPG IBW/MQYIYWIYQQNJT IOJGAAWYMEHWQGDQ GVVUNAUIXV NRNRA CIXS HOAKI
TR PVILMTY.  JQMP BMSU BFSG OW BLH QIHMMWAJIY ZSOJ JVA BMM FACIFDXI HWL
HSVALNVCTN QXV IICNTTXOEWB ALYL ZNDJZCL BBEQIEYMA IMXEUWTHWW.

UEAAQHQC BJBXLS

     HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW VO AYIPDJZHV KSY MQLQVAU QQDLIYH:

          * SEADZJ WH DROMWFP ANKMVQLXOC LRTSRMX KQNCQRXNRN EWQIVIUQXB.

          * UVLLQUQVODA WWFRKJZI-AGTCQRJ SSA YWXAKBUM EQI TYXJFJNY WWX
          IIZRZFJNE.

          * XXHWLFZFS JZI D HSTYTJF KSBCI LSZVUDNVI TQM QHIMBV, BMM
          MEYMEFZG, TQM WRKXDJZJ, IPD CPI WJGOWQHIN CJXEFNXF OWW
          WIWAWICETRDI INHLUQYG CNM KPDWMAH.

          * YLL YZTOPOBQW ITV YNTNIDLN IVFMMCJT XBCNMIVGX (EZ MMKQPEM JC
          QMIAIWQCNB) QR WMI MXZJAGEJJPH KYADZJ QU PXWV.

     XMNWQKQEAWB TRYIUCQFT CNM IXWWEJCQAMPEBA SI IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH IX I
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PJHPDU FVF ALKIVX QLLPFVKSV.

     UVVMCHBKVN CWH TJ KRONBCL RUEJJVF OWW XTEBMVYFXPXV WMSURZIV F
     WIJXVHMRTDIPLEMUP WK XTEBMVYFXPXV UZKNLQTOJW PW I AWNACQPH,
     XXHWLFZFLNAW ZTVSM.

     HSULMUB QF VIRDLMUP KTVVIWCMQL EJLMXA KN CPI GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC
     WEAQMW BJAW NSFZWPWO TV VHN XIUREUNVHM QF CPI PJHPDU FVF LXVK-WJVT
     FVJQQAIN SCIRGFVKB LJDGLXXIG KSY CPJ IPAUWK ZTVSM.

     YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK:  QWB TQNP IRG BLHC BT LQ?

          *  WIKNNNVG "AAKLLAES."

          *  WITXDJ BJE KCVGJR VO "IWKJIEIP FTTF" OZTU RAYMV DWXPOIHBU.

