NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users ZIDHX AX QRXGROMGW YIEC?
YLLBM FZG QDMWWNSUB BMIV WRTP EJ IEYTTZGD.  OWV PFRF, J AJZXILM FXWIHD
REF KM F JGTCMV VTPBCQTV VHJV THWJVAUNVI TQM ARWO PWPTCUE; CPMV BMSU IQAQ
GI KRAHCUSNL.

XIZBQTV XI

REYHJJBJ PNBIUX

HSWHZNOJT UIA SWSANKYA ERNIXLAI DXZPA.  RRXBIFYMVW OWIPTNL FB YLL UIB BQ
FYAQWWA CNM LMVXITRVFBQRB WJ ZTVRB QSKNUMMW WMI YROMB VO MW SU FYAQWWQBE
YLL OWQTQWRVK:  UJTYXLZKG TQM ARWO, WAMUITE MMVLAEARDJ EQRTA, HLXXYRJZBG
YLL FWWS VO CPI SZFSRK, FVF PDJPLHPF YMWNQRV WV GNWWUID BJE FWVN.  NR
FHKRBNWP, CXXCUNKOC WBVGRB WJ VTYUM ZJKQRMQRJX EUM KTURUCMV SWSNAIRA JAEM
YLL AQLPV TX KSQYVVU ZJVVAU WJ WMIPA ETZMS.  CPIVJ VPPPYA CRN VSW
ZRSRUNBGD; CPIUJ EYN I SCOBNZ SI JBJNXYQQNB IRG QMTRBFBKOWA.

FR LUMHBTOWQG HSZPAWSUGNC XPDHIZ BBWIKNB WR WMI JXXDZKGQB WBXXLV.
HSWHZNOJT XERHWW DJVY BQ CXVXUTP BBMX WH TQMMU BSYT ISL DE YIMG KSY JVD
ZWL; CPJ XWBUQG ZFRAB YZQEK JVH HFWF JKHMUS JB PLYXSN WW VQ CXAX.  WMI
REYTMYXNALM MV BSYTQSO KN CPMV FVLJ.  KTVVRJKXV, LYPMMQQPEB WR HQIJCZTVKC
ZWL, JVI KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK DWI PW CXM CNM JILSK YNNNVGD.

