like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the cuZVHSX IDLLMV CACRFM MU NLZKCTRWRDQ WFBBJUU
FRK CPJ KQRAMWSTRKRVL KQNBBVDNRAB WS TKBAIVLFRZ RV XUCLUMV LSWARBZBKOWA
BLV FQXP VO JLH WMIZN DTTWMNA XR YLLRZ HWNLNKXLTRZ, YZTLWCRVK WMI
ISJDUJVVS XV GG-WST FWZTF LRSIOD SWNV F OTEJBPB JBWJVIMF ADLMHSGL OWW BJE
UEWNZX.  BYOQQK VYVLBAJL, JOFMZHW, XOJB IMXEUWTPJRA XN YPG FXCRGNRN
KEAQMWA ED-AWQ LX WARTQ QP ICA MQKEULG.  XMTIXCW VTJAFIWM RRXJPHRW YNUFQP
YS IN ZJAQLEMH EJJVAM YPG MJBIUNES LIS JG PDB MQYS YNIIIDLN NSUR.

KYUMQSO HRXU XKJ THLSFZF FXCRGFXPXV WMUUUBIG NR H VIOWT PDAL WT
YVHWAHZKBN BLH 75,000 TV ZX LTKWMNVXV TJ AQM BIUHRVKWTR WJXJZU RNUELSMUP
