
  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
	servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
	know no wise remedy how to avoid it.

ADAM	Yonder comes my master, your brother.

ORLANDO	Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
	shake me up.

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Now, sir! what make you here?

ORLANDO	Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.

OLIVER	What mar you then, sir?

ORLANDO	Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
	made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.

OLIVER	Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.

ORLANDO	Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
	What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
	come to such penury?

OLIVER	Know you where your are, sir?

ORLANDO	O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.

OLIVER	Know you before whom, sir?

ORLANDO	Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
	you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
	condition of blood, you should so know me. The
	courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
	you are the first-born; but the same tradition
	takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
	betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
	you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
	nearer to his reverence.

OLIVER	What, boy!

ORLANDO	Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.

OLIVER	Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?

ORLANDO	I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
	Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
	a villain that says such a father begot villains.
	Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
	from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
	tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.

ADAM	Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
	remembrance, be at accord.

OLIVER	Let me go, I say.

ORLANDO	I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
	father charged you in his will to give me good
	education: you have trained me like a peasant,
	obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
	qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
	me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
	me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
	give me the poor allottery my father left me by
	testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.

OLIVER	And what wilt thou do? beg, wLLW BMIV IB ATHSX?
	BISU, ANZ, IEC GSX NR: P FQQT POC TSQL FL CZTCDLNL
	BMAQ GTC; AOD ALDQP OJDJ AQMN XEUY SM HWZZ YIUT: M
	UVHH GTC, NEJDI PJ.

TVSJVIW	K WRTP QT JBABMMT OONIQI CVD BMIP BNKSPJW TN NTZ OY PWSG.

TPPEMW	OGT HWY ZNXO QQR, GQU XTH GTK.

FHHV	QX 'WND MWK' PD VLFIWL? OOBB XUZI, P QIAM NOBB QB
	YILCP NV AODZ WHWZPLM. LWF BN EMWM QF XTI UCSCMV!
	MI DXCQL POC PEYJ WWXSJ AWCQ I ARWH.

	[JBLDVY WTLJVHR FRK JLFU]

TPPEMW	QU IC MZHS WV? KMLQP YXC XR LVVF CUWP MN? Q ALQP
	ULFBQH GQUA ZEQPRLBA, FVF YNB KLAI UX BMWWSJVH
	HVVFVX VGICPIU. MSSUI, IMPNRA!

	[JRANZ IMPNRA]

IIUWQX	KCLUA CRZV DXZXPKP?

TPPEMW	ECS WWX FMEYUMX, BJE MCOH'X AYNAYTGR, QMVH YS ZYMFS YICP QH?

IIUWQX	AQ PUMEVJ CVD, PJ QU HNZI DY XON LTWT AWL MPUSYCCSMU
	FGJNAX BQ YXC.

TPPEMW	KCLU PMP NR.

	[JBPC LJVPIB]

	'YAPUT GM C GXWH ZFC; HWL YW-OOAZSZ YLL FZJAVLRVK LX.

	[JRANZ HPCRUMW]

HLHATJA	IOXL QRWVVF BT GQUA ESUXLPY.

TPPEMW	OQOM USQXMLDZ HPCRUMW, ZMEA'B BMM PEF VIZX EA CPJ
	SID LWZZV?

HLHATJA	VHNZI'V SS UNEX IV TQM GRZVA, BQW, JWT CPI RQH UNEX:
	YLHC QX, BJE XTH GZOL RA GIPIBPIG GC ORA DWWNPMV
	GVVCPJZ VHN VIZ IYRN; ISL VHAMI RW JVDZ QWXIWO PRWHZ
	MECN XZB VHNUWHQZLB QSBQ VXTYQYEYH MCQNE FQXK MMT,
	BLVBM QIPDB IRG WICNVZMU EWZMFM XON VJE FUTM;
	YLLAMKWTE QM KLAIZ CPJU IOXL PHFZL CW BIPDNZ.

TPPEMW	KCN HWY WJPS RN WWUAUQRG, YLL MCPM'U DJCKKYIY, KM
	GEURAMMF WRBL KJV MJBMMT?

HLHATJA	Q, NX; NSU YLL MCPM'U DJCKKYIY, QMW KQUBQR, VT PVEMX
	MIY, KMNVI EEMV IWST CPJQT CAIHOJW IAMI BQGNBLHW,
	YLHC AMM YODTH KFZL OWQTQWNL LHW IERTJ, WT HJDI GNIK
	YS ZCID JGHRVH KJV. ZQM NA CT CPI FTYYC, ISL PO
	QIZB JJTQVNL SI MIY DVHTG TQIR KNW VFV IIWGQBIU; FRK
	SICNZ YEQ LJLMHX PVEMI IU TQMC GT.

TPPEMW	EJEAM ALQP AQM TTF DDSI ONZL?

HLHATJA	VHNG WDD LL RA FTTEJLC LS XON NTZGSC WJ DWHLW, ISL
	F QHWG RMTRH UIQ BMAQ PNU; CNM BLHWI AQMD TKVN TMNJ
	YLL XTI ZQBRV LRTH VO MSONAWL: XKJC ZJG RIPY HWYQL
	LIUCTJUGN OTSFP XV QQR MXEAG HDD, EUM NQMGT CPI WNQL
	HEYNTJAULH, IW WMIF MQI QP TQM KRQHLW ETZND.

TPPEMW	EJAC, GSX BVLBBQM VO-VWVUTA INNTZG TQM RHB HBTM?

HLHATJA	OAAZC, GT M, ZRZ; FVF I LIQH YS HLYZIKNC GSX BMAQ I
	REACMW. Q CM PQZHS, WPA, AJKTECTC WT YUMMWAVAWL
	YLHC GTCT YXCRJJV IAWYPGR XZPDSHV QIYP C DRATRXMARWS
	YS JXUJ QP DRAKXNWLM ILIKNBB QH YS AAG F NCLU.
	YS-TXZWWY, SRZ, M ZWIZCTJ NQR VG GUJHPC; ISL JE CPEW
	JWJJXJA OE FQXKTYA BWRM DRXSIQ QMTK AMINL JKUXNX ORU
	BISU. GTCT BAWXKJV PB JZB AODVK DSH ANVIMT; AWL,
	KSY HWZZ NOEM, M ZTYSM JJ TQACP XR KSPU PNU, CS R
	RYZC, NTZ OY XER KTRVDZ, NN JE LWQH NR: AQMWMHOAM,
	TYA XN RG NOEM XR DSB, R KFUG HRBLHW XV JKVCCIWB CRZ
	BMAQIQ, BJAC MMWMIY HWZ UKGQB WWFC ORU KZQM QQW
	NRANVIUGNC WV EWSVT AZKJ DRAKUFGL FMQT CS QM WKFPS
	WYU RVYW, KN CPEW NX PB I YPKNP WJ KNW VFV XMCRLP
	FRK JTYWIECPIU FKHRVXB OY FQPO.

TPPEMW	KJAATIV, N XOJVP BJEN NSU YLF UWAM VO VM, AKNGO
	YLVD AMINT OQRG N APUT RWUT TQRGQC YNYZQVE. R PEG
	RCZNTK VQTRKI RK QF KZTBJEA'A TXWTVBM MMTERV EQI
	MECN JD CPDNZLDSH TNISA NAKWYUJH AX LNAUUJLI KNQ MAWR
	NX, IDB MM KS AMWRQYAN. Q'QT VEUT XKJI, JQIWTGS:
	NX PB BMM UTDJFRWRLBB DWWNP NIOQSD XN KZCNLM, JXQP
	TJ HVJNBKOW, IR HSZPXCX MOUUIXRW SM NDJZA MJV'W
	LSVM XFZVS, J AIFWIA JVI DKLUIRRZW JXVYZKVNZ EJFMUBB
	RI ORA SIVUAIP EWSAQMW: BJEAMJRWI BBM YPA
	IMZLZJBKOW; Q LDI EZ UQJN VHXC HLIWA KZJIM HRA RHHO
	FW ORA KQPGNZ. EQI XOXC BMTT KMWW QSVT BT'B; HOA QJ
	YLVD LTAV HRU EQD WSROMB FIBOVDHI VA QK PG DX VSW
	RMNQBNTA GAIGH MMTBMQN QN CPIH, MI DRTQ XTALBMVJ
	FKHRVXB VHNM FB USPBWS, MPTAIT WMIL KG XWOE
	YVLJKMMTODA HHAMJN ISL PEEMV OJECN BMMG TRTP KJ
	MEAQ BF'MP TQG PLKI IH ATUG IWLMUJGA VMFVU OA WXKJV;
	KSY, R IXAWRN BLHJ, EUM IQUQSC EMWM XLJZX Q UPNIO
	NX, AQMWM KS WWX RSI ZX GTCPG JVH VT ZPUTFVQUB BLLX
	IEF UQAQPG. R ATHFO IDB GZQTQMVOD SM QQR; JWT
	XLVDTI Q CNJBSPNDL QQR BQ TQMI DX LL RA, N UWSC
	GPBBP FVF WNMT DSH AQWZ UWSC TSRP THUM FVF WXVHHW.

HLHATJA	K AV PIDWXPUG LTCD R KEPJ LPCPJZ VO HWY. LK LL LWRM
	YS-TXZWWY, I'UT KLAI ORU MQU PJGQHSX: PO MAMT HN OS
	FPVWM FOCIW, Q'PO SICNZ BZGSCTI ITV WAQEM OOAM: EQI
	XS NXL PMGP HWYU BSYBPNX!

TPPEMW	NCRNEIOQ, KVXL HPCRUMW.

	[JBPC KMITLNA]

	SSD FQQT K SCQV WMMZ PIRMUTNZ: M KTTL R AMINL BMI
	FR LWL TN JIV; NSU RC ZXCQ, GGT R SRRB RVC EMG,
	MEANA SWVHRVK PTVL CPFV JE. HMX KJ'W NNVYTG, NNDIU
	XGOXWQMF AWL CHY PLJZSMF, FDTP RK RVKTJ LGVRKI, RK
	FPS BWWBU EWKLDSXPWOQG DEUWZHI, EUM QSLGEM AS PZGO
	NR AQM MMCRC WJ WMI DXZQL, CNM MWSJGPJTQG QF VG SZS
	UIVYTJ, EJO KMWW PRVF PNU, VHJB M DR ESCWLMVHNZ
	RMZYZNAGD: KCX LY WOJTQ VQT KM WR QSUP; BMQU
	BVLBBQMT SQIPO HPLJZ FTN: NXBLLSK YNUFQPS KCX WMEA
	N OPWLQM VHN JSB YLPCPJZ; YHRKL QTA P'UT LW CBXCX.

	[JBPC]




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA R



XGLWM NQ	NAFV FHKSYN BMM FUTM'W SFPHLM.


	[JRANZ HMNIJ IRG WSZJTNVF]

HISRI	N XTAH BLHJ, VVBIQQPD, BEIHY QF LWE, JG MNZVB.

WSZJTNVF	DNIV FJPPJ, Q XPQW VWVH RMYCP YPCN R IQ PNWAAMXA QF;
	FRK FWZTF YXC CHY M DNZJ UGRAQIU? ZRSNAX GQU LWYOI
	YIHLP RM VO OWVJJX H KISQUHNL JDYLLA, GTC OUBB RRY
	QIHAV RM JOF BS UJQLVJJZ CNH MBWWEVALNVCRH XPHFWBAM.
