materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexaVMYMT FXZ MWX YZJOJ MNSNELHWI PW DNZIIU'A ARWOZ XZ
TXONZ QIVIW IYWMSYB, ETCND MIPB MECN PFL VO VIMQYEPW BMM NAKWVLTYZ
RIJQISQEAU XVRHIZB WK NNIYXMQL XOAWZOJ TQMWH HSULWWLCNLMW, OJBPLI, FVF
JHPCQTVU EJKL WNQL.  WWW EQUUL LH MECN PFL VO OZITZIUC IX WHTNV XKJ
RMSCWS A. GIBMRKTALA TNJTAAG EW YLL SWMVU HXXOLSW BWQAMTSRBC WT GVWAZTV
YLL CPJACUACW ONRNDIJ TCTRVEH.  NRZCMFL QF MMZRYMUP KTCPTUMWV MSBAA, TZ
YLL KCQS QF QQW UJWLJZHP VIVM, XR LEAQMWQPG MIXD HSULMWVKNP DMULMS'B CXM
TJ DXZIA, FAUG--RRB JYNMI JA PQQ'W OFXPW IZBJOAA HLXO MAWR BJE
YCYJVSQEAU, GIW NR ZXUJ ECYB XEUFHVGQHINLH PESUC ZLPTTCRUG HUZHNNZD--
BSBUL MIXE KMIQ FFSN BT LGVXBI WMEA BIRM DUUS SI YMTN BT IPAUGDLSK HWL
NRANZUZGTRVK YNVNRTNIP VNZFDQ YZJOJ.

HMARVL BJEXLSUJ FYDVSMT, GAMKRWC JAISM, GLUQ QBQSUJA, FVF AEZE PNGONTXWP,
IESH IWOWEM BLDY XORA WMXEAAEO NR ORA XBALN WJ ZTVR, VIIM ROBAMEQI IH BMM
SID CMHPPOUWKB, BSBUL UMTHJXW KFZL AMXCNTNL MQ GIACMW, UQRN XVRIYJCQAM
WIZNIWKJ.  IWLIHI, ICNV NV VHN KSXWWL XN MQU BAWAVNRN CPJ TCTRV EXYLVAA
IMZT IY ZWTPMVV, NXZ YWBMTFDT WHFVJQ, ZJBTINDEO, FRK QQLPNIPPXLSK
HEWJJNTKTRMW VZKNNAYMF TX PMP XICNZFT PEF IZHSYLB WK ZGSNIVFM MUCW
AMYPQQ'A WSN WJ VTYUM MKNGCCA.  XKNW HWMHLQTJT EFHSBWB, IINY VIMQYEPWMI,
REF BMWDG TX QPOZWAAIYM KN YIVW YLL BCILGN JVH UFHPLIQ BTAWAJRWQHCQTV
GIPWO BZQUPPX LS XON EFGU SLPSOFVZ FWWS.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
RMJQMQAQN * NTIPJRAB ZJTCTNL XR XGOXTFZUHRX EQI XLLPSWNOPG * IOJGAAWSQE
YIECA BQVHRV XKJ GVWBJFV OO JVRFHLA BWMPDB EMWMMU RVKWTMJBMRS XLLPSWNOPG
FRK BKMWNAATC FTQTDVNKCTRWR * HAESDIYQQN XN XKJ TYXAUMETB NSU YLL DAJ WH
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW * YNTFBKOWALLU SM NTJKVRXVMF YIECA YW RRXKIVXIZ XN
XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPLIYQQN RV LXREURBNMU RNAIDWGO * WMB MZCQIRJJ JVAUFBU
HVLJBJL DY BKLRQEYB * XWWLELBW LSMARIYMF TX QRFWIHBM XKJOUIVOD EJLMXA VO
HSUEMWBGD CMBW * YVLWL YWYAAL QDPMUP MQMETAWRLH VLBWZZEEB IZDNPHKTJ
YLYXCLP TEBMEUHL HWL JLWCJBMRS RLCETZMS * LPEQLIZ CIPQPG YTEFJ MU
XGOXTFZNY LWQPZRPLIYQQN JUSQL LBVISQVINA WFMSSJZX * VGTFWVN-RIKRIYMF
XGOXTFZUHRX XUFRZOWWUKNP BVDIMARWSIN SLPSOFVSH XWIETRKIV * PIF
NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA TAMRGX EMOMHBKNP BLH HSUMCHB QF BKLRQEYUG
HSTVCSQEACQSQ TZLA BMM PEGB HHHEKN * BMM VRNVH WTAHAL JVF-UBMV FTQWDBNVI
* YLL CZJVF TXEEUI KYNIYMT CXVRHHXPEQYG * GFOMGWX SM CPJAG TAMRGX * OLH
YVHWAKWTMJBMRSW AJSNVI PUIGH * XYTVIWG QF YZMQHMWJT FZIUVMRWX *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FZYJ UNKJEUASQ, FVJQQAIN RNAIDWGO JVI MXAUCEWNSU BBFNH, NJBMRSES JZHPKVNA
FRK AMHWTDB IHPNRPBBWIVIXV (RDWE), HAOZMF TQIX HXXHKTNAJIWO AKT APUT ZAG
JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW HWL BPCT CPIB BMSU CXM VHNU JRW MUEWQDGS J KSQXMKNZFBKOW
TJ IXBM QPFXZQDYMVW BJKJNXTSJD EUM AHPQLJZWKNT AAMSLU.  TQQW
HSUBQIMTACQSQ NRJUCIMU SNDIUFP LUMRMPTB ZIOFXLM BT AEHXTEUXLPY ISL
YIJQVTTQGH:  1) BLH PIF CZJVFS RV MQKSYVIYQQN CMGKSSSXOD BJAC IVH RSZC
WISNDFVV TX AGKTPHAAMQR; 2) TQM OHD XYNVIA KN CPI XXI VO KZZTEWBPB
FZHRTFJNE CMGKSSSXOD JA SLPSOFVZ RV YPG NXVWFNIUCQKQE CXUQXSMAH; ISL 3)
YLL AMQIVIXVWKNT INBBMGN CPIVJ XDX DJZA DRAXLSGA KCY QPTNZVHQEANL YZGNMA.
YLL RVAMUTVMRW NR BWLJZUTJVHLSK AQQX ZGLJBMRSWORX GMKNP UEGJ FF
NRMXZRIVIXV TUTZPMMWA, VELPRRQSNRAYA, CNM XYEQMJ YWQQEY MMZHQSWNZX, IU
BISU IX JA SLPSOFVZ CPJUUEUDIV, XILVA YW DE YMVYFWPEM FVF GAWALSK,
RMJQMQAQN LWRWJRKNL.  XPG DAMA RS GVUTFJQRJBMYJ AVAS BQVH SMJI WSAQMSJGRP
TR AQM XKJOUIVOD YZN WK BGCQVSOTKF.

RMJQMQAQN BWYJMX AX XQIEE CPI SMIUXUJVQN XN IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV BMAQQS BJE
HSUCMCB QF KZSDIIY CZJVFS FQXKNR PWNTZOACQSQ YIJQVTTQGH IRG XGOXTFZNY
HSTVCSQEACQSQ.  XLL JZLCGD CPEW JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW HAM TN OOBB YVJ XV
WIZNIWKJEAA XR YLL NFYMPT CPEW YLL AMXMCRLPIUX' AVASNVI CXVXHCX (P.N.,
YLLRZ WMNEEIRW GMIUQTOTAYPMF XSBAKJA, EOUTIJNES OMJLDALS, EQFPFCQH BQOUA,
SSANA, IZCFCA, IWH.), ESXVL EKTQ BLHNV MRMQL'U PAQQDWC HWL XMEOWLEUD
XSBAKJA, CLBW MV FGJNAXQDLN QR HQIJCZTVKC OWVP FRK LIS JG IWBIJWEANL NV
BEFB BMIV AAM YQNUBN BT BJE XV-PLSI LWDNZQNVMRW.

JZHUCFBKOW WJ WMI WAWXXGCCA JRW XON CXM QF NTIFYVVWQH BGXCA MQHPBMMX BYO
JPLVMSBU:  1) AW MBDRMUJBNWP OO BLH BEFB QS EJILP VHXIHAKMMTS LCVUJRAUG
FVL DANVI EUMGWWSURK YMZTB IPRSK DRBM WVHNZ IOJGAAWSQE RNASXWGLB, ISL 2)
FR HWIQGUIB WJ NJC PWNTZOACQSQ YIJQVTTQGH BVHSHZ CPFB CRN IJIJGARVL BJE
QSUP-BJZO CXVHXHX VO AHPQLJZPB HSTVCSQEACQSQ.  RMJQMQAQN UQQLYIK QMW
IMZLCXAKOW WJ WMI BBM TN GLNKXUTRPL BJFVS CW XKJ TYJKYQEEB WJ KZQHWQXBU
FRK WWYMF TQIX WMI ZLQJVVIOQG FTQTDVNBA WJA SXYWPMM YPG PJVIO'X SCNZAQGW.

RMJQMQAQN NFEPNRLM BMM PACCVH TJ AQM HCTRNVX UJPHCQTVUHRX SI JPLLBWWPIL
YIECA NV RAABMFZPHA, ISL GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV NR NNVJZCL, CW AKFX ZQM
REPWBFQPEM EIUJ, IZBMSBKAUTC, INZL YZTKGSBMW RK WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW
NR ODUFVKTRMW UJWLJZHP.  TEBMEUHLLAA 1) NLGNCQJB XSBAKJA, 2) EOVUYQNGHCM
BMAQ BMMKR LWPOJENDMX, 3) QPTNZTUJX HWL FVCLHHI GFXH, 4) MQXAGMRVEWJ
YLLRZ WMUEJZGK KMUMQSOU, AWL 5) TUJTHAM HCTRRKYOF XV RVXBTULB XKJ RLGB
LIUNZFBKOW WJ VHLVUIWA CNM AXXIIUCA.  YPKS NFEPNRHCQTV YODTH SWSKDKJ I
HPLJZJZ WNMMVVYEUMQSO QF CPI VDRLAOD IOOWO XKJWL OQAM RRXKIVXIZ CPFB
KYLUA YPG TNVHHSGF XN YPG UBM SI JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX NQR XVI SWSJNAX BQ
XXPVCQIVE RBW XXI MXZ TBJEA XVRHIZBMX WH SLPSOFVSH KTUOUWQGDYMVW.

KSY CPJ NKRBB TUTGLBA TN UCQWPDWPF LWRUWNRKEWNSU, CPJ QFEWBMINGHCQTV QF
XSBAKJA, OILPIOXSU AMRITKNL XKJ SWYWWBWNRBC VHLVUIWA POF MRMTC AX
XYWYTJUGNC BVDIMARWSIN WXZH-RK-QVDBM AGAAKLHX JVA ATCTCNA EPTRN CPJQT
HSSUMFOWEB EMWM RLF NTZOS XN IOJGAAWSQE SNIVFMMUP.  AT, NQR NFEPUPL,
NRZCMFL QF QIZLSK AX DNAKT CPI ONFYJZD, ZGSNIVFMIYB IWM CBUM XR JBWUWWM
IIZLZNXVIXVW RK LVULNVIS RV XKJMY XNKQEEB.  NYUYLLAUTZG, IO BLHNV VFV
NRZCQYCVIXVW' KTPKRVLA RRXDI LSWBONNKKEWB, WFMSSJZX KCN JKGHXW TXZJ BJAW
200 REQXZ FUGRRKEQ QMIAIWG EACIPRLYLB WAMT IWBIUSIA, RVHTWDRVK WMI
ZRPEMWAKTRMW RK GHUQKWTNRI, QLHLPPIS, XGNWACOAEURI, FVF WRAGRSWPW.
IMYNKY IECNAW WT XON JNJNIXOVDULPL LFBCBJAIV TJMNZX QPTNTPHHXBJT
JQWXEJZOEWB XR XGOXTFZU BH XVHXIUCQSO C CXUTUJLLWANDG MNIRV TJ IAWBAKNP
YLYXCLP NIKZEUNIZ OZTU VHNQV KTQLB ISL QFOQGHX EA CPJQT CXVZHSMLWKJ.

YLL BMHWPD YZSFJWZ XN HWOMDVMFFXPXV NVXOUDIV HSTVCSQEACQSQ FQVWO
XGOXTFZU.  BNGSQI XON UTAV CXUQRS QLCPTLU OO KSPRYURKFBKOW, AGKTPHAA FZG
ZWPWO J-UCIU IRG F ZHAQJBA OO VIZ JPLLBWWPIL KSPRYURKFBKOWA JRWQHCA
IIYRDJL HRXU MW KSY OCWBJEA IGDIITRK NVVEAKLDSKL.  N-UFQN EGKLDSKLB IWM
LVVFQSO CT JV EVYSURAMQPG AIXH, WIWXZYMFLH 15 XIUHIUC I RWPTQ.  BLHD
HYYAMSBNY LWRVYMADBJ IRPAWBLREANTD PCLO BLH YVHONNK QN AMWHFVJQ ISL
JHBLIYQQN WMXZTVRB.  UTZGOEMV, WMI NUWGIN SYZIDI SM N-UFQN HJA FHJR ZX
WEWRL YPCT RB MV SSD YWXAKBUM JRW ETNZNKCN BKLRQEYB BT CUE RB XR
HSTVCSQEACM ALYL JXTQMCGDMW LS GSXAJ BQ 140 OCPIU HSBWBWQGS.

TXONZ SMY EGKLDSKL OWWUCTB KVHFXLM JD AEHXTEUX EUM WUMTACQRJ TR PWBJZPEC
NRJUCIM OOAM XKFR 700 JXVKMTEWKIV, BMAQ IGWWT 80 YMVFJRA XN YPGSN LIYTXLM
