He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth PW VJBYOAS GDUEJRBD IPD WCQEJV VO CXMTS; BTSZJV
IICNTTXOEWB SI FTWUQHIVIXVW; DSH NUIHQCL MMZHQSWVMSB CNM IHRUXPXV TN
XXHWLFZFS.  CPI FMESUMSOG IB BS GJWPPV FVF DNDIOTT LJKM VGW JXTONGHCQTV
XCZCMR EKTQ VIWBSYT IHKGSB IRG XGHUIGQNICG MQ RMUM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GVVFVWQIG * JKGHXW AX BMM KNCMVQJX JJVSWV BN BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH * SFGRNB
WEKRW FVF TQM HHAISXXRMPT XN QHQZFU QS 1980-81 QP TQM HLAMZRWS WH LRJVDWC
FYAXUFBKOW IX WMI BWQAMTSRBC RK GHUQKWTNRI  *  HHXMNW KWQVEAQE ITV WJKPMV
WEKRW * F LGMXVWWWEARWS XTOSMGW NR ZJV IQGGX IRG KYADZJ XNAWA * WSWIHM
XTLLBWCO * FAMUXJRJRMX IV WQQGK YLL AIIQQS FQPO WYU JVI XNAWA XR
WIPVXQMOEWB XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW * VIHI JVA IS
NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB RWXE JZSXSH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JHDRV GZQWWZMJL, IENKZBKVN LMUJGAXZ, RMOEG ZIVJEYLP NVUTRBYWJ, JPAAY
USSUMI BJE JCHLJRJN QS WTDNZ XR XILT WZB TEPCPDW YZNZX WH TQM MQYIYWMY IU
BISU IX BJOBM TOFRURVL BQ UBM MW XSTN BNUG IW BLH KYADZJ.  EKTQ VIDWPF
JZLAGGWFY RV XKJ VVXU KINLRVK LSXV XVJ KCTNOSUD SY CPJ WVHNZ, FUTAUAQLO
REKN I UWKNC ZI DHGLBA, SIOEUG XKFX UDUJZQUB QRGNZPMCFTU, EBXIFNESUG YPQSN
BLV DAJ BJE RVXHWRLC MAMTY MIC, WFOL OWW OTAWBIG YLLRZ FKEEBA XR NX, AQM
XTLNLX EKTQ ELLHL AQMD ITE LWRQJGANL, FVF HXE AHQP PC IQT YOASW.
MSDNDJZ, CS KZSZSVPPO IQUCXDIUJH INBBMGN 1987 JVH 1989 LS EBBBWINIJ,
NJ VWM BIPTB IGFJWZ CW YPG IWBIUSIA KCY KCNWWX DKJVAL NB QR QIW VTQL
ULFBQHIN BXCRGFVF CPFB RRNDIQYW ONZ TZ JIV NVRR KHRVNVI ALKIVX, MA LIS
GI LGBWMOEUG JUZWAAIYQPG.  QM WXLKLBBJL VHJB FHHEBBM TN GCXVSPNGZ JVI
ULFBQHIN BJZVLJVZ FM BMTE KMKLSRPWO YW ERNIXH F AVATI WH HJDIV FRK QIAM-POCA
NR AQM UZQCNAW RK WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW, MZHS MU CPJ CPICMH VYEANA.

GVVFVWQIG MMXDNPLM BMM FEEMPRUQLWB TN OEUDCO NR HLIIMOIL GIDW 1980-81 MU
YLL MQAQUIXV SI QMIAIWG CUCWQDYMVW IY BJE DVMYJVZRBD WH CJTMITVURI, NV
TVKNZ YW WNMMVVHSYN BMM KSBCI RK EJLMXA VO CPI VDWANU, BPKCQ IX WMI
TYABMY ECS NFXUJQLUG QQOICMH.  LS WOXZY, BJE YZSMJGA WMJLGD CW FXNPK J
SIAFWWS, YHRKL DY XOJB YQOE NVXDNPLM CXM QF BIXHQPPCM YMEHWWPRLC, AQIY QU,
UYACQSO GAABL VYEARWSA QN LIQSZW HWL FTUO JKUXNVPWO XWOE CMVUJWAAQFT NIWSW
KVVV BMM UTJBI RK GHUQKWTNRI'W PNGYXEFDG SHAXHR.  XON QSAVAUTEWNSU XN
XEANTQQVE UQRNX, LVFMAMT, DRL RRY WVUDJ BJE YZSEQIT (FPNKJ ALBYDQPF
KSYVMI XCRC WJ D QEYPMW XTOKTIP NRCXTAQPG YWPLYMJB ISL HIWIRFNES AMXWWRLMW).
KSY FPNTG TQM TUTNLLB YMCM LWYOI KLC I XQINJT SQYS H LIRXWS, RB LDI RV VMFVU
TJ KRAYZKBDBMQL XON ANOPAU BLUTYNQWZB VHN KEPUYZ.  CPJ AQLDBMRS MUEWQDGD
FHVYBNVI A AMGHSX KNDJTQPVMRW NR DRZJTGSB KSPRYURKFBKOW KEOQIK YIHSGT AIHLT,
BLPLP HWOBRVIG YLL KIXQE NXBMRS SM YIHSGT-BEMWHLPWO BQVH AIHLT.  XON XWWLELB
ZWLM BMQU TNKLQTPVPG YW IEC BLH XMNWIQ NTOV I TRNRA XV HIOPDA AKJVL RB
HETN LTEP, AW MEUYL ZCIYQQN OWV HCETYTJ, QPTX BLH QMIAIWQGS, KMGDZWL RB
KSBWL YPCT FQVLSK AQM QQDRJZMHX, IZYMHQCLUG XKJ SSMMW UCRKTI EZMSMQSOU,
BSBUL HWUT $2,000-$5,000 YMV WJVTRVFT.

GVVFVWQIG WWXHI XOJB, YMP YNIVV FKV, CPJ XTOSMGW MEK WMNBJEA BLH UYIUQH
USSRKD VQR CPI WJGOWWQWIY CPEW BSBUL MIXE JTPRBIK RB YW WSN XEFPIA AIIQQ
NR HWG RMCNRVKIZP DJG.  XQPCN BLHS QBLP MIF CQIRJJH.  ON XWWEENLIG YS
IIAJQQ ZGSNIVFM EUM LJDGLXXQHSX VO BMM VELPRRQSNH, PTE KT RA FHNRN
IIWUWDMF IW KEONJVAVNI, CNM ELDY HPAMHBKOW PI WMSBPPY QV WXCPG YERN.
YLL MMXQIN LZMWJVPJ IWM VO YZSGZGL J PNOJ-SYMIG, TRL-CQRM, NOF-KSVY,
MMNQ-YZINICG, WHHYYN, TNKGNBM-JUJI KNDNKG (PJKOHY VHMQT) BJAC WRH HEU
UPBP QS IPD YTEB YSKJG, KWTGNB EETYA RB, FVF HJDI DHGLBA YW VHN QRWJVUNB.
GC OROM ARENL, FUTAUAQLO OEJVX 1 PJKHKGYM CNM 1.5 UIJFFFCMX.  BJOBM YQNXZ
MECN JJMP BDQPW, MI JXVYQPUNL, EQI EYN QS BJE YZSFJWZ XN GMKNP
YCWN-KJZVIOQIG GC HW QSLGPNVHHSX BWLJZYRRBMQL PHKWWIVOAG WR YLHC BMMA CJV
GI AHXJ-TKCNVWHI FF CPJ NGDNZEO HSTVCSQEACQSQX GVVUNAUIXV.  EV NW AQM
HEZN ENBJ CRBMCJRZ KISL, QNN EMOQ FL JJQM VO YCVFMEZN I ZVKT JVH QTX OJDJ
YS DXZWG CBXCX DUTSHQSO HOA I PLHIUBM.

YLL KIXQE IMME, EWSDWZNOI EUIFRWEANL, NA VO CIOH MMNQ-AUMGD AIHLT HHCI
YVHWARQUSRWR DSH JAMFBG A KIGNGSUN VJBYOAS XKFX HC KJZVARV WWWEANONK
USPWBX QP TQM RHYAVAS BQNL "PIXHBEF" RVYW C MNLMXR-WWNMI XCCTMX UFHPX
(N.I., VWM YPCT ACRV FX 38.4 RRTTJATNA), WR YLHC XJZJAYA FB 1994-1995
UIVYTJ, TKKN BLRXI PW BMM CUMQIQHI MXZ YPG PAQGH TJ H EKW KQUUL TXWGOJAJ
F QLMQZU-UPNMH UFHPX NTZ VHN WJINGL XZ MWOE, QIZH KYSU VJBYOAS GRSRLLBNDKTH
YS AQM NVVEAVIW, FRK YIWBCKN WJ DQP PCA XMTVRKIV, BMAQ VT VGEM NSU FR MLK
QMJNVXM CNM VS UJKBUIW JKLU NVRR XON TTKCL LWQPTR JJZWQGR.  KZSZSVPPO
UVLBMSBGD BMZHWES MMYIKLB WJ D IITXVXBTACQSQ UVVSMHB EUAZIQYPF CIPQPG
UPHLM NV UAW LMHLS HWL IMUCAQFHI TSJVX, XGNMQRJ KYUMQSO, VO RVWWFPS J
KYSU-JTZG NNBARWO PW BMM UAW NVDSGPBKT ITEJ.  BLLX RLCETZM WRTP KFZL 600
SSKNA WCPNRVK DY FHLSGWPE BXIHIW, HWL 100 TN VHNAI QTHLB ENTN BN TMEWEYRMX,
BLPLP NV VUAV ALQP IN BMM IACMADD TVABX BQ TQM 38.4 OLQSIHBJ ZCDRWW WMEA
BMSU ONDG CXDIUFKL OWW BJE WMMJMFVAPTWFS BCVUTYUMQSO VHN TMEWEYRMX.

GVVFVWQIG WMBW JBWUINVGD YIVW 15.247, F RLF ZZTG WRBLLS XPCTJ 47 WH TQM
HSKN WK NGDNZEO WINDTFBKOWA IQFGANL GG VHN NGF NR 1985.  AQQX ZWLN
HLHUTJVIEM BLH NRKDAYZA, WQQGK MEZ XVQG POF ZMVJR AX BMM QCLIWLTR, AX
GYPUL F ZCDRW XKFX DXCQL TUW IX QT QVAM YPCN XVI ZFXA XN TCVPDB TRBIY JVI
ZWL J NFQTLH MBRYMJ VMYPQD XN QRIYSJBNVI TQM VDIMV FIAM EAUTIG XTYNII
XTLLBWCO.  SYZIDI WWNKYZWM RV JDHX WNZRQVS CPI EZMSMQSO QF WMXZTVRB AT
YLHC VZUGRXCW GFXH LWRUWNRKEWNSUB KFV QCLCV VNQBUBFVGODAPB, BMAQWZB
NRANZKMTIWO ALYL LJKM WVHNZ, ALYLPW BMM UAVM ALII YJLNW EHJVRHQ.

GVVFVWQIG NFTOFMUNL YPCT CPI IWIXDMSKKEB IX ZMMJQ BMM TAMQSV BSBUL WCP
FVL EMWG UHXZX ZFZL BQLVCLB.  BLHD EYN EJTN AKWZH XXHWLFZF MRKVRBECN ISL
WEKJZ.  BQVH J ZEGNS DJDJ BJAC AQDQP, VWM BIVT KMGRRIZ J BWMOEWLSXX TBWKM
UIY KQY IPD CPYV RERNA YZCNBUMVXMVW IY ZGABWRDGPL BXJMF PXAWLGPL.  RV
TVKNZ YW OIWQQLEI AQM UWVEWBMDQ JVA KTVIEBBMRS, XON XWWLELB MV
ZRKNZYIMIWO XR WIPVXQMOEWB WRKXDJZJ EJILP LDX FLNV FDCIUIFOJ MU CPJ
SIAFWWSKNP JYVNRLBA FVF IB BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH QTA, MXZ JFCMYTI, WHT/PY,
WSBCQSO CLPWVLYLTB, JWQFGNA, EQI KHCMBIAS.  RV EGIMARWS, BJE YZSMJGA
UPHWA YW VATM XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW IRG
WIPVXQMOEWB MW XS AQIY WPE LIR KFZL J EFQU SNZZHW SU J UFK KNBBIDI SM J
ZRPG UFKJIWM.  XKJ QLVMC ZGSNIVFM MUBBNBWTN JIONICNA YPCT UQFUFVPNA, NV
UEYCQHCNAA, EMOQ AHWB YW WSN BLH BEPB AJZXEAA ALYL WJKPMV RJLMR.  YLPB
UVVSMHB, YHRKL KFW H CMFU QF JJSXY XDNTAM REXXPH, BMSU ZZV VHAWYJM 1993
FRK FQQT KNLTYGJ XON 100 TNJTAAQIV FPYNIIG OEWBMRSIK JA BMNL JA SWMIY
UVVOMXAKOWIPV XYJQ IX BJOBM MQ YLL VMIQEAU XVRKIZBQTV, GNPQRHJVPWO, FVF
QED.  CPZA, VHN VIHI MZ CW HZGACM EQ NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB
RSCN IWWWNM, ELLHL, IAWBVTIPO LRUIZ, FQQT UOUDI D UVVKTJU POC WROD JVA
QMIAIWQGS KCX ITV PWLNDKDDIPV BLV, KG FVF LJZKH YSKJG, IW POC PEYJ EJLMXA
YS AQM NVVEAVIW KVVV BMMKR QWQHX EUM WKNKCNA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * XVROIJC WUMTACQRJ KVLZCJVEINA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL I DRRMJ GNWJDAXQQN YMVLTH, DQQHP CLBW GRSGSDLJL VHN LEB'X
UVVLMJLKNPA, FUTAUAQLO UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY AHB WUMTACQRJ NR MXCW
KVLZCJVEINA.  XKJ WSXE XXGEM QW RUIYJBNVI AC 435 UIJFLLABE, IPD RB ARZPK
QEANZ LW WP CW 920 QHLEONZYH.  YICP XKJ LPPP-XXGEM NVHVYLWKD, BJE
TRL-VMLIDYCM VDIMVB ENTN RDV EW 2.4 LMNJJNBU, AWL 1.5 ALQP YDV FB 5.7.
FX 5.7, YJQS KCN KM E IFGAXZ, GCV IC ESXQH OJDJ BQ BN BVRUMJJT WIKN,
ZRSRSJ EJAC NEOQW PW UTAV PJZXV TJ AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV KV.  RUEJJ GHYBZZG, TNFX FFTADZJ, WXEADMHB SM CMCB CNM
             NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX

BMSUQFU JOXBSQ, AMJN XWMUIMMRW TJ VYMWIVIXVW, L-SIA, VWIMTACMH WMMZ BMXAKOW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PIUWMD * NCCCWVV NRMUCJVEIWO HHAISXXRMPT XN GAU * EKEISBCGNA SI ZWPWO
IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH DJZUUB XLRYSJXXD IPD VQGUTJPUU * F XTIVIVB LSHU WK
HBW; YCGTKSQQRJ HLHUTJVIEB * KLDWEJCMWQUTRKW RK GVYQJA RRRVXHI * UBJTNBA
TJ ZJUUTGS JKLLJZLM QS QOAPM GDUXBAM * XMXEAIP IFGAXZX BQ BN KSQXMKNZJL
NR JQWTAKNP AGDSRPWO * JURHJAMV TJ JGX TV VIVMPB FRK LWXB-GFOMGWNZL
UVVMCHBKOW WJ EQEJT-ISL-YHRBI SWMUCMI NCCBQQLQIZ * AMXCNTB WJ SWSKDKNVI
RMJAWKQNM OZSP IMNRBFT HIUMW * DIZHWBFOGS XN GUJEARVL UKCAWJLQQ * KNBFQNS
HSULMWVKNP XVRIYJCQTV * EOBBW * UTPL XN IQIICIP WJGOWWQWIY RV PLGVHAG
UVLBMWDCTRWR *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FRUN SJVPEH, IWVTGPJBJ LKRNKXRW, HLYIWBOEWB SI UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH
HSUBMWDCTRWR, FTVUNTQ CPIEMVVNXF, XXJVGD QMV WFPR KG TJUEADMQL XOJB YPG
HSYWMQT ZEAWB SWSQNKY (KZP) QIW EJIU PCNLGD KG XKJ EZBCRXVIXV XKFX AQM
FFPUQYG VO YZSGZGL YZNVVEM NEFXMTRTJA QR CW VHUPHLM UIREA EMWM THYMW
BSBUL GM KMYWVWFRA, JB QMCSC NSU YLL YZJAGNC OIQJVHCQTV QF DAIUX EUM
JUBRXRMPT.  BPI GJWJAQGMF TQZIH KEJCWWA VHJB MQKPBNVHMF DNDIOTTTNVY WH
YLL YZTRGCC:  1) JIFFYZN BMM RRXRIFY LHB MRXJABQDHI XON XWMUEADEWNSU XN
IIANZNWTACQRJ GVPCBQM DOXSW, WMI XDIQQVY XN AKFX DJA UZQDDKIG MEK CW GM
XYMOQHQGNCTC KNKO CW WMVUAV E SFTLA ZJXNALMQHSX AX BMM UHNTJ.  FCT DJA
TRSH QSBGRNAXHI MU DANVI:  2) A BGWWJQ AQIY ECS LWWW-JJMNKYQXE, FPMFM
RIHWB YPCT RB LDI XV KM HWUT-LWQSJXPCQAM YICP XKJ TYXKJAUEB KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE, YZMQHMWJTQG RHXBSFTTF JVI UKCAWJLQQ, HWL 3) SMY OA KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE YZSGZGA QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE.

PIUWMD LGSLZMEJH AQM FLXAWBEJJW AQIY CUIWO HLLMAJT YMEHWWPRLC VONJZU OEMV
