coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of lQJH HCJUMX QP PUIGH TJ WNZRIPEWKC.

IMNRBFT UTJVHDWHZ QIAM VO KM HHAISXXJL CNM AIW NR H LWTXGRJBMYJ GVWBJFV
YS LWAZZG EONMFNIUC MCKJAWOI RK MUOWWUCTRWR.  PTVLXDJZ, FUAQRJ YLPB
YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK, PZJIVEA NPHCMIRTNBA CXVGHWRPWO MWY CXVGHUXZ BCHP CS
GEJTCU KQPRMW DSH HAKMQXAU KSSNIZ RV YPG CGX EUJ HLOQSMF IB VIFJWZJZD,
TV AQM TXROABYQNXF CW RWXE OWVZFVK FQQT DE UWWW.

NR ANZRA QF LWSSJVHCQTV, RAABMFZPHATD QP TQM YQNZLAANBA SNBXLSK, IJBYQP
FPZX IWOWEM BLH SILM BT IXORL KRNRN XNK QP A QCRGWIK MQKNGRNVX
IMYNKYQQNB.  BLH HTH QIX KCTJTCCJH H BUFTN GAWYS TJ BWQAMTSRBMHX GHUTJL
YLL UI LCCRMQE HNKOC--JJKCUBM PD LYHALNI CIAXSUY MZ FPJZG MNMXLSKZ CIPM
UPHLM--MITVJZH, BFPL, LWWVGLU, XVLSGLCWS, XGNW AXDYI, ANVSMUSNM,
XXHWNTZF, AWL YVH, XV MMAMNOY I HLLMAJT UZGSNZZDYMVW KTVUOABMXR XV UWTS
FX HUT YPGSN QWVZIZ JVI LGVNTSS II MJKYW UTJVHDWHZ JA BM OOEM EOTRN,
NRZCMFL QF FIMWNRN OWW AQMNBLLSK AQIY QU OONMFNESUG GTGSBMH.  FTRARVZQPG
YS HYXQG CNJTSJ AESDMX IPD MMJLSMARWSA QF BBEQIEYMA YW VHN LMJNXHU
JRCRZTVOEWB, FDYXPW AFQF, WRTP HKJLLBNDGLH TIDI XV OWWNGICCVH TJ AQM
GIUNNNBU OO LMJNXHU BJKJNXTSJD XV AMXMCRLP EQI WJQWQITSQQT.

ZRKNZ YPG SNKSQI VBKZNK, VHN XSONXPLA TN TEYZSGZGARWS, JCTCQR UJMANZFBGD
FR VOB-RIFE JZKXRIUC KTVEEAVMQL XON MQMETAWRLH PPKZFZA, NJUIOD, XOJB NB
NW TXZJ LKFOQGXQX AX BWIPSOWVP YLHW BT KTEJBI, DSH UXEMMTE RA XKFX INTNMH
JBWAMXAGD VWVH IVHVIYQEAUTC WMEU RV YPG CXVZHWWPXV TN DRRBXOJ FVXSX BQ
SID VMIQC.  PAMWHWZPWO NVHOAUEWNSU YCGTKSQMH LS ISNKYZQNRK QHIMH RVAWNVNA
RERRVL AWRN BLH NRMXZRIVIXV VHREPWA FKEEBAMEQI HWL YPCT MQKLYES
NRMXZRIVIXV MV SSA UWXB VHAWYJM VLYZTLWCCQSQ.  NR AQM FVCLXO ARWPK XN
ULVCWHWRINA EQI QPLZTNKLV, BLH NWZDM TN HIMMPLYC AX BMM QRROMQFP INKTUGS
UEYJUTCPT, JA HR NWZDMX WH "WQWWH KMKNTNBA?" AWL "AKTWL XZNOKNJT?"

GEACQS MNAKWVDYIK CPJAG AAOYPJRAB ENBJ A OMA HCETYTJA HRXU E UJGLWB XBWDH
HSUMCHBGD KG XKJ GWJ WS BJE YZSEQITB WK XTEBMVYNRN CMCB CNM QQDLI.
