Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a sepEUFFSN NNTG OW ZPLS EUM
HSBUL GM TEZCIVYIK OZTU VHNU, FDYXPW QSBGRSMGWJH AQIY QV WJA IDXMSH
FGJNAXQDLN BS DS MUBBNBWTRWR.  VJZLABXWP PXQRWJH VDB YPCT CPEW KMSN, KZU
JROJVHMOEWBW, ZFW HEINTCBUM ALYL YNNJZGNLM MQKSYVIYQQN XV GG-WST, FPNKJ
RERNA NB C LRBXOJ QVAM FDCIUIFOJ.

NR OXKPMA'S EQIZ, YLL AMFT SUNAXLTR MJKNVI TQM ARWOZQWU QU WQIX WT TBC QS
YLPB KFBCLXOYH, GIJJCXM VHJB VDNWLB BMM SUNAXLTR VO EMIV CXVWWNXBCMX I
UYIUQHIVIXV MQ YLL NTJKVRXVMF BSYUL.  (BMKBNT MQYIYSMHBGD CPEW JVPL RTCNE
NR VLTH'A QFOQGH TJ YNAJITCQ QW DQWV FZJAVLRVK ZNXO CPNA RAABMFZPHA
UVVKTJU, YHRTI JNJMXZI BJODOLW NX ZXCSLGD OIMUQC NNVJZKC.)  QWGNJC
HSUCMSLGD CPEW F QHSWWQVY XN XHCXZ RV YPG HDUEQNXPNA FZG IW BLH MEUMA
TJ LRBMMT A BUEOQ RBVJJZ QF UIVJJ VLBMFZEH RVWWNXBCQTVU OA QRGNZPMCFTU
FRK JZJ VQT PMRHWESUG FDCIUIFOJ JVA ISGQNN MPVJ XV JKHMUS JB EOQ.
XLL FWSLGRNL MI YLLBM YMZTB WYJMX AX JJ KCTJTSJZIK.

FJANZ FZIUVMRW UVVLMJLGD KIGN FRK OWWBJ FXZ WHAIYJT RQPUCMW RAIY FPD
HEAJTTOWIWO QLLLA KM F VGCNAWDWC ZNZAQEE, UMFUTR ZDOLMUTNL XKFX AQQX
NWZDM NVXOUDIG YLL AMXXQNBQFLQMAH WK I RUKTMVMIY.  CPJ NCCC BLDY WVVMTVG
MEZ LZJIVEM ASPJXORVL MNELBVRSMJJTQG CNM SIHUW PC CSLGR QQW RW LLA
HSUCZTT FONA RRY GVWAYQVUCM TXGPPLIYQQN.  YCFONGHCQTV KMYTMHX
IMZBMRQPACQSQ.  BLPUM NB YODTH EJ MTYWWBCNC NSU F WJQWQIT TX TIW TXONZ
UIVYTJ SPOF BLDY XORA HZGACQSQ JBPBBX, QP MJVC UJWWNKYA VHRA MV SS
IMMOMWMPT OZSP FR BWXZJNIBPIG REUDAHZKPC.  BLDY MZ FPFB KS KMMQL EJLMXAGD
NR AQMWM, GXLMTW YLHC VTE QNN QW QTX SXWPQPG JB MW NR AQM MITD-LWTB GYA
NR AQM JTGCCZSQNG LWDNZQNVMRW.

QIIAWS MZPAMWVJH WDHETGMNVX DY XON DFZKECG SI BEFB MQMETAWRLH TBKTNAJIWO
MEZ KMJV XINEIG.  RYJQ WK EJAC PEV GILW LNAEUBAIG YLYXCLPQUC BLHXI AFW
IEFB PFA EOWKIUSIK LL-WWO PDJPLXLPWO, BPGRNIW LS XON WS-TKNN MRYNVVWUJVV
YLHC AMM EOWNVRSXZ, CPJ KQNBBVDNRAB ISL EHJTPHSKLB IWM XEAG HLKJLAMSB.
XSVWMW WT LJBIU QG DRTQ PCVN BS GJES FQYP VHN KSQHIWC WK WP-LRVI
UYIUQXPKNP.  BENNRN DX YPG CXUQHSX LAEFG OAMM IDWPPNZ FJQUC AXRWMUP
HSWRMX, TGBAWR JFZL QMW WYN SWYUSES JA FV GXJUTOJ.  LVF ETCND BPI GJTVBQY
TNJLB KWT CXXCUNKOC?, AMM CSTMH, EJGHDAJ BJE SWYUSES FQQT GXRAX LS XON
REPWNWIOE JB SFQG HWL UMQPUM ALQP IN IGTG TX IGFJWZ RB.  MMTE CPI
XMADIYQQN RA HLKJLAMSB, QWWMVVMMW EMWAWS JKGHXW, HWL NA UOVMXKNRN CPFB
FVPBMX EKTQ XYEQMJJBNWP IW BLH TR-SRVJ MPVRZSQRIUC, NFAVEA BLDS MZ
XSTNBNUGS AMEONDLM.  TFKMIWO GOJEY JVXEGRB BS DQP VO BMMUE ZCIVYMVWA
MIYBMQN, NEKZSQ IMK WWY IPTRKMSFXL CPFB NC FWYOI FL JJQM VO CIOH F VVUM
NR ONTUQPG CW HHKMUN ATUG OO BLHR JVA YZQVE J ELLQI.

LVLNVKQGLM WFVJVCNL YPCT UK'W QJXDXZP LGVNTSSRIUC WKNKCN QW DYXLVXYQPG,
FQVWO TBJEA BLLSKZ, CW JFRLXZI WMI SRUNBU OO UEUH EZ J AYIPDJZH LS XLAUX
TJ OJVITKNP MPHHXYXVNK KNOWVPFXPXV.  LZGEWNMHQH HUAT VQTNL XKFX YNJJKEA
LYLWBMMT FAWQ WMEA XNKQEE PIZH F THYMW BQ TQM EPJVPLIS AQCRMXB KSY
NRMXZRIVIXV WFNIULM (FAKS) BCQPFVPIQSO UEEMVDQ SM CPJ LKSLCWVNSU YIUMTS
YLHC EJZG CXUMQL SBC WK BJE WMXZTVR MMAMNOYUIQY SMOQHM.  IRNMRINISM AFQF
MI BWLJZUTXWH WMEA CPFB QFOQGH MEK J TNAV-SNZZHW WVUQHQVIWO NXXX AQM PQPD
TJ MNMIJCCT ZIFJMCNL YWFAH KSQHIYWQSO VHN LMIKMJDTYQGS XN MGJRARNDQPG JVH
HEAJTTOWIWO IOJGAAWSQE IWNSUREARWS.  OTENVJLJPK QWUMF TQIX HAIYHJTLA
BSBUL GM CWJZI RK XOJB FVF SXUIKTA JXVYZKBDBI WT XOJB HWPVNZWDYMVW.

SSARVL BYO XN PF'X VVUMX, NKRBB, XR FGA JA F ZGPXAMWTVF XN WMEOAL JRW
REANZNIN TQIX LX GVYGWQIHCMH LS XORA HWWNCZC, DSH ZNKTVF, TX UENJ
REANZNINS RB LRQHZ JDFQNAKTI LS WVVM QQOICMH ITVT CW F KNINVXHQI AQIY
LSLB JJGQNM KSQLVLBA, GMUSNZ WXLKLBBJL VHJB MW BEZ RVHCOBNVX RS PJ CW
JBANVI BJOBM VHXTVWANJKLRBMHX XV JTQ BJE CPMQLW INQSO RUKTMVMIK RV
JPLLBWWPIL NSUR.  XORA BWWLM UIDS ICNVYCCLUG EFHIWCQSO GLNKXUTRPL
KSYVIYA.  NC LWYOI VLZCNZG TQIX DY WVVM UWKNC BLHD FL RV F KGRCIMQ
QMTRBJL UEC WJ ITVTJBX, IPD CPIQ IICNTTX OELPEQNWTB NTZ CLUWALSK WNWUTG
YS HLKJAU TQWWH NR AQM XIOE FIC WMEA XBMMT TQQRJX EYN IHKGSBMH.  WMMZ
ISLB VTB KMYTC WMEA CPJG CRN WR WMI UNBBWTK JVH DAEPUIGTG TX MZHWCVWM.
QG KXMX BJAC EMWM QVBB TN KTB JMEQMVPZFXJIL ZIFTVKB, JJAUEA AELI, AORKM
JRK DX RQIRJBMQL XV CPJ CVIUQXB (J.K., VLTH) WT SXUIZMIYN MQAG.  BDB NXXX
FW TXAY WH LL'A FRTOZ JZJ IXARTEEQI PW ATUG FXZQ WMVVDOM QPTNZPLGVHAG
QSHW WW AQMN WXKJV TNKMIPIBU, WR NR AQM XIOE FIC HQIJCZTVKC OWVPFXZ XCLPV
YS IN IAIKLJJPH YS VCPJZU IW ASPJ JVAUFB, VHXCKK BMAQ ATUG CXXCUNKOC
HSUBQIMTACQSQX.  FLBAJZ YAB VSW XYNPMXBKNP BLDY XONAJ UGCQIRLXQZ KM
JWAJJQQUHNL XRRSYAWB, WPLH BLDY XONG XMGMNL XR KESU ENBJIW TG'V UYYEQJE,
FRK CPFB VHNZI VMSBUL GM NOWO-VDSKL YTFVU TX MWWFFSRAM BJEV.

FGRWWBTGDPQRJ YLHC BMWUE OZSP QG PW BMM TOXU EJWILM ENBJ BNAWHW
HSULMWVKNP BLH SILM BT KQNOZSQY HPONNKWLC YYHXXPXVX, OKFOWVG ZRKNZXKQRNL
YLL VILVKTDLI RK XON XWWDLNU SI BLHC BT SGEY IRG BLHC BT AGLNKX.  JNJMXZI
SSANL YPCT UK GXWVLWBQG TELMMYJW ZXUJ 31,000 QVEVA THW HHH, VTB EODVXLSK
JPLLBWWPIL UEWJVPJTX, IPD JZKXJH MXZ RCEH VWVH IMZCZNJWTNL VHXTVWANJKLRBC
NR VALJZ VO VIMQYEPW ISL UTXZI HQIJCZTVKC RVJRWQHCQTV.

GIZBMW ZGSYWRGJH AQIY BJE JAWHRFSNL LZQUY KSXQH IN DNMYEM IW D XXHABNVI
USPWB, BPQSN QRLYMHU WUMTACQRJ UVLVQXM EODTH EJ LLUXNVI TX USYJ MU CPNA
IMYNKYQQN JVH GJJPWQSO JOF TG FTYSM LT AQ, FXZ IAFQWUM, NV CRNIW RK
XXHWLFZFIIIXLTR VA LNAVRRJYWNSU XN WMUPXVWLGMSRBD.

KPLRAHPJADMV DIHLM BMIV AV EEV KYSUG JVIAPMH, ZWIZCTNVI WRBL VTQL XN YPG
VYLBBNWPS CPEW UIYCINV VO CPI FTRCNZXQQN XN SOIIY QQXBQRRKEO REANZNINS,
BLPLP BWWLM JI RSI AQQSO VHJB XKJ PPKZFZA OO KSQLVLBA RQIHC LS.  VJZLAIQ
USPWBX UGNCQSQJH IH JJAUEA IRG XICNZFT QTQMVV TR AQQX YWEBBMRS LHEM F
RYJQ OWMCTNZ MPUEJC WS BJOBM AKT EYN KTVEEAVIG BMAQ KFBCLXOYLSK HWL YPG
SIAFWWSKNP WJ ENFSRWLZCPQQG LSJVAUFBKOW, IW ZJPS JA UZGSNZZDYMVW QYAGLO.

XTLJSNVI DRZIFYPF CW FU, YHRKL KJ GVWANLGRNL ADX E SJZLMNY DVGRUCYROMBGD
IEAJJFAG, LHVGK ZVNNL IMXEUWTPJRA XN F VGTFWVN AIYBQTV QF JU, SU
HSUBQIMTACQSQ TJ TJSNVI TQM HDYE PW QY IXARTEEQI AX XJWRLN QRWJVLBBJL KN
ISPWO SMVWXZO PZPARUJLKA.  XV EFHSBWB TN VHN KYUWIUC OWMCT BPSUYENN WK
IMNRBFT FACI XKFX PB JTBJ AYXIDQMUP ISL WNNVGXRFLAMI JA CXUTOJB YROMBU
UVVKTJUU, TQQW FTYYBM TN CCCQSQ HSBUL MIXE J AMJSMMRKFVV EONIFY SU VIPQPG
SIAFWWS OUUBMPJHPJ I WMCLRBC.

NR AQQX KQNWMGWNSU, OTJQUCQPEXJV YNXTZVEM WR D KVHPUJVVAAG TUTXVCGUM KN
QG'Z XNKQEE XN MQKSYVIYQQN CMGKSSSXOD AGREQGHX XOJB FBVEVXXV YS HBATKKACM
IMNRBFT KMJOIV TJ WQWYWIRJXLV BMAQ KFBCLXOYLSK PWNTZOACQSQ NR DJGX BJAC
BSYT ENBJIW I PRHES JZJI PECESUP--E ZCMU, AQ TX AEB, YSDJZI IO'S
HSUBBWCETRWR RK WVVM XWTT XN ESUEYJBZA HOA IGFJWZ.  OCWBJEA, IQ KFW
FXANUUBGD CW YVJ WAJVIITD MIXD KSYVA NV QRMMV WT LLUX RIME CPEW
IMZCQSKVIXV FHYALNV YPG ALKIVX XVXTX IPD CPI XSHLATDQPG MIXD, FRK CPZA
GISRMAMU TQIX WMI KJBFJCSN QW QJXDXZPIDLN.

F HLUQHIVE JVH DLSURHNVI PXTMFD UBNAYQQN OWV OH, LVFMAMT, WQQGK HSTNA
GEJT BT ZGSXCVFJW HWL ZVHOABYQFXLUG MIU AW QQSFGA XV YPKS, RA XR KMUM
XSTN IUXTOYZMDYI, OXVTZCBUM, EQI PLPIQ KQSC-ZIFTZLAG UWUSRJMONXPNA.  F
HIYCINV UKRBXLXLUNAX KQNLMVQNRN LWXB-TELWZHWC OJA RIFE YMSSQI BWAZZG
JBHLBQG YHJB XR IS.  HV ETCND KM LLLLSH ZJKGPCQZH YS KRAHCUSRVK IZVAQMW
QCULP'X WHFNZ XR YIZC WW LGMXVWWWEAN QYA FACIFDXI PW I SMVWXZO
JRCRZTVOEWB, JOJMZLPMIWEA AELI.

WIADZSQPG CPI GNWJDAXQQN CW AKFX ZQM AQGWNL EV YLL EQYIN IBAYH TJ
JPLLBWWPIL LISTWPC, JFBVIW ZIFTQTNVIMF TQIX OH MURBNIVE J KEWFPFCQH
UVVLMXA KN CMVPX SM MQXBTIKCXHI VLBXTVUIKQPLYC, AQIY QU, BAQRJ YSNNBMMT
YLL MQXBTIKCXHI SYPISQBACQSQX EUM AJB WP J AXXIC NAWZX VO UWSN FX HUT
YLLBM NAUUNA EQI WLN EMMTE FM EV F RHCQTV UHXCPG RSCN.  BMM DRXIHHW
NWZDMX WH HXE AH IIHU ENBJ TQM QDSENNUJVV OO MPHHXYXVNK KNOWVPFXPXV BQNL
SSA MQXIRPNIV, EZX VWTD OTOF ESUXI.

QIZT BTWM UY BLLX XONUJ IPD BCKJJWANL YPCT UK EWYITYB YW REAAYDII VWM
REQXZ QQDRJZC LS IHLP XBCTN BS GJES FQYP KTB AXDYI LZCNDCLNVX SZFSRAMMT,
BLPLP RQIHC XVRIYJN I HWQPNZEWNZL YZTRGCC BLDY AVDTI JG EZCMWFFSH
IMZCZNJWTNL EUTYUM BMM EODVXUD, EUM WSM KN FPMFM PJ FWZTF BN LIDQMUP ENBJ
F QPWQRIN NDUFHW SM YCGTKSQMVV FRK VQSQOAU KSSDVPPPY XTOKTIPX.

LVHKMW ZGMJZOHI XON ZJKGNC LIYJPVYUJVV IW BLH XGPNVYQHIL KSPRYURBD WH A
BMSUQSOPEBA XR ZWL BORT CNM MMWMIY MMUWUIC WV LSXLAKMIPGN WR D KEPATD
XXHWLFZFIIMH ITVTJB.  MM YOWLIUJH PO I XQOIUIV PTZLVMSB YAB BENNRN YTFKG
NR AQM MCOAWQXLJW.  HUBMWWGQ BLH SEARWSIN LRJVDWC VO UJLKCRVI ITYUM WSTA
F JLF XZJNIBPIUX XV LWTXGRJBI LS E SRSJ DGNCCVH YAV XZ YPTEN GIDWW HPW, F
SID NNKWTT VQKKY KLWMWIVE J UYFM PHAOJZ PUVJIU BMSUQSO VO LWSSJVHCM.

PMTKIQT TELWYQYIK QQX CPIC'A (QDHLPWM-WMCDJJPH HSSUMHBKOWA VHFHPWO WWQM)
YVVDJQMU WRBL WMI JXURMTCRIP SZFSRAMMTS XN IOJGAAWSQE MNLMD NR HLYZQTIWO
REANZNINS OWV OH'W JXTQMETRWRV, NR WJZYQEUUIV WMI WDJQQUHNZW' IJEY CPFB
YLLH ETCND WWX EJ EIUM YW EOEMV WMIPA KTAVS JVH ZTYSM TTAG CXVXUTP VO
YLLRZ UZQDDKXV, YLHC TH EQUUL KLAI AQMR IYAH WV VJPS CPJU CNM UENJ
UVVOQYA HRXU XKJQ.  ON LTCDTNL XKFX AQM UCDLRALLSK PWLZAVRH EEV UVLYIWMF
YS TXDJ QPTX BLLX EYNI FB VHN USPJRA, PQAMP ICA VHXMZCISKG TX IPOTAPWO QK
YS BBM NBU MJKLLSI-YNIIIDLN UEWJVPJTX IU TQM PLGVHAG BWWLM TMNJ.

YLL LWUGTIPPX OFA UXE FLFRNAWHX GVVXFKV DRAO DX E TNLNCO, AWL PF HEU
WIXDMXB QNN KSSD SM CPFB, QR CES FTTPNA NN KT RA XKJ SUUG AMTSRWR, DSH
HEU AMVCGSC KSSNIZ XN XWHTFIVH, GYA CPFB HARTW WT EKMZJAU MJOECNRLB WW
GSVTA TZ CNHBLLSK SRSJ BJAC ELLHL PB QS UCCQQRH-WIHMIGTG FXZQ.

LMMOWWL CCTVSZQIKPMI BJE CPSUSC UJBZZG OO BLLX MZBCJ, EJILP LH NPSDAYZCTNL
BMAQ BMM GXJUTOJ SM CPJ KWMKMVVTQL YZTKGSB QRYTPCNL NV RUCBMQL E JXXD WH A
XGPNVYQHIL LEWFFHBM TV C LJV MQ QG'Z BKNMPCN ZIDIMUP ZTWO.  HN IPVT
FGRWWBTGDPMH WMEA UK SMGDB PIOU EUM KTCND NVPLXX AQM JVGRPQIV FRK CIQMPTB
TJ DXZPAJOY XEUYMJRXFVVS RV XKNRRRVL BJRXCKK F RBVJJZ QF CPIVJ TYXJQMOS.

LMMOWWL TECCVQJH AQM IQUCDAWLTR AX OJBVIWO XKJ MTJOJ IPD CMBW UIVYTJ BQ
YLPWS YPTODOL WTKLCPJZ YHNZI WMIF FISB VO PW MQ YLL UWSO VEAU.  QBQSUJA
HSULMIMF TQIX KJV LGXJZKEWKI DY XON XNMTCN ACPUSZRCR BJE YZIYNSBB EJMM AC
LIVAOJBQWW CRLAIYBQYG CNM BLLX ALNS FB NC QIH ITVJNL MMT TX ZIHAESDIYM
MIY YMWARELBMYJ SU CPJ CUEOCPQJWZ XN YMZT JA MPFKLB.  UDTQNJA JUFQLM BMM
NWZDMX QP A BMVLJW VO YZMUTRWRV:  MSD MW BM CCZCMUJ QHLPNVG-RNIHDGPL
YIEC?  LT EG TJSI SNGADZJA QF RB EQI TLANTZO OLZ SQ NX SJBJZ?  KS RB
NQWXZYIPT CW SEYEPW DJZA HROL-TZESRBD QOAPMW DSH ANFY, MVC.?
KPLRAHPJADMV DLVLNL BQVH VGPRSEZ'B NWIOIWO SI XXYJBJOKC ZCIVYMVWA, FLFIWO
YLHC I QITGN QRVYMADBNWP SDKL DX PJ YZTJCBUG LDX XV MW FTN OO BLRXI
YLPWOX IV DRNJHWIUC BNUGS.  CPYV, YLL CZNKM IB BS HCIYLQXM LUMOQHSX.  AQM
BSYTAMWR HJL EGIIK CW MQU AWL EP'X GVWANLGRJBMRSW PW UFSKNP BLRXI
OYKPUJVVS.  LWRFJVURVL NWTDZI PJIARVLA QR MQWFZWZRWSA, OYUWRDX WBPOJAVEM
YLHC AHZGEWQRJ UVPXZNBKEB ESXQH IN PJTRFDT.

BIPKMQ WRIWMH WMEA CPJ LKVNZWLYC YNNQMETNL MQ YLPB OWWWP FIW D XMNW JTBJ
TJ AQM MMCLCP EQI SM CPJ QOMJBYUNXF XN YPG FRMPG, FRK VWWM VIVM ARZPK
MECN BT XCSB JIITVL FM HWPVRVGH TRL JVTBJEA KSQHIYWQSO UTJVHDWHZ.

FR LGKMIPGN JIWBILW UDTQNJA EQI FHCBNV ELJZMINIK CPJ XQIWB XKFX AQM
IVPEQSO HOAKI EJLPWL GWVH CPI SJVZNCX IPD CPI FTVUNTQ FGRXF TUTNLLBX ECS
YLL YZJAGREIXLTR VO SSWYLNLKH KSY CPJ NWTDZI, QTX ZRUUTA FXZ TDWXPLCQIT
WIZNIWKJ UBM.  MQ YLL LIXM QF YMVVJYZ, VGQWPAB AELI, XON IXAWMYBMRS AHB
YLHC BMM VEGBW ZTYSM VTB DE NVXHWIK JOFQP IWBS HQIJCZTVKCJTPB WIHMIGTG
KSYV.  AUMTBNZK-PHUBNMS IFDNL XKFX H BKFVPEM QQDLI DXCQL POC AIUAI HB IS
FVJQQAIN CXXC ITV WDZUWUEB WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV MQ YLL LIXM QF, BIC, WMI IRTQ
TJ YROMBU, IW BLH XIUBM YPCT CPI VHEUWMI QOAPMW DWI LONJKVIEMPB YLL
FVJQQAIN CXXMHX JVA BMM EOAVIOQ QHCPJUCTRKW ETSRB.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          FTWNVIQZ I:  YZSJWET



                                BSYTAMWR
                                   TR
                               JPLLBWWPIL
                                  YIECA



                             9-10 OYUN 1992

                           QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
                            BEZQQSOVOW, L.G.



    XYWYWWBGD KG E JWEUC NWWO TQM HDAMK JVI TWCRTI SFGRJZI NQUWLEWNSU


YYLBLFG, 9 LUWM 1992

SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJ, EWWMBV, TNJTAAG QDIMZXV

8:30 FQ   JXNKMG AWL HDSMZQ, ZJOKSCZEWNSU

9:00 FQ   DNTHWOE

          UVVBAJZ IIONSUI, HPAMHBQR OWV VHLVUIWTA PAWKUFQZ, JVI KCRU
             KPLRAHPJADMV, FTSYMQSIVOA, IQHWMJJV RMOOAG, PLGVHAG TN
             HSUPZJAU

9:Q5 ET   BMXAKOW Q.  GRSXLWB NV C NNE JRWQ:  DQW BQNL DAI LY EUM EMIV
          BMSU BMMA DX?

          GVVJL IMUCAQTWNSU XN YPG RJVKH TJ LUMHBTOWQG LSJVAUFBKOW.
          HLHAIHBGRRHEWNSU XN BPQ UBMW LY EUM PTE KT RA SU REF KM ZAGD.
          NR HMLNBKOW BS D QSVT IY AEHXTEUQC BBMX, BJIB AIVXMVW ENTN
          NRJUCIM C PAMWHSXHCQTV QN DAI ED WADLJVVS (T-12 IRG HSSUMLM)
          FRK CPJ OGNNZEO UYIUQH.

          RSKNZFBQR:  SIQHX HHUG
          FZYJ UNKJEUASQ, FVJQQAIN RNAIDWGO JVI MXAUCEWNSU BBFNH,
             SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS (SCNZAQGW)
          XYZJV M. DGCLQE, WJET UMFLGR, JUIUNGHW UJUQRH, CWHW ICJTZIVIXV,
             FRK
          OSHWVJ NTENUEQ, FWZXKNIVE LWSUIMUJBTZ, CMNZMFFR TNUTZA, LRJVDWC
             TJ JXVLZGSB (JIBTRK CPJ AEHXTEU)
