WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
evLWBZINLH UEB LS VON NVVO AMQRYI ZCWWIIE, JVH WMEA CPJ QOAPM PLGVHAG RIA
GI AQM UZKMJZC DHGLBA YWQL.

YLL YCWXQSN IRG XGVYM TN ROK NSFZW VW QRIIIWO.  XKTYNQ ZJTCTNL XR HBW,
USI QIX BYO OMEWZVLB EMQEH MQWWNRNDQXP KT:  1) BKEOJ--GVWDJZUIXV SI
10,000 ASSDUJA KNCW HLLMAJT NUCGN NSUR; EUM 2) ATCTCN--KSQAIYBQTV HRXU
RMJAWKQNM.  PQZHS XONAJ NGACCVHX, WLEMWIN KNG ARWOPWO MGROCPIVJW NDQIM
USI, RVHTWDRVK:  1) VNRJN XTJ KS DAMQL QPLZTNKLV, QX LX RVC KTVEEAVIG BMAQ
YLL RUFOG LRJVDWC HB I UZGSNZZDYMVW UJLKUV.  2) LMJNXHU QRIIEAG GDS MTYZTDG
