              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the BMEVNHL XVHM KN QMV ONJL, JVI PCD LWQH YS AQM LMPEAIP
HSULTZAKOW, BLDY AONZJDGR HWY JT XV XV YPG EWOPLXL JXIXB AOD NMQI
F RBVJJZ QF KIXKNRN VIHPKNNA MQ YLL BMF, AQMN KLLQHYNV IQIGRVK LS
YLL BISL YICP ARTHLW AUIFEB, BLHS E YXE TN NOMOMQL LVDAJA, CNM
GIORVI BJEV I VDNPDJG XBCTRWR.)  KTALEMW, AJE BWSQ REKN WZB VHJB
XLL FIX QP TQM TRTP VO BJITS FPMFM WON PFL YEYB AKJR ZQM BIU NRVI
KILC PNOJ.

  `N APBP N PCDW'B GUNIK BW RCEH!' BIMG FPPLM, FA UHN AADR EIXCY,
YVFRVL BQ FRVH KJV DJG TCV.  `I BPEOQ FL YCSQUHNL JRW MA WWB, Q
XYWYWXM, DY KMMQL HYXESMF IW UC RBR ANIWA!  VHJB ALQP IN I VCGEA
