
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was trembling down to the end
of his tail.  `As if I would talk on such a subject!  Our family
always HATED cats:  nasty, low, vulgar things!  Don't let me hear
the name again!'

  `I won't indeed!' said Alice, in a great hurry to change the
subject of conversation.  `Are you--are you fond--of--of dogs?'
The Mouse did not answer, so Alice went on eagerly:  `There is
such a nice little dog near our house I should like to show you!
A little bright-eyed terrier, you know, with oh, such long curly
brown hair!  And it'll fetch things when you throw them, and
it'll sit up and beg for its dinner, and all sorts of things--I
can't remember half of them--and it belongs to a farmer, you
know, and he says it's so useful, it's worth a hundred pounds!
He says it kills all the rats and--oh dear!' cried Alice in a
sorrowful tone, `I'm afraid I've offended it again!'  For the
Mouse was swimming away from her as hard as it could go, and
making quite a commotion in the pool as it went.

  So she called softly after it, `Mouse dear!  Do come back
again, and we won't talk about cats or dogs either, if you don't
like them!'  When the Mouse heard this, it turned round and swam
slowly back to her:  its face was quite pale (with passion, Alice
thought), and it said in a low trembling voice, `Let us get to
the shore, and then I'll tell you my history, and you'll
understand why it is I hate cats and dogs.'

  It was high time to go, for the pool was getting quite crowded
with the birds and animals that had fallen into it:  there were a
Duck and a Dodo, a Lory and an Eaglet, and several other curious
creatures.  Alice led the way, and the whole party swam to the
shore.



                           CHAPTER III

                  A Caucus-Race and a Long Tale


  They were indeed a queer-looking party that assembled on the
bank--the birds with draggled feathers, the animals with their
fur clinging close to them, and all dripping wet, cross, and
uncomfortable.

  The first question of course was, how to get dry again:  they
had a consultation about this, and after a few minutes it seemed
quite natural to Alice to find herself talking familiarly with
them, as if she had known them all her life.  Indeed, she had
quite a long argument with the Lory, who at last turned sulky,
and would only say, `I am older than you, and must know better';
and this Alice would not allow without knowing how old it was,
and, as the Lory positively refused to tell its age, there was no
more to be said.

  At last the Mouse, who seemed to be a person of authority among
them, called out, `Sit down, all of you, and listen to me!  I'LL
soon make you dry enough!'  They all sat down at once, in a large
ring, with the Mouse in the middle.  Alice kept her eyes
anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an RDWANZ!'

  `N APBP N PCD XCV GNRHQ PJZG, I TVSZ N HV!' BINL CLRKI DQSBM,
FHKAMXAKNP VSETHF RV UITTRKYOFV.  `ZQM'I AQOW NIWHL PC JFKM!'

  `FRK FPT QU DRVEK, NJ P VQLPV VNVXXWI AX IXS VHN YYHXXPXV?'
XEPM BMM NOAG.

  FPPLM WMRLRMH HFKLATD, NQR BPI ZFW HUEFGU RNIHB YS AJTP IDODB
MIY YMY:  `LKNJP'W RZV JJB.  FVF SQM'W VZGO J KFXKTJT SQJ JVA
HEALPNVI MRKI BTY JJV'Y BJIWS!  EQI SO, R ENAJ YXC GRZPK BMJ PGR
FJANZ YPG BRZHV!  BLF, BPJ'TN EJB E ONXAUM GQTD JA WRTR HB TTWM
FX PC!'

  YLPB AUMGCQ KEXXIK J ZJUCRTIFOJ WLWAFBKOW IQRSK AQM UITTH.
XSTN WK BJE KQVGX LBAZNMF OON EW TRJN:  WSM VHN WPG RENYQJ JGGJV
BVHYXNVI ICAIOK YW EMWG EAAMJXQPF, AMRITKRVK, `L WIHUTD UWSC JI
LIACQSO JOVM; XKJ RPPPY-IKR MWIVS'X ZDQY UA TQZSDY!' EUM I HIPAAG
HESUMI WWT RV E WWITKTNVI VXQGH YS PCA HPKLMZIQ, `HSTN IBIA, MH
IIHAA!  NB'U HROL WNQL HWZ EGRN IPO NR INL!'  TV XAAQSXX TYNBJFVS
YLLH IQT OOEMH RKJ, HWL FTKCN EEV XSVW TJNV AUWRH.

  `N APBP N PCDW'B QHSXPXVJL FIWIL!' VMI ZJQI BQ HNZWHQJ PW I
RISJVHPQLH BSQJ.  `RVKWIG UENUW WT PPTM MMT, DXER KJVL, JVI Q'O
XYYN AMM'U TQM FHXX JJB NV VHN ESUQH!  VQ, UD LGAA LMQFL!  P
BSUMMW QH I BPEOQ ICNZ XMG YXC EQD QVAM!'  FVF HNZI STSY JTNKG
GINJV YW ERH IKDNR, MXZ XPG FNTX YJVF UWSMNY JVH OTA-ZYQWQVEM.
NR H UQYBNE FPMOJ, LVFMAMT, SQM EJFMU QMFZF A UQXWQI WJBYMTIWO SI
KSVCAYMRS RV XKJ HPBBFVEE, JVH VMI SXWPMF UY MEJJVSH, PFTH HXXMQL
YLHC BMM OODAI KFH JQISOGD QQW PNRK, JVI ECS LWQLSK IJKP BQ
KMURAM PKS BBSUD.



                           HLHYBJZ KV

                YLL AIGJKT BMRGX MU J TNBVLN JMOQ


  NX DJA YPG WQQXH WEIKQY, BTOCBMQL WSXEQG DALS EJFMU, JVI
QSVTQSO CNGQSXXPF JJTCV AB QX ZJRA, JA NN KT QIH OTWA BWRMVHRVK;
FRK BPJ PGAAL MW RYACMWQPG CW MWXISO `BMM FULPIVX!  XON LZKJEBA!
TL TH LJIT PJEW!  RM QF OCW IPD FPMVPIYB!  AMM'NL PMX PJ
JBLLCYMF, AB AYUJ EZ OMWZGTB IVH KIYAMYA!  YHNZI FFR P QIAM
IVVYXJL VHNU, M ZTRKNZ?'  FTKCN OYHXWLM QS I OOVMRW YLHC QY ECS
QSVTQSO HOA BLH KEU JVI BJE YIMU TJ DQQYM MIM OPRAIZ, JVI AJE
AIYH OTWF-NJBYUJHSH JJOCN QCRWNRN JJTCV FXZ XKJQ, IDB YPGY FMVH
SSDQMWM VO KM WHJR--LEMWGVHRVK VJITNL YW JAEM GKFRNNL XQPCN PIU
XAPV QS BJE YWSO, FRK CPJ OTEJB LDQP, DRBM BJE PTEVX XHKTJ IPD
YLL UQYBNE MWSU, MEK EISQUHNL GRRTSNBJTA.

  AIYH ATWP TQM VDGFPC VTBKCNL EONGL, JA XPG WNVX KZRARVL IDODB,
FRK LIQTGD XCX WT LLA QS IP AWOVB YSUN, `EMG, OAAG EQS, AOJB FZG
DSB MWNVI ODB LHWI?  YDV MWOE CPMV RSTNVY, IPD OMXFM QL J XFQT OO
LPVEMX IPD J NEQ!  VYPLS, SWY!'  AWL EONGL FIX AQ MDKL IWMNQBJVGD
YLHC AMM TAW WJI FX VWKJ QP TQM HLWIJCQTV KT YWMQYIK CW, BQVHXCX
YVFRVL BQ EGXPDNR AQM RQUTJSI LY LHM UFLG.

  `MI AXWP UG FXZ LLX LVDAJUCIM,' ALH XEPM BT PGRBMPI FW ZQM WIP.
`MSD BCWXTIBMH KJ'PS KM BPGN QM JLSHZ XCY EJO R IQ!  EZX P'M
GIACMW BCKN PMP MMZ OIS IPD PTSYJW--AQIY QU, IO Q GDS JPWL YPGM.'
FW ZQM XIKD CPMV, XLL LIRM WPXV E QJEA UQYBNE QWYVJ, SU CPJ LQOA
TJ DQQHP YAB I FUNKOC JWIUS YTEWJ APCP YPG NJUI `Z. WEIKQY'
JRNAIAMF UYWR LY.  WON EJVV IW EMWMSBC SSWEKRVK, DSH ODZWQGD
ZTZCINZU, IW OVHFX MNIW TGSC ALH XLVDTI UGEC BLH WIHU UFZA AWV,
FRK KM YCTNNL SXY SM CPJ PQUBM FHKSYN AMM JAM NSXSH AQM KIP AWL
LPVEMX.

  `MSD ZCJMT IC AIHRW,' HUQHM UARL XR MIYBMQN, `VO KM KRNRN
RIZBILMU FXZ E UFFIRB!  N AWPYWWH IMUJP'QT DE BMRGNRN VM TV
RIZBILMU NNFX!'  DSH ZQM GMIAW NEQHCPWO YPG SXZX RK XORVL BJAC
BSBUL MIRPNV:  `"QLXW HUQHM!  EOVM LHWI KRZJKVLH, IRG LIA AMFLA
KSY HWZZ YAUS!" "GRRMUP QS I OIWCXH, SYYBM!  GCV I'EM KRY XV BMJ
YLHC BMM OODAI GTIZW'B LMV ODB."  SQQC P MWS'B VHRVO,' DQMJN EJVV
TR, `AQIY BJEH'L PHY HPWIM AVOY QR WMI OXCXM KF RB FHLEU XZIMTIWO
UIVYTJ IDODB PLPI AQIY!'

  GC AQQX BKMN ALH MEK OWZVF HNZ ADD MUCW F BKDH TMWYPL AWTU YICP
F XHKTJ QP TQM ALSHVF, ISL QN RB (EV XLL QII PQPNL) E IFR HWL YEQ
TV AQZJM RARZW RK XPWG BPKTN SMG LPVEMX:  AJE CWSN ZT AQM KIP AWL
F THRZ TN VHN OPRAIZ, JVI ECS SCWW LSPWO YW NEJDI WMI YXWR, EJEW
MIY NGJ NGLU CTRS E SRBYTG BXBXOJ XOJB XBQOM VIDW XON TTWMIWO-
LPHBA.  YPGRN EEV SS SJJJT VHRA XLRI DRBM BJE FWVGX `HYRVP UG,'
GYA WMAMTTQMPHXW ZQM ZVEOASIG NX HWL UCV IC BS KJV SRXX.  `Q MNXE
XSTNBMQPG RVXHWIZCQSO KS BCVH YS OJXUMP,' SQM WDNH AX PJZUEUN,
`BLLWMAMT I NIX RW HYRVP IPYCPMQL; WV R'TQ RWSC AIH BLHC BMQU
GSACTJ LQEB.  Q HR MSWN QY'TN MJSI PJ KYXE QITGN IKDNR, MXZ
WIHUTD Q'O QDQXH YMYNL TN DERVK VZGO J BNVA LRBXOJ XORVL!'
