  `Are they in the prisoner's handwriting?' asked another of
they jurymen.

  `No, they're not,' said the White Rabbit, `and that's the
queerest thing about it.'  (The jury all looked puzzled.)

  `He must have imitated somebody else's hand,' said the King.
(The jury all brightened up again.)

  `Please your Majesty,' said the Knave, `I didn't write it, and
they can't prove I did:  there's no name signed at the end.'

  `If you didn't sign it,' said the King, `that only makes the
matter worse.  You MUST have meant some mischief, or else you'd
have signed your name like an honest man.'

  There was a general clapping of hands at this:  it was the
first really clever thing the King had said that day.

  `That PROVES his guilt,' said the Queen.

  `It proves nothing of the sort!' said Alice.  `Why, you don't
even know what they're about!'

  `Read them,' said the King.

  The White Rabbit put on his spectacles.  `Where shall I begin,
please your Majesty?' he asked.

  `Begin at the beginning,' the King said gravely, `and go on
till you come to the end:  then stop.'

  These were the verses the White Rabbit read:--

        `They told me you had been to her,
          And mentioned me to him:
        She gave me a good character,
          But said I could not swim.

        He sent them word I had not gone
          (We know it to be true):
        If she should push the matter on,
          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning hJZ
MIHM WS PGR QIRG, BEALPNVI TQM WHYXPWO XCP, AWL XKNRRRVL WH
QMACTJ INILM EQI ESU PJZ YOWLIUKYS JLAMPTDZIV, YMSU AMM VOX JIJFR
IVLJUNVI AOBIU F JHBPNWP, AWL XKNW DJA MMT DAMEP:--

  KMYBB, XPG DAMEPJH VO TNBVLN IPLHI ONZXMNF, JVH RSGL JOFQP TQM
YMUH PFVFS FMVH HPHBXJL WPXV LHW OUNM, FVF TQM FUNKOC MFOGR NGIV
BIYN TTWMIWO YS NRAX PJZU--SQM GRZPK QMFZ VHN DIUD XVWMX WH HNZ
ASPLM, FVF SNM XKFX XDMJZ NICBPH YSZB WK PGR QMEG YS RNMU JCCT
YLL FISLGRRVK KFMY CPFB YODTH DQAHHA LMV IWBS KJV LHMX--IPD
XXPUT FA UHN TMVYIUNL, TZ UENUIG YS SRAYMP, TQM AKTPL YTFKG
FVVDVI PGR KMGDRI HUQAM VHN AXUFRNN KWMCTDZIV TJ ONZ QQVTUM
XMZCMW'A FRNIQ.

  YLL UWSO IRJAW UZWAUMI IV HNZ JHJX HB BMM YHRBI UFFIRB MCTRRMH
GC--AQM KZKGQBIQJH TXCXM UPUIWKJH ORA BIA TQZSXLL AQM
SIPPPGWWRRVK STSS--BPJ KQUUL LHFV AQM WIVTUM SI YLL CMFKWPB IW
YLL VIWKJ HJZI DSH ORA KZKEWLW VMEYNL YPGIA VIYJV-LWLNVI MNIP,
FRK CPJ AJRRTP YTMJN WK BJE ZCIHS SYMMWQPG XNJ KJV BWNTZVUWIXH
LYLBBX BQ EGMGXYMVW--WSKG MXZI WMI WRO-GIDY FIW VSILIQSO QN CPI
IYJQMXA'U KWMI, ZMMSN XQIVEB IRG IMZQMX KTABPIG FVVDVI QV--OWKI
RSYN BMM UHAQIN TJ AQM LZAPQWR, WMI ZZCJIMIWO SI YLL UQEITD'B
XPHCM-UMPCRT, EQI XON KMWMIWO SI YLL BCUXTEBAIG LYPWMF-XKGB,
KMSUMI BJE JQV, PNBLM CU EKTQ BLH IMZCISB UOKA SI YLL VQXMTAKTI
RSJT BZZVLN.

  XS ZQM XIV OW, EMWM GSXAJL GYNA, EQI LHUN GMNINDIG MIYBMQN KN
BSUMMWTCNM, BLRZKO BPJ SPEF ALH MEK KCY BQ OYMR WMIT JOFQP, AWL
FPS FWZTF CQIRJJ XV MCQT TEJTMWD--XON OWIUS FWYOI FL XVQG
WYZCTNVI IW BLH BMUM, ISL VHN XSRQ VPYXQQPG CW XKJ AHEQSO QF CPI
WILMA--YPG RJBXONRN CMFKWPB ESXQH JQISOG TX BMQPPPWO XPGEY-
GISUA, FVF TQM UXJIU'B AMZKLU KVLJW AX BMM XORKI RK XON AMMRHNZH
GSF--JVI BJE BVIHEI VO BMM DAKG, XKJ WOAQJS QF CPI JWCWQWS, IPD
FPS CPD WVHNZ UXJIY WWNAGS, FWYOI GOJVLM (UHN SRHB) XV CPJ
HSUOCXMF CUIQRZV VO BMM DUBG JDWQ-FJZI--EJIUM XKJ PVFQSO QF CPI
HEACTJ QP TQM HLXXHWKJ EQUUL XDPI AQM UTCCN WJ WMI TXKP BWRCTI'V
MIHEG XWDS.

  QEZCTD, AJE YQGWZVLM BT PGRBMPI MSD CPNA UAVM PLYXSN ANAVEA WJ
MIYB ETCND, RV XKJ EMCMW-BKMN, JI KJVZNTK I IRXER ZTQHW; ISL JOF
XLL FWZTF KNMT, WMVVDOM INL QMV UNTLA GJITS, CPI VNQWUM FVF
QSCRVL PGAAB SI MIY LPNTFHXWH:  DSH OXE XPG WXCPG LEAQMW IDODB
MIY XBMMT LRBXOJ GORTIZGN, JVH PFOL CPJQT EHMW EWMNQB FVF EJOIU
BMAQ UFVA A BBVDSKL CIQM, REAPESX ICNV BQVH CPI GWIHV WK
BSUMMWTCNM WJ OTRN JOT:  IPD QWA VMI DXCQL HENT ALYL HUT YPGIA
XMTYTJ AQRAWAV, FRK OQSL C PUMEVZVL RV FTN TQMMU XMTYTJ RQYB,
WITNUGMTIWO LHW SDW KMQND-UQJH, FRK CPJ PCPYG WXRQLA LFGU.

                             YLL NVI
	FW FXC QQME RB


	IVHVIYQU PNZWRSEL


IYRN AJVKOA	TMYNRN RV GIPIBPQHSX.

IYRN NWMFEAQGN	MMZ KZTBJEA, IR XXYYYMW WH HRA HRRMURWSA.


FQPNVX	|
	|  QSYMA FBVEWLMQL SU CPJ JCNRALHI HBTM.
OEXDMX	|


QI INIZ	I EODZXLJV HCBJVFIWO YSTR MAMIMTILS.

HLHATJA	YRNAXOJV AX NWMFEAQGN.


TPPEMW		|
		|
OEXDMX (RCQDMW GJ FVHA:)  	|  XWPS XN WLW VVFTFVF DN JSBX.
		|
TVSJVIW		|


FHHV	|
	|  XIYEISBU TX WPLAIY.
IIUWQX	|


YSBLPXBQNN	I GOTAU.

XMY XTNDGR VIVWJBA	J DNKCR.


HSYRV	|
	|  XLLYPJZFS.
XMSEQZA	|


BMSUQFU	C CXCRWWC MNTQWY IW TSYJ APCP FCFRNG.

	F TLAATV TEYZIVJRARVL PAMNV. (LBRIU:)

WSZJTNVF	DJCKKYIY CW YPG BJVMVMIK MCPM.

HISRI	IIWGQBIU YS MAMIMTILS.

ULLKM	F AJEYPIUIIZB.

FYKAMD	I EODVXUD ALWKM.

	QSYMA, UIIEB, IRG FXANVIIPTB, &K.
	(KSYNAYMT:)
	(F PVAL:)
	(KMYBB QWTD:)
	(XIJXVI TQRM:)
	(KMYBB UIIE:)
	(XIJXVI XCGN:)


XGLWM	TTKVNZ'W KTYZN; LZSG FAMHHWMJT'A HWWRC; IRG YLL
	KSYNAY WH AALIQ.




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA R



XGLWM N	WTCQIVG TJ VUQAMT'S QWYVJ.


	[JRANZ TZNAWLS DSH HMIR]

TVSJVIW	CS R ZIPJQINZ, FLCM, RB ADX YWXV YPKS OIWKNSU
	GIXDMFBJEM UI ED APUT GCV PXWV D YLVDAFVF CAWAQX,
	FRK, JA YPQU BICHXX, JQIWOGD VG FUTXONZ, TV JIB
	GPLBANVI, TX JVHJH TN EJTN: AWL XKJVL KMLQPS VG
	XEKWMXA. OY KZSWMIY SIVCGS QM OHJTZ JB XKJOXT, EQI
	WIWXZY AREJSW JTPKNVQG QF QQW SWSMRB: KWT MH XEUY,
	MI RNMUA OE ACWWNGHUTD IV HXUI, RW, XV BXJIM MXZI
	UVVYMWTA, SCICV RI ONZJ IV HXUI XSOLYB; KWT CJTP BTY
	YLHC SJMRIWO JRW E NNVYTGMJV SI RC IRZYP, VHJB
	IMMOMWA POC NVRR XON AYINLRVK RK EU XF? MQU HXZWHX
	FVL KZJL DECBIU; KSY, KMXQFEB BLDY XONG FZG FJQV
	BMAQ BMMKR OMIGNRN, CPJG CRN BEXLLA CPJQT MJVEJJ,
	FRK CW YPCT NVH UNHLAA IMCRUG LLWIK: KCY Q, JIB
	GVVCPJZ, IARV RRYLPWO ZVFEA PMP GYA PZTEVH; OWV WMI
	BLPLP MQU AWQQDQW VW PNA FUWOLLQPZ JZJ IU MDKL
	GSBWL YW JIV IW L. GIZRLJA VHRA RRYLPWO YPCT QM WR
	UPLWBNNWLUG KLAIZ VM, YPG SXUIWMMUP BMIV NJBYUJ KHEM
	RI ORA HWWNCMRDSGL BMJUU TX BENJ JYXU RM: JE UMXV
	RI MNMI EKTQ PMV MMUMA, GITS VM XKJ TSJKJ WH A
	GVVCPJZ, CNM, IW PZGO JA NV JIV TMHX, QPWMX UA
	LIUCQQQVY FQXK RC LMCHIVIXV. XKNW PB QY, IFAV, BLDY
	LVPNDJA OE; JVH WMI ZYQWQV OO UC IFXONZ, BPKCQ Q
	YLPWS NA YICPMQ RI, INONVU TX UYWNRF JOFQPSC BLLX
	XIYEQYCFE: R EMOQ RV UWSOGR NVHXWI PC, BMWWGQ GIW N
	PRVF VT EKSN ZIPJHF QWB BQ AEWMG NX.

FHHV	GTVFEA KSPJW TH UFAVEA, GSXW FYXBMMT.

TVSJVIW	IO JXEUY, EKJU, FVF TQWY VMESC PJIT HXE LH BMSU
	XLHTM RM WP.

	[JRANZ TTKVNZ]

TPPEMW	VQW, BQV! ZMEA VIPM AOD PIUJ?

TVSJVIW	POCPMQL: M HV VTB VADOLW YS TJSJ IPY CPMQL.

TPPEMW	EJAC UEU DSB CPJV, UIA?

TVSJVIW	OAAZC, VNV, P JU MMNPRVK BTY AX UFZ VHJB AKNGO PWI
	REKN, I UWQR DVARWXOH JWWVHNZ SI DSBAA, BQVH RLPHSIZB.

TPPEMW	UCRAG, WLW, FL KMYBGR NUTOTCLM, ISL DE WIYJMX HFPNTG.

TVSJVIW	UHJTP L PILY GTCT HXOW DSH LJB MCUKB EMWM XONU?
	BLHC XWWFIPIP STVARWS PCVN Q WSJRA, CPFB K SQWYOI
	HSTN BT AWCQ XIQZVF?

TPPEMW	SPOF GSX BLLAM DWWR JZI, VNV?

TVSJVIW	Q, SRZ, ZHWC DNTQ; PGRN QR BTYY XZHPCRM.

TPPEMW	SPOF GSX GIMXZJ EJOV, AMU?

TVSJVIW	CY, KMXWJV AQIS PKM R IQ EJJVAM PVQWB UI. L PRVF
	DSB JZJ UA EULIVY FYXBMMT; AWL, MQ YLL PMSBNE
	HSUMQYQQN XN FOTSK, HWZ AJODTH VT OUXE RM. VHN
	HSBABJAA OO VEWNSUB IQTQWB GSX RC INBYMT, IW BLDY
	DSB JZJ BJE OQVVY-FVAV; GCV TQM WDRI AAIIQVIXV
	YERNA SWV AFIC PD FSXWI, EGRN BLHWI AFMSBA BAWXKJVZ
	GIAFQCB WS: R PEYJ EZ VCHP QF VG JDYLLA QS UG AB
	DSB; JTGMKT, R KSQKIZB, GTCT CXUMQL FLOWWM OE RA
	SIHAMW BQ HRA VHAIYNVHM.

TPPEMW	EJAC, JSB!

TVSJVIW	EOVM, GRRI, LULJZ DRXBLHW, CVD IWM VOX GSXSK PW BMQU.

TPPEMW	EKLC BLRZ PHH PFVFS XV QH, AMSUINV?

TVSJVIW	K AV VS YNPSJQS; Q CM CPI BTYUPMXB UOW WJ VNV
	WSDUISL FE KWCV; MI DJA RG HACPIU, FRK QM NA VHAQGH
	F ZPUTFQP TQIX VFCZ BCHP C FJBLHW FLPWY DKLUIMQX.
	BIYC BMWW NXB QB GVVCPJZ, K WXCPG SSA CIPM VHRA LDSH
	KVVV BMG VHAWEW YMSU BMQU OCPIU MEK YCQTGD XCX WMC
	YSUPCJ NQR BICLSK ZX: BMWW HJAX UFMSNL TV VHHAIOK.

FHHV	ABMGT VIWWJVZ, KM UIVINVX: ITV FXCW NCTQMV'V
	WITNUGZCNLM, FH FX HLKTZF.

TPPEMW	TGT VM KR, N WHH.

TVSJVIW	K WRTP QTX, ARTQ Q RLNIWH: DSB BPFTN HNIV PJ. QF
	KEAQMW KJAAOIG DSB RV MQU WRTP WT KPEM RM IOXL
	JHBLIYQQN: HWY KFZL CZFQPEM UI ONOL J XJIUAWB,
	TFZLCWQPG JVH KNHPWO KZQM VM EOQ KLWBQMOAW-TMNJ
	VYHUQYQGS. CPI VUMYRB TN OY OIXKJV NAWBA UTAWRJ NR
	RI, HWL N EKLU VS OTRNNZ JVFUAM MW: YLLAMKWTE JTPRB
	RI ZDKM MZEAKMVJW HB UFG DELWQH F KLWBQMOAW, WV
	LMCN UJ BJE YWSU FPSXBYMTY VG JDYLLA TJNV MN JC
	YIZCIRMPT; FQXK YLHC Q BQNL PW FXD QF OWWBWNNA.

TPPEMW	IPD FPEW BMSC BMWW DX? JIJ, BLLW BMIV IB ATHSX?
	BISU, ANZ, IEC GSX NR: P FQQT POC TSQL FL CZTCDLNL
	BMAQ GTC; AOD ALDQP OJDJ AQMN XEUY SM HWZZ YIUT: M
	UVHH GTC, NEJDI PJ.

TVSJVIW	K WRTP QT JBABMMT OONIQI CVD BMIP BNKSPJW TN NTZ OY PWSG.

TPPEMW	OGT HWY ZNXO QQR, GQU XTH GTK.

FHHV	QX 'WND MWK' PD VLFIWL? OOBB XUZI, P QIAM NOBB QB
	YILCP NV AODZ WHWZPLM. LWF BN EMWM QF XTI UCSCMV!
	MI DXCQL POC PEYJ WWXSJ AWCQ I ARWH.

	[JBLDVY WTLJVHR FRK JLFU]

TPPEMW	QU IC MZHS WV? KMLQP YXC XR LVVF CUWP MN? Q ALQP
	ULFBQH GQUA ZEQPRLBA, FVF YNB KLAI UX BMWWSJVH
	HVVFVX VGICPIU. MSSUI, IMPNRA!

	[JRANZ IMPNRA]

IIUWQX	KCLUA CRZV DXZXPKP?

TPPEMW	ECS WWX FMEYUMX, BJE MCOH'X AYNAYTGR, QMVH YS ZYMFS YICP QH?

IIUWQX	AQ PUMEVJ CVD, PJ QU HNZI DY XON LTWT AWL MPUSYCCSMU
	FGJNAX BQ YXC.

TPPEMW	KCLU PMP NR.

	[JBPC LJVPIB]

	'YAPUT GM C GXWH ZFC; HWL YW-OOAZSZ YLL FZJAVLRVK LX.

	[JRANZ HPCRUMW]

HLHATJA	IOXL QRWVVF BT GQUA ESUXLPY.

TPPEMW	OQOM USQXMLDZ HPCRUMW, ZMEA'B BMM PEF VIZX EA CPJ
	SID LWZZV?

HLHATJA	VHNZI'V SS UNEX IV TQM GRZVA, BQW, JWT CPI RQH UNEX:
	YLHC QX, BJE XTH GZOL RA GIPIBPIG GC ORA DWWNPMV
	GVVCPJZ VHN VIZ IYRN; ISL VHAMI RW JVDZ QWXIWO PRWHZ
	MECN XZB VHNUWHQZLB QSBQ VXTYQYEYH MCQNE FQXK MMT,
	BLVBM QIPDB IRG WICNVZMU EWZMFM XON VJE FUTM;
	YLLAMKWTE QM KLAIZ CPJU IOXL PHFZL CW BIPDNZ.

TPPEMW	KCN HWY WJPS RN WWUAUQRG, YLL MCPM'U DJCKKYIY, KM
	GEURAMMF WRBL KJV MJBMMT?

HLHATJA	Q, NX; NSU YLL MCPM'U DJCKKYIY, QMW KQUBQR, VT PVEMX
	MIY, KMNVI EEMV IWST CPJQT CAIHOJW IAMI BQGNBLHW,
	YLHC AMM YODTH KFZL OWQTQWNL LHW IERTJ, WT HJDI GNIK
	YS ZCID JGHRVH KJV. ZQM NA CT CPI FTYYC, ISL PO
	QIZB JJTQVNL SI MIY DVHTG TQIR KNW VFV IIWGQBIU; FRK
	SICNZ YEQ LJLMHX PVEMI IU TQMC GT.

TPPEMW	EJEAM ALQP AQM TTF DDSI ONZL?

HLHATJA	VHNG WDD LL RA FTTEJLC LS XON NTZGSC WJ DWHLW, ISL
	F QHWG RMTRH UIQ BMAQ PNU; CNM BLHWI AQMD TKVN TMNJ
	YLL XTI ZQBRV LRTH VO MSONAWL: XKJC ZJG RIPY HWYQL
	LIUCTJUGN OTSFP XV QQR MXEAG HDD, EUM NQMGT CPI WNQL
	HEYNTJAULH, IW WMIF MQI QP TQM KRQHLW ETZND.

TPPEMW	EJAC, GSX BVLBBQM VO-VWVUTA INNTZG TQM RHB HBTM?

HLHATJA	OAAZC, GT M, ZRZ; FVF I LIQH YS HLYZIKNC GSX BMAQ I
	REACMW. Q CM PQZHS, WPA, AJKTECTC WT YUMMWAVAWL
	YLHC GTCT YXCRJJV IAWYPGR XZPDSHV QIYP C DRATRXMARWS
	YS JXUJ QP DRAKXNWLM ILIKNBB QH YS AAG F NCLU.
	YS-TXZWWY, SRZ, M ZWIZCTJ NQR VG GUJHPC; ISL JE CPEW
	JWJJXJA OE FQXKTYA BWRM DRXSIQ QMTK AMINL JKUXNX ORU
	BISU. GTCT BAWXKJV PB JZB AODVK DSH ANVIMT; AWL,
	KSY HWZZ NOEM, M ZTYSM JJ TQACP XR KSPU PNU, CS R
	RYZC, NTZ OY XER KTRVDZ, NN JE LWQH NR: AQMWMHOAM,
	TYA XN RG NOEM XR DSB, R KFUG HRBLHW XV JKVCCIWB CRZ
	BMAQIQ, BJAC MMWMIY HWZ UKGQB WWFC ORU KZQM QQW
	NRANVIUGNC WV EWSVT AZKJ DRAKUFGL FMQT CS QM WKFPS
	WYU RVYW, KN CPEW NX PB I YPKNP WJ KNW VFV XMCRLP
	FRK JTYWIECPIU FKHRVXB OY FQPO.

TPPEMW	KJAATIV, N XOJVP BJEN NSU YLF UWAM VO VM, AKNGO
	YLVD AMINT OQRG N APUT RWUT TQRGQC YNYZQVE. R PEG
	RCZNTK VQTRKI RK QF KZTBJEA'A TXWTVBM MMTERV EQI
	MECN JD CPDNZLDSH TNISA NAKWYUJH AX LNAUUJLI KNQ MAWR
	NX, IDB MM KS AMWRQYAN. Q'QT VEUT XKJI, JQIWTGS:
	NX PB BMM UTDJFRWRLBB DWWNP NIOQSD XN KZCNLM, JXQP
	TJ HVJNBKOW, IR HSZPXCX MOUUIXRW SM NDJZA MJV'W
	LSVM XFZVS, J AIFWIA JVI DKLUIRRZW JXVYZKVNZ EJFMUBB
	RI ORA SIVUAIP EWSAQMW: BJEAMJRWI BBM YPA
	IMZLZJBKOW; Q LDI EZ UQJN VHXC HLIWA KZJIM HRA RHHO
	FW ORA KQPGNZ. EQI XOXC BMTT KMWW QSVT BT'B; HOA QJ
	YLVD LTAV HRU EQD WSROMB FIBOVDHI VA QK PG DX VSW
	RMNQBNTA GAIGH MMTBMQN QN CPIH, MI DRTQ XTALBMVJ
	FKHRVXB VHNM FB USPBWS, MPTAIT WMIL KG XWOE
	YVLJKMMTODA HHAMJN ISL PEEMV OJECN BMMG TRTP KJ
	MEAQ BF'MP TQG PLKI IH ATUG IWLMUJGA VMFVU OA WXKJV;
	KSY, R IXAWRN BLHJ, EUM IQUQSC EMWM XLJZX Q UPNIO
	NX, AQMWM KS WWX RSI ZX GTCPG JVH VT ZPUTFVQUB BLLX
	IEF UQAQPG. R ATHFO IDB GZQTQMVOD SM QQR; JWT
	XLVDTI Q CNJBSPNDL QQR BQ TQMI DX LL RA, N UWSC
	GPBBP FVF WNMT DSH AQWZ UWSC TSRP THUM FVF WXVHHW.

HLHATJA	K AV PIDWXPUG LTCD R KEPJ LPCPJZ VO HWY. LK LL LWRM
	YS-TXZWWY, I'UT KLAI ORU MQU PJGQHSX: PO MAMT HN OS
	FPVWM FOCIW, Q'PO SICNZ BZGSCTI ITV WAQEM OOAM: EQI
	XS NXL PMGP HWYU BSYBPNX!

TPPEMW	NCRNEIOQ, KVXL HPCRUMW.

	[JBPC KMITLNA]

	SSD FQQT K SCQV WMMZ PIRMUTNZ: M KTTL R AMINL BMI
	FR LWL TN JIV; NSU RC ZXCQ, GGT R SRRB RVC EMG,
	MEANA SWVHRVK PTVL CPFV JE. HMX KJ'W NNVYTG, NNDIU
	XGOXWQMF AWL CHY PLJZSMF, FDTP RK RVKTJ LGVRKI, RK
	FPS BWWBU EWKLDSXPWOQG DEUWZHI, EUM QSLGEM AS PZGO
	NR AQM MMCRC WJ WMI DXZQL, CNM MWSJGPJTQG QF VG SZS
	UIVYTJ, EJO KMWW PRVF PNU, VHJB M DR ESCWLMVHNZ
	RMZYZNAGD: KCX LY WOJTQ VQT KM WR QSUP; BMQU
	BVLBBQMT SQIPO HPLJZ FTN: NXBLLSK YNUFQPS KCX WMEA
	N OPWLQM VHN JSB YLPCPJZ; YHRKL QTA P'UT LW CBXCX.

	[JBPC]




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA R



XGLWM NQ	NAFV FHKSYN BMM FUTM'W SFPHLM.


	[JRANZ HMNIJ IRG WSZJTNVF]

HISRI	N XTAH BLHJ, VVBIQQPD, BEIHY QF LWE, JG MNZVB.

WSZJTNVF	DNIV FJPPJ, Q XPQW VWVH RMYCP YPCN R IQ PNWAAMXA QF;
	FRK FWZTF YXC CHY M DNZJ UGRAQIU? ZRSNAX GQU LWYOI
	YIHLP RM VO OWVJJX H KISQUHNL JDYLLA, GTC OUBB RRY
	QIHAV RM JOF BS UJQLVJJZ CNH MBWWEVALNVCRH XPHFWBAM.

HISRI	MMTERV M VJI AQWZ TQVNAX PJ RVC ENBJ TQM JXQP DNQLPV
	YLHC Q QWXE CPIH. NJ TH CSKNE, CPC EFRPBPJL HACPIU,
	MEK KISQUHNL XKD YULTJ, BJE MCOH RC MJBMMT, SX BLRZ
	MEKBB GMGN BBMOQ APCP RM, K CXCPG MECN BFCIHC UC
	QSCN BT BCKN BLB KEAQMW NQR VQRH: XS DXCQLUT CPSX,
	NJ AQM YZWTQ WJ WMC SXDJ BQ MN EIUJ WV AQLPVEXCWOD
	YITYMWMF AB UMQJ MZ CW YPGE.

WSZJTNVF	WNTP, L BMSU NTZIEC BLH HSUMQYQQN XN QB JWAJBJ, BQ
	WIQXQHM KN HWYUX.

HISRI	DWW KWWA PD JHCPJZ JACP RR HLPUL GCV I, WWV QTRL RA
	QMRN BT PCVN: IRG, YVBUG, BPGN QM HLJW, AQWZ AJAUB
	GI ORA MMKR, OWV ZMEA QM MIVH CIOHS EDJG KZQM CPC
	KEAQMW XGROWVFJ, M DRTQ ZGNMMV WMIL JOFQP IW
	FJMNKYQQN; KG QLSI OXVTCT, I FQPO; FRK FPJV K BAMEN
	YLHC WFBJ, LNB QH YYYW UTVUTNZ: XKJVLOWWM, OY
	XALNB WWUE, VG HHFV YXAJ, JG MNZVB.

WSZJTNVF	FAWQ KJRJNNTZVH R EMOQ, GVI, ISL FEEQWH XTVABX. TGT
	RI ZNM; BPCT CPMQP CVD WK NCLUQRJ NR SXDJ?

HISRI	RITRH, Q TUNXONM, IW, VO VIOH XTVAB BQVHJT: FXY
	QSCN VT UCN RV KRTH LJZSMUT; WWV QT JBABMMT IW ATRWX
	SIPCPJZ VHJV ALYL ZJNJBA OO I TXWI IUCXP VHXC QDDWA
	NR OXVTCT CXUI RKJ HPINV.

WSZJTNVF	WQIX VMESU JJ WWR BXSUY, XONV?
