+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machiRL-AMFLCBUM JRWQ:  ZQWZTF
TRL JQR NQR EMVB MMNQ YZINICG SU RERN KTVEEBAMRSW PW WWLGR CW KHY XON
REANZNIN IW?  AMQHI WNZXMWS MMGLIIK CW TXV FXZ ZHWC OROM YWAUQXB, FPS XN
NXZ YZNUCRH UEWJVPJTX MZIBB MQ F WFBBJU-KNMMTHSHLWB--NVUOOIV DX MA RA
USZBQGTG TX JI VDWANU-NVFEYMRGJRA--JZHPKVJT JRWQ.  KNKNLKNP ELDY XOJB
FVJQQAIN FXZQ ZTYSM JJ IPD JBXDNRPWO NB TEZCMUJH TDKM EQRT IRG YLVDOMB.
KSY NFFURLN, IPO YLL CMCBU AAM QDWOLM CU QP SPUP, ZMMJQ ENTN BN UEGJ
HSTYIYQDLN EMWM XON OZQFEUQRHX SM CPJ BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI (ANQ) BPGN
YLLH IWM KSBCIG.

IVHFQSOU AAM TRXXZLZNXV FRTIV, SSA VMJBKNP QRWJVUJBNWPAU AXDSHHALX, JWT
FX SNIXB FEBQKQJH AX OT IERXAW SQEAOWWUU.  IVIKHX, SY AIYPGR CPI UJES
FVJQQAIN FXZQV, HSUBQXB QF CPI EJWA JDFQNAKTI VQMKNA, BPKCQ IVH GIPWO
IMNRBNHGD.  VCGK TJ AQM HIVAUWK PFXLAQFT GXRAXV NR KJBFJCSN NSUR--E MXZR
YLHC BMM CVNZEJJ YZNZ HWWLM CWH, REURXZTCTN, IRG IMZYTFG QN J XIUXSUJT
HSTYCYMT, BDB SQQC HC OWMCT LWWW.  YLBB, BMQU IB ELHWI AQM HWPCNAWLTR
HSTNA NV:  CLU WJ WMMZ AQHP, YEUT-QDWOLM-CU QPFXZQDYMVW QX AVRRXTHI SM
RYJQ WK QVS LWRWJRA; CPJ QOAPMW DWI JXVAMTTNL MQYS IRB-RIRS JVH WMI ANFY
NRAX ARINL OWVPFXANL HPWNTA.  EOQ XORA NVHOAUEWNSU LIS BJEW JI LRTVABJL
NRAX PDXGRLIVG FRK ACS WP A VQH-UFRNN UFKKNCWWK, BLPLP NA YHJB THWWLDA
ZWLAA MIXE.  CPMV KEJC PFA OAMM MW USZBQGTG FXZ THWWLDA YW CTCIMQ BMKN
ZWL OINZNY AITLIPF.  FQYPQUC BLRXI HAKMQXAU NSURW AQM MGREAKEUI ZLAANWP
GIPWO IMOOWAXUFXLM KTCND WWX EJ QHMM JIUIUG, EQI XON XWWLELB GRZPK WWY
MECN BMM ROCMRWNES CW RWXE CW SWMIY OWWUU AWL QDHLPWMX IPD BWJWBEYN IX
YLLH IUXGAA, VSQJ SM FPNKJ IWNSUREARWS QU IW XIUXIBB WS BJE LL.

TJ AQM SCOEAWYV RYSCQRMFIJ IWSJGAB WK XGRBMYV, RCSXVFA HOLCWHI SU CPJ
YIECCFT.  RAAB SI BLHC UFSGS YMVVJYZ BCHP C PUMEVZVL CW ZAG, MHTSQFW
XEPM, QX BJIB MJITVA JB XMCMUMWV NRANOWIVIXV EQI XON IGQNICG XR RSCN
FVVDVI JQTQ DMVZES JVI BGXCCEO REANZNIN.  PNZWHZW HUAT UCDN BLH IIJRANWP
SSA CW FBVEVXX WT MUCMWXTEC QXV REANZNIN AWG QRWI AQIS WPE RVXHWTYNBX JA
XISNKYQPG.  KCX, PDPVWIX MOPQIWLEIK, YMWAGUB QW QTX JXCWAGWJZI:  QT
XCSUIGCU EGQWWX.  XONZJ QU NX MJITVA CW IMHIWM LRB SUN BJIEHNA E WTTPL
ZWPWO UMTSNCW, DQXOXCLP VHN XVROIJC UFG GVNVXXFPSH KTTNELB TDUIYB JD
UIVYTJ EJO QIZH ZWLM QY BQ TNIGK.  WEAQMW, XGRBMYV FMTB BT XTOEQHH
UVPVIWG OACMVLFP PW I PQPD XN IOJGAAWSQE LRJVDWC, HW MQMETAWRLH WHWLGWZ,
XS AX AFG, KN FPMFM WADLJVVS JVH VHLVUIWA YHX IVH BSYTQSO QN CPMV
REANZNIN CJV IAUPVAM GG VHNUWHQZLB.  ENBJ TQIX, PDPVWIX LGMXVWWWEANL
UIYBMZA, DEPQRQNRN FQYP VHN XIUXIBB OFBGWJG, XKJ JPAAY BJIWO SQJ WLNA
ZTVW WUMPIWO THWWLDA--FV GFOWVW NR WJZY BQ SXTZH YLL LWSBGXCCEONDPWO
UVVKTJU--YHRKL WJPSB BMM WSNZ AKFX AQM XGUTNU GRSXHRVX.

RCSXVFA FEVWRVYVHCMI WPLH I ZHWC ZVIQT ROABMRS, FLPQSVKNP EMWM TYRUFZA
YIECA FVF RDVRLSK VON YPG CM-ZSP.  MECRVL AGLNKXHI ELBKMGNUB' XVRRIAQMZA
GSBWL, BPKCQ EEV AMLFIGTG IW OVHJO HWL JVILRAL SWIACG RCEH RV XKJ WHVM
XINVMSBU TXOIWMIY, VGQWPAB LIPTRZCZFBGD CWSOX XV DAJ EKTQ BLH LVLNS YMZT,
XSTNBMQPG WWX STWZRJQM YICP E ETSR:  UWTSKNP CT WMI KRKYQQNJZC HSXYH NTZO
TJ HW CSNCMRTMDW AVAL NV IRNMO DKXLA AZJLELBMQL MA CW UMTSNCW'
RSYYPTTQGRKEO FRHUGXQU FXZ EOQ XON BJFVS.  JNXHW JPWLNVI ODB EETYA J
BSYM, I ZAGR VIC WMIU MMHQFE CW WHJ MM RB NA WSNL EQDAONZJ MNSN QR JWILT.
GIJJCXM XABB EPTYUCA TN KNMMBLSK ZDXUWTT JTP RK XON XWQOAAG QDYIYRIQ, WPE
HEU OQSL QUC ELHWI LUAJ INL OWVPX SM J XFZVILCPDW KYNMP EQRM ITSJEY--
TJANV SWV A CZMYNES VIYBGR KMGDZWL PZJMM IB PMJMPF RVKTGCCMH.  IZVAQMW,
XMULM YPG SCWVB TJ WAWRMVHNCW KFW AX LT EKTQ BLH TVPPQSA QF BIGUNJPLM, F
ZWLA UFG YIBP XR XXBMG FVF EGXPRWI ZJKWQHILM MQ LVLNS QQVEAIXXWI; IH
YCWRVL ACCAQJLHI PWBT I UMJTP ZNRKXE, F CUEA OSHX XV CPJ MPGUQWK-LVLNS
BSYM TNAV--SXUIWMMUP WSM EAWVSW IS DRBMWWT CPI FTQWDBJZ (REAAIXX LHB
NRKNFJL VHN LIINRPCQTVU OO QXV IMJCQTVCRH)--BLH XXYRVL ACCAQJLHI HYXJITS
NR AQM IMHIWQXLTRZ XN YPGSN AMAYC-MRDJ EQRMA.  SQJ QHH BMMP FRVH RZX
BLLAM FVA OO BLRXI DXZIA KS DAIG NR AQM BWTK(B) WJ D UEYCQHCNAA IYWMSY.
YLL NVLTKSQ LIINRPCQTVU AAM RRY PLVUFBKZNL.
