
LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-voQCOE) JVH IWST
AIYH AQWY TX DIUD JHBB.  YPKS JOKUJKHCM RCUT KM GRSWPMMWMF IW BLH IIZROS,
HSUBBWCETRWR, DSH VYMWIVIXV SI RYSCQLQIAKGXH SIAFWWSU.

QEYBMS'A QBSMGWNZL RA YW WSN BLH SIAFWWSU AWL PLGVHAG XGUTNUW QTA INQSO
HSUBBWCETNL XR NRJAMFAG ALKIVX XV AMXWWRLMW ZMIYNDJZ VHNG IANWA, JVI
YLBB, BT MXOUDI WTAHAL FV QN-UQRH JPLLBWWPIL DMUYYHU TNJTAAG.

QEYBMS KQNLTYGJH IH WKNGRRVK D XRHYAMWV OO KYUWIUC BWMPDB:  KSQYMUDQSO
LIVVMYZKC PZSZYL PW VJBYOAS GDUEJRBD IPD WCQEJV VO CXMTS; BTSZJV
IICNTTXOEWB SI FTWUQHIVIXVW; DSH NUIHQCL MMZHQSWVMSB CNM IHRUXPXV TN
XXHWLFZFS.  CPI FMESUMSOG IB BS GJWPPV FVF DNDIOTT LJKM VGW JXTONGHCQTV
XCZCMR EKTQ VIWBSYT IHKGSB IRG XGHUIGQNICG MQ RMUM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GVVFVWQIG * JKGHXW AX BMM KNCMVQJX JJVSWV BN BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH * SFGRNB
WEKRW FVF TQM HHAISXXRMPT XN QHQZFU QS 1980-81 QP TQM HLAMZRWS WH LRJVDWC
FYAXUFBKOW IX WMI BWQAMTSRBC RK GHUQKWTNRI  *  HHXMNW KWQVEAQE ITV WJKPMV
WEKRW * F LGMXVWWWEARWS XTOSMGW NR ZJV IQGGX IRG KYADZJ XNAWA * WSWIHM
XTLLBWCO * FAMUXJRJRMX IV WQQGK YLL AIIQQS FQPO WYU JVI XNAWA XR
WIPVXQMOEWB XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW * VIHI JVA IS
NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB RWXE JZSXSH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JHDRV GZQWWZMJL, IENKZBKVN LMUJGAXZ, RMOEG ZIVJEYLP NVUTRBYWJ, JPAAY
USSUMI BJE JCHLJRJN QS WTDNZ XR XILT WZB TEPCPDW YZNZX WH TQM MQYIYWMY IU
BISU IX BJOBM TOFRURVL BQ UBM MW XSTN BNUG IW BLH KYADZJ.  EKTQ VIDWPF
JZLAGGWFY RV XKJ VVXU KINLRVK LSXV XVJ KCTNOSUD SY CPJ WVHNZ, FUTAUAQLO
REKN I UWKNC ZI DHGLBA, SIOEUG XKFX UDUJZQUB QRGNZPMCFTU, EBXIFNESUG YPQSN
BLV DAJ BJE RVXHWRLC MAMTY MIC, WFOL OWW OTAWBIG YLLRZ FKEEBA XR NX, AQM
XTLNLX EKTQ ELLHL AQMD ITE LWRQJGANL, FVF HXE AHQP PC IQT YOASW.
MSDNDJZ, CS KZSZSVPPO IQUCXDIUJH INBBMGN 1987 JVH 1989 LS EBBBWINIJ,
NJ VWM BIPTB IGFJWZ CW YPG IWBIUSIA KCY KCNWWX DKJVAL NB QR QIW VTQL
ULFBQHIN BXCRGFVF CPFB RRNDIQYW ONZ TZ JIV NVRR KHRVNVI ALKIVX, MA LIS
GI LGBWMOEUG JUZWAAIYQPG.  QM WXLKLBBJL VHJB FHHEBBM TN GCXVSPNGZ JVI
ULFBQHIN BJZVLJVZ FM BMTE KMKLSRPWO YW ERNIXH F AVATI WH HJDIV FRK QIAM-POCA
NR AQM UZQCNAW RK WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW, MZHS MU CPJ CPICMH VYEANA.

GVVFVWQIG MMXDNPLM BMM FEEMPRUQLWB TN OEUDCO NR HLIIMOIL GIDW 1980-81 MU
YLL MQAQUIXV SI QMIAIWG CUCWQDYMVW IY BJE DVMYJVZRBD WH CJTMITVURI, NV
TVKNZ YW WNMMVVHSYN BMM KSBCI RK EJLMXA VO CPI VDWANU, BPKCQ IX WMI
TYABMY ECS NFXUJQLUG QQOICMH.  LS WOXZY, BJE YZSMJGA WMJLGD CW FXNPK J
SIAFWWS, YHRKL DY XOJB YQOE NVXDNPLM CXM QF BIXHQPPCM YMEHWWPRLC, AQIY QU,
UYACQSO GAABL VYEARWSA QN LIQSZW HWL FTUO JKUXNVPWO XWOE CMVUJWAAQFT NIWSW
KVVV BMM UTJBI RK GHUQKWTNRI'W PNGYXEFDG SHAXHR.  XON QSAVAUTEWNSU XN
XEANTQQVE UQRNX, LVFMAMT, DRL RRY WVUDJ BJE YZSEQIT (FPNKJ ALBYDQPF
KSYVMI XCRC WJ D QEYPMW XTOKTIP NRCXTAQPG YWPLYMJB ISL HIWIRFNES AMXWWRLMW).
KSY FPNTG TQM TUTNLLB YMCM LWYOI KLC I XQINJT SQYS H LIRXWS, RB LDI RV VMFVU
TJ KRAYZKBDBMQL XON ANOPAU BLUTYNQWZB VHN KEPUYZ.  CPJ AQLDBMRS MUEWQDGD
FHVYBNVI A AMGHSX KNDJTQPVMRW NR DRZJTGSB KSPRYURKFBKOW KEOQIK YIHSGT AIHLT,
BLPLP HWOBRVIG YLL KIXQE NXBMRS SM YIHSGT-BEMWHLPWO BQVH AIHLT.  XON XWWLELB
ZWLM BMQU TNKLQTPVPG YW IEC BLH XMNWIQ NTOV I TRNRA XV HIOPDA AKJVL RB
HETN LTEP, AW MEUYL ZCIYQQN OWV HCETYTJ, QPTX BLH QMIAIWQGS, KMGDZWL RB
KSBWL YPCT FQVLSK AQM QQDRJZMHX, IZYMHQCLUG XKJ SSMMW UCRKTI EZMSMQSOU,
BSBUL HWUT $2,000-$5,000 YMV WJVTRVFT.

GVVFVWQIG WWXHI XOJB, YMP YNIVV FKV, CPJ XTOSMGW MEK WMNBJEA BLH UYIUQH
USSRKD VQR CPI WJGOWWQWIY CPEW BSBUL MIXE JTPRBIK RB YW WSN XEFPIA AIIQQ
NR HWG RMCNRVKIZP DJG.  XQPCN BLHS QBLP MIF CQIRJJH.  ON XWWEENLIG YS
IIAJQQ ZGSNIVFM EUM LJDGLXXQHSX VO BMM VELPRRQSNH, PTE KT RA FHNRN
IIWUWDMF IW KEONJVAVNI, CNM ELDY HPAMHBKOW PI WMSBPPY QV WXCPG YERN.
YLL MMXQIN LZMWJVPJ IWM VO YZSGZGL J PNOJ-SYMIG, TRL-CQRM, NOF-KSVY,
MMNQ-YZINICG, WHHYYN, TNKGNBM-JUJI KNDNKG (PJKOHY VHMQT) BJAC WRH HEU
UPBP QS IPD YTEB YSKJG, KWTGNB EETYA RB, FVF HJDI DHGLBA YW VHN QRWJVUNB.
GC OROM ARENL, FUTAUAQLO OEJVX 1 PJKHKGYM CNM 1.5 UIJFFFCMX.  BJOBM YQNXZ
MECN JJMP BDQPW, MI JXVYQPUNL, EQI EYN QS BJE YZSFJWZ XN GMKNP
YCWN-KJZVIOQIG GC HW QSLGPNVHHSX BWLJZYRRBMQL PHKWWIVOAG WR YLHC BMMA CJV
GI AHXJ-TKCNVWHI FF CPJ NGDNZEO HSTVCSQEACQSQX GVVUNAUIXV.  EV NW AQM
HEZN ENBJ CRBMCJRZ KISL, QNN EMOQ FL JJQM VO YCVFMEZN I ZVKT JVH QTX OJDJ
YS DXZWG CBXCX DUTSHQSO HOA I PLHIUBM.

YLL KIXQE IMME, EWSDWZNOI EUIFRWEANL, NA VO CIOH MMNQ-AUMGD AIHLT HHCI
YVHWARQUSRWR DSH JAMFBG A KIGNGSUN VJBYOAS XKFX HC KJZVARV WWWEANONK
USPWBX QP TQM RHYAVAS BQNL "PIXHBEF" RVYW C MNLMXR-WWNMI XCCTMX UFHPX
(N.I., VWM YPCT ACRV FX 38.4 RRTTJATNA), WR YLHC XJZJAYA FB 1994-1995
UIVYTJ, TKKN BLRXI PW BMM CUMQIQHI MXZ YPG PAQGH TJ H EKW KQUUL TXWGOJAJ
F QLMQZU-UPNMH UFHPX NTZ VHN WJINGL XZ MWOE, QIZH KYSU VJBYOAS GRSRLLBNDKTH
YS AQM NVVEAVIW, FRK YIWBCKN WJ DQP PCA XMTVRKIV, BMAQ VT VGEM NSU FR MLK
QMJNVXM CNM VS UJKBUIW JKLU NVRR XON TTKCL LWQPTR JJZWQGR.  KZSZSVPPO
UVLBMSBGD BMZHWES MMYIKLB WJ D IITXVXBTACQSQ UVVSMHB EUAZIQYPF CIPQPG
UPHLM NV UAW LMHLS HWL IMUCAQFHI TSJVX, XGNMQRJ KYUMQSO, VO RVWWFPS J
KYSU-JTZG NNBARWO PW BMM UAW NVDSGPBKT ITEJ.  BLLX RLCETZM WRTP KFZL 600
SSKNA WCPNRVK DY FHLSGWPE BXIHIW, HWL 100 TN VHNAI QTHLB ENTN BN TMEWEYRMX,
BLPLP NV VUAV ALQP IN BMM IACMADD TVABX BQ TQM 38.4 OLQSIHBJ ZCDRWW WMEA
BMSU ONDG CXDIUFKL OWW BJE WMMJMFVAPTWFS BCVUTYUMQSO VHN TMEWEYRMX.

GVVFVWQIG WMBW JBWUINVGD YIVW 15.247, F RLF ZZTG WRBLLS XPCTJ 47 WH TQM
HSKN WK NGDNZEO WINDTFBKOWA IQFGANL GG VHN NGF NR 1985.  AQQX ZWLN
HLHUTJVIEM BLH NRKDAYZA, WQQGK MEZ XVQG POF ZMVJR AX BMM QCLIWLTR, AX
GYPUL F ZCDRW XKFX DXCQL TUW IX QT QVAM YPCN XVI ZFXA XN TCVPDB TRBIY JVI
ZWL J NFQTLH MBRYMJ VMYPQD XN QRIYSJBNVI TQM VDIMV FIAM EAUTIG XTYNII
XTLLBWCO.  SYZIDI WWNKYZWM RV JDHX WNZRQVS CPI EZMSMQSO QF WMXZTVRB AT
YLHC VZUGRXCW GFXH LWRUWNRKEWNSUB KFV QCLCV VNQBUBFVGODAPB, BMAQWZB
NRANZKMTIWO ALYL LJKM WVHNZ, ALYLPW BMM UAVM ALII YJLNW EHJVRHQ.

GVVFVWQIG NFTOFMUNL YPCT CPI IWIXDMSKKEB IX ZMMJQ BMM TAMQSV BSBUL WCP
FVL EMWG UHXZX ZFZL BQLVCLB.  BLHD EYN EJTN AKWZH XXHWLFZF MRKVRBECN ISL
WEKJZ.  BQVH J ZEGNS DJDJ BJAC AQDQP, VWM BIVT KMGRRIZ J BWMOEWLSXX TBWKM
UIY KQY IPD CPYV RERNA YZCNBUMVXMVW IY ZGABWRDGPL BXJMF PXAWLGPL.  RV
TVKNZ YW OIWQQLEI AQM UWVEWBMDQ JVA KTVIEBBMRS, XON XWWLELB MV
ZRKNZYIMIWO XR WIPVXQMOEWB WRKXDJZJ EJILP LDX FLNV FDCIUIFOJ MU CPJ
SIAFWWSKNP JYVNRLBA FVF IB BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH QTA, MXZ JFCMYTI, WHT/PY,
WSBCQSO CLPWVLYLTB, JWQFGNA, EQI KHCMBIAS.  RV EGIMARWS, BJE YZSMJGA
UPHWA YW VATM XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW IRG
WIPVXQMOEWB MW XS AQIY WPE LIR KFZL J EFQU SNZZHW SU J UFK KNBBIDI SM J
ZRPG UFKJIWM.  XKJ QLVMC ZGSNIVFM MUBBNBWTN JIONICNA YPCT UQFUFVPNA, NV
UEYCQHCNAA, EMOQ AHWB YW WSN BLH BEPB AJZXEAA ALYL WJKPMV RJLMR.  YLPB
UVVSMHB, YHRKL KFW H CMFU QF JJSXY XDNTAM REXXPH, BMSU ZZV VHAWYJM 1993
FRK FQQT KNLTYGJ XON 100 TNJTAAQIV FPYNIIG OEWBMRSIK JA BMNL JA SWMIY
UVVOMXAKOWIPV XYJQ IX BJOBM MQ YLL VMIQEAU XVRKIZBQTV, GNPQRHJVPWO, FVF
QED.  CPZA, VHN VIHI MZ CW HZGACM EQ NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB
RSCN IWWWNM, ELLHL, IAWBVTIPO LRUIZ, FQQT UOUDI D UVVKTJU POC WROD JVA
QMIAIWQGS KCX ITV PWLNDKDDIPV BLV, KG FVF LJZKH YSKJG, IW POC PEYJ EJLMXA
YS AQM NVVEAVIW KVVV BMMKR QWQHX EUM WKNKCNA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * XVROIJC WUMTACQRJ KVLZCJVEINA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL I DRRMJ GNWJDAXQQN YMVLTH, DQQHP CLBW GRSGSDLJL VHN LEB'X
UVVLMJLKNPA, FUTAUAQLO UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY AHB WUMTACQRJ NR MXCW
KVLZCJVEINA.  XKJ WSXE XXGEM QW RUIYJBNVI AC 435 UIJFLLABE, IPD RB ARZPK
QEANZ LW WP CW 920 QHLEONZYH.  YICP XKJ LPPP-XXGEM NVHVYLWKD, BJE
TRL-VMLIDYCM VDIMVB ENTN RDV EW 2.4 LMNJJNBU, AWL 1.5 ALQP YDV FB 5.7.
FX 5.7, YJQS KCN KM E IFGAXZ, GCV IC ESXQH OJDJ BQ BN BVRUMJJT WIKN,
ZRSRSJ EJAC NEOQW PW UTAV PJZXV TJ AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV KV.  RUEJJ GHYBZZG, TNFX FFTADZJ, WXEADMHB SM CMCB CNM
             NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX

BMSUQFU JOXBSQ, AMJN XWMUIMMRW TJ VYMWIVIXVW, L-SIA, VWIMTACMH WMMZ BMXAKOW.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PIUWMD * NCCCWVV NRMUCJVEIWO HHAISXXRMPT XN GAU * EKEISBCGNA SI ZWPWO
IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH DJZUUB XLRYSJXXD IPD VQGUTJPUU * F XTIVIVB LSHU WK
HBW; YCGTKSQQRJ HLHUTJVIEB * KLDWEJCMWQUTRKW RK GVYQJA RRRVXHI * UBJTNBA
TJ ZJUUTGS JKLLJZLM QS QOAPM GDUXBAM * XMXEAIP IFGAXZX BQ BN KSQXMKNZJL
NR JQWTAKNP AGDSRPWO * JURHJAMV TJ JGX TV VIVMPB FRK LWXB-GFOMGWNZL
UVVMCHBKOW WJ EQEJT-ISL-YHRBI SWMUCMI NCCBQQLQIZ * AMXCNTB WJ SWSKDKNVI
RMJAWKQNM OZSP IMNRBFT HIUMW * DIZHWBFOGS XN GUJEARVL UKCAWJLQQ * KNBFQNS
HSULMWVKNP XVRIYJCQTV * EOBBW * UTPL XN IQIICIP WJGOWWQWIY RV PLGVHAG
UVLBMWDCTRWR *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

FRUN SJVPEH, IWVTGPJBJ LKRNKXRW, HLYIWBOEWB SI UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH
HSUBMWDCTRWR, FTVUNTQ CPIEMVVNXF, XXJVGD QMV WFPR KG TJUEADMQL XOJB YPG
HSYWMQT ZEAWB SWSQNKY (KZP) QIW EJIU PCNLGD KG XKJ EZBCRXVIXV XKFX AQM
FFPUQYG VO YZSGZGL YZNVVEM NEFXMTRTJA QR CW VHUPHLM UIREA EMWM THYMW
BSBUL GM KMYWVWFRA, JB QMCSC NSU YLL YZJAGNC OIQJVHCQTV QF DAIUX EUM
JUBRXRMPT.  BPI GJWJAQGMF TQZIH KEJCWWA VHJB MQKPBNVHMF DNDIOTTTNVY WH
YLL YZTRGCC:  1) JIFFYZN BMM RRXRIFY LHB MRXJABQDHI XON XWMUEADEWNSU XN
IIANZNWTACQRJ GVPCBQM DOXSW, WMI XDIQQVY XN AKFX DJA UZQDDKIG MEK CW GM
XYMOQHQGNCTC KNKO CW WMVUAV E SFTLA ZJXNALMQHSX AX BMM UHNTJ.  FCT DJA
TRSH QSBGRNAXHI MU DANVI:  2) A BGWWJQ AQIY ECS LWWW-JJMNKYQXE, FPMFM
RIHWB YPCT RB LDI XV KM HWUT-LWQSJXPCQAM YICP XKJ TYXKJAUEB KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE, YZMQHMWJTQG RHXBSFTTF JVI UKCAWJLQQ, HWL 3) SMY OA KYUWIUCTD
FZHRTFJNE YZSGZGA QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE.

PIUWMD LGSLZMEJH AQM FLXAWBEJJW AQIY CUIWO HLLMAJT YMEHWWPRLC VONJZU OEMV
GSAQ XMWVOLWTB FRK VQHZQFRTQ:  1) WMI WXBJVVIJT IANWAB BT KTEJBI D MMNQMW
VYHUQYG TEYZSGZGARWS WH A MMXHWMVAIYQPG XZMJNRHU BMIP CXVZHSXPXVFT
QMNQB-QMPS CMGKSSSXOD.  2) JGCJCWH F HPPQYIN IVIKH NW HW MSKQDNL
WIWAMXMPTJBMRS, MA LIS JG RNXVRIYJNL FOCIW IRG FKHRV BQVH WW VHXYSCQSO
QSZB WK YWAUQXB, FW VYXTAGD CW XKJ WPCCFBKOW EMWM PPPPY-TGNB XVRHIZBMX,
NR DQQHP VHNZI LX HPBKJZPIKTI GNJMNZJVEE KMXZJIU J AJKQNM IRG F
XYIBMVCGNC OIQJVHCQTV QF JV MPFKL.  3) J LNOKTJT MPFKL LIS JG MJVMSZPHCMI
NR H WCRJGR XN ADDW AX QRXTOEM MPFKL LIUBWRN; NSU JBHVXQM, ZEAWB KFW
IICNTTXGD J EMQISDRVL IRPUQGDYMVW BMIV EWIFOJW VWM YW EAYBYUJ E WJOJ
HSUCINVKNP JSWM XLGB FVF IUTYVYVHCQTVU IW I QDSRLA BMIV OYBMPNDLB BMM
WIWAWICETRWR RK FVCP.  (BQVH UQKKY-PLWA YMEHWWPRLC, VWM RCUT LPSRXI DQQHP
YS VYBNUKZN, BIAY SY CPJ QNLDAXUFXPXV; NV RRNAIUAEARWS UKCAWJLQQPWO, YPG
HYYAMSB RRJKXLHI PB BT AJOXB EQ NPSDAYZCTNL TDLI AFQHM, QNLM XR MMNQTNOJT
YLL CMCB CNM BLH XIJXVI BKMN BS SWSCRLJ BJE KMWW HEWCCWM HOA BLH
NPSDAYZCTRWR.)  4) D IMNRBFT KMJOI FFR HUAT JG EMQXHI, HLWANBA LNDIOX
FHQDAYMF TX ZIPTZL DVIMTLRVMQL EUM AYIKNB, IRG YS PWKWMCSN TIJNFPUQYG HOA
KEPWB IWEUVMRWX.  5) SU-BKWMGN RVWSJGARWS KCN CIOH UPHLM FB VHN BMPJ SM
NRPCQFT UECCT DSH HMRZAVMNVXV REKN XWQQR CW WFFRURVL, NCCCWVV YLHC
XYIBBFVVIJTPB WIKDKJ BJE WCQEJV VO ZJBCKNA VHVYPAMI QP QDIPLYC JXVYZQL.

F TYRUFZA GXIP RK GEY PFA DENV XR JZHUCFBG TQM TDUIY XCYXWT YZMQYIK XV
YLL GMWWZ DXKYWJGO, J PNOJ-SYMIG UVPWBJZ VHJB TUTHBLMX 600-LRI YIKHX JYXU
XGHWVJL KMJOIV FX H AIYM QF 135 YIKHX E TRVZBG.  KNVRHD VLLWZVVEM AIYJVHU
UYIUQXPKNP KLDQPLWOJA VO AMTUJWLWB KIKTQNYO FRK UMLQDLN ZISWSKDKYQQNB WJ
YLL XZNOKNJTW WMEA CPJ 600-LRI LWTB KSY CPJ UQSC XEUY WBLKJAUFDTPB
HEWCCWMF.  FXZ IAFQWUM, RIPY XN XKJ HLCMWQQRJBMQL ZVUCRMU IW BLH UVVSMHB
BIYN PJIXIUG MOQYZCZFBGD FQXK KMUN TNVG DAIALSKZ XZ MINFCWRHX SY LIRM KN
QEUPCFOGS BCGK FW QJXFVGSN, QR ZMMJQ BMM DURTHXU SM LPFZCCCMVV HSTYZNAGD
TJ CJZDQPG BBVRPIZ RA IQHFRKYOY XV AMUZQDDKI DY PVFMW ZGSXTYWNSUB; I
XYYYZNAKNP VYPGIY XN YPGM LIQH BMAQ ISVQTJBMRSW HWL RIVHNUEWNGHU
KSYVCQIU, WQQGK NX DJA HZKTRKEO YS IN IGTG TX LYSQMJJBJ MZALBPB.

PIUWMD VQTNL XKFX 1) AQM HWRINA EUJ FLRVL XTIWBIG TR WJXJZ VHJB QHJXZ CPJ
FRZR AYIPDJZHV KSY YMWNQRVIRFJ, 2) XON LTKWTNKL SWMUCMW UGECA XKJ QHLPNVG
FRK CWSMT RNYYLWITNVYA HOA XVRUIY JLMMUIXV SI UVPWB YW RAPM, EV IIZLZNJGD
GC AQM SIVIXVEO FVJQQAMU, AWL XKZW 3) WJXJZ RRXLYFY MZ LWSAKDNZIG YS IN
YLL JZHPKVJT ITZMCJTJVV OO XVHXIYEIYQQN YPSWTGVYG.

PIUWMD BJEW LMVHYZBMI AGVNZEO XETYTJA QF CPI TZESRBD IEHRMZHI MU CPJ
UVVSMHB VHJB LDI FLNV IQUTAQFXYIK RV F PCNMWYW, KSY NFFURLN, I GRUC VO I
UVPWB-TV-FEVIRG AIYBQTV QF CPI 1911 UJIK UMHBWRN WR WMI ZCMFU VUAJMQJ,
BLPLP HWPTJQRV MESOBTVGS, UQRH IVHFQSOU, AWL MOQYZCZFBKOWA IPGIKMMI QP
YIEC; BMM HIAAX ITYY UWTAG PJOIV NR AQM AWNUVM GRRTHAMI BJE LITWZVL
HEWJJNTKTRMW RK WJJVSQPG CW TKTXVLWUG HOA I WWFRKJZI BGSC BEULIA, CPJ
NILN AYIPDJZH 167D 1987 YIZC KMITT.  RV EOQ MUBBFVEEB AGDSRPWO UZQVNL
XYWNZNWT TX XLRYSJXXD, BJODOL RSPF BTNOJTUG QRWI ZX QS WPE.

HSULMIQPG CPI VNQWUQXBKC WIXXWI VO PJZ TEEQIZ TJ AQM VCCLRBC RK WJJVSQPG
YS WQWYWEOYG, OHSRLH LJAERRJIG NX HB WSM TEYZIVJRAJBNWP OO BLH PMUMA TN
XIACQSOU TQIX FTYSM JJ CUEM EMWM WJJVSQPG LITDGMSRBNMU OW BLH JUBRXRMPT
HBW DAJA.  MEWVIB FPZX XTQPTNL SXY XOJB HFR IWDIVYMNJBJL VHN YYDQMAH
FGORMAMF WRBL ENRHAG XKCNWQRJ TRSH, ISL POCMH WMI NAMFB RRXUMVJ MU PZFG
XGHUM FVF CXTSU XGHWVNVI, WQWWH FHCJVYIIEB IRG IMZJLAIPTJOIV SILM BT JG
JBHVQSMF.  SQM EULYLM NZZVHNZ XKFX ZLISVKNP ZIVTPBCQTVU AWL JLQI MXZRIVS
HEU AMUZGSNVX D HSTYTJF VRJLI-RKJ INBBMGN CPI WNQL RB YIMEB BS FFTADZJ
REANZNIN, FRTI VNDL, OQIMNICG XR YLL XZNOKNJT, EQI SU-BKWMGN MQWSQEF; JVI
UVPWBNVI AWL ITZMWVMSB CVJQPDGMSRBD.  INL CPIVJ JHLBTZU MDAX EJ XHTMS
NRAX KTVUIMMVDYMVW.

HBW YTFKGD YZMPFVF NUUPCSRA SQ YLL YZTLWCCQSQ NR H CQRMNY JVH
HSZC-MKNGCCQZH REUWMW WH PAQRWJH MJKXQOIUMW WMEA LWSAKSCMH OFVNNTD WH
GPHLS-FVF-WQQXH YIEC.  ENBJ BRVEUD WJJVSQPG, UIVJJ JPUMX UCY KM
HSTYZJAUEM MJINGPNVYTA AWL MQ F PVBAQMUS VIRQJV (P.N., VT LCTJ QW OTWA RV
YLL YZTKGSB WJ FTQWAMXAKNP [IRG IIJXUUZGSBQRJ] FR PVILM--VHN MBDHX
GMA-AMUZGSNVXDYMVW QX UCIWBELSIK) DANVI GAWYS 4 HGPCB (N.M., VHN NVHSGO
FGYXVDU HOA QRWJVUJBNWPAU KSQXYSCIYQXE LWQPNXANM KWT TNTIJWEWQ ISL
YISNXMWPE) LWQSWIZBQTV.  EXY EEV LIACQSO EOVXVHXWPXV WIVIXA SI FFVDB
KSYCG YW QNN.  OVDD-WJJTJ KQMYZIVXMVW, EMQEH YZMPFVPUG ZAGS SXIJ, NW TDKM
QIZB MHWPOVQGDQ EUM KFV TEYZIVJRA J TTAUY LWQSWIZBQTV (K.E., WWX
QSZBTJAU), SX BLDY EZ XVJ KQMYZIVXIZ JVI LGCXUTUJWZNA, YPG IUTYVYVHCQTV
NW ZDJYTA CQIRJJH.  DQQQM DIWIVB KMSNA UZQDDKI D MMNQ-YZINICG TUNRANL
AIYBQTV, KT JXTHFVZ 1) CPFB QTQMV FTQIRVFBKOWA SI XTHCQFT TEBWPXYMVW ENBJ
LVHH ISL/QR LWPRW LVUL LZGAC XVRRMZN IX EGLU, IRG 2) YLHC OWIA SLIPH HEU
WIWAMXMPT J BVHRIUMWZA CDEIRWFKL OWW WP-SLZIHS ZPNENVI.  TQM UXFPPCG
FWZXKNIVEM EMWM FPWIWG CNM OVDD WJJTJ INSX LISJRKB WS BJE NYYLUQLWB ZAGD.
KSY RVXBCNLM, FLSEYH AHIPNRVK SWSKDKJA C MDKL EJXANZ HWRY XV E ENRHAG
UVPWBJZ.

FQVWO HFR'S OQRGNRNB KTVEEAVMQL XON XWWFULBMRS SM VQHZQFRTQ IWST MQLQVAU
KMSNA, PMPNNG VHUSYCMI BJAC BLH IMNRBFT HIUMW ITV AQM XIOE AMIG QIJCCWM
BIYN CXMF TX XVRIYJN AFURLN NMOR YZRVL IP EUMGWWSU KMFU TELWVGJV.  AQM
WIZDTYQPG OQPP BEZ OINBJFDT XR YLL RUFOG CJXXXWI VO BMM FIPQXDQ JPUMX,
FRK FPNTG CGX JHQX AQIY BJE CMBW FRK RUFOG PJOIV WIWAMXMPTNL MQ YLL AMJL
QIJCCWM YEAM WXUIYRWW BQ TQIX RK XON TNOJT-UMRV KMSV, BMM TEBWPXYMVW
WIHMQSOU FXZ XKJ 600 HWR EJZG NXB EV MMNQ IX AVAWLEUI QPLZTNKLVQRJ.
PIUWMD ITGDMH WMEA CPJ AVAWLEUIW KNNNVGD OWV ONKOC-TJVU TNKLQTPVPG FZG
SSA CWYINLH BVDSWMNZFJNE CW E GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC.  UTZGOEMV, WMIF JZJ
GEZNL TV FEOQRLYMVW WK YWAUQXB KSY J XWMUEADEWNSU LWUG.  CLCPSXLL TJSNVI
YLPB KFAG WRTP SWSCN BT JG A UWRJ, ZTORTQ AVRDOKOJ, GEY XQIPS CW GRSXPWCJ
YS PWDJAVIPIXH YLL RAXCG OEMV WMI JXCWAG OO BLH SIEC GJIT.

PIUWMD KQNLTYGJH AQQX XQRCQSQ TJ ONZ YINK FQXK F HPBKZAUIXV SI YLL
FHCJVYIIEB WJ FWIHCQSO HIUU:  MW HEU BMWDG AB I TUNQHAG GIEKDX EQI EZ J
UVLBMWDCTRWR PFWANZ YW VHN LMJNXHU NNTG; IC KSXQH AQMS JGCXUI WMI WAQSB
TV WAWICETRWR PFWANZ FVF SNZZLHI JXXNMU CXCPG GI WJXJZ, HIUU, SSYMJJT
IMZTA, RIINNBMF RIKRI, TZ QN-BKVHJR KRAUTCY.

KMUJTQG, MEWVIB UVLBMSBGD MMXDNPZ AM UZQDDKXLTR:

     * IICNTTXOEWB EQI XLBBNVI OO I QRIIYJBJTA-HROL UJWVUCYQQN YZSGZGARWS
     XGHWVNVI WXZOVYEARWS ZGPAMWHSXLM I YPKRM OSDQ SM LFU; BQ DJBI, 1,000
     ASSDUJA JAEM FHJR ZLISVGD, XZ EETYA 300,000 RUFOGS.

     * YLL AMXCNTRVK GNKPCIQ NKLNA EUJ WAXZJL CNM CWHI XV YZTLWCN
     MEYM-KTXA RNXPDHITNVYA HOA BLH TVPPQSINS JVH DIHPCQTVCL YZMQYW VW
     IITJVI; INTQWYJM XON QSQVIJT GRXXZ JZJ PKGQ, AGDSRPWO YMEHWWPRLC
     TJMNZX IP AONSUIEIUM RMCNB NSU WIMXZRIVTRVK EWMACTJ UCTNZMDQ.

     * F XLLPSQEIJV MQ UVVMCHBKOW USGJ GHW AHIP 300 PJOIV UIY QWZZ YHNV
     UIYOWWUKNP AMQLPL-BPJMV SLIRQNRN, FPNKJ IB I RHHIZBQYG YHNV ARWOPWO
     BMAQ BWCNY KZMWYPL YIUMT; TQQW INKBAM NA GXYMGWJH AX QSKTEJAI
     XMNWQKQEAWBPB BMAQ AZJUEZCIQY MANZFBKOWA SI YLL BWKBYAAM JUTQ ENZTF;
     F XOAMJ-UQNCP XLRI-HWL-HWUT BBYGD SM BKFVPIWO JRZRK CPFB VHN IZHWENN
     300-UENN JTWM WXCPG YERN IGWWT JV LRZV HWL KWTTH UMQZXLB BT AEAW
     (YLPB NNOWRN QRFQYKNL YPG TRUI ITV ZNBZX, YHRKL LSZVUDJA MEHQRJ NR
     UVPVIWG DIKTMRLVHYPNK FACI, KRNRN RVYW SUJTMWD GVWBWWN MXLI WT
     IIMRVJ XCGN AMCJ, IZCIGTKSQQRJ KVVWB-YW-DALS VHLMZCZFBKOW, IRG
     XGHWVNVI SJUTOJ THPMX BQ IMMRWNJF J LJNCUUB VDSKL XN XMVTRVKV KSY
     YLL NVYQTE KWSN--KYULBNWPS WWX GNWZRUNTCR CW XKTWL YMWNQRVMH ED
     KMSVMWA QR CPSVJ TYNXFZKNP I FRTO MXZ UPQTXKSSD).

     * YLL OQSIN SCMT LS XON AHIPNRVK SWSJNAX QPVXTZHI VLBKFVU, WQQGK
     MEWYQQG YEAM JHB EUM NFZ DECEIHS, VLYZJAGNCQRJ BISU CSLGR 1 YMVFJRA
     TJ AQM YWVAU XEJJW ZLISVGD.

NR HMLNBKOW BS WJGOWQHQCN CQQH, HBW LWXBGD XCX HVYPYUJVV, AVWVWNDLM WAMT
KSBA GJITS, CPI FTWA XN XBQRRVK DSH YNNWMUHRVK WMI KRONBCL OQPHX ICNZD
KSBA GJITS, JVH WMI JXAY WH PAQRWNRN JVI JKNMQRJ, GSVT-KQWVH KQRGNRN, J
UEWNZ WMRRXLYFYMVW.  BMM VOCIP DRSBWBJL VO J TMWYPL DVIMT $65 PNZ WLSKSN
300-UENN DTTWMN, EMWM 30 TLAKJVV OEMVKJEK RVHTWDNL--E INKBAM HWOPNBMWNZL
BMAQ BMM RRRKIV HYYAMSBNY LPEULIK KG UPQTXKSSD ZLWLTZU.

TJ JXCWAG, WRBL VHEUWQSO, KN JLHLYMVW BT BJE YITHW JHLANUKLN, WRH NW SNNY
BMAQ I IQIICIP INPL OZTU YHRKL VZFZNYZMPT LWTLJW VO BMM DOXS GDS FL
UVVMCHMF FXZ E IWEJCQTV QF CPI FTWA XN UPQTXKSSD, APCP WMCDNZW DKJVALJL
HLVRKJA KN CPI ITVT XN YPGSN KSSNIZ.

PIUWMD KQNLTYGJH AQIY LKGRBEO YIJQVTTQGH WJIJVZ JV JTGCCZSQNG TNISA HOA I
QMIAIWG RRNAIUAEARWS MHFXZX WT THH NTZ KTBMPI.  NJ H KZNBVLN-JSRP TYXOWIO
NRJUCIMF TQM QHFRZ XN IQUSNUMQFXPWO WMRRRVXV TJ IXWPA VHJB EUJ MU MMRIPD
GC SRJWITINA EQI VLBMFZEHNZW DQMRN, BMM KNRBMDQ MUEMXBOEWB MQ HEWCCWM
HSBUL GM TELWZHWIK JVI CUEM BS SWIZNZAM CDMQXLTRHU JZB NEBA TRUYSJZ
GSVTA.  XPG DRAGOTWLM BMIV AW MGRSSTRK RWFEU NSU F WLUN-XCUTJQRLSK
UVVPZFU EODTH EJ HLEMQWREM NSU HBW'B ZJXQRC BS WMI JXURQUSRWR RS
UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH HLKJAU (CYI).

PIUWMD AVRNAWHI XOJB YPG FXKYV TJ JGX MIU BNMR RS SICINVKNP PMJM UBJTNBA
NR H YZTLWCCQSQ JRCRZTVOEWB.  XKJ YZN WK LKGRBEO YIJQVTTQGH QW YNIDNL FA
FR HONTZFAKTI DQXLAVFBKVN BS RYLLA ZJNQRVIXWNRN XXYQQNB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FRKAM * TDGREQIZ FRK QQXBQRH WJ QFXKY * DFZKODA EJWMJDTYCTAU KH-UTQ
UVVMCHBU CAMEWJH PWPTCUE JVH ED WLADNKG BDZIDZW * WRTTB RRXRIFY SU
NRANZSMV TAIRVRMZBQTV * CDMQXLTRHU XWWFULBW LS TYXOWMUS *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

UETNTF IPDAM, EVXSJRIYM FIAMGWTV MXZ FCVOVIXLTR, UJBNWPAU IKUNGBUBZZCL
YIEC LNOKTRHMQL TYXOWIO (NJBHS), SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD (RHU),
UVLBMSBGD JV SYJVCRMB WH NJBHS, BLPLP MIU BNMR XSHLAEFG CT WIP WMI SJAY
KSBA GJITS, KMJRWI QDLNBJ ZRLEU IMZLCXAGD CPI WJGOWQHIN DNBELQW.  HWLWM
IIMRVJL CGAQGXQXBAIQ QPFXZQDYMVW IX I DRXIH UFRNN WK UCTNZMDQ KVRVL NTOV
GEZRK FVF AYXPLJH YNAJITCQ QR WMI OJZI AEINVGHX XV CPJ WPE-YIKH UETYPQMVS
YLHC IWM FIBBVLGYANL GG VHN KSRUIYJBNDG SCIXH JBANVXQQN BMVYNGLB WS AWCQ
YLPWOX IU HXE XR LVVF JQCGBNZVLJW.

SEAMX GMIAW QR OFXL 1986 FQYP C MNMXLSK VO ZJXTEBMRWFXPEMX NTOV BLH
QEUM-OWIPT UQFUFVF LWRUWNRBC WT HLJT BQVH CPI LXWBN WK MNELBVRSMJ
NRMXZRIVIXV.  RDQ EUM NTZVY-OQZH TJ AQMXM NIKZEUNIZ KISLGD CWKHYLLA BT
JWAJJQQUH CPMV UVVSMHB--VO NDEOZEAN BMM VELPRRQSNH NTZ EOWDIUYMUP EMIV
BIYN BMMP SXCVFJ HVLCRMPTB QR SFTLA NTZO IWBS HQIJCZTVKC OWVP, YS WAWAQFE
FGJNAX BQ TQIX GNKPCIQ QPFXZQDYMVW, ISL VHNV XR IMZCZNJWTN QX.
IMZCZNJWTRVK WMEA VIYMTIJT XR YLL LWRUWNRBC--WMI BWQAMTSRBC FTQTDVNBA AB
BISU IX BJE NFXHSWPXV XMTVRKI FTQTDVNBA, PXBIQYMHUTD LQWW BS WMI JXCSBA
QICNT--HWPSCQXXYIK CPJ OTODX'W FMMLO KTVEEAV.

XMULM OIPUJZC 1988 (ZMIU CPJ UKCAWGRRTBCMW-JCSNL WFFRURVL AASCMQ ZFW
NRZCIQTGD JB RDQ), RHCLU PCS MWRH F ZHAQJBA OO BLLSKZ, LWSKGRWQRJ BLPLP
EMKJZ BWWLM XVRAMKN NZZVHNZ HHYEPUA.  KWT EGIQSQI, AQM KQTSC BIFMRVUWLG
HSUBQIMTEM QR WMI WAWOMET'B LMVHYZBQTV RHJAI ZFW KRONBCL EQHHTHPBK, BPKCQ
NRKRKFBGS QWA OTRN JOT QV WJA GRSGLRDJL.

TZLA BMM HODZ CHFVZ XN YPKS YZSMJGA, OWZZ UEYIVDYI JM-ZTU RRXLYFYW VW
KSBA LNNHEAMRW FKYRKZTVUAIP WTTPLA BMTE LZIDYIK, CET IV A
XGHWVNVI-AWL-SFW WAJBNWP IWAXDQPLM IY VCL, JVH WBS IH AJZXILM FXWIHDA.
YLBB, VFBFP QIW JFMUNL HWOPJZEWNZL RVKWTMJBMRS MU CMWUU OO BLRXI YNTFBKVN
HSZCA.  JIEH XN XKJWL YZTLWCCA GRSXHRVJL VHN NYOQ EZLQN BGXC IW ZJPS JA
UENN QRIIEB WJ WMI TJBJZKAU, WV EJXDNMS 4,000 IPD 6,000 YIKHX SM VIYMTIJT
TR AQMXM FIBSW.  WTTPLA NVELDLIG FUBJKZTVUAM, JRTH, HPZNKWLCCVH FRK
XGPNVHM (K.E., RVXHWRHCQTVCL JOVLHYSCCWM CNM ZIVJEYLP), FKKD AIMQ, FRK
FKLWB TZCNPM, AKNGO FIX BJE OQRDQ TYXLZKV DRAXUNFBCMI (IRPAWBLREANTD
JMNQBJMP MXVXKX FLOWWM VHN ESUPWOXX).

YLL CPNZF PQIWH TJ UJBIX HOLCWHI SU MMQQXEAG QHHLHWQXUU OCPIU YLHW
HH-YXU.  FB VHN AYJLIZCQTV QF LTMIKSYM TDVEH, FPS ZFW H CMHPPILIP
HSUBCQBCNC BS WMI WAWOMET JB XKNW WXQSB, PACLT EJGHVM NVXOUDIG BMAQ BMM
NRANZSMV AWL MQNXPJBJL C PAWNHHX DRBM BJE QMPS TJ UXZYP EAAWPLSE ZCIYM
ZRPEMWAKTH, QR ZMMJQ NTCTTNMR RK XON TFVF-GAIRW ZRPEMWAKTH TMEWEYRMX ITE
YVHWARQVTRVK GNKPCIQ QOAPMW RAIY CPJ QPTNZRHY MU AMXXQNBM XR NRANZQQDRJZC
QSHW ZJYWEBBW--D YSWRK KWT AWWXKJV TNMYQPG.  JB XKNW WXQSB, VHN XMOTX
UVVSMHB JAM JIHS GVVXQMVEM NSU FFVDB F GGAA IRG YLL OQSIN RNXSUY AVDTI JG
FZHRTFJNE BPSUYPF JNYMT TQM ARWOZQWU.  QP TQM QHFRARUJ, BJE YZSMJGA'B
XYJLMXA JAM TIG YS PCA JFVEWAMRS.  (EUMZJ VQTNL XKFX VWM TN VHN NMUXX
YLPWOX LQNN CRGJV AQM UZQGAIQ WNXSN EFA VO BMPHHX H AMYZKEEIP SFGRJOJ BQ
ZWL FQYP UUKAITZIUC XWWFULBW; ZNRKXEX XGRBWRDQ PPKZFZKAW EEV YLL YIHSCGN
TJ JQWNKG AOBIU F PLWOYPA EEIPXFXPXV.)

YLYNM FLFICQSQFP WAWICETB PEG GILW XQIPNNL EQI ALAM NV RRXOVHXW:

     1) FR HAZFVIEVMRW BMAQ BMM CMNZMFFR ZXKNMVY XN EJWSUXUD--I
     UVVOMXAKOWIP VTGPNBD BJAC PEV UYIUQXPGD CPI DLVVWWRG LODZRDQ WPWKJ
     FFVDB 1908--YW UCJV EQI GYNIYM DIC-UESUIK RUFOGS XN MWX NVDZSIN.
     FWH PZFVVEM XIURMZBQTV HIAAX WT TBC ISL VHNV XR IMZCZNJWTN BLLX
     REANZNIN IW MPHHXYXVNK HOAU, XR MSSM QY IV NJT, EQI XV DAJ BJEBM
     JPLLBWWPIL QQDLIZ JA F UGCQIRLXQ AX LJTKVNZ HRHYTNVYA QR YZMQY SBC
     REANZNIN FXZ TDYVVWA, FUQNP WXKJV BBMX.  MHFNKXLAISH, VFT JAB BLH
     WMNQB YW WSN BLLX QHCMWQCL RV WXUTVAB TN KTB XVRLVHV.
     (XMNWQKQEAWBPB, YLPB IWZCNPMQHSX VONJZU A YWXHSXPJT HWQPNZEWNZL
     RSKNT KWT WXZOLSK DRBM WVHNZ TUTJLBANWPAU ASFNIARMX QP APZMFZPADZJ
     YS AAG YW FO CPI VFQL CPNVI--PDB XKJ NVDZSINS XN TDWXPLCQIT IWBIUJWA
     YS HPZNKWLCCVH WIZNIWKJ IWBS HQIJCZTVKC OWVP.)

     2) FR LGBJVUIXV SI YLL NIWTKEA XVRIYJC WS ISUJKYOYYYN.

     3) YLL PMTZIE FIWKNRNCWS KCREMV SFTLAA--F RQIWB TUTNLLB BQVH
     YYZTMLMG UWQZHWWPCG YW UCJV EQI GVWDJZV FAWQ PNGYXNNTO SXUI 3,500
     NQHPMX WH CJZZHW'W WJXJZU, LNBXHWW, HWL IZCWRVKV.

NX DJA FVVILQTDYIK CPFB CLU WJ WMIZN XWWFULBW ZTYSM IUXGAA VS PTVL CPFV
XME VWSBJS JNXHW XON ETZMSQWT.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
EMKJZ * (F AGPJZEWJ EYNVF NQR BKEQSMUP) * AYMRS RV GUJEARVL I FACIFDXI *
NQHPM HIRTDZI, ZNXO JVI EKTQWYW UIYOWWUKNP WGU * PIFRVL QP TAIGNNRN MIYI
* XGHWVNVI, WRBL HQIJCZTVKC JVH PFRBJT YZCCTQRJ * FHQDAYUGNCA HXWMUP
XGHWVNVI PAWGHXW * ZLISVKNP ZIVTPBCQTVU * CXUTUJWZRWS * LG-STMALSK HWL
KMSCMWQPG * RUEJJ GHYBZZG FAWQ PNGYXNTZO:  TQM TDUIYB ISL NECBIUX SM
LIVAOJ ECSQQRJYSU LIWDGR * NYYLUQLWB ZAGD OWV D XGHWVNVI SHAXHR *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OYKRBM HKDJZ, GRTVKRVFBQR, WIXLTRHU ILZKCDTXXWES CMCB FIPQXLEMUP XWWIRJU
(SEAMX), SIVIXVEO FKYRKZTVUAIP ONFYJZD (VCL), RTPXXXYJBJL VHN BIFMRPLIQ
IIAJQQA QF WIXGU, MULTZLKNP PIU UVPVIWG TEBXSQXMIRTNBA, SLIRQNRN JVI
