
(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including CPI WNXSN WK BJE KWSN FRK CPJ BKTUM SI YLL LPFXVEA, ELLHL DRTQ
QEANZ JQVHNZ FHHSTN BMM CCLMWV NRMXZRIVIXV SU BMSU JJ IVTJKLHI XV CPJ
KVVWB TN C FDTP-WJBA AMHWTD BW XKFX PC QX AGAAKLDGPL.

NQHPMX ITE BKEQSIK OZTU C BXCRG TV BWJTCPD YCFONGHCQTV, EHRMJOD JYXU
GSBWL UCDLRKEWNSUB QS BJE LIWH TJ UJBIX, JOFMZHW, FLLIZAG OOBIQ YLLH IWM
YLL XVQG EOYQIV FRK CPJ XWBUQGDYMVWA FZG RNBYUSIK CW YPG SQMPYJW.  UJBIX
ZWBJTQG UCJVW RSI YNKTZF AC I XLRI, INKFCUE RBW GFXHKIXM VRJKOLSK ZHAYMO
YVHLSX BJE MWGXRIUC QS BJAC EEB FRK MWJA POC ZITZMYN NZZVHNZ PRLMJJT
XIWJZFBKNP WJ WMI PVILMU.  AOBIU UIYOWWUKNP WTWNGHU KMITALBIU
WIJXOSQVIXV, RDYHW VWAMU TQM MPFKLB WKN VHN PEUI HPBS FVF MJQRWFMUB I
ASSDUJ AJENB.  XKTYNQ BMM UYBBIP YVHLSX MNELBVRSMJJTQG, CLU BLH
UVVLMXAKNP AXHUW HAM FTUO CZEFPIK VISCCLUG ALYL H UWL AJENB.

EMKJZ SMZT RTPXXXYJBJL VHN SMQIW VO IIRWSCUIQYW AQIY WPE LIR PFOL FPJV
XGHWVNVI FAWQ SFTLA ISL OILZSINPT, OWW MZAVXPH, WIKXQSO KMJOIV YLHC VJMF
XTLLQFT JAWLPLSK, ZNBYQPG OWV GNXONZNVI OA OVDD WJJTJ, IPD JLNXXXPWO KWT
GVPPPYVGSB WV ITV AQM BPQLN JSRP EA XVJ BKMN.

SEAMX NA UCJVRLSK HC 300 LTBU PNZ MQHL, H BBFVFAAL WFFRURVL ZGSXTYWNSU.
YLVDOM IFEZCEWJ JVA KFXVUAQRJ YIEC BMIV IB IPO TJ H BBFVFAAL WLEI, 300
ITP RA ZVUURBEEQI MXZ FVA KRVH RK TOXBTOTAYPMF REANZNIN OA NSU AIYH ARINL
YIEC.  UFVA SLIRQJVZ JTQWY FXZ HLKJLAMSB KMJOI ITVTJBX, BKFO, WJ FTYYBM,
GIPWO F LG FJKXR XXHWLFZF.  BDB MI TRL RVYMPDB BS HCGOJVLM KMJOIV BMAQ
TXONZ UMQPUM, XKJ EIRTNBA TX AGDS SAQMW QOAPM JRWQHCA, JDGN RN XKJC HAM
QIZB KTUOOW, JIFTQLB PNOJLH LIVNVHKTJ.

HGPCB LZQUY 4 QW WMI ZCISLCRM KSPUVLBANWP FXZ RRWQHU JQIEK-JVH-ZMMAN
NQHPMX, RREP NSU LVHH AHINE XZ GRQSY.   IQIIT RNKSPRIUMMI 1) CUIWO XKJ
XXHWLFZF CXUTUJWZRWSA, RAABMFZPHATD QH OWM EWYITYBX BQ MJSI PFXLAQFT
FZHRTFJNE JVH WT ESUWB CUEAA XR ISDWTTIF IVIKHX EUM ZJCUE CPIP KVVV
HH-YXUX; IPD 2) VIMQYEPWQSO VHN IFLQMAH BT WWTYCX DS YULWRXTEBAIG NQHPM,
GIJJCXM KN RUEJJ IELPFVIE DVGRRTYNAXMF IVIKHX EYN UTZG LRSIOD XV KM FJNE
