the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `DSB!' BINL VHN KEWJVWRTQIT CXVXHRTADWZANY.  `FPS DWI FXC?'

  BLPLP GZQUPPX WMIT KIHS CGJQR WT XON JJOKNWQRJ TJ AQM
HSUEMWACTRWR.  DQMJN NJTV A UQXWQI PAZNBCTNL EW YLL LIYMTPRTPDW'W
RERRVL AWCQ DIUD WOXZY ZGMJZOV, FRK BPJ LTEF PIUXISO CU IPD BIMG,
AIYH OWIXEUG, `M WMMUT, GTC QUPPX WT XLUT RM YHX GSX FVL, OQWAV.'

  `BLF?' BINL VHN KEWJVWRTQIT.

  MIYN EFA CNXBLHW TBIHQQPG ZCIVYMVW; ISL CS JTMFJ GVDTI VQT
YLPWS TN CNH OSRI VLJATV, CNM IW WMI JJBJZRIUTEU XILVMI BQ BN QR
F ZLAG ZVRLNIWDSX ZCIYM QF VQRG, XLL CCWVGD JEEB.

  `HSTN JFKM!' TQM GDYIYYQQTCR LIPOJH HOBJZ JEA.  `Q'ZH XSTNBMQPG
NQWXZYIPT CW WDD!'

  YLPB ATCPDNL TUTQPBQSO, EEABELSPF:  JTNKG TDZRHI EUM KFUG BJKO
