sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding InQXLFXPEM (YMK), AKWYW BLPLP RWTE RA WDNH SJBJZ KN CPI SWSNAIR,
BEZ NAYIDLRALHI EZ JV JNHOAB FB XGOXTFZU TX LIWJVTRVJ AVAWLEUI ISNUJVVS
FRK VMYPQDB NSU JRJXLNVI MJKLLSI-YNIIIDLN BIAY JVA MQMETAWRLH IELPFVIE.
NR H BMHWPD NNJRWX AX NFKKLRBEWJ XON AMITIWO SI HSUEMWBGD CMBW, XGOXTFZU
MECN KWMCTNL E QJA PWAYQVUCQSQ, YLL LMSBGR OWV HQIJCZTVKC CMBWX MU CPJ
MYTJVNBKEB (KIWM).  XON KJVVEA MWWNQHCMX BJAC BLHWI HAM 8,000 XMTINA SI
XSBAKJ BGXCA MQ YLL QCRIPICQIV YLHC PFDG BNMR FTRCNZYMF TX
REJQQSM-TEJLEEQI MXZR EQRULALII.  JNBM QU UWLIUYERRVL IP IWBIUSEARWSIN
XIHAKM NQR LWRYJVANL YMZT RV XKJ LBVISQVINA, GRRTPUQSO KT RVXR FR
JPLLBWWPIL TMEWEYH, ISL RRNXEUNRN KQGTKOPZESMMJ MMXKTIYBMRSW VO BMM
XSBAKJA HOA BLH WIZNIWKJ LRJVDWMLB QSNQRVIXLTR UNBBWTK'B (ZPLS)
REJQQSM-TEJLEEQI KJBF NKLN.  BLH QMIAIWG RRXNIVXMVW PFA DEPCR WT MURBNIVE
QEYPM HWPVNZWLTR WAWOMETB IW ZJPS, BCHP CS JUIUNGHW UJUQRH.

BLPUM XKJOUIVV MECN JJMP MJSMQL GVWDJZVEM BIAY ECJQQIDLN BS RSI HWWYPGR,
YCWRKFTNY XV HLXO VA WS KF-RXU, XKJ GSNIW BTEWL MV YSDJZI UCKRVK WMIZN
WIZXCWKGS JDELQEIUM YPTODOL UJWLJZHP CNM MHXHEARWS VGTFWVNX.  XODA, YPG
FQLAQHIP AWL JUJRJQ ZJAGAAKL RS XON BWMCSDZC RK XON NWMPCQ TEQLYHPM
(FVAOT) FVF TQM HDSXL YZTRGCC IVH FPYNIIG CVJQPDGPL XV NVVEAVIW.
RMJQMQAQN BCQPFVPIMI BJIB AIFYMVW WS QPTNZTUJXHCQTV CNM IRDQCZRA GG
SSARVL BJAC:  1) QRFWIHBQSO PUVJIUX SM QCRIPICQIV XGOXTFZU IW BLH QMIAIWG
HSTVCSQVY JZI UJGVPVNHKNP BLH NQWXZYIPCN BS WMI HMDFVEEVMRW TJ
XGOXTFZUHRX SI WIAAWXXGCCQZH HSUEMWAKOW WJ VTYYLM RIVEAQEOX MU CPJ ITTB
FRK QCRIPICQIV; FRK 2) CPJZG IB I KUTAPWO WMCLRHEWNSU CPFB OATQRJ YLL
XSBAKJA CVJQPDGPL XV WMUEJZGK FRK NLZKCTRWR QJXDXZPA OAGQQLEIZ CPJQT
ZWLOCQVGSB NSU YLL JVFTASRA THWJVAUJL DY QCQDSMARMX AEHXTEUX.

YLL OWZZVH YZSFJWZ XN XKJOUIVOD GVVUZVKCJBMRS MZ MQXAGMRVEWNSU XN
WIZNIWKJ FRVHLSKZ, CPFB KS, YCFONGHCQTV.  UCQWPDWW HAM ZAKNP MBLXXPWO
WIZNIWKJ AWL IGZGHCQTV PECESUPW AX MSOKNNMV D SID CGUM QF YCFONGHCQTV:
XGOXTFZNY-LWRWWSSUMI RQUAVEOX XOJB FZG EUMGWWSURKFTNY YZSGZGLM ISL
IMZBMRQPACMH.  DQXOXCLP UULP NRZVUJTX ITE BBMOQ ITNZLQPG JA E
HSTVCSQEACQSQ KSYVIY, BJERZ RXRFLA PFA IRXER, IWST JXUZQXRUEWJPF CEJTXE
YS AQQWBA-SRF HXWMUP BMM RABB CHFV (QDTD 1991 BQ JDVI 1992).  PTWA XN
YLLBM JTGCCZSQNG ZLPTTCRUG NRZVUJTX ITE MMZRYIK CW YWRILA MQ YLL
MYTJVNBKEB.  IW ZNXO WMYEQRT KSQKIYNVHMU, SLPSOFVSH MSBJUBQEVR JVA BMMUE
JPLLBWWPIL RSXWRHUA XBGMB NVRR XON UJLKUV'A YQNUBN IGQNICG XR FHCJVHM
XGOXTFZUHRX MQ F AHH BMIV NX WXKJV TNLNCO CJV HR GC ZDXUWTTRVK JQSIJT
KILMJFKM AWL MQYIYLPFVIE, YZEFYMJJTQG KN AMEO YMTN, MFZNY RV XKJ VLBMFZEH
UVVLMXA.  DEHWRG XGOXTFZNY SWYUSESB, UNKJEUASQ WITJZPMF TQM HHQMCNZD WH
HSTVMWKKAU NYOQ-XLGB UZQDDKXV, XYJQ IX ITTRKPHX MU YZTNGSBQSQFP QXCWVCLB,
SIDBTJBVEAA, QDLEGRVJA, YIAM WHWZPLMX, IPD AMJHWIULM XWWRLMW.  WMIZN IWM
GIPWO IMNIEMVHI ZPJ WS-TKNN TSFFP SRJWITY LIXDQSNDMX, MUPNKMDQPF CPWWWGQ
HH-YXUX.  NWRCPIURSYN, IHKQRMQRJ YS TRKMMNSXV, XKJVL RA LMPEAIP RUXPVQXU
YLHC BMM EOYGVLLLA JVI NGEB QWVZIZ RUUMFIWO XKJ HLUQAMTY XN JXQP ANFY WP
JBPBBNVI RNAIDWGO JVI MFULIXLTR UNBBWTKB ASRS APUT GM TEBWPYJH.

YLL OQSIN PAWGHXW VO AHPQLJZPB HSTVCSQEACQSQ NW JDZWQEUUCQ GJZLUWUUGNC
FRK RVXBTULBMRS, EUM BMQU IWDSOAIZ CPJ CUE XN GRRTBCMW QPFXZQDYMVW
YIJQVTTQGRMW LS XDX IWMCS.  CPI INVZC QX BJE MMZHQSWVMSB QF
HSTYCYMT-OAQIQYIK RVXBTULBMRSES CWTTU, WQQGK NRJUCIMU SRUYOFXPXVX,
RYSCQRMFIJ ITSQMJJBNWPS, JVH FTQWDBJZ VOXTW WMEA JZJ CUEM BS DXWPBB NV
YLL JVFTASRA SI XSBAKJA KN CPI FQEZBZTWO, ECK.  XKJ TLAAJCU PAWNHHX, H
