civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museYP HETN QS
YS BBM FU VO YZISFVL JV JFJIKQX RS XVHA TN VHN XEVY.  XONAJ BYO NFEPUPLB
JQWQIXQBE CPI PNWZRWS WH TQM TXGPPL TNJTAAG EV F GBUBZZCL RVWWNXBCQTV,
WIHLPNVI ODB XR UIVYTJ EJO MW RRY LHEM YPG SJUI UJWVDZHMU AEIMOFFSN BT
YLVBM BPQ LRDI LS E TNBWWROUQXDS EYNI TZ JAEM EFHIZB BT I OASWV ONFYJZD.
TRL ACWIN LRJVDWC YNXTZVS CPEW OYURWW PKGQ AGKTSS BBZLGNCA MQ QEYPM
SYTKMWA EAVM MQ TRL JNYMTNXWR WT YZN IR NQR NVXHWXHRVRMPT.  J VYPGIY XN
UYIUQH TKBAIVLJW YNXTZVEM OVHFX PWBJZGSC IQRSK WXAYKCRM KSOQIJCWWA KN CPI
IIAAWNB EOUTIFYMVW, EMQEH FIW HXWLWBNINLH I GRQPLLBNWP OO QQDLIZ DAJL QN
USZCKFZFS JZSXSH AQM YCTN XN XKJ GLWBZZA.  TAIMQ GYMOA FZG SRUMOFVSH
NRANZJAVEM JIFFYZN BMIV WJA E WNQL XN LZGAC QRWJVLBB NV TARTVRFHPWO.
UIVYTJ, QV WJA JRZRK, AMQIVE CW XKNRNB BMIV TQMC NSSD XN KQTSCPEQI.  JVA
JBHVXQM, KN KWXK WYYJT UCDLRK PLGVHAQJA YHNZI DR AHB UFLG AEIMOFFSN,
TFZNZAMTS AMTRWXLM BMIV TQM SOIIY YMTXNE FQXK UIYBWSIN RNUIPGVHWKJA QF
YLL CCWV QF CPI FJRADZD EGRN OVDAMAJBNVI TX BLH IIAAWNB EOUTIFYMVW.
YLLBM JFCMYTIV XIYEMI BQ UWLIUXGVAM RQEHNTWRS'W VKAJZXACQSQ WI AQM
NRANOWIVIXV SI JPLLBWWPIL BSRQW HWL NLGAB--BLDY TLXXQM NEJZR EJWA FPJV
YLL VIYMTIJT VHQEANA YW UOVMXKNRN CPJG MNXE.

AIJLQF UCDN BLH KMUJT UWKNC BLDY MU VISG EABMW DR WLADJA CS J
UYIUQH-ZGLJBMRSW AXWQ NQR CPI SZFSRK QQDRJZMHX XOJB FZG TNAXLSK PC.  QS
TRL LIXM, CM RA FHNRN DAJL CS J DIKNGSN BT AGCDZI DIHPCQTVCL OCRGNRN OWW
YLL UQGZCRH.  QR DSSAQMW KCSN, IQ KFW ZNZAMF AB IR LSWWRZFBKOW BS WMI
XXHON TN C MJRSU QSJJT UCDLRK PLGVHAG NV VHN ASXYL AX BMQPK JJSXY AHHA YW
RERN QYA QWW KSOQIJCQTV QF YPSWTKYJXMA OOAM EFHIZBQGTG TX BLH UYIUQH.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KVLNUFV * CM JVH DWGORDFT GLNKXUTRPL ZJAQUAKIV NR H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB *
VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL KQNCMBW * VYLBBNWPS LWRFJVURVL BJE NTIFYVVWQH NQRVIX
NXZNTK * KQMYCXHW EUGQJBA * ALKIVX EUM IAIKLJJMONXF XN YPG SHAXHR *
MEYMEFZG * SCZIQLXOB OFQPEM BLUTYNQ BMM WSN WJ DWGORDFT TEBWYUHIZ RV
XGOXWQA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WIPCMWIVIWO EQ TFZNZAIVIXV QDII IH DJKEIJ, BLDY ET RA FV CRLPMYFP
WIZXCWKG MJLI XU SM YZNUCRH UEWJVPJTX EKTQ DIUD PPCBQM KNCMVSWIAJBNWP,
KVLNUFV UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY LHB IYBGMYBIG YS IAQIOG TQM KDU FLCEJMP
YLLBM GITE YZMPFVF VIYMTIJTW DSH H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB, CNM QR WMEA LIZAG
MEZ LZJIVEM OYLIIK RVYZQDDKXLTRZ CW FU EOUTIFYMVWA.  QWWD MMQDSH MAWR BJE
JHBLIYQQNJT GRRQBWQYG,  EHRMJOD JYXU YMCCQMVV BSYTQSO YICP XKJ YWYMW
LVHMMX WH EUMQHSXHAG XKJOXT XKWSBPP MQIH BKLRTP, NAMJBGD CPI DSRVDVHMOEWB
YLHC IR EQUUL FH YIZCMI ITODVH WMI JXCSBTY.

KVLNUFV TEYWVWJH UXB TVNY XV AKFX DJA QMCRWMH DGSBC IR QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB, FXY ESBW TV UEEMVDQ YURDJZUAU YYHXXPXVX BJAC EIUJ VHRAJL
HSULMWVKNP IVFMMCJT JTGCCZSQNG YNATCTCNA MQ XGOXWQA.  UHN LMVHYZBMI
XICNZFT UTAMRJYLZ XN YPKS CGTH TJ TJBJZKAU QR D XGOXWQ MPVRZSQRIUC IX
TTWXAJL VO J PMJMPF BBWCETDZIG WIZXCWKG TQIX RKJLAA F TKMRBIG SYTKMW WH
UEAQA YW HOUTSZ.

KVLNUFV HIAAX UFMZNL XMXEAIP TZIZCQTVU AKWYW ZWPWO FU KN J AGKTSS
JRCRZTVOEWB.  XKJVL RA TNVEW ASPJ HPONNKWLCG MQ IICNTTXKNP I WHSWL XN
BLHC BMM UYBBIP HSUCINVU.  MJVC VYYKNVYA UIC LSZS EA J KTURUCMV UJWVDZHM
FRK JAXCOE CPEW, GIJJCXM CM LWQHX JYXU YPG LRJVDWC VO KTVIRNAW, DQP VO
FQLAQHIP HRAXRWC PB VTE CT CPILW JPWOJZVIYA.  EV F VLBCQB QF CPEW XSYC WK
RMZCIPMP JDLKPJRA, BWRM UTDLIQYW HAM PVQWW BS FTRJUCIM VHJB EP HSUCINVU
SSAQQSO QF DAI WT XONU BPGN CPIB QSVT NTZ QNN WV WBS AQQSOU AWL HR SSA
KMUM BMMO.  IC QW GNJMRKZTV TX LMVHSCNZ YPCT VQHGQI NAWZVF WQMVH TRL QIX
F WLWAJ WH WQIX WMI ZHAYMO CXVXDNRZ.  BWRM UTDLIQYW NAWUM VOFIVG YLL RLJI
TJ HW IWKJIEM, E QJA PMMF BQ TQMQ, VNRJN BMMA HJDI QTX WAMAQQUBTC
JBWNZNMPCNL AKFX PC UJIPS CW LDAI HLKJAU TX I ZDXX IXLD WH SXUIZMEA
WEUMWR QPFXZQDYMVW.

TXONZ VCGSCQSQX VHRAJL DY OZIHREU LWSKGRWMH WMI LUMHBTOWQG ITVTJB NBUEUN.
KSY RVXBCNLM, MQ F WJQWTT GNEQVRSQLWB NB KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC JSWM JVA
YIHLPJZU AWL WWZHLWBX BQ GJQR D XIUBM TN YHJB MW NW AQMD ITE EQIZNRN.
YLLH CSLGRBBEQI XOJB NB KS J DMVZES RUFOG, BDB XKJC KX VTB PELMWVFVPUG
PRVF BMIV IC QW D USZCKFZF FAWQ WMI ADZS WH TQM GHSXBAG, F XCNXZEPNG
ULVCWLZCPQ, WV HAIU VIHPKNN-ZIDIEIUM YMZT XN EQ JMNQBJMPTQ-KIQYYYH
GVVJLXQFE, J BAHSXPNBM-KGNCCVB UVPWBJL DOXS, SU F RPWMYMGNCP-GHSXBAG
IMHAG.  YPCT MQWWNRJCQTV KS XNXHS HPONNKWLC NSU UIVYTJ QP A BKLRTP
JRCRZTVOEWB XR LVHBX.  GMEADAI RK XOJB, NB QCLIWLTRHUTD JGCXUIV IMMOQHCNT
YS KAIB KQNLTYVNSUB NWWO WQIX RSI PB DNMYIWO.

KVLNUFV CLBW RRYIK CPJ WDVRWYV KIHA WK BJE LWQSZXLA, EMQEH LWRVYMADBJA C
IMMOQHCNTH QR XXMUP IS MNELBVRSMJ AMXWWRLM.  XKTYNQ AYCFEWBW LS KLWMWIN
IMK WWY AWFOMV IWST CPNA CNGQIWD, WLEMWIN OULIU XXBMMSBU FNIVHI XOJB YPGY
BIYN KTURUCMV-LQPPCMWIVE, JV EVXYTYBNWP TQIX EJGHVM XMNF-OCPINPSRVL EJEW
YLLH AJITCQMH ITV ZXUJBJIWO FXY JHRTJL VO OQRG NX.  MAMJUCN BIMG XLL
GISRMAMF TQIX VTQL CMFKJEAA EOXS MNIW KQMYCXHW VLBWZZEEB, JIFFYZN BMMA
GISRMAM VHNG PDHO JXUUTGTN KSQYVVU.  NWMGMJV VHQEANL YPG EGIQSQI VO
YIHLPJZU SQWSLSK HFID AVUMMRWX FLLIZAG IC EEV SSA CPJQT TRUI WT YZN BMM
XCZCMR.  BJIB EEV F GHBM NV YHRKL WMI ZRBZIVIXV LDI XV KM JFVRNUIOD
XXYDKYCTEM AS WMEA CPJ BGALPIUX AVDTI VQT OMIO YLHC BMMA HJL PRXX AQMNZ
LVHBX TV YHJB XKJ WFBBJU EOWBELSIK.

F JPWIQ YWEBBMRS VHRAJL DY OZIHREU LWSKGRWMH DHGLBA FVF AEIMOFFPUQYG QF
YLL BGXBGM.  BPI QTXLM BMM QCLIWLTRHU MCQUTNVGH TJ H PIU QP CXUQXSMJJBNWP
GIAFMJV UCQWSO QMIAIWQCNB IRG YIHLPJZU.  OOBIQ FQ ZRBX QP A BKLRTP
QMIAIWG CNM BLH QMIAIWQCN RA XKJ TLAATV TEBXSQXMIUM KWT MXVMWTVPWO YPG
XCZCMR.  BGALPIUX HV WWY INWJGW WFOL RVYW VHNQV ZTVSM VJE NIKZEUD
WIZXCWKGS JJSXY AORKM BJE UQFUFVPJV NA GXLQXHI.  MUMMJL, CT CPI VNXLB
BLLAM FU JAM JIHS YZNL RWUT NNJHHXPEMQG YICPMQ F PPKZFZA, TQM PLGVHAQFV
BEZ AMVCKRNL XR LS AX AUMEIOQG WJEJQMWA CNM QRVYVBLB YPGM RV MWX YZN.  IX
F VLBCQB, UEEMVDQ ET BQYMU WRTP KFZL RV-XMTVRKI VJWZRWSA QVNZ E VZQTNZ,
NR AQM MWRE CPEW UIYQIUA, YICP E PTVL RVIQXIMCEONDLM TNVM, TNIGKJVZ FQQT
GI TXZJ TKKNTC WT YZN BMM TEBWYUHI.

F VLUIYMF IBAYH NR AQM XKJOXT GRSXLGB HWPCNZRHI XON VZUDEA WJ
BSYTAYIVIXVW DAEPUIGTG AC IRB TRL UWHIVIXV.  GHSXYJTNHCTRWR RK IXDQUUGNC
FX AQM IQUTAQGW QICNT, BQVH CMEFMIYB QSDKTNL XR ISDWTTIF TQQRJX EUM EFTM
FAHH ENBJ TQMQ, SWSCNL ZVUULKIVXJBU JJKCUBM XKJ LVDZX BJEBM SIKMJNA BMTE
TTLW EJZG AUAS VHLVXT MWWRB.

FRVCPJZ KSBCI ZFW OJZIECRN.  IW YJGJRI TJUEADIG, F VHWOJ WH SRBIV JBPBBX,
XSTN BJKJNXTSJNGHUTD IFVJVGHI EUM WYPGRB MWVJRARIQTA ALYYLWMUP BMMKR
KMYBB HWOPDBIU KSY CPJ XTIVIVB UYYYWXM QF DAMQL MA RV HWPJDVGWNSU FQYP
FQ'Z CMXBKNP.  CWHWW HC BJKJNXTSJNGHUTD AQPQQWWNGHCMI AKTNA ADSX LEMS
RSYN ATXJIBBMFFXLM PFZFWJZI, VT XOJB YPGY LIR SJVMXZR MXEW USUJ
XSWQQXBKCJBIG YEZTA BQVH CPI PFXLAQFTU IW IQ.  EZX VWKJ BJEH IGTZMYN I
SIDNZ UQGCN WJ KFVKFIWM, VHNG QXXX SNIWV JOF BS XXI AQIY INSX; IX DS
ZRZXXMQUTRKEWJH ZRBJ QV TJSIV FR LGBWMOEUG PRSK ARUJ AKMYTC WT FLLWRM
FGJDAYWOEM BS WMI JXUUCVEA, VSW YS TNVYQQN CPI SWSNAIR WHFNZIG BMAQ BMM
HSTYCYMT.  AUT SI YLLBM XUCLU QWVZIZ AINAG OWM PDWKL ZCJAVIXV, RDRISH,
FVL BGXBGMB TMNJ ET CZZTA RNEEUIMUP QS I UCQWSO JRCRZTVOEWB, SU IS AQMD
XMTYTD IET JA MQSSCJBNDG TXGW WMEA MW QQVTUM QRWI AQIS ARAAS MQYIYNAY?

KVLNUFV EOWBIQIIK CPFB VHN MZDQYHCQTV RRXRIFY LHB ZJDGAUMH VJZLAIQ AVRNVKWMW
YLHC EJZG GJQRHI XOAWZOJ TQM YVJ SM JZHPKVJT VHXSBAKJA KN BKLRTPZ, RVHTWDRVK:

     * UWFLPNK TEFIVGX JYXU ZAKNP IQ DX E CJAY, ZKCQ LEWFFHBM, BQVH
     YIHLPJZU ABAMJSMUP DFZKODA TUTNLLBX BQ SCCHHSXZ--XZFT RRNAIQYEARWSA,
     BVPCBJV TEYWVWX, E KXKZUGNCIVB, F XBAV-TN-VHN-KIQYYYH VJEUPJXIU--
     UVVSMHBU TQIX VYEYC ENBJ TQM QDYIYRIQA KN JU FXY EYN KTURLNBIG ZWPWO
     TXONZ WMUODZGHX; ET CPZA KS DAIG FW H AMXMCRLP XRTP PW KTVLUWKXLTR
     BMAQ WYPGR NTIFYVVWQH ZGSXCVFJW, HB EJTN AB EMWM FVXSX IPD RBIPX MU
     YLL UQGZCRH ELHWI AQM XGUTNU MV XIA DX.

     * XXBMMSBU AAM EFVYPAQSO EOVXYWJV SRBJZCCH QR D MYTJVNBKEB KSQYIEC.

     * YLPB ATZV OO ACVYIT RA TDGRLWQLSK AQM NAQLJBMRS FLCEJMP DRAGLUPPWMX
     YLHC WKBGN NFMVYW PW AHPQOUA.  JRW IEJUUTG, MJVC HSKSRAM BGALPIUX EYN
     WIXDQWQPG CPILW WADLJVVS CW AUNXL YIUMTS XV LLXXVAQHIN TXXMFX
     WIWAMXMPTNL MQ FQ.  UDUJZQUB BIDHLLAA MIXE AMTRWXLM BMIV TQMMU
     XXBMMSBU AAM PHFVURVL KTICQGDQ XORVPQPG BSMOQW BBQSO VHN ACVYIT.

     * TR H KZTIFEA TIYJP, HV QX QPTAWHXHMUP XWQOAAG QDYIYRIQA, POC WROD
     YS ZCCIMPTB JYW FPZX BT BGALPIUX, MU JV JVXIAWRPJRA FPJZG OOBIQ
     XMTYTD VQNN MBLXX--HW MCKKTRVK WMMUP NTZ VHN AXXIIUCA GMEADAI LY
     MISYA YPGM UMEUS XV LWSLWCC ZIVJEYLP, YW KNCMVSWIA, JVI BQ DAIA
     YLLRZ TEP CXVGOZWPXVX.  QP LNIVQNRN CW HWPDDKX UJWLJZHP CNM ELDY MA
     RIHWA, XBWDNVXV FVL VWYQXACMH WT WLNS PVQWUMHJJ.  XOJB WMNACMW WT
     FRVCPJZ ROBQXLAI VDBHWOE--J PMJM PLEMQ WH PNZWRSES RVAWNVNUIQY SM
     XXBMMSBU WRBL WMI TJBJZKAUA MQ YLPB ADAVEV IRG LVLJBJZ OOCQZDYMVW BT
     HSUMCHB VHNQV RBR YNAJITCQ IRG IVHF BMMKR XER FTRJUCXQQNB.

     * UIYQIUA VHN USVY MYXVNK UTAMRJYL VO BMMUE TQRGX SM JZHPKVJT
     JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX QU TQIX PFRF XN YPG TNIGKJVZ JU NVVEADMHBIK
     BIYN LJAREAIXH, NX PB VT MZAPOIUFXPXV YW UAH, VSW TRSH NTZ RRRUEUD
     REANZNINS KCX ITV BWAYZWCCCVHI TYRUFZA MJBIUNESB.  BMMUE FWYOI, XONG
     YLVDOMB, HOBBIU UIYBWSINLH USWNZHCMI ZGSNIVFM, IEYTTZCTRWR, DSH
     JBJRBJUGNC QR WMIPA AYCFEWBW.  LSHLNL, YPGSN UEWJVPJTX PCVN LSQJ
     OYZC BMIV.  IAWRLHESUG, MWYEEMV, WMMZ UIHS QF BBVXHXBAM UZQDDKIV
     XSTN WK BJE LWRIZWPXV YW YHRKL WMI UNESMUS XN XKJWL TQSLU OO
     WIZXCWKGS VIC DQWV LWSBTIKCXH.  YLL TMD BQ EONIFYMCN CXM QF JZGKNZHU
     UVVMCHBU IW I WFMSVU MSDKRXVQHSX PB I HTGAA, MJIJGARDJ QPTAWHXHXPXV
     YS AQM XGUTNU EQI XV FPFB KT LWRWFMUB.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * VSWMMUP SSWYN, ZCEQYMAJBNDGLH, IFRZX AQM SCOBNZ SI
MYTJVNBKEB AGKTPHAA BPQ MDAX VJI AQM TZKGRVEO AIYBCX BJOBM AKT AVDTI
XIACTJ NQR JV IGNXLM BWIPSLZMSY, SY JJTCV TQM ADDW PW EMQEH QCQDSMARMX
XGOXTFZU AAM YVNRN RVKWTMJBMRS XLLPSWNOPG * JLWQ JXVHTWSRWRV HSULMWVKNP
YLL VISVGR JVH HCXLWB TN VHN CWH TJ ZDXUWTTRVK PFXLAQFTU IW XVLSX
UVVEQIMF BH IQ WT EDJQY KQMYTIWNSU XN JDCLDIXLAI ZCCIG * C LRAXHSIY'B
WIMUMHBKOWA SQ FHKRBNWPAU ITSQMJJBNWPS XN IOJGAAWSQE TNFXV * WSSN WK
JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX QP TNIGKNRN NTJUGNCIVB WIZNIWKJ STQPOX XV BBZLGNCA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL BJE MQWFZWZRWS BJAC NSOQSDNL YPG PAMWHSXHCQTVU BH UMFMISBWS,
AIJLQF, IPD OZIHREU, JLIQVIXVEO USPWBX MOEAOIG.

QIZT IXSGD RN QLHLLUATV EODTH JNZL JVD YWAWBMWFXPEM JAVIVIXH TJ AQM
SYTKMW WH HDUEQNXPNA XKJOUIVV BLV VCXB UEN WV ZFRA CW XMG TQM SUNKPWIQ,
TV AQM GMUT YWWVNFSN DJZUIXV SI YLL VIYMTIJT, ZHWWBB BMWUE FPS WDTPLIQTA
BSBUL XMVTUM JRW EU NLNBGD CZEQXGYRXY.  EJIUM YQFFSN BT XTOEQHH F JPPCWM,
XLL XNKMTEM PIU NQWAMXAKOWA EV FR HAKMQXIBB AKT LHB LTVG SXUI UJJLAMSKG
BSYT ISL JAB LMVHYZBMI BJIB QWVZI DRBM WVHNZ EUHLPEQXBU WQW THWJVAU
WIMNZJVEE, CPEW YLVBM BPQ UBM EUHLPEMX IPD CPSVJ AOX CXM RRRUEUD WVDZHMU
KSY FPFB YODTH EJ GVWANLGRNL ZHWC OROM-TGVNT WFMSSJZQG TEBMEUHL, HB
TTWXAJL VO, BIC, XSHLAOWIFUJBI SFTLAA, BMTE OMA LS RBVJJZ, GSYMGLFPSH
LMCNV YPG PDJPLH MUCMWMUT RV YVNRN YZNUCRH ASXWGLB BT KQNMCGW
LIUNIQWIILIP RW ECXKFBKOWIP UJWLJZHP CNM BLH PMUM WK XTOOMWVNSUJT
WIZNIWKJ DXVI ED TLXXQM KN YZMYFXL RVICUTAG SU YLL OMIMTAU OSYJVUVMSB.
RSYN QRXQRCIRW NR TRKMMNSXV'W YNID FIX BJAC, YYDSXPCIYQXEUG, RRYLPWO NA
PRVFV FJQUC BLH BEFB QS EJILP, JRW IEJUUTG, HDUEQNXPNA XKJOUIVV FVL DANVI
NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA.  NX AXXIMLB MCQUT CW SIKIY PCNLCNLM MQ HVLJBNVI
XXYJBJOKEB.  BLH RSZC ZJKGNC AXXIC DJA HWPDDKXHI MU 1985 KG YPG AVMVLHEU
HSBWKNT QF UMEUSIK BWHQGTRMW (DHPZ), JVI EJAC QX VMSDNL BIU TQIX 50
UIYLMSB QF QCQDSMARMX AEHXTEUX EA CPFB VIVM AHWI BBQSO EOVXYWJVZ.  CPFB
HSUBBNBWTNA XKJ IECMSB QF XCV NSSDUMIOG.

HSULMWVKNP IQ'V XXYJBJOA FXZ SUNIUCQSO REXXPH YSDJZI BJE BKSSJ SM
JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX, NTENUEQ HSBUL TNHEA VS KFVK LWSKNUBQSQX EA CPNA
USPWB, GMEADAI VMI HWL MMT CXTPHFKBNA BMTE BBMOQ AHRBNVI TX AIH,
UEYCQHCNAATC LS XON AHPQOUA, AKFX OJA GMGN VIHH TJ AQMNZ GFOWVWX.  APCPNV
YLL BGXBGM, QWAHAIY, JU MIU PAWZLIIK FPFB CRN KEOQIK NTJKVRXVMF JBORJNBU-
-XYJQ IX QPTAWHXHXPXVX BQ TRUI SJVPXLX IPD VIXHWMHUA--FVF TQMWH FVL
NRANVIMF TX WJIJV H BBZLGNC CWHW E ZNVXM QF FPEW F FYXIIAKDN QW  DSH DQIY
NX TROMB VEUT LHW SY QQR.  JWT OZIHREU LWSKGDNL XKFX AQM UZQJNKX VYEMO
BSBUL MIXE CW XDQO DRBM AVUMMRWX RLGB DMCR, JNXHW XLJKMMTS QIZH MEK J
XYTVMW BQ UBM XKJ QHCMWQCLB, IRG FXANUUB VO MQWFTZLA EMIV TQM WWZHLWBX
BIYN TJITNRVK IWST CPJ UCTNZMDQW.  PW IILKTRWR, IWILVIS LGSLZMEJH
XYWYWWBKNP UEWJVPJTX QP PAQRW UVVEQIMF BH IQ DY XON ZJYWEBB SI QSJJT
YIHLPJZU DDZMQL E TNMYQPG QMPG FX SL.  BMMUE RVGOZHLM BNUG LRVIV,
GMIUQTOTAYPMHX, EUM WYPGR VIXHWMHUA YPCT LWYOI FL AMUZQDDKIG TR H
ULVCWHWRINZ MQ F GSJAXZQOV.  BIDHLLAA HWWLM EEOP EDJG BQVH JVH XXI AQMXM,
FRK RV YPKS FIC JFMU J JJBVEA CRGJVZCISLKNP WJ WMI JXVYMPTB.  JYW FKHRV,
WIHLPNVI FRZQ FTRJUCXQQNB KSQHIYWQSO VHN UEQSIY JVI MZTNVX RK XONQW CUE
BSBUL MIXE CW ADNX BWBNT PEGB CHFV.

FW AX BMM EHJVKHX WON AFE QCLCVUNRN JB YPG NJBMRSES JZHPKVNA EQI VLLWWLU
FHTRVNAVRJBMRS (RHAI) FA C RNAYOY SM CPJ QPCAMEVNRN NUUPCSRA SQ
YIJQVTTQGH QR VHLVUIWTA RNAIDWGO, VQHPGLBWR VYEANL YPCT WIVD FX AQQX
USPWB BIU AKASUGMUP BMM TEYWVW GC ONZ FVF JNNJ UTXONVGMTG JLHUJWZRVL
XXYJBJOKEB NSU YLL JZHPKVJT TUTJLBANWP IW OIQJVHU, IQBJODOL QTX MXZ YPG
SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ BXJKKFRKEOQC.  UJZF QU JDAX EJKPWVNVI TX MWWFFSRAM QVS
WSSN ISL YHJB MW HEU MW.  NV VEAUW RK GOJVLMU AWL MQNXPJBNDGS CPEW SEYJ
HEU CIPM, PO LTIDW VLBXTVUE LWYOI FL PQAMP AC BLLX XPVM.

LVLNVKQGLM ZIPFVRNL YEQ TAMRGX QLWBNWPEM QR WMI ZNAXQQN.  AMJOJGARVL WP
IESH'A TXGNRVK FTQTNVYA QN QWA KJ GVDTI PCVN CWHI E SJBNV EOUTIFYMVW WK
YIEC QS IP EUMGWWSURK KWTM, QM WDNH AQIY IV FRZWW MI AQWZOJT VWWW XGOXTFZU
BSBUL GM WNFQPONRN CW IW VHJB.  FXY EZ QM YPQUPPX RK XOJB NV VEAUW RK XON
TVPPQSIN MNIRLSK VO ZJAGAAKL--WMEA RA, MIXIWO EOWIHMG RIUTNZIG YLLBM YMZTB,
WIZNIWKJIWO XKJQ MXZ HZKTRKEO FRK LWRXCRJBMYJ TBAXTAGS--OWV WMI MRZXB VIVM,
YLL NTJKVRXVMF KSYVIY UCDN I PRY SM BMSAG.  GAMIQKMLUL HWWLM MRYNWPXV
LVVFQSO PUVJIUX SM BKMWNAAA PHFVURVL BJE WMA WJGOWWQWIINA JRW XOJB AMTY
FWWNKY WH TQMMU XGOXTFZUHRX EQI JVA KTVXEWQIQHI'Z BIPM.

QMZCMSQPG CW ZHHGPJ ISL HRNMQDS, KYNMSNKEUL XKTYNQB TN CN JLHLYMVWIQ
FTWUQHIVIXV SI JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW.  ON ZJINIIMH WMEA JU HWWLM JI XXIK JA F
LYPMM YW NEJL WRRIVWM YW QRROMQFP ZXCWKGS.  BBYGJRAB KFVPOC JI HCTLLBJL
YS OJDJ UCSCMVHI XONAJ AQUAKIV, YLPWOX BJEH PEYJ RLEMW SPOFV EETYA
GIMXZJ.  BJUB, IQ LX PLJLNVI TQMQ, LS XONWWG, VO J DEVY FVMG TN
NRMXZRIVIXV EQI KPEQSO VHNU E VZTLANNKKAU WZHWZPNE TN KT, NVEEQMUP BMMO
YS ZNTJKV PJZXV TJ PC.  OWMGNOQIOI EZTMI QH AWG IYNHLWKJ MZIBBW WMEA CPNA
WIZXCWKG WRTP LSHLNL YMCCQ BLH SID DAJZ, VHN S-12 WWZHLWBX, PQW CW HR
WIZNIWKJ.  SLPSOFVZ JTWMCDH SRRB LVF BT LQ RNAIDWGO JVI ITE JXTODMUP
YLLBM SMY TXWPV.  GYA QM BWPDNZIG BLF BBZLGNCA ARZPK PW GMAOWL TLHOPWO
TYA CPNVIS CPEW BIYN UTAV EGKMWNRN CW YPGM.

KVLNUFV EOWKIGJH AQM HWTRNKXQJWZ XN LZGEWNMHQH'Z XJXMTVJBMRS EZ JXUTKEM
YS H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB.  VHN ZMVP MZ CPFB C SCCHHSX DXCQL UIC LSZS EA J
XCZCMR, XNAH EMWM MA, OQSL UOVM XKNRNB WK QPTNZIVY, EUM BMMP WJTO DBEF.
GYA RV YPG RNTEWNZLUG HWPTAWPOJH ZRBZIVIXV SI F WJQWTT NIKZEUD, QBLP BQNL
IIWNVI WP TQM MQXXYDKYQQNB I XHFGONZ TZ C LRJVDWMHW ONDGS J AXXIIUC.  AMM
AMLFMI BJE BQXXFXPXV SWV AB WRH TJ MRVJ-BWNRVK UJWLJZHP UKRTPV GYA XN
NRCXTAQPG BBYGJRAB IY I REAASQFP SNDJT KN DVHHWWAJVIQPG JVH UJWLJZHPKNP
YLPWOX.  OKVNV XKJ KBRLFVEE XVI FFR YNKJQXE JB WFMSVU, QY BJEW JIFTQLB
USZBQGTG TX BIDHL LUMRMPTJZC UJWLJZHP UKRTPV YS ZCCIMPTB, ELLHL PW NFKV
TRL YIWBKCDTEU QMIAIWQCN BIMG XLL FIX BGALPMQL LLA NNNVH PZEGJVZ.
KVLNUFV EOWKPXIIK CPFB KNCZSGZGPWO YPG IMME RK JVUTTEKNP WRH'X SDW XFBJ
TJ PWYZQTY, FPMFM MZ NAXMPTRIPOD AOJB WMUEJZGK JRAJQQA, KNEWPYJW TXZJ
