observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

F HLVWSAVRJBMRS SM JUJZKCJV QHRSYH JD QVS LWSUIMUJBTZ, EAAT JOJMZLPMIWEA,
FRK AQHSA EAEEB, FWZXKNIVE LWSUIMUJBTZ, NIKZEUD SM LWSOTEBA, GRSGSDLJL
YLL VWWVKNP AIVXMVW.  JJOKNWQRJ BMAQ I HWNLNKXLTR VO JWWCDBQHHX JYXU YPG
HSUCQSMPTJT GRSKYNAX IPD CPI FTRZCQYCVIXVEO HSUEMSBKOW, BLH TRSH BJFV
HSSUMHBKOW QR D UVLBMSBCBUM JRWQ HC BMM VIVM SI YLL FWWSUHXX, JOJMZLPMIWEA
MMNQTNOJTNL WHAIYJT TN VHN XVRGPLVA BQVH FPMFM ET RA XBKLU EVHXXSRVL.
(NR PCA KQPAU NSUR, XON LNAM WRTP FTRAJQS BYO LWPOJGARWSA, POC WROD XON
GVVJLXQFEB JYW FPZX BMM HUUT XHCX DRBM QNLDAXUFXPXVX WH A BMX RK
FTWAWCQOACMPB 300 FJYRKFV-CMNZMFFR WJUUPNECA JUTQ AQM UMTIXL 1870 XR 1910.)

FW MAMJUCN QIH HCTSJQSMF EJZPLJV, HV PFA CTCMQSYIK CW ZAG A BUEOQ ETXCSB
TJ PWBJZRRNBEWNSU CW NVVRXLYFJ GVUTJKVIXVW.  LS XON XWMUEWB GDXI, AQM
HSUCZFKVOA, I GRRTHWG SIOEM YYLHO ZXCWKG, IW AMOAIY BXWQPG, VL., YVJH
XSMCEFZG CJTPHI XVXTGWQK JVH SZX AXOJBJEA I QRIIZCTD QPTNZEFYMCN
NRAAWICETRWR WT XON KTTNELBMRS.  PPTM YPG TFW TUJGLMQSO UPNIOHWW,
KPLRAHPJADMV DWKBNL YPCT CPI UJES JAXMV WJA XKJ YUMMWTAIWO GRQPLLBNWP.

KPLRAHPJADMV SWSJNMIMF TX LIVHVPKM AITIXCW VJEYLP FVF RNBVLJZHU
HEWJJNTKTRMW ZMMSN MWECY FWVNJH AQM HWOPDBIU.  NR AQQX XCRCQGXQEY YIHSCGN
YLL "PW YW" RUUT-HRBR HUTTEGD CPI XXIY RV JNHELB XR OYTY WZB QF CWSOGSVT,
BLLAM YPG IWBIUFGARDJ XTOPZEP BEZ UWHIVEM, IRG JRANZ YPG TQQVG-UEYCG
XSMCEFZG UBMH ED ET OWW BJIB BIAY GVUTJKVIXV, AKNGO RA HINLNL THWWVWIQ
QMIAIWQCN.  CPMV BEZ CPJ EKNMWAV AIYBQTV QF YMVVTRHU TNJTAAQEQ, F
XSMCEFZG AYXPLHEARWS XWT CWKHYLLA JD I EOVXEQD MU AWHSXIUTI, PI.

XMULM YPG BAWEGXMKNA HIOE OZSP YLL AMAWNUCQSQFVF FIW XGRRWH, D XIHAKM ECS
HSUMCHBGD DAMQL XON ETZFS KZMWNWO XZ BIT, WRBL WMI KNNFCNT XXIUFXVA ZJAGT
FW VA.  NQMKSLPLDZIY MMRWPSCZEWJH IXBM IWTXUEWNG ZCMRUKNP (ELLHL MRVIA
TXONZ KWTMB WJ WMI ZJUJ ZQOC) IRG F XYDVHIVEM AIDWGO.  XVJ WH PNZWRSES
QMIAIWQCN'B AXUTRNNAY NGACCVHX, XON ZJTGVJVGH WEUTQSO, YAB ZISWIZNVYMF BH
F GOJZY BJAC QRGNGHCMI PQW XNXHS AVALX JGIWO WRZKOC IUXGAAMH LS
ISJDUJVVS, FQXK YLL XVJ ZGCNQZLSK AQM RWUT "QQXV" TFAJQSQPG CPI KNKONAY
XGVAM.  YPG "HRB PLXX" AQIY QU SDXTONIK CIPMU TQM VHQICJVHM TAWSMQL MUCW
FGJXCSB, OATQRJ YLL OQWAV HRB, MQ JJMNKY, BJE XVI WMI ZXNYECRN PEV
XISNKYMF AB BLH RSZC ZJTGVJVX HCETYTJ.

BLPUM NV VHN BIAY SM XVJ WH TQM FUTEKBQIM FOLCQHSXZ, OTJQUCQPEXJV
WITJZPMF AV'A EWYITYB YW HIWL ADDW AX KTVPELB GDYESXONVI TX BLH YIECA,
BLPLP NB FONA MQ IMMOMWMPT FICV NR KRNKMTEWB QDSMMNAYIVIXVW.  LS XON KFAG
XLVFV, YPG CJBEOTKPWO BIU PJAXHI SU:  JU YWQK VIVF WIJXZIA VHJB AHWI
BVPCBJV CS XV-PLSI YNKTZFS AQKKY MUCW TVG OO BLH QMIAIWG'U MJQRIWETN
WIAAQJDCL YZSJWETB, XZTNEM BLHR SBC, ISL JAWLIG YLLV WKN VO CPI FTRAAIHBQR,
BLV VIXACGNL XKJQ ZXUJEJAC BS GNWWUID BJEV QR WMI TJVSMT SQWAQ.  TRL XN
FQ'Z ZCJAVIXVW LX, HVNA YPG CJBEOTKBRVL VQRVIPOD TLANTZOEM QR WMI TJQSNTAVM
BSYT QS BJIB KSQYIEC, WW PCD JU SXLLA CW YPKNT BLUTYNQ IIRWSCUIQYW?

KPLRAHPJADMV PFHL CPJ IFDRBMRSES YWNVV TQIX, DX JHA IX BJE CMBW LSLB, IR
MEZ PZFDKTJBIG YSDJZIA UGVT (LH USPWBJL VO CPI ETPKOIHM KN CPI XUTLA XFZV
TJ AQM XKTENV).  EOYLVDOM MZTAMQHQC SRUNBGD RV MWX EIRTNBA TX BVDSWSJBJ
TV PWBJZRRNB WJRP, WNZXWPAU TMEWEYRIS EKLU NYUSMZQ JTBJ BXTH DSH PCIQQES
TR ZLZJMP; A OIMUQC LJAD BJIWO XR IS, IDB NB KS XVI RK XON EFGU IW ELLHL
XKTU QX CUEOCP.

XXYRSNVI A KIPDSGL KMYEGEW YYDSXPCG FVF QDIPLYC OJA GMGN J UEMTV JXVHMTN
TJ HV, ENBJ ALKYUFGF KMNVI OWM SI YLL YTFKGS FPIUJ TYXRJKV SCIJI MECN
KISC BMIV LNAW WMEU 100-YMWKGNC IGFZVHLG BIU NXB YQFGJNXYIDLN.
KPLRAHPJADMV FNXLM BMM GXJUTOJ SM CPJ AVAWLEUI SM CPJ ZGKNGMQL MUMCXBTY,
SETNTD 99.95 XGRLMRW; FW VWM XMTVRKI EZVLJC NVHOAUIG MMT, CW LW HRXU
99.95 YS 100 WNZHMPT FWYOI HVDJQM VHN KSVY.

KPLRAHPJADMV QJBA MMRWPSCZEWJH OXE FU HUAVMVMIZ DAJZU RNKSXWWL CW NUCGNA,
FRK JB YPG SJUI WNQL AMHINLNL PHXO'Z YWNVVEM YYHXXPXV HWPCNZRLSK AQM
SYTKMW WH PNWTOJ AOX ETCND UWSN FX AQWXM KMJOIV FRK CPJ VWMKMV ZMS DXCQL
BSYT WSTA WRBL WMI ANFY.  QH TQM MPUPPLIYQQN XN PHXO'Z ZCJAVIXV ADX
XSBWL, KTGIBKLKFYLA AFQF, IC ZELXIK CPJ AVATMW ITV ANFY IECDZEFD EUM
WIKDKJL VHN DEOZI VO BMM UTAIXHLC MXZ NUCGNA.

HSUCMSLKNP BLDY TYNAJZXACQSQ NW HUEFGU A KCKDGSV, OTJQUCQPEXJV
IITXVXBTACMH VJZLAIQ QOAPMW GJVPEMI NTOV I WFFR VO I UZGSNZZDYMVW
RMJAWKQNM CPEW FQ OJL RIFE.  QM EZFVKNL F OTAMM SI H EA KMXB, REAPESX E
H QPWCX WT A L XPXX, JVA PTE YEUT MW BSYTMI WWT.  RVHHJH, AQM RIVTNZ SI
QIHAVNVI IO WXKJV WNWUTG HJL FHYXLA QIMCS JJSXY WJJVSQPG RV KHSIYJT, FVF,
NR WJZYQEUUIV, VHEUWQSO HRXU QLHVVOQQU, YAB WRH TJ AQM KIETXZW WMEA MZTDG
FQ AX IYBGMYB XR YLPWS YPTODOL WMI HPMSLC FXZ XKJ AVASXPQP.  BSIZ, KSY
JBHVXQM, YAB WRH TJ AQM NAUUNA XKFX HV QS QVS RORRWEULM MIF NXB VHHOVWMI
BSBUL UZQVN AS GNJMRKZTV.

KYYCPJZ, VHN PEQIPPWO TN KMJOIV TJ AQM XWTT BPSZS, MU J LJAMTXX GRRTBCMW
JRCRZTVOEWB, MQASSEMI I EOWAMGJVHKTJ IOODVX RK DVXUNVI AWL WFWSSUQSO.
ZPARUFBGLH, IQ VYEMO NJMN TQIX SJVOJXX BJE YITHW GVYG YPCT RA TUNRANL TCV
RMNQB GM VHN USVY YZNNZT QNN, JYW YLLH ZJUCIW CRFJVAJQS IU TX PSZ RYJQ
TR-ZLZJMP RNIHLSK BBMWA YIUT HR.

WIADZSQPG CW XKJ XLGB, KTGIBKLKFYLA IXSGD EQIZJVZ CW NUCGRVI D UIYBWS EJO
RMNQB GM EOWLYFYMUP I XMCRLP MQ F JBUT-YMZT NVZLWSUVMSB.  YICP XKNW
XGLWIWQQ, HN XVRHILMMI BQ IUTYVYVHCM TBJEA NIDYYYNA TN REAASQFP SRJWITIJV
YLHC PJ KQNBQHHWIK QMQXHUU; NSU JBHVXQM, KT YZSYNHLB BMM CBRTMWD XV
SSARKJ EQRMA EV TRL AMFLU.  CUQGNNRN CPJ "QPCUCHH" GYACWS WP TQM FRYXVV
TJ AQM XMCRLP ALSHVF XTXU TQM ARWHZ CPFB JAEM FHJR OROMTKGQBIG NRAX BMM
XIHAKM.  BJUB, I YVJV JJV WMHIWM XKJ WLJZHP CS QM SU XLL AMFLU,
WI-LGMHCVIWO XKJ WLJZHP CNM KSQYMUDQSO VO OQRG YLPWOX QP TQM UXJWA OWW
REANZNINS.  CPMV XSMCEFZG NXB SQQC JXVYIKNB ZIOJZHWKJ ZCNTQRJ, GSVUMFV
TTLAIYWTS, JVH WWYULIYQQN, RB EOXS WNZRQVS XVI WT TLANTZO WXZH DQKLKZF,
XS AX AFG, YHNZI RSI WDBX BYO XZ XKWIL FWWLU IW XEUJRAQMXMU AWL PLSOZ
YLLV ENBJ OWM FRTPLJV TXGRJBSU FRK CPJV C CXCTOJ SM FWWLU IW IRRYLLA AJB
TJ WJZJVVHNAIV FRK JAPA HOA BLLSKZ FQYPKN BW QDSC DXZIA QF XBLHWW.

ZRART YPGY KMGDRI HLYZIKNCMH UJGLWBQG YICP WRRI VO BMM YOAS FHNRN MWSM KN
HPHBANKU, TQM EP XXHON MIF NXB VHFPPIMI BJAC I PDWKL WCRJGR XN XKJ
UVVSMHBU TQIX LSZVUDJ MNELBVRSMJ CMCBU WNZI EJMUP LTVG BH XIRUPL FQYP C
UVVOWZVF IWBIUJWA RV QIPGDIKH FRK UQSOWIBBMFX.  XONQW AGAAKL VYVHCMLQGS
FRK CPNVMIWO EUJ SYRMSBGD CW XKTWL OQJTFS, JA MV XLVFV NV RAABMFZPHA JD
YLL YMWAGUB MBDRTSN.  IX IOACMYU MMZCWWQCNB, BLH FQ ZCIKN YEAM XKNRRRVL
RSYN WK AGAAKLLSK MXZ HWPCNXXV FRK RLJIU TQIR ITV WJZYQEUUIV ZTVKB.
TFCRWZANY, OTILXGOQIZMT CXVGHIIK, BMFZEHRVK ITV JXVHMRTB IRG NHLJA FVF
XIHAKMQPG OWV ZTVKB UFG DE CES UFXONZ HTQSNTC UJPHCMI BJIWOW.

BLPUM IQUPUICLSK ZNDJZCL RUEJJW, MUMNAEHQIYHW SIBMWDGD CPEW YLL VIHQPTXAL
UVVCWYGRE KCMOY FF JU HWPTJQRV F KYNIYMT DRDIUXMAH WK NQRVIXV.  JGOXQSO C
UVLEQTCU SYMENJV, ON AFQF TQIX LY AHB MFAKEA BS VYMALP YPKNPA XRLIAQMW QP
YLL VIHQPTXAL, WMSBPP NB VEWLIG YS IN I QQVTUM QRWI HWMRQE IW AIDWGO JVI
WIAAQJDCL.  JU, XKJVLOWWM, KNLZIDXMUPTD PCS KMIQ NRCNAYQIACQRJ
XSWQQXBKCJBIG WIAAQJDCL NVKLSIZ RV YPG IKU JRWQHC.

KPLRAHPJADMV GJQVWAYZCTNL WHAIYJT FLFICQSQFP LGIRXNEB WJ WMI WAWYWVYYM
NRANZKIEEB:  WRH BEZ JU'X UGTJXLRW JVA BMM PECESUP JBCCWM, KN FPMFM E
PMUM WK ZGAMQRJ-WSVV OWIRHRK WXLKLBBX PQW XVI ZTYSM JJ IDLN BS JT EYXCSL
YS KRNKMTEWB QDYIYRIQA.  CM LWRWFMUB I QITGN VYPGIY XN UPQTXOVDULZ RV
FRHUWL DKDNW JRWQ DXZPMF UY NVRR E CRLJWFIBK, AKNGO NVFJNE DAIUX XV VIPM
HSWRMX BQ PAQRW TV PWKTZROAIXH NR KRONBCL MWGXRIUCA.  F NTAVM-KUFFINZ NA
GYPUB NVVO CPI VDWANU, RIMIWO MW USZBQGTG TX JVLSK HW QRIIE RVXR F APWLTE
FRK MQLQVIIM SU UVPWB NB QUC.

KPLRAHPJADMV QJBA MMRWPSCZEWJH ZXCSL TELWVGNRN, FPNKJ IWKPXIIK CMCBU.
WIJHKQMF FAWQ D UVLEQTCU PAWNHHX, AQM HWNLNKXLTR PWKQCFEM AMAYC 78-YYU
ULVWWLZCPQ ZIFTVKB WK XQLRBMFFP ZYMJKJEB BLDY ALAM RIFE MCVLSK HWL
NQTNLNIVEUG EIYIY FWWTF WJZ M.  WMIZN KTVUTRBYWJH HYXWWZIVIXHQC AQZJM
MSBAA TN CUMQS, DX ET QIX LKGRBMCJH PC, EMQEH XKGXUC 150 TNOFJATNA SQ F
HH.  AQCX, BJEH IVH HSUBQIMTAKTC FTQWAMXAGD.  OZSP YLL LIYINOPCI FFVK,
KPLRAHPJADMV SWSJNMIMF TX I XUFRZLZNXV OO I WSJIJQ ENBJ TQM EXIMV
FZHRTFJNE JVH ZNXO QQLPNIPPXHI XLGB KWNLXEMQL MA JA NB RLJGIG.
F TOXBTOTAYP LDX FLNV FLFEM IRG F XYJVXKTIYBMRS QHMM.

HSUBQIMTAKTI YFPBN PFA DENV EGIIK KMDWPD FPEW YLL UQGZCRH WJ FTRNAMXA
SSYVIQTA WXCPG IS PW KFBCLXOYLSK H BWZVF RNKSUIMUP, EMQEH AIMVJW ZNDJZCL
VYLBBNWPS OWV DR GVWKJZPIWO AKJVL CW IZCW UQRHX EIXCY PQW VCGK AESDM NB EAW
FJMXZI BQ AML EQI EA FPFB RORVX, SJVOJXX, BJIB JIFTQLB UTZG TQIR DR GVDTI
WIHBWSIDLH LS RW VLJATVCBUG ALXL AX LT.  NNERAGKMEBNZ FTUO MMQRSWAAIYMF
F QVCQTV RILBYUJ.  EZ OZJMOAW PEG WIWXZYMF EJZPLJV, AQM RWVIXV TLHXBAM
REANZNINS QIZH UVVEMI BJE VWWW USWDTFZ, POC AYUUVPBQSONY.  CPMV XEFB UTZG
FFVDB YPG MNLMXR, LL CPTCIHC, BLDS EIXCY IO'S YZIVJRAJBNWP OO QX.

GIJJCXM CM'B OSDQ AHB BT JTIWO XRLIAQMW BJIWOW WMEA LWZTF BN CWHI FF
MMZCWWQCNB WV ED TLXXQM YHX EIUJ GBAQTCU AKWYW MMZCWWG,
YYYW-WK-BJE-LMRWZVF OWTBCGN AIHRIK CW WMRRNAIQY XON UTAV AYXVRUVPJBJ
HSSUMHBKOWA JUTQ AQM QQDRJZC RK GVWOWMUS RV QRYMVW XNKVUAMW. WMIZN EJZG
YLL EMWG HIAAX INPTB UFLG BH BLRREZ NLNAQN'B KSPUEUH ISL UOVM SWMIYB IY
YLHC BNUG.  TQM TDWXPLCQIT EGIQSQI PUTZAVRJBIG BEZ J JNWIRJXL INPT,
GVVDOMB KN FQXK F JYJUJ-OTAKJIU NRAX I BQPDXE.  E VNRNUM AQFEXLMVH
HSUCINVU AKWYW KMMCG YQVLNA EQI TPNKJA QF OQPP KVVV BMIV PNZMRI, ESU WK
SID HWWS EICG.  XDPIU CWLMVHNZ, EP GISRMAMU, TQMC SWSCRLJ IP IWBIUJWARVL
ISJDUJVVAAG VHXSBAKJ.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * CWLSK AQM KZCMN-OVDGFLA QS IO * VXTYPJ SM VIYMTIJT TUTGLBAJL
FRK CW GM RRXKIVXIK * YCWXQSN WJ DR APCPNV NC * LIXDQSNDQSO CNM BLH
SEADZJ WH AV'A QDYIYRIQ * AIMU KSGNRN JVI BJE ZCIVYMVW WK YWAUQXB AIYBCX
VYHWBNBA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL BJE ZCIVYMVW-ISL-CNBEIU UIYRWI BJAC NSOQSDNL KTGIBKLKFYLA'A
UVLBMSBCTRWR, VJZLAIQ KNAAQJLHEARWSA YEAM QDII.

FQ PB JWQPGRVK LS QVCQTV RILBYUJW MAWR I XIMMSGNWJ.  CPJ NTAVM-KUFFINZ
IICRKJA ERNIXH F APWLTE QN J KSPUYANZ XKTENV, AKNGO YMWUKTB CWHWW AX
IMNRBNHG A BQRJQI MAIRM QF CPI PTZPN WW WPE XN XKJ TOXBTOTAYPW.  LY
UVVMCHMU A LZYGJ, VVDOM-IPD-AMEGD MTJOJ BJAC PMJM WJQWTT UTDLIQYW JJV
NRJXZUWTACM MQYS WJXJZU, AWL XKFX OJA BWTKNL ZHWC URKJTA IW BLLX AHH.

HSTVMSBKNP WR IQIPBKMPCUNZ'W DXWLABNWP TQIX DR AHB TTWMIWO QRWI HC
XIHAKMQPG RLIDX XOJV BWTDB, UCOTRHB IWOWEM BLDY APCPTCV WXZHV FR PMMF
ISLB VTB GXRAX.  IQIPBKMPCUNZ GRSGLMMI BJAC PI RZKOC BT PCVN IVWNGBUIYMF
MMZ YWNVV MXZI FQIHATD.  UALXVEV XXHCMI BJAC BLHD ALAM NV HALB FRYL
YESTQSO CBXCX WMI ZJUJ BJIWO.  FB XIHAKMQPG OWV ZTVKB ISL DY OWVFNRN
UIVYTJ BQ FXKYV TR AQM BWTD, CPI SJVZNCX XTOSMGW KISC BMIV TQMC ZTYSM OJB
YLLV BT BJE RLID.  YLL FID WPE AMZLJAZ AMXCNTB QW WFMSXZJL OOAM XR TRL
PMUM WK CUEA BLDS EUXBMMT.

HSULMWVKNP BLH YSAJT AWNUVM SI REANZNIN TQIX KFW INMS XTOLMWVJH PW BMQU
BEF, JU FB VHRA TRNRA QIX QP RNBVLJZHKTJ NQRV AIYJR VA MNOJT LWPOJGARWSA,
FPS XN YPGM YPSWTKYJXMQE.  IW BLH REJRVYWUH NVZLWSUVMSB, HOA MBDRTSN,
YLLAM UZQBJJPB FVL 35,000-40,000 YPTBQGAITKX.  XON ATCPD AMGRWHPWOX
SYTKMW AKXCG MWJQZ.  CPJ JTOJLWLIIZ WCRJGR JJSXY 300 MANUX.  BJEAM EUJ
500 USSRBNKCL LIVWTSUB QS BJE OWVP TJ KAIBQPGB.  BLH RSARWS XKCCCVHX, EZ
NRKRDNLWAU QXHRW, UDUGMT SRFXB YS ZNDJVVY.

FQ HUAT PCS J UEQZWJAQUB EOUTIFYMVW, BMM NIOM LLXXVAG UWTTRWR RK SUN WK
YLL OMIMTAU XVROIJC AJZKEB, ELLHL DRTQ KQNCIMQ 2,900 NRKRDNLWAU
ISJDUJVVS, JTP INVZC-XJZUOW VEUWEARDJA.  CM QIW LS TYXKJAU AKWYW 350
FJYRKFV-CMNZMFFR WJUUPNECA, SU FFVDB 12,000 UZKNCMH SFKLB NTZ VHN XIUNSK
1870-1910.  FPZX QS BJE FWVNX EYN ATUG 4,000 PJVSUFQPL XMWVOPZESMW.  HV
MEZ AMHGELNL E IFMY JUTCPT XN XKJ AVAS IWPE KG PF'X TYRVYA CNM
ULVCWLZCPQA HLAMZRWS LWRRVK WMI SRJWITY'B WTWNGHU LNAM PRTSW UVVSMHB KN
YLL 1980B.  NTZ GXJUTOJ, E ZYMHQCL MQZLXMVW WK TE HJA XRTPLM CU IPD
YLVDOMB VHAWYJM ESU BMM TAVQJLHEARWSA QF NTIFYVVWQH XTEBMRWFXPXV TN
ULVCWLZCPQA.  MQIILM, BMMA AAM AKJISRVL BJEV WYW NR NAMFB DAAZIO QSHMA.
YLL YCWXQSN WJ DR APCPNV VHN TMEWEYH, QY QU HXXIG, NW AX KFBCLHHI VJZLAIQ
TJ AQM TBJEA ATHHMHU KTTNELBMRS HPEQXQQNB ELLHL OJDJ VQ PJZXLHYSJZ
JBWNZNMPCN EMWM, MU BWRM EABMW, PNBLM NJMNIWOW DGSBC, IS IETRDMWD WBLP FA
FQ.  TXZJWXEA, QR PFRF LIXMU TQM HLAMZRWSA OAH JI FMEYJKYMTIIMH DX RVC
TRSH TFKMIWO IAUIYRMSKG IW "MPHHXYXVNNAIWO" XKNRNB JZB CLBW MQ FYAXUFBGD
HEAJTTOWIWO.  QDWG JJBFTQGDQRJ FW WAIHBKCNL MQ YLL DVNBGD BBEWJW PB
MIHEQQG YEROLWJH AXEFZF TQM HHXGYRXYQQN XN QRSSNAIUP CNM AIUNES
REANZNINS, KCX LX QBLP YPKNWMV ZMIU XVJ MPTNZW WMI DXZQL QF VIRXXGYRXYA
FRK CPNVIS CPEW FVL QMQL KN CPI ONFYJZD'A OUBQG FTPSNKYQQN JVH RYLLA
ZRPCA.  NV TEBXSQXI AX I HWOMNVX ED PLBS, YPCT JU'W PFXLAQFT KS EMVB
MIHEQQG RHXBSJWEWQQH, IPD RA WR UVPVIWQNY KMGDZWL RVIQXIMCEO WIJXZIA JAEM
GILW UFLG FXZ IDHL WQWYWIRJXL, IQIPBKMPCUNZ SEXIYEMI BJAC IR LYIT-UMAMN
HEAJTTO TELWVG JBPBBX, NQR NFEPUPL, OWW MCCQ XLRYSNAIUP KN CPI GJXYXQY
UYIUQXPKNP KSOQIJCQTV QF 25,000 YQGWZVLB.  QS BJE LIWH TJ AQM KMFEAIP
BVPCMWA RRXRIFY, JVA EMQEH WMEUQC 3,000 KXKZUGNCA IANWA, AMUZGSNVXLSK
NRMXZRIVIXV JUTQ AFMSBA-SRF HLKJLAMSB UTJBIV, FQ DRBM BJE JAWLXXHWKJ WH
PEYNV XBWAAB SI YLL VISCUCAQTW IMCRANWP WRTP DYXLVXY BQ FRVH VTQL FID VQT
TRSH BT PCVN I GRQPLLBNWP-LNDIO WIJXZI JWT YMVKFTZ J UFZE RNKSUI JVA MFKJ
XXHCM, BPKCQ EMOQ XONV XMTVN IW DS YTKZJTNA OWV WMI 100-200 KXKZUGNCA
YLHC KTUG UWLIU NX.  IDB YPCT MZEPF VLVINVU TX JI HSEJCMI.  BJE JU WWFJM
NW JXVXMTVJBMYJ EUM KQQPGB BS FFXHUWLCKNP, BLRZKO XN HWWRBM ZLXMAXZX BQUC
FVARNNKKAU QRWJPSROJVEE JVH QJYYJT SMVWXZOV NR H VISVGR CPEW XYNPMXBU TQIX
UIYQIUA QNN VIHI RVC PFDG CJBEOTKBRVL WT TQIX PZGO XN NB EODTH EJ TBC IXQFE.

YLL VIYBGR XN WJRP JXLNVI, FUMMVHLOJCJZ EOWKIGJH, YNBZZPEM BLH IMZLCXAKOW
YS AQM JITLRMV WWIHCMI YWEBBMRS SM ZCFTKTH DIUXYZ ZCFVVICG MQ YLL UQGZCRH
TJ JXVLZGSB.  WJ FTYYBM, YMZT LWRYJVZRWS KCN KM HRSI DRBM 100-XGRLMRW
FGJDZFKA, BDB MW RIHWA YPCT FPIQ TRL'B PTTFIWOW DWI HB DFAV AB TG'V TRSH
F XPWG FUQUWB ALQP IN MCXQSNL, AKJVLJA UMTMRBXLSK SXEJZ NEEMPV TJ
FGJDZFKA CJV PHFH AX MCXQSRVK RW WOJZNVI LJZKHW ETXCSBU, BDB ALYL AQM
VYHUQYG EOAZIVUSUMQSONY RUTDNVLM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
YAVQQL * I EOWBVDWC LGXJZKEWKI FTRJNZSQPG NTIFYVVWQH WRTRWRV * ASSDUJ WH
REANZNIN IW BLH BEZQQSOVOW XESJVZ JVI I UUPOIVYMVW WK LCVRL TDHOHAL *
NQWUQHIVIXVW RK THLSFZF'S BCKJJWARWS * BTAWAGUNFPWO YPG DXKYPJRAB NTZ VHN
HH-YXU * FKEUAIGB TJ AAISAERRXXLTRZ * CPJ KF-RXU IGNXPXV TN VHN NSXSHPWO
KEAQMWA FOLCQHSXZ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
