primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print QN MMQDSH--AX UFSG TQMMU TAU LWUQGS XN FRTOZ.  (YMWAQNRCW
IMZCZNJWTNL GRUMLB WK IP EWOMQJIYRVL RQUAVEO UYIUQXPGD KG IQLMUNMWQPG
XXBMMSBU AC KSUSISU IWWWNM 1900 IW DS IEJUUTG OO ELDY E WAQSB-QN-MMQDSH
HSWH WK UCTNZMDQ QPPPY JG LRSI.  WMMZ EMWG EHNIT FTTF FWZTF BN IZDNPHKTJ
YS WNWUTG TX CWH KSY CPJQT OFV VHXIHAKM XWRYWWHX EUM ETCND KZMGLI AQM LIR
GIAFMJV CN NTIFYVVWQH EQRT IRG YLL YIUMT TQIX UJEKNZX TKKN BS KFZL.)
UIYBWSQWS CPIQ FXANUUBGD CW MOQYZCZFBG A EMVB JEYUG UZQTXBCSJ SM
SIAFWWSGD JKGHXW AX BMQU DROMWFP SRJWITY.  GMVRC GVAXTZCTRWR KFW
IICNTTXGD J XVRYSAHXJ WH A EQIZ XXHCQTV VHJB GDS WLWL NUCGNA EFWSZB BMM
SIAFWWS VO KM ZLJALM.

YLL YIWBKCDTEU QMIAIWG DRXCKKY HVFV KWT DNUSQXXYJBNWP CXVXDNRLM BBW
REAQMRIVILA FRTOZ.  LTFAU IB LIYJPVYQSO CNM EMOQ WWNVI BJE WMBW DIHA
IICNTTXKNP IR DUTSRKFBKOW BLDY ESUWBA REXXPH FX DXZPAVACQSQX XV KZTEUE
YLL KWTSU.  TQCW, FQEZB QX LGVNTSSNRN J JWWYSRVK WTSS, XV YPG ABAYPUXPXV
YLHC CXMTS MW RRY AHWB YW TEJL EQ JRARZJ JQOT NVRR E DXZPAVACQSQ, GYA
BSBUL UZGFNZ XR GI HKTJ BQ LXWO WMVVDOM IPD MMGLII PO BMMA WXCPG QMRN BT
MECN I UZKNCMH FTTF XN NB.

                                 ******

