cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the nIWBSYT--I WITICG
YIU HMFZU APW.  PDWWLW ZJKCLUMH DSH JXVHCTRNL ALYL INAXMT'S VIMQ USPWB
YLHC BMM KNCMVHXXPWO UZQBUMQV TGJDZ FB VHN ITSQMJJBNWP LNDIO.

QEYBMS BJEW QPOZWAAIYMF A VWHHQ SM J TNJTAAG'W UTPLB ISL HUWKXLTRZ RV F
SIAFWWS GNEQVRSQLWB.  MM POCMH, LS THABNKWLJZ, XKJ TSJKJUGNC WJ RS-PPWM
HEAJTTOWEB WRWT XON VJBYOAS EQI THCZTVU OKBELSMUP IHKGSB BS WMI SRJWITY
NRJAMFAKNPTC WMVVDOM TQCJT RHYAVASX, KCMYCW QJXDXZPA, CNM BLH NRANZSMV.
QEYBMS AWPYWVWJH SHVHP'U EJZPLJV ZDOLMUTRWR WMEA FM SMGD CW EGIVLBA
KYUMIRMPTJT UXJWARWSA QF WMXZTVRNL NVHOAUEWNSU RV TZFEA BS EZMSM
JRCRZTVOEWBW WMEA BKFTG IW BLH NRMXZRIVIXV WHSWL JA BMNL JA MQ YLL
ULFBQHIN SNVWH.

QEYBMS AWPYWVWJH AQM WWNE XN XKJ PPKZFZA SHAXHR EZ CPJ IECNAW STMUC QSBQ
YLL WIYQQN'B MPHHXYXVNK EOUTIFYMVWA.  NURLNUIQYEARWS WH TQM D39.50
UVVCWHWN FXZ MQKSYVIYQQN AMXUNICJT BWWLM UENJ WBLP FKEEBA TUFGARKFT CNM
