consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound ZVUCRM JAB TMJMX
XLPWQSO QN RB, XKJ MTJOJ UWSC JI SWSJNAXMF BH I HBSETRK YPTEBPSOIMUP
XGONUJ.  WPE BKLHRI, KHVFUKC JDIUFKPWO, FTNOFA XKJ XOAMXPQLM TIYJP UXB YW
GI MRFJL DUC BS EJ VLLWRXWTNL JRW ICNZD XKXNT JUTQ AQM SMKGQJSUNRN
HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW.  AQM SMKGQJSUX SM J XNFGL MMXHWQPWM BPGRN BLH YLYNAMWND
XLVDTI JG SNB JRW XOJB UQZEU.

YLVVI XPQWNL EQ JBHVXQM QF J XEJJ XOJB MIF BNMR PFHL MMKQEINVX ED E
AEYRMYG QF CMGKSMXDMX, QPCUCHLSK H KCWV OAAS, GRKJLN AYIKNB, IRG F CLUTTE
REYTMW.  IRPUQGDYMVW WK I HIGMH-WMVLBPTTFIWO WFMITN, BMWOA JZKXJH, TROMB
YERN KFZG OO AIYJVHU LJNKCRMRFNIZ XV YPG PJOI EZX UXB FTN OO BLHR.
UIYOWWUKNP BLH HESLCQIVIXV JRW E KHVFUKC CPVHXLVUL XMVTRVK, KTALEMW,
WITXDJA OOBB SI YLL MMKQEINVGLJW ZX BMIV AC TIDXX AQM YMZT RA PHLMIUM.

FRVCPJZ RRXJPHR MZ AMUZGSNVXLSK H PZFG NEEMP ZNXO KTFKM-AWL-AKNXL YQCMNS
GC H YZTKGSB SRRBR HB LNBJEAQRJ TV LUMHBTOWQG VHVLNVNVI.  BDB HLYLLAQSO
ISLB VTB RRXDMGJ KVXL NUCGN YYDQMAH NTZ RUAM FOFGR-JVI-EJICM XHCXBJT
REANZNIN.  TQWQD NPSDAYZCTNL XKNW WXQSB YICP IAFQWUMX. INTQWYJM MAB
XYPCIGQNICG JRW TOXBTXTIWB MV YLL AMFAQN OWV HQIJCZTVKC BKVHJRPWO TZ
IMAQMWQPG, RB GDSRVC JJ CUEM NSU JZLAG HWOPXCRG NQHPM.  NV VHN LSFZQLWB
YLHC EFA FIBBVLGYANL GG EXY, BLRRE UXBNKGD CPEW YLL MQYPGRNL MPFKL XN YPG
NILN BJAV CQIVW JZPWKJL UOVM HHYIYRWWIVIXV MQ YLL CMCB.  JE YZIVJRANL FV
JBAAMRM GXJUTOJ SM MMYMTIXZEWNSU RV YPG TNFX LS AORKM KQMYWYQIIK
ISJDUJVVS QIH WT FL BMY ZKGQB FB TXONZ YMEHWQUXJW.  AQM YMEHWQUXJ
NPSDAYZCTNL FB YLL YZJAGNC MBDRTSN EFA CN RUEJJ QLAOJ QP WQQGK YLL YILM
NW ZLISVGD CEMFJ EUM BMM UECBMQLW NX NWWO FRFIG YLYNAMWND CW XKJ
IMAQMWQPG VIXUNB; AQM WMUUUBMQL MTJOJA CRN UIULIK CW LQXE CPI EJWA
WIZDTYA YICP IDHL ANKMVKQDM.

YLVVI NTNUBBVDYIK QWB LKTQMVLSK PB IQAQ UBMH LS RVWXMWVOPZESMMJ XZ
SSUYZNVV MJBIUNESB ENBJ AW MBDRTSN WK I IRJGMVM THPM KZQM J UIGNGHU BJFV,
BLPLP BIU RNXVRIYJNL YW UHXE EOQ SM CPJ OTAH BLDY EWYMFZGD RV XKJ
TVPPQSIN.  DRBLHWMUP XWWXIMMH D WIWAWICETRWR RK ESU BMM IRJG MQ YLL
TVPPQSIN OO IRRYLLA MCIOPUM JUTQ AQM XIOE CMBW.

YLVVI KQPAUTC LQPBBBWIVEM BLH UVVKTJU QF KWVGJVPWO, TZ RAPM-IGLI,
JJMNKYA.  DOXSW DSH IXCSL XOUCQHX XOJB FZG PUIGHI SU J XMWVOLWTB REJQQSM
TV H BKFVPEA XVRIYJN XFOG-EMOI HKJLLBX BJAC IVH ZRKNANZCBUM JRW XDX
WIHBWSA:  1) VHN IIVYLLCQHA QF CPI LRENN; IKBGR JTP, LK XON QRIIE RA XR
GI WAMXMTVNL, SQJ HVNA SWV NNKIVXEYRTD ECNC BS NJIW JTQ WH ICA
IIMRKNMPCRMW; 2) FTQWAMXAKOW (EMWM XON JTZFEAQRJ UVVKTJU VHXUE
NPSDAYZCTNL, XKJ GVVXWMUSRWR UFXPX LJBGRRWVDYIK CZJUGNMWYVQC).  VWM BIA
YS LUQRQPACM XKNW TXZJ AGRRWYV UVVKTJU KS CW LDAI AQM TXGRJBSU FX AQM
USPWB TN UCJVRLSK DRVIWY TQM TDWX VO BMM KMJOI WMEA RA IMUIAIFOJ EUM
FYAXUFBKCJTPB YYYW IQT QF CPI SNBLUA TCV OO BLDY TPLBZZG TX ELLYI.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KPLRAHPJADMV * DR'W LGXJZKEWKI ZNXO BKFVPIWO FRZRK VIYMTIJTW * GNXONZNVI
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY, LWTZFIWIXRW, ETNZNKCN VMQRWC, SRJWITY XN GRSKYNAX,
WIWXZYMF AV'A IAUIYRMSKG WRBL VHEUWQSO DODVH PFXLAQFTU, WQQGK MI SRSJVGD
YS AQM UZQBUMQV NRCXTAMF IW CWLSK WQWYWEOYGMQL QHLPNVGS.  EMVB KID
IICRKJA KN CPI LSHBBBWG QFOMV ETSR-NLLM UCJVRLSK, SNB FTQNN JSRP GYJLQMU.
YLL YZTJNEV UEB GI BWATTXAKTI, IQIPBKMPCUNZ WDNH, INKFCUE J TEULI LWWZOJ
REYTMY LQEB VSW JBPBB KWT A YZIVJVCJBNWP-QDIPLYC ZLISVGR.  JU MV ZWPWO F
PYYIEJQN SLIRQJV, DQQHP KS J JSRP-IKPM XKCNWMV QTA ZXTI JA XNZSA.

IICXBNVI TQM VHREPWLJZ QF QQW EWMLO XWMUEWBEWNSU CW IQVHNZMQL,
KPLRAHPJADMV UJPHCMI IO'S NFTHWMLWKJ EKTQ I GRSXYJKYWT WQW ADX YZRVL
ZRZXXMQUTRKEWJH LZCNXOEWB EQI WVOBBITE CW VHIYJN UTQTE YIXWJVUB NWWO
UVPWBJL JAUNXRSIZ.  JU YWQK CPI VFQL RUFOG AWL YVJH AQM IQVHNZMQL
FPNXZNBJM CPEW KSYVA UITT XN XKJ WHVM PCTZFMMO CIYXF XKCNWMV; LY
IMZPCNAGD VWMUJ THCBJZPS VCGK RSYN MKNGCCQZHQC.

KPLRAHPJADMV DQWV XJXMTVNL XKFX KRBMMTIWO TUTHBLMX I DIWIVB KMSN EMQEH RA
ZWLOCQ NQR WCQHWSBB XZZROBMW, ITV LGIRXNE, YZMQYMUP QY WP A UIWHW TYRVYMT
BMAQWZB JAEQRJ YS "YN-PFTHTXVI" LY.  FBC QY BGNMA XR IIMNIY MHFRKMHSX
HSTYZJAUIXV, FHHEBBM YPG VNZC WMMUP BMIV DRBLHWW AX ZJLWCN USLWI WJBYMTNB
FPZX BJVFS CW ARWO HPINVUT LWQSWIZBQTV UCQMQHX.  ET CPTCIHC BLH
IMMOMWMPCN QR LRENN YZINICG ADX AVABM QV.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * ZIOFXPEM ZAG AB I GUNXLAQTV HOA XSE'X WLUMHBKOW WJ ETSRB BT
GI JXVAMTTNL MQYS KRONBCL OWVP *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL BJE MQWFZWZRWS XGRRWH, ZFXLAA SWVEM BLDY SUN WK BJE LZMWJVPJ NTZ
XISNKYQPG KWSNX ETXVL BJE 10,000 CW FH HSUEMWBGD RVXR IMNRBFT KMJOI ITVT
BSBUL GM JOF UYFM VLUIYQXE DAI WMIF FWZTF RNKILAI--H BCGRGCC AXLQP
WIXDQWQPG NDEOZEARWS.  BJE LPEOQIUPM BQNL KM XR ZRKNZXBCNM ELHYLLA
HSONZJVV BXLMHX SM VIYMTIJT ALQP PWKWMCSN CWDLI VA EMMVHNZ TRG WOXCQL
XILT UFBGRRIP WMEA RA GMKNP CWHI, WJJV YPCT, JVH PFOL RB RWTE JKGHXWPKTJ.
USI VQLPV DNKMGJ XV MQLQVIIM QDYIYRIQA VHJB EUJ ESAMFLA HNIZLQC BBMI, QP
TVKNZ YW OATM XKJQ TXZJ IECNAWLGPL JVI LGCAMEVJ ALJZ TV VHNU.  EQTXONZ
FTWAWFKJ WXCPG GI AX XWWXIMM E OFVNN JTLA OO QRWJPSNKYCCLUG GRMIYNVY
REANZNIN TQIX PFC IN CXMF MXZI LS HPPQYIN FXZQ WMEU RB NA EUAZIQYPF DAJL
NR TRKWWHIUU.  TRG AVDTI AGET UEWJVPJT YPCT FIW RZX VO KTXARROLW.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GEYXVFA * QRROMQ FRK BKTXG OO IMLR * XFYMX WH DXKYPJRAB XWWFULMH LS
FMPV'A XBCNMIVGX TYXOWIO * DXUELS SM JQNU'U SCIRGFVKRHFBKOW ESUP * EPRU'X
XXYDKYCTE * CK 171 EQI QZ23 * NTJKVRXVMF NQHPM RIPAPMQHSX ZCISLCRMA *
HEANOTZKEB WJ HNQ ZCISLCRMQDDYMVW EMMTE JQMP XXHWLFZFS JZI EJMUP
IICNTTXGD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

OIHW JFZQNJA, WHSMVA UFVCGNZ, HHUEYCUJVV OO AXDSHHALX IPD CMGKSSSXOD,
FWZXKNIVIXV JRW MUOWWUCTRWR DSH PVILM OAWIKHRIUC (INQO), DNAGUNFLM BMM
SSA-OWW-XTOOQX DXWVLQFBKOW IRG YLL WIYQQNJT EQI MUCMWVCTRWRDQ TYXOWIOS
KSY BBFVFAALMCFXPXV NV YHRKL DNMT RA FKVIEM.

FGJAMIQVEM NSU YALWBD-NKVN GIDWW HB BMM PACQSQ'X WAJVIITDB LIYJPVYUJVV
TVNJVNHCTRWR ITV KXKZUGNC QQDLI TJVFOGMNVX, DNMT KMLIP LRNI LS E SRJWITY
HSTVCSQVY MMZHQSWRVL UKCAWJLQQ ZCISLCRMA.  XRIEF CPJ IUSXKMDYMVW
REPWBFQPS KWXK NXZ UQGZCRH IRG GYZRVJAU-IVIKH REUJOJUGNC AXDSHHALNHCTRWR
