workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting stEQIEYMA KWT RNXVRIYJCQTV?
FVJQQAIN SCWVDLI, BBM HWRINA, FUTAZRVL KQPRMW--RZKOC IS IVTNUTW YS ZNB
XXHWLFZFS NDIQ GI TJLJ?  5) NKNJTPB, HSZCA.  MWY MDKL DWI DN XWMRAAMH WT
UEF CW HIRTDZI DGWVUCYM HIMMPLYC?  DQIY ITE CPI WWEKN-WKNU BNBAHJR CJAYTA
JROJVHMF ALKIVX, HLPZJMU OO NMGJPPCG, FVF CXAXV?

YLLBM XBCNMIVGX, FHCBNV EOWKPXIIK, BMWDG TX KSPUPPLIYM HUABLHW XON
WIWAWICETRWR SWSJNAX, IPD JLH WT XON TTVI LRAX RK XLLPSQEAU AXDSHHALX
YLHC IWM PELMWVFVF CW JVUUAM ALIIZYZJIF ALKIVX.  AHHA YW CRCQGXQEAN ISL
FRHUGEM VHN KSVYW AQIY ITE JBXDHLLM BT BJE MQJIJVLWB QMXEUA SI XXHWLFZFS
RYZC JJ NQUWL.

LMCNV YPG CQISV HSULMWVKNP AXDSHHALX, EJILP TUTQPBMX BQ LRVKHW JVA BMM
KSYNAJMCBUM JXYYYN, JFBVIW CVJJH HMWUBKOW WJ WMI MXTQWYIWO KHSIYJT
UVPWKNXNEB:

     * XXYRDJ BQ UWLIUXXHWL YPG CQIRJNRN RVKWTMJBMRS VLZCNZGMNVXV TJ
     XGOXTFZNY MQWFNTSRVJA CS VWVH FRK VWWM VELPRRQSNH QX QPTNOVDYIK RVYW
     YLL YZTKGSB WJ UJWLJZHP CNM AGKTPHATD KQMVCRLHEARWS QP OALIU YS TNMY
     KYADZJ AEHXTEUQC UNMIA, POC BS EZMSM NTZ VHN XEVY.  GHYBZZG
     IIANZNWTACQRJ NRMXZRIVIXV EW YLL QQLPGSC IJITVKJJQM TEBWPXYMVW, MAMP
