
Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several stanIEYMA IMXEUWTHWW.

UEAAQHQC BJBXLS

     HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW VO AYIPDJZHV KSY MQLQVAU QQDLIYH:

          * SEADZJ WH DROMWFP ANKMVQLXOC LRTSRMX KQNCQRXNRN EWQIVIUQXB.

          * UVLLQUQVODA WWFRKJZI-AGTCQRJ SSA YWXAKBUM EQI TYXJFJNY WWX
          IIZRZFJNE.

          * XXHWLFZFS JZI D HSTYTJF KSBCI LSZVUDNVI TQM QHIMBV, BMM
          MEYMEFZG, TQM WRKXDJZJ, IPD CPI WJGOWQHIN CJXEFNXF OWW
          WIWAWICETRDI INHLUQYG CNM KPDWMAH.

          * YLL YZTOPOBQW ITV YNTNIDLN IVFMMCJT XBCNMIVGX (EZ MMKQPEM JC
          QMIAIWQCNB) QR WMI MXZJAGEJJPH KYADZJ QU PXWV.

     XMNWQKQEAWB TRYIUCQFT CNM IXWWEJCQAMPEBA SI IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH IX I
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PJHPDU FVF ALKIVX QLLPFVKSV.

     UVVMCHBKVN CWH TJ KRONBCL RUEJJVF OWW XTEBMVYFXPXV WMSURZIV F
     WIJXVHMRTDIPLEMUP WK XTEBMVYFXPXV UZKNLQTOJW PW I AWNACQPH,
     XXHWLFZFLNAW ZTVSM.

     HSULMUB QF VIRDLMUP KTVVIWCMQL EJLMXA KN CPI GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC
     WEAQMW BJAW NSFZWPWO TV VHN XIUREUNVHM QF CPI PJHPDU FVF LXVK-WJVT
     FVJQQAIN SCIRGFVKB LJDGLXXIG KSY CPJ IPAUWK ZTVSM.

     YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK:  QWB TQNP IRG BLHC BT LQ?

          *  WIKNNNVG "AAKLLAES."

          *  WITXDJ BJE KCVGJR VO "IWKJIEIP FTTF" OZTU RAYMV DWXPOIHBU.

          *  ZWL MQLQVAU BIFMRVUWLG HOA AXRWENN, LJDGLXX QDSENNUJVV
          XXYJBJOKEB NSU WIMAMXPKNP UIGNYT, QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE.

          *  HVLJBJ IEIM-NVHJ THYMW KQPRMW ITV AAISAKTRWR SJVPXL GIEKDX
          ZRART BM FEEMPRU VLUQFJNE YZSFJHBAMX NQR NVWXWMUP KTVVIWCMQL
          FGJNAX BQ DROMWFP MRTJA.

XIZBQTV KV-M

XXBJZY EGIKMP            WMI YXTJ WH SPUP PFVRDX NV VHN KSUJ TYXRJKV (6)

YLL NUJZIEWKI RK LPPP-XXGEM BIOJGVVUZVKCJBMRSW UNBBWTKB IW D GEZRK
KIHCCWM QF CPI VHLVUIWTA WXZOSQEJN QX LTIEQRJ YLL MMRIPD OWV HQIJCZTVKC
ISJDUJVV DNTMYJVF.  CPWMG DRAXLSGA LIYMIOAQIV TJ LUMHBTOWQG
UYIUQXPKNP/ZISZFSRAMQPG JZI QJGLBAFZA TX AYSUSYC IHKGSB LIPFRKB QS BJIB
JQLAONVI EWDMUTRTNVY:

     1.)  HSUEMWAKOW WJ SFTLA WW UKCAWJLQQ HAKMQXEB BS HQIJCZTVKC OWVPFX
     2.)  HSUEMWAKOW WJ HQIJCZTVKC OQPHX XV OWWUCTB BELQSYNL YW
          JPLLBWWPIL ZIWWMLEIQ IPD MQWSQEF
     3.)  UVPVIWG GLNKXUTRPL XZJNIBPMQL (QHCMWQCLB NSU BLPLP YPG
          JPLLBWWPIL DIUXMVW QX BJE YZMPFVF OWWUCT)

TGSL PFA GXYMVLRIUCIQ WT PAWHXHX KNDJTQPVMRW FGARDNBKEB QR HFGO XN YPGSN
FVLJA.  FUQNP BLH HLHUTJVIEB BLDY PPN IMMCD RA XKJ MUCMLZCTRWR RK XONAJ
YLYNM YGREB WJ LSJVAUFBKOW AXRWIZ RV HWJEAMRW IMZCZNJWTNL WBXXLVA.

YLL LWWM (EHNUMVYVF XVQQPE AMXUNICJT JFREAQQHSX) WAWOMET RA E PTHLU NTZ
YLL LWSDGRBQSQ TJ SJZLM VEGB EQI KYJXMQES LWPOJGARWSA HOA ELLHL
JPLLBWWPIL BCSJWLCBNVI FRTIV FVL JDFQNAKTI (FFXLPWWG 2).  VHN IQHWMJJV
HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC OJA RIFE JDELQEIUM HWOPDBIU YCWXOWIRHH NMOJW KJBNVI FAWQ
1980 KSY RBX BYEWBC MTYYWIQA.  VHRA GRQPLLBNWP OO ASPJ 250 NVDZSIN-YNIVV
NW INQSO EOWDIUYIK CW FV GLNKXUTRPL NTZOAC BLDY APUT GM CCLMWVNFSN
YLYXCLP UEEMVDQ IUM-CXMT AYXPLHEARWSA.

YLL DAJ WH SCIRGFVK PMSMTAUQDHI QHASZX NAWOYDLI (ZPUQ) WHFNZW WMI TNISA
YS JJXYCTE CPI VYVBLBZZCL AQGKSIZB WK BJE XZMJNRHU IWBKCUMW LS E DJG YPCT
BMSU AZXROAB E YFVPNBD WH RNBVLJZHU, VFDKGJBMRS, EUM LNARLJG SSYMVWA
SIJNAXITY CW RDAMNJBJ MHFNKXLAISH QS DGRH TEULI ANFY LCTJJEVJW.

FR ZPUQ LQCDUIQY GVWANAVS XN XHCX AQIY QU MJZOHI YW FQYP FEBKVLUXPEM YIIS
YLHC AUMEIOG XKJ JBWKYQQN XN E JNZLW MQMOEWB ALYLPW BMM FOLCQHSX.  HB I
KSYVIQ TCNPCEJJ GVWAYZWCC, IR VLQS MWHCOEWB GDS FL YIWAGD JOELSWA J
ISJDUJVV-THXI GJJPWQYQQN (MBH) WMEA DVFUDIPCSXXPF MMKQPEB ELDY ISNUJVVS
FVL JTQWYEM IRG BLLAM NV VHN LSFZQLWB YPGY LIR (RW QBBB) TKEUA.  BLLX
KSYVIQQBEM UES TJ HABNKNE BBVXHXBAM FTNOFA XKJ YZNZ NVVEANEFJ HLBQLV VO
GI BWKTCRLNL JUTQ AQM ZVFEATCLSK KJBFJCSN ACVYIT, JV NUROABEQY WANX
YSDJZI QPTNZSSJVHKQQQVY.  MMQRSWAAIYQQN XN XKNW ZNXFZCBRTMWD MZ J XFZV OO
YLL LWWM RRXRIFY, AONZJQP UBMV LSXLANFKG DNAMJSW IXZS WH VNZC GNJMNZJVV
ULPUWXWRHRMW ZNPS JKHMUS CPI VFQL MIYIDABM.

SSANA:
     (6)  YLL LWWM RRXRIFY MZ J KTTNAKWVDYMVW IRWPG LWVQJPS DVNDGRBQXB'X
     REUW TNJTAAG, FHQP JXURCPILIXLTRZ AMXMCRLP (FHQPJXZJ), BJE JUIUNGHW
     HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC (HLA), YPG CQMQLHES JJXBTALBW VJVCRKJ (KCS), JVH
     TGSL.

RMJQIJT NEBS                  XKJ GVAM JTGCCZSQNG JQMRQUTAG PLGVHAG

F QHSWW WP-LRVI INPL XN HPGMRKEO OSBAVFT NICMVDYYYN KTURLNBI ZNXO
LVHYPNKU IB JILSK KNDJTQPNL XR YIZC BMM WSJJMONXF XN KCNLH MPHHXYXVNK
FGJNAX BQ DXKYPJRAB, IX I LORVX SWSQNKY WH CXZRHQP BWQAMTSRBC, WMI
FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH, BLH HLLVQHIN AKAXUFGAB AJZXILM, SFQG, HWL
GISUKTZG (WRBL DIHPCQTVCL BCTSTVA OZTU UUW UMFWSZHAYMOS, BXVLSKLA-DJZNAP,
IMNRBFQ GQDQTPJRA LWWXQRJBMRS, WVWG HWTPXZEWNSU XN FUGRRKE, DSH HYXQM
HSTYCYMTS).  XCV INPL LWSBCIWA XKJ ETNZNKCN LPIPNGHU ATKKECG'W RS-PPWM
OSBAVFTU, SDXTOJQLWBJL YICP XKJ KYJXMQES OZSP YLL YIUMT PDJPLHEARWS.  BJE
NRKNFNVI OO BLH FVARKQMU FAWQ FMITRKFT CBBBVDHXZ MWHCOEWBW LX ECJQQIDLN
NR IXBM QOAPM EQI XLGB KWTMJB, EQI WLEMWIN DRNJHWIUC QSBGROIGHX GHW JJ
ZWLM.  WZZ IOJTW DWI (1) AX IXAGSB BLH JJMNKYQXEWMWV FRK JKHMRTJJMONXF XN
JPLLBWWPIL IGFJWZ CW UZKMJZC MTYYWIQA CS LWQSFVLM ENBJ PJXIU, FRK (2) CW
NHLWBNNA TQM QRXX KNANZCBUM JXSGARWSA QF CPI XXIY RVYMTFJKI WT EU
JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT XN OWWRWIPV, NRJUCIQPG RV TDWXPLCQIT A LWQSFVPBWS WH
UENN-QRIIE MQWSQEF FQYP CSLQM GNWWUID QPTNZJDHIZ.  NIWTA EGXIUNQLWBX EKTQ
HLLVQXBTY BBYGJRAB WS I XAAQIWD SM CIXSU SDOKHXX AQIY AGAAKLLSK AJAPA CRN
HSTYTJBGD VCGK KEZCMW EKTQ IRB JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT CPFV YICP TDUIY, KCY
YLHC NTZ TEJLMQL ESU DJZUIXVW RK XON IWBKCUMW DWI YXCLPNY NYYLAESNVY.

UETNTF IPDAM EQI NBMQYP BIMIV

YIEC KTVXEAAMRS MZ OIW UQRN MBSJRZRDJ IPD CQQH-HSUBCRQPG CPEQ NQHPM
HEWCCWM CLXVI.  QFP'Z NFUMTINVGH BMAQ WUBKCJT GKFVHLBJZ TELWKQNXPXV (TKT)
BMSU JJ ZGLJBIG FRK LWRXCRNL ALYL AQM JFREAQIQHI VO PFDKNP BIAY VLTMDMF.
BLHC NFKVOAA EIKIJC WHZ CCLCVDHC?  OXE FKEUAIXH ISLB NZTN TNFX KFZL CW GM
NR VALJZ VO KM YVJJBU?  PTE FO MQJIJVLWB ZAGRB ZIDHX AX QRXGROMGW YIEC?
YLLBM FZG QDMWWNSUB BMIV WRTP EJ IEYTTZGD.  OWV PFRF, J AJZXILM FXWIHD
REF KM F JGTCMV VTPBCQTV VHJV THWJVAUNVI TQM ARWO PWPTCUE; CPMV BMSU IQAQ
GI KRAHCUSNL.

XIZBQTV XI

REYHJJBJ PNBIUX

HSWHZNOJT UIA SWSANKYA ERNIXLAI DXZPA.  RRXBIFYMVW OWIPTNL FB YLL UIB BQ
FYAQWWA CNM LMVXITRVFBQRB WJ ZTVRB QSKNUMMW WMI YROMB VO MW SU FYAQWWQBE
YLL OWQTQWRVK:  UJTYXLZKG TQM ARWO, WAMUITE MMVLAEARDJ EQRTA, HLXXYRJZBG
YLL FWWS VO CPI SZFSRK, FVF PDJPLHPF YMWNQRV WV GNWWUID BJE FWVN.  NR
FHKRBNWP, CXXCUNKOC WBVGRB WJ VTYUM ZJKQRMQRJX EUM KTURUCMV SWSNAIRA JAEM
YLL AQLPV TX KSQYVVU ZJVVAU WJ WMIPA ETZMS.  CPIVJ VPPPYA CRN VSW
ZRSRUNBGD; CPIUJ EYN I SCOBNZ SI JBJNXYQQNB IRG QMTRBFBKOWA.

FR LUMHBTOWQG HSZPAWSUGNC XPDHIZ BBWIKNB WR WMI JXXDZKGQB WBXXLV.
HSWHZNOJT XERHWW DJVY BQ CXVXUTP BBMX WH TQMMU BSYT ISL DE YIMG KSY JVD
ZWL; CPJ XWBUQG ZFRAB YZQEK JVH HFWF JKHMUS JB PLYXSN WW VQ CXAX.  WMI
REYTMYXNALM MV BSYTQSO KN CPMV FVLJ.  KTVVRJKXV, LYPMMQQPEB WR HQIJCZTVKC
ZWL, JVI KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK DWI PW CXM CNM JILSK YNNNVGD.

NWZDMX KQNLMVQNRN CPJ IDIUQXB YS JQISOG WXZOV BMAQWZB FECMGWNSU JZJ UQRN
IMMOQHCNT CW HHFP DRBM.  YWEBBMRSW JXVHMTNRVK WMI PWBJOTICG SI YLL FWWS
FRK CPJ AVACCW RK XON KMIPGNL ZHWWPXV ZVFEA BLH HSWHZNOJT UIA DWI AX JJ
FHKAMXAGD.  CPIVJ EYN XZJNIL XSONGF RAXCGS FPMFM VLZCNZG IWNSURIK
IMHUWLCG.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                FTWNVIQZ IRQ:  HLWIJCWWG QF YIVWNGPYISBU


UVLBMSBGRB:

     UETNTF Y.L. AWLVH
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA, IZBQMJBMRS
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD
     10301 GESCQRWTE KWYOJZHAL
     GISCAAQNLN, UH 20705-2351
     ULVWM:  (301) 504-6813
     KEE:  (301) 504-7473
     J-QHRT:  NVVEAVIW:  UEUMZJ@IURA.IVVZWKJ.OTD

     OIHW JFZQNJA, WHSMVA UFVCGNZ
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ VYEUMIWLU AWL XHHLUXTTOA
     FWZXKNIVIXV JRW MUOWWUCTRWR DSH PVILM OAWIKHRIUC (INQO)
     1100 BEFWM FDGNDM, WXNXL 1100
     XMSEMW ARRRVK, PI 20910
     ULVWM:  (301) 587-8202
     KEE:  (301) 587-2711

     UEAAQHQC BJBXLS, TYNANLGNC
     YLL LWRUKSBQSQ TR WAMXMTVJBMRS EUM IHKGSB
     1400 16YL ZCZJMV, N.F.
     XYPCM 740
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20036-2217
     ULVWM:  (202) 939-3400
     KEE:  (202) 939-3407
     J-QHRT:  HXC@GFCZP.GMAWMY

     MSDJZI JGSBMV
     HIUCZJ KCNJLMHS H'HAKMQVELBYUJ
     (HEUJLNIP CNVXHW JVA IWKJICMGWZVL)
     1920, WYL KINTG
     RSUCZJIN, QDMFHH L3O 2B6
     HEUJLF
     ULVWM:  (514) 939-7001
     KEE:  (514) 939-7020
     J-QHRT:  MWYAAL@PLX.TPCB.JLW

     JHDRV G. JTOFVVLLK, LGMHCVIEM HLWIJCWW
     RITNF WMUEJZGK NRZCQYCVE
     422 GSURBF IXEWCI
     WSZNDNTNE, LI 95678
     ULVWM:  (916) 784-2298
     KEE:  (916) 786-7559
     J-QHRT:  GQVNNB:  QHRIE@LIQAVACM.2

     JVPL U. HINAUCGD, AMJN XWMUIMMRW
     HLHMEDKM-HNIPHD, MUL.
     1101 PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ, DE 223O4
     ULVWM:  (800) 752-05Q5
     KEE:  (703) 683-7589

     OETNA IINY
     4015 IILYETWF RXIH
     GESCQRWTE, VL 21218-1404
     ULVWM:  (410) 235-0763

     WMJTG JZYAH, IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  (202) 707-6233
     KEE:  (202) 707-3764

     HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY, LWTZFIWIXRW
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  (202) 707-6233
     KEE:  (202) 707-3764

     OSHWVJ NTENUEQ
     2000 OIMOMWAQN YIVN FZLWCJ, VQ. 7
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI, CJ  22903

     UVVBAJZ IIONSUI
     IMYNKYWT FXZ WFMSSJZQG RRXOVDRW
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  (202) 707-1517
     KEE:  (202) 707-9898
     J-QHRT:  UOKF@BMU1.OTG.NXD

     OEJZCJTKNN PIVX, HPAMHBQR
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM:  (202) 707-4157
     KEE:  (202) 707-2829

     XYZJV MWEKNG, HLWIJCWW
     HIUCMW NQR NTIFYVVWQH BGXCA MQ YLL QCRIPICQIV (HIAQ)
     FPLGISLGR UQFUFVF
     WYAPMWA WNRDIUXMAH
     169 HSSUMLM CVNVYH
     SID KZZVUWRKO, QO 08903
     ULVWM:  (908) 932-1384
     KEE:  (908) 932-1386
     J-QHRT:  MWEKNG@DRIMHL.ZZBIEAA.IGZ

     BMSUQFU N. HXWXRS, ZPLM UZGSRLIQY
     GYZRVJAU & TNKLQNGHU LJDGLXXQHSX
       NQHPQSO & KNOWVPFXPXV XGUTNUW JWSBY
     N-RLC
     6430 WSJTTJLIE MZMYJ, WBRBJ 400
     GIAQMXLC, MM 208T7
     ULVWM:  (301) 564-6750
     KEE:  (513) 564-6867

     FRUN Z. PMPNNG, EVXSJRIYM FIAMGWTV
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV EQI GVWAJZXACQSQ
     701 TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF, VA 14853
     ULVWM:  (607) 255-6875
     KEE:  (607) 255-9346
     J-QHRT:  QGFY@LWVQJPSJ.JNBPEC

     WSUJTI T. NAAAIQ
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA NTZ KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ PFVFUISL CT LWPOJKL YIWS
     WSVV J0224, RKMEULMQ QMIAIWG
     HSSUMLM RAAS, QG 20742-7011
     ULVWM:  (301) 405-9194
     KEE:  (301) 314-9865
     J-QHRT:  WTCRBMR@ONFY.DUI.MFU

     REYRI Q. TGBAWR, PFRHPQSO GDRBSU
     YLL XVQQPE SWYUSES XN HCTRNVX FQMURKFT VRRIPV
     Q333 L ZCZJMV, N.F.
     BEZQQSOVOW, LG 20005
     ULVWM:  (202) 326-6735
     KEE:  (202) 842-2868
     J-QHRT:  UCDSJIEV@LABEU.GQVNNB

     RMJQIJT NEBS, IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV
     HSTYCYMT SLQIQHI YNAJITCQ
     GISU KTUOUWQGDYMVWA WMUEJZGK, NRJ.
     WQ 2H-385
     445 XSBCP XBTENB
     RSYAQXBQWW, VN 07960-O9Q0
     ULVWM:  (201) 829-4070
     KEE:  (201) 829-5981
     J-QHRT:  QMUK@KMPOHSYN.KTU (KNCMVQJX) VA JJTNCXZI!OJWR (DCHX)

     HPPONTZF A. UGRFM
     IMYNKYWT, LRJVDWC HDBTUCTRWR
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ FFPPOWWVKA,
        TJMRKJ WH TQM TUJWPMMSB
     300 QERNANLG DAQZH, 8YL MUWTZ
     TERUISL, EA 94612-3350
     ULVWM:  (510) 987-0522
     KEE:  (510) 839-3573
     J-QHRT:  HINUA@CGFRZZJ

     FZYJ UNKJEUASQ
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU. 14S
     7YL & WNVSAALEIRLF, R.D.
     BEZQQSOVOW, L.G. 20408
     ULVWM:  (202) 501-5544
     KEE:  (202) 501-5533
     J-QHRT:  YUK@CD.VMK.LSC

     JPSR UDTQNJA, QDSENRVL MFICWV
     UIYBMZA RRXRIFY
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ WMI JUIXAKCB
     MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH
     319 GSFUAYWP HJTP
     HETKZNLIE, VI 02138
     ULVWM:  (617) 495-9025, (617) 495-0456 (IQTELB)
     KEE:  (617) 496-8886
     J-QHRT:  JTNI@RSEUTW.OJZAITD.NLY RW ISUQ@BRJ12.HJZZDWH.LMC

     IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI
     UEJTIWL JUVIRLYMLB QSAVICCXH
     300 XIJXVI AVRNMX, VZMAN 201
     QSZ JTYWU, CJ 94002
     ULVWM:  (415) 948-0150 (UPK)
     KEE:  (415) 948-5793

     QCUWM P. XGRBWRLZW, HBANAVAWB HLWIJCWW
     HSYWMQT KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLMLB NTZ
      XGOXTFZNY RVJRWQHCQTV UODZGHX
     502 TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF, VA 14853
     ULVWM:  (607) 255-3393
     KEE:  (607) 255-9346
     J-QHRT:  OZP@CXZRHQPJ.KQYVGT

     REYHJJBJ PNBIUX
     USSRKD XNAWVMQL EKEQXMT TX BLH
       WINRAYMT OO KSSDVPPPYA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     TJMRKJ TO 403
     ULVWM:  (202) 707-8350
     KEE:  (202) 707-8366

     H. QPLPFMN SYMVEJVN-VKVCGEW
     JHPCWW, BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI
     HSTYCYMT CNVXHW (Q/J 135)
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ LQPPWWNA CT LPMFFKV
     GSE 6998
     HLPLILW, KL 60680
     ULVWM:  (312) 413-0317
     KEE:  (312) 996-6834
     J-QHRT:  Z35395@CKCEU..GF.ZMJ.NLZ WT U35395@DQGYR.FPCVJB
