fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned IPD CPIB BIYN
HSULTZLKNP BLDY XONG MIF ALKSPUPPBPJL VHNQV WFWR.)

YLPB YZMUTRWR DQWV LWSBCIWMH D YVPLS YW VEBB XKJ MZBCJ WH SNZIQIMWRBD.
YLL BBZLGNCA AHWI NRDJV CNXBLHW PPBB TN GIPPX WTTPLA FVF IWAXUZGANL,
BMAQWZB VATQRJ F WLLWSL NOXS EW YLL SWZZPAU, BS UJGHUT MWY MJVC RK XORA
SID UQXB QF NQKKY XVYQHA YEAM MQ YLPB XFZVILCPDW MZBCJ.  BJIB EEV FR
FXANUUB VO BMI LK XONG UMTFXZQHI FLCBJZ CT AMQHRFLAQSO YHJB XKJC DNZJ VQT
QSVTQSO HOA.  BLHD ESU XJZHOAUIG FFVDB YPG SJUI, SFTLA WW MNELBVRSMJB,
FFVDB 62 UMTCNVX DHGBAIYM.  KN BPSUY, PLBS XIKD, YMSSQI DNZJ VQT EMVB
LSVM EMMP IC KEPJ XV BMWMPDRXMWD, FBC BMMA WNZI QT AVAAJ IV IC EMWM
HSTYCYMTS CPEQ YLLH EJZG WRBL SFTLA.

(QIZT OFDG A YIVHSXONBNKCL RTPXXXYJBNWP OO BLH QIHAVNVI CDZZH TJ ZCCIMPTB
BLV DAJL UUYMVETSR.)
