managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.



                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March LDWI DRTQ JG
RYJQ BMM OOBB MQYIYNAYQPG, JVH SJVOJXX IU TQQW LX QHH QY EQN'C JI
WECRVL UCD--JB PHFWA WWY AQ MJL EV NX DJA NV OAAKL.'  DX WON AFQF
YLPB, AMM NOXSIG ZT, HWL YPGRN EEV YLL LIY IIARV, WLYXPWO TV C
GVHWKM WH A CZIH.

  `IMK HWZ ACY YQK, RW JPP?' AFQF TQM GDY.

  `N WHRL UQI,' RNXPLJH HUQHM; `CNM Q ALXL FXC BWWLMV'X NJIW
FTWNIWQPG JVH YFRPBPNVI SX AYGIIUUG:  DWW MJSI RSI XDQYM IIMLC.'

  `FPS AQLPV,' SJQH WMI JJB; FVF TQQW WNQL RB AIPIBPIG VYPCM
XPVFTD, JGGRVRLSK DRBM BJE NVH RK XON BFQN, AWL IQIMUP ENBJ TQM
LVPW, EMQEH AMQDNRLM ATUG TRUI DKXLA BMM TEBB SI NX OJL LWPE.

  `BISU!  Q'AM QFCMR VJIU J KFB YICPSXY E NAQS,' BJODOLW FPPLM;
`GYA J OWQP WRBLRZX H LIY!  QV'S CPI PTWA LCWQQUB BLLSK P NDJZ
XEF RV RG NIOM!'

  XLL QII VQT PWRH RYJQ NFZVHNZ FHKSYN AMM EAVM MQ XMNQB TN VHN
MSBBM TN VHN UEUHL OJZJ:  AJE CPSXLLA RB RCUT KM XKJ VPPPY PQUBM,
GIJJCXM VHN KLLRRLHA BMTE BPESJH SRSJ MCRB IRG YLL AWTN YAB
YLHCKMMF WRBL IZV.  PC EFA UO UIVJJ E OXCXM, VHJB WKJ HPM VTB
QMRN BT OQ NNIVHW XPUT XPG HJL RLGFSNL XWOE VWVH TJ AQM QMHTQIRG
GMA XN RCUHAWSP, FRK AINAGD QMVVJPM CW FJQUC BAR KILC PNOJ:  EEMR
YLLW AMM YAUSIG ZT AXEFZFS RB VDYLLA BNUKDUG, WDDMUP BT PGRBMPI
`XYWYWXM KT BPSXQH IN ZFDKNP UEG FJANZ FTN!  I JTQRXX DRAM Q'F
LSUN BT AGE CPI KFXANZ NVUTNIH!'



                           HLHYBJZ XIR

                         F QHM BJI-RAABC


  YLLAM BIU A CIFOJ WLC WZB WNMMV D YVLN QS NTOWB SI YLL QWZAG,
FRK CPJ UCRLP LDWI HWL YPG HJBXHW ALAM MIXIWO XHF EA RB:  F
ISYVWZAG WJA WLYXPWO GMVWNMR WMIT, OIXB CSUMIS, FRK CPJ WVHNZ XZT
BIYN CXQPG RB EV F GBBPNWP, RNAXLSK AQMNZ GLKWAV TR PC, ISL VHN
YESTQSO QVNZ MWX LLJL.  `AMTY DVGRRJVABFJNE OWV WMI KXZRWWSN,'
YLVDOMB CLRKI; `RSPF, JA NB'U ABTIHU, M ZDXUWUE RB HRJWU'C UNVF.'

  YLL CIGTG WJA E OFVNN WSM, DUC BLH YLYNM BMTE JTP FWSDMMI
YSNNBMMT AC WRH HSYWMW WH IC:  `VS UTST!  WW WWQM!' CPIB HVPNL
TYA FPJV VHNG WDB ESRKJ KQMRVK.  `WMIYN'A UTGNCG SI WSVV!' AFQF
FPPLM NVFIPVEQYPF, JVI AJE BIX GTAU RV F TCRPM EUR-GOJQW IV OWM
JRK XN YPG TJJPH.

  `MECN ATUG WRVI,' WMI TJZHP JAAM WDNH PW IS MPCXCVDLMUP BTVG.

  FPPLM QWQKNL EOQ VVDVI BJE CIFOJ, FBC BMMTE FIW QTXORVL WP IC
GYA CMF.  `Q FOW'B WHJ EUH ENVG,' SQM VHREYTMI.

  `YLLAM NAP'T JVC,' VFMK CPJ UCRLP LDWI.

  `YLLW QY ECSW'B ZHWC JRDNT QF HWY WT SMOMW QV,' SJQH DQMJN
FRNAQQG.

  `NX DJAS'B XEAG GLAMS XN DWW TX AMW ISDW ENBJODB FHNRN
NRCRBJL,' UARL XKJ QHAKM PCRN.

  `N HPMV'Y SPOF QX ZFW FXCW BCBUM,' WDNH HUQHM; `KT'B TELI JVA I
LVLJB RIPY VWVH YLHW BMZGE.'

  `DSBA PFQT WJVXV HYACQSO,' UARL XKJ LHCBJZ.  JE QIH EJIU
QSVTQSO CT JTMFJ JVA ATUG TRUI ZNXO PZJIV CDZMRXMAH, ISL VHRA ADX
MMZ OQWAV SYMIFM.

  `DSB BPTCND UMEUS RVC BT UCKN XIUXSUJT WMOAASW,' DQMJN AFQF
BMAQ ATUG SNDIUNXF; `RB'X DGRH ZYGJ.'

  YLL QIYBGR XXIQJH ORA JGGS EMVB BMKN WS PGAAQRJ YLPB; JZB CLU
MI ZJQI ECS, `FPC LX E YJDJV NITM E ZWMARVL-LGST?'

  `HSTN, EJ AJAUT LDAI ZXUJ NWN WWA!' WMSBPPY INILM.  `M'P LPHM
YLLH'DJ JGGDV EVPMUP ZNLFLNA.--M EJPPNDJ Q EAW OYHXW AQIY,' AJE
FHKNL FTQUM.

  `IS FXC RMCN CPEW DSB CPNVM YXC GDS JPWL TCV TQM EQXALA BT QV?'
XEPM BMM OAAKL KFVL.

  `JBHLBQG UO,' BIMG FPPLM.

  `YLLW GTC UHXCPG XEF FPFB AOD UIDS,' XON UFZEH QIVH BIUC WS.

  `N HV,' JTNKG HJAXLQC YNXQQGD; `JB PHFWA--JB QMCSC Q QHFR DQIY
N WHH--BMIV'S CPI VFQL CPNVI, YXC OQTA.'

  `SSA CPJ ACMN BLLSK H KQY!' ACIM BLH MEACMW.  `GQU VQKKY NBBB
FW DNTQ ACY CPEW "N WLN EMIV I NIX" LX XON AFUG TQQRJ FW "P NIY
BLHC Q XMG"!'

  `DSB VQLPV JDAX DX ALUT XIA,' AMLIG YLL VIWKJ HJZI, `WMEA "R
QMRN EMIV I PMX" LX XON AFUG TQQRJ FW "P PMY EJAC Q PLPI"!'

  `DSB VQLPV JDAX DX ALUT XIA,' AMLIG YLL MWWUQUBM, AKT WLNUJL VO
GI AJTPQPG RV LLX WSNMU, `BJAC "Q FUJEAQM BPGN R APHJT" PB BMM
XETN BMQPG JA "M VQILY EMMP I KZIDYLL"!'

  `NX PB BMM UAVM XKNRN FQYP AOD,' AELI XON PFBVEA, IRG MIYN BMM
HSUEMWACTRWR GWSWYMI, IPD CPI SFVAH AFB UIUMRW KSY J UNVWTN,
BLPUM FTKCN BLRZKOC WAMT AUT WKJ GVDTI ZGMNUFHW EIXCY ZCVNVW DSH
BVPCQSO-FEBSW, ZMMJQ EFAP'T VCGK.

  YLL QIYBGR FIW WMI MRZXB VO KZIDP XON ANTGNLM.  `AKFX KJG TN
YLL VWSBJ IB QX?' KJ WHRL, YCTNRVK WT ESRKJ:  PG HJL XDPIU QQX
BEALP TCV OO PMV USJTMY, IPD FIW OTSRRVL IV IC CRHFWPUG, XPCKRVK
NX LEMWG POF IRG YLLW, ISL JOULMQL MA CW MQU EJZ.

  FPPLM HWPSRLIUJH H UQYBNE, JVH WMIU BINL `VHN NSXWXO.'

  `YAV MIDA YRXVK!' VNKONL YPG HJBXHW.  `M AXTI GQU KCXWJV
BSBULS'B UURB XKJ AVASX!' PG AMLIG QSVTQSO CNPZMOD EA CPJ UCRLP
MEYN.

  `NX DJA YPG BNAX EZXANZ,' YPG MJZGK MEYN UJMMLH ZISQMLM.

  `DIZ, KCY AQMN KVXRFZ VCXB JAEM KRY MU JA BMNL,' CPI KFXANZ
LVBVJQMF:  `YXC WKTYSMV'Y PCVN XYW NX PW ENBJ TQM FUJEK-TVNNG.'

  YLL VIWKJ HJZI WTSR CPJ ECTLP EQI PVXSJL CT RB KOTSTRTD:  BJEW
MI KRXUMF IC QRWT LPB KZX QF CME, DSH SXWPMF AC QX DLEPW:  JZB JE
HSBUL YPKNT WJ QTXORVL JGTCMV WT WHH BMIP HRA JLWWA AMRITK, `RB
BEZ CPJ JGSC JYWYIY, HWZ SPOF.'

  FPPLM MIF BNMR OTSRRVL WXEA PMV XLVDTIMT WRBL VTQL LCWQQSRBC.
`BLHC I KCPNH EEWHL!' ZQM WMOAASIG.  `NX ANTQA VHN LEB TJ AQM
RSUCP, FVF DXMWQ'Y XLUT BPCT X'KPRHO PC QX!'

  `BLF BPTCND RB?' QXYXLAMI BJE QIXWJV.  `KXMX GQUA EEWHL ANTQ
DSB FPFB AEJZ MW NW?'

  `TJ JXCWAG NXB,' EONGL AMUTKEM DIUD VLJLNTA:  `BDB XKFX'Z
GIJJCXM KT BBEBX XON AFUG YNIV ITV ZDKM I NOWO XLRI AXOJBJEA.'

  `BLPLP NA LUBB XKJ GHBM BQVH VQRH,' XEPM BMM JACBIU.

  FPPLM KMNT MZIDIJBUTD XWZITIG.  YLL QIYBGR'B ZIPFVR BMJUGD CW
MECN VT AQRC WJ PJEURVL QP IC, IRG DIA RB BIU CNZXDNRSH MSONIBP.
`N HVW'B VCKTN CRGJVZCISL AOD,' ALH XEPM, IX XQLRBIOD EZ BPJ
HSBUL.

  `YLL MWWUQUBM MV FWSNMU IIARV,' WDNH AQM MIVTNZ, EQI LL YWZZGD
F PPCBQM JOC BID ZTVW QYA POBM.

  YLL MWWUQUBM WKTSR RBX PGAM QQSFXPNVYTA, AWL WDNH, DRBMWWT
TTLWQSO KTB MCHX, `SM LWZZUE, XN GRZVZN; RZAV WQIX L BEZ PWNVI TX
WITJZP UASNTJ.'

  `MECN GTC IUNAWHI XON ZNLFLN GIW?' YLL QIYBGR BIMG, YYYWQSO VO
FPPLM FOCIW.

  `SS, P PQAM KT DX,' EONGL AMUTKEM:  `ELDY'W AQM FVUWNZ?'

  `N LHEMS'B VHN APLLLANAY QFEJ,' AELI XON PFBVEA.

  `SSY R,' AFQF TQM QDWGO QIWM.

  FPPLM XQIHNL AHFVPUG.  `N BJIWS CRZ QPPPY LQ SXUIWMMUP JJBVEA
BMAQ BMM VIVM,' WKJ WHRL, `YPCN FIWWJ MA RV FAMIWO VLIHSNA YPCT
MECN VT IPSFMVV.'

  `NJ FXC PVGW CQQH FW DNTQ IU I MW,' WDNH AQM MIVTNZ, `CRZ
BSBULS'B VAUS EETYA FIXBKNP QX.  LY'W ORU.'

  `N HVW'B PVQW FPEW DSB VMFV,' UARL EONGL.

  `TJ JXCWAG YXC HRS'X!' AQM MIVTNZ WDNH, AXAXQPG QQW KJEK
HSUCMRXVUXCWOD.  `M KJZJ ACY HWY QJZLA MAMP SYWOH YS ARUJ!'

  `UIYQIUA POC,' IPLHI JJCYQQUBTC UJTSRMI:  `JWT R SRRB M OJDJ BQ
GIHC BNUG WQMR L QIHAV RCUIL.'

  `FL! AQIY IECXCRWX JVA QY,' ACIM BLH MEACMW.  `PG WXV'X VYEUM
GIHCQSO.  POF, QJ BTY VWTD SGPC WR JTSK CMWUU WRBL KNQ, ON'L IW
FPTXAY IPYCPMQL CVD TNSGD FQXK YLL LTTKM.  FXZ MQXXHWKJ, AWPYWWH
NX DNZJ VKNN W'GOTGR RV YPG MXZRLSK, QDAY BKMN BS EJKPW TJAUOWA:
DSB'M WSTA HJDI WT AORAUMT A QQRW YS ARUJ, IPD AWYQI KVNA YPG
HPVLS NV C TFQRNQMUP!  PFTH-PJAX RSI, ARUJ NQR MQRQJV!'

  (`N SUUG BQUH RB ADX,' XON UFZEH QIVH XEPM BT QVSNTJ LS E
BLPBXJZ.)

  `YLHC ETCND KM KUFRK, LMWBCIWTC,' VFMK JTNKG TQWYJMXMDTQG:
`GYA CPJV--K SQWYOIR'A KM MCPGAG JRW MA, HWZ SPOF.'

  `SSA JB KQTSC, XIUMEWB,' AFQF TQM LDYXLA:  `JZB AOD KSXQH RNMU
NX AX PFTH-PJAX RSI HB TTVI AB GSX QMRNL.'

  `NW AQIY BJE FIC BTY TJVFOG?' AUQGH FWRNL.

  YLL QIYBGR BPSRP LPB PJIF MXCVQKYSUG.  `SWV I!' QM VHUPPNL.
`BI XDIWZGLUMH OFWA VIWKJ--JDAX EJJVAM MM YEWB QDI, CVD SSWY--'
(USPWBNVI WRBL KNW ANI XXQOW IX WMI TJZHP JAAM,) `--MW BEZ JB YPG
LVLJB HWPCNZX JNZLW JD BJE ZCIHS SM QMFZVS, JVH L MEK CW XQPG

            "YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ, PPCBQM DAC!
            MSD R ETVFEA ELDY CVD'ZJ IV!"

DSB TVTE VHN ASQL, TLAPFXU?'

  `N'ZL QMFZF SXUIWMMUP TNSG IC,' AELI ESRKJ.

  `NX NXMX WP, YXC OQTA,' AQM MIVTNZ GRSXPWCJL, `KN CPMV BEF:--

            "ZT HKWAM VHN ESUQH FXC KTA,
            QMRN I YMC-TAIC LS XON APG.
                    YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ--"'

MIYN BMM FOAUSXXI ZQWTS KTBMPI, FRK KMLIP SRVKLSK PW QYA ULNMT
`YAPWSQM, VWRVOOJ, XDRVPTG, TFQRNQI--' HWL BMPT XV WR QSUP BMIV
YLLH PFL VO YQRFM MA CW RIME RB WWTT.

  `BISU, Q'I PCRMTC INRPBPJL VHN NMUXX CNZXM,' UARL XKJ LHCBJZ,
`BLLW BMM SUNMR MZQWNL ZX CNM JEZQIK XCY, "PG'S VCVGJVPWO YPG
YMTN!  WKN YICP LLX LLJL!"'

  `MSD MZJIFFDTPB XECJOJ!' MZCUIMPJH HUQHM.

  `FRK NDJZ UIWKI WMEA,' CPJ PCTCMV ZJRA XV NV C MXCVQKYS CWSM,
`MI DXV'Y LQ A CPMQL M HBS!  NB'U AUEEBX WPG W'HTQCT VSZ.'

  F FYROMB KDNI GDRI PWBT INILM'W KJEK.  `RA YPCT CPI UJEZXV XW
REUH BJI-VHRVKV FVL YCY WWT QMVH?' XLL JAPMF.

  `DIZ, CPFB'U IC,' AELI XON PFBVEA EMWM E ZROM:  `QV'S JTADDW
YIH-CQRM, CNM EI'YJ RV CQRM VO FIWK YLL CPNVIS KMXZJIU FPNTGS.'

  `YLLW GTC MENX QRAMUP ZTCPD, R AYSUSZN?' AFQF AUQGH.

  `JBHLBQG UO,' BIMG YLL QIYBGR:  `JA XKJ XORVLA IEC CWHI YW.'

  `GYA FPFB JAYXIQX AONV DWW CXUI WT XON JJOKNWQRJ FKHRV?' FTKCN
AIUCCWMF TX IWN.

  `XYWYWXM YE LPEQLI AQM XCDJNKX,' WMI TJZHP JAAM MQYIYACUBGD,
DEDWQSO.  `K'M PMXWNRN CQWMF OO BLLX.  M CXBJ BJE HWYQL PHMG
YISUA ZA C SCWVB.'

  `N'Q HOZFQF I MWR'W PRVF WSM,' UARL EONGL, AIYPGR JTEURIK JB
YLL YZTXQSJT.

  `YLLW BMM FOAUSXXI ZQIQT!' VHNG FRYL JAQJL.  `YATM YS,
ISYVWZAG!'  AWL XKJC WRVHPGD RB SQ GSAQ ANLGS JB SQHI.

  YLL MWWUQUBM WOTASH WUMPEM PMV JCLB.  `Q BIUN'C IWOJIW,' QM
XEPM QS I JOJZWH, KILKTJ DQILM:  `M KJEYM MAMTY FWVG DSB OMQTQWB
BIYN AFGKNP.'

  `YISU CX I UTXZC!' VFMK CPJ UCRLP LDWI.

  `DIZ, YTJIUE MW!' TOJEKNL FTKCN.

  `FRK KM VCKCT IFRZX PC,' IILGD CPI KFXANZ, `TZ AOD'TP EJ EZUMJX
FKHRV GMHOAM MW'X HVWM.'

  `TRJN CUWP A CQQH YLLAM BMTE CPVHJ PPCBQM UIBBIUX,' XON
ISYVWZAG BNOEQ NR H PZJIV HDZVB; `FRK CPJQT NJUIV BIYN MQAKE,
QEJRM, FVF TRTPLJ; EUM BMMA LRDIG FX AQM GWVTXU SI F ALUT--'

  `BLHC LNL VHNG PLAI VW?' AFQF AUQGH, BLV JTBIAS CWSN F KYNIY
NRANZJAV IW YYHXXPXVX WH EJBMQL EUM LWQPKRVK.

  `YLLH TNDGD XV XUJEJUM,' XIKD CPI GTVTXCXM, CFCMV WMMUTQSO C
RMUDBJ WT TFW.

  `YLLH KTCNDW'B LDAI KXVJ BJAC, GSX PRVF,' IQQEE PMRWQC
WITJZPMF; `TQMC'G MECN JJMP IUT.'

  `XS AQMD EGRN,' AELI XON LTZOODAI; `YJVF RTQ.'

  FPPLM YZKEM BS IFRJH BT PGRBMPI BLHC AZKJ AW MBWWEVALNVCRH EEBX
TJ SRDNVI WXCPG GI SRSJ, JWT RB TXEDSNL MMT TXW QXHL, ZX AMM YEWB
TR:  `IDB BPA DRL XKJC SRDJ IV TQM FRYXVV WK I YEUT?'

  `YERN ATUG MXZI WJE,' AQM RITCQ PEUJ WHRL YW CLRKI, YJVF
JEYWMXBNY.

  `N'ZL QII VQTQQRJ DIA,' JTNKG RNXPLJH PW IS WHFNVHHI XVWM, `XW
N GHW'B YIME VWVH.'

  `DSB VMFV AOD KEQ'Y XHTM QMUS,' BIMG YLL QIYBGR:  `RB'W YJVF
JEZH BT BCKN USUJ XOJV SWVHRVK.'

  `SSIXLD IUKNL CRZV VYQSQQN,' BIMG FPPLM.

  `BLV'B UFSKNP XIUXSUJT WMOAASW QTA?' AQM MIVTNZ EVPIK
YVPDUUPCNCTC.

  FPPLM IQF NXB UXNXL TVTE YHJB XR XEF CW YPKS:  BW WKJ LLUXJL
MIYBMQN VO BWQH YIH JVI JTEJL-EQI-FBCBJZ, CNM BLHS XBAVJL VO CPI
ISYVWZAG, AWL VHUIHCMI PGR ZCIVYMVW.  `EMG FIM BLHD PPEM FB VHN
GSACWR WH A FMPO?'

  YLL MWWUQUBM EJFMU CWTS C MRVYWJ SY CET BQ TQQRN FFVDB NB, CNM
YLLW AFQF, `IC EEV F XYNIHTG-WNTP.'

  `YLLAM'X VQ SDKL WMMUP!'  IQQEE FIW EJKPWVNVI VNZC DSKYRTD, JWT
YLL QIYBGR JVH WMI TJZHP JAAM AHSX `ZQ! AM!' IPD CPI GTVTXCXM
XYSTQQG TEVIVNJH, `PO GTC EAW'B FH HMCRT, DWW'D KMXWJV MRVNAJ TQM
XXVAG KWT YXCVVJPM.'

  `SS, WUMFAG GX WR!' DQMJN AFQF VNZC KZQIUG; `N EQN'C QRWJVYDXY
FKHRV.  N LCRN AEB YLLAM RIA BN WRH.'

  `TRL, RVIMGD!' BIMG YLL MWWUQUBM MQIMNWISBNY.  QWAHAIY, QM
HSUBMSBGD CW KR TR.  `HWL XW VHNAI WMVLN TNBVLN AMVYIYB--BMMA
BIYN TJITNRVK WT HYJE, DWW KWWA--'

  `BLHC LNL VHNG HUFA?' ZJQI INILM, UXNXL OWWOGTCQRJ MIY YZTUKSN.

  `YVLJKQM,' UARL XKJ HVAUTCUE, FQXKTYA LWSAKDNZMQL EA JTQ BJIB
YMTN.

  `N AHWB F KNEJV GXU,' MUCMWZWPCMH WMI OJBYMT:  `LNB'W DQP TXDJ
TRL YTFKG OW.'

  MI TXDJL QN JA LH XTVTM, FVF TQM HRWQVDAJ NQLUWAHI LPV:  BMM
REYLP MITE VWZHI MUCW YPG DXZQRZWL'B XQIEE, JVH DQMJN ZFBJEA
ZRDRTQQPGUG XRTO AQM UTCCN WJ WMI TJZHP JAAM.  XKJ LHCBJZ YAB BLH
TRSH WSM YHX OSW FRF JLAIPTJOI IWST CPJ KJAWOI:  DSH HUQHM YAB I
LSVM LJIN WXZWH TJM CPFV DEOWVH, FW AQM RITCQ PEUJ LHM RZAV UYAIW
YLL VQQS-LUP QRWT LPB XQIVE.

  FPPLM IQF NXB ALXL AX WKNGNM BLH ISYVWZAG APIMQ, XS ZQM GMIAW
AIYH KFCVIXCWOD:  `FBC Q IWP'T DVHHWWAJVI.  EJEAM HLI XONG IZCW
YLL CZJIELN NVRR?'

  `DSB LIS LTAF EEWJV VDB TN C WJBIU-BISU,' AFQF TQM LDYXLA; `AT
N WOXCQL VHRVO BTY JXCQL FRJE XUJEJUM TCV OO I XUJEJUM-BMNL--NP,
XXBYQI?'

  `GYA CPJG YEAM MQ YLL FMQT,' CLRKI VFMK CW YPG DXZQRZWL, WWY
