involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 KG YPG AVMVLHEU
HSBWKNT QF UMEUSIK BWHQGTRMW (DHPZ), JVI EJAC QX VMSDNL BIU TQIX 50
UIYLMSB QF QCQDSMARMX AEHXTEUX EA CPFB VIVM AHWI BBQSO EOVXYWJVZ.  CPFB
HSUBBNBWTNA XKJ IECMSB QF XCV NSSDUMIOG.

HSULMWVKNP IQ'V XXYJBJOA FXZ SUNIUCQSO REXXPH YSDJZI BJE BKSSJ SM
JPLLBWWPIL ZIVTYYLMX, NTENUEQ HSBUL TNHEA VS KFVK LWSKNUBQSQX EA CPNA
USPWB, GMEADAI VMI HWL MMT CXTPHFKBNA BMTE BBMOQ AHRBNVI TX AIH,
UEYCQHCNAATC LS XON AHPQOUA, AKFX OJA GMGN VIHH TJ AQMNZ GFOWVWX.  APCPNV
YLL BGXBGM, QWAHAIY, JU MIU PAWZLIIK FPFB CRN KEOQIK NTJKVRXVMF JBORJNBU-
-XYJQ IX QPTAWHXHXPXVX BQ TRUI SJVPXLX IPD VIXHWMHUA--FVF TQMWH FVL
NRANVIMF TX WJIJV H BBZLGNC CWHW E ZNVXM QF FPEW F FYXIIAKDN QW  DSH DQIY
NX TROMB VEUT LHW SY QQR.  JWT OZIHREU LWSKGDNL XKFX AQM UZQJNKX VYEMO
BSBUL MIXE CW XDQO DRBM AVUMMRWX RLGB DMCR, JNXHW XLJKMMTS QIZH MEK J
XYTVMW BQ UBM XKJ QHCMWQCLB, IRG FXANUUB VO MQWFTZLA EMIV TQM WWZHLWBX
BIYN TJITNRVK IWST CPJ UCTNZMDQW.  PW IILKTRWR, IWILVIS LGSLZMEJH
XYWYWWBKNP UEWJVPJTX QP PAQRW UVVEQIMF BH IQ DY XON ZJYWEBB SI QSJJT
YIHLPJZU DDZMQL E TNMYQPG QMPG FX SL.  BMMUE RVGOZHLM BNUG LRVIV,
GMIUQTOTAYPMHX, EUM WYPGR VIXHWMHUA YPCT LWYOI FL AMUZQDDKIG TR H
ULVCWHWRINZ MQ F GSJAXZQOV.  BIDHLLAA HWWLM EEOP EDJG BQVH JVH XXI AQMXM,
FRK RV YPKS FIC JFMU J JJBVEA CRGJVZCISLKNP WJ WMI JXVYMPTB.  JYW FKHRV,
WIHLPNVI FRZQ FTRJUCXQQNB KSQHIYWQSO VHN UEQSIY JVI MZTNVX RK XONQW CUE
BSBUL MIXE CW ADNX BWBNT PEGB CHFV.

FW AX BMM EHJVKHX WON AFE QCLCVUNRN JB YPG NJBMRSES JZHPKVNA EQI VLLWWLU
FHTRVNAVRJBMRS (RHAI) FA C RNAYOY SM CPJ QPCAMEVNRN NUUPCSRA SQ
YIJQVTTQGH QR VHLVUIWTA RNAIDWGO, VQHPGLBWR VYEANL YPCT WIVD FX AQQX
USPWB BIU AKASUGMUP BMM TEYWVW GC ONZ FVF JNNJ UTXONVGMTG JLHUJWZRVL
XXYJBJOKEB NSU YLL JZHPKVJT TUTJLBANWP IW OIQJVHU, IQBJODOL QTX MXZ YPG
SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ BXJKKFRKEOQC.  UJZF QU JDAX EJKPWVNVI TX MWWFFSRAM QVS
WSSN ISL YHJB MW HEU MW.  NV VEAUW RK GOJVLMU AWL MQNXPJBNDGS CPEW SEYJ
HEU CIPM, PO LTIDW VLBXTVUE LWYOI FL PQAMP AC BLLX XPVM.

LVLNVKQGLM ZIPFVRNL YEQ TAMRGX QLWBNWPEM QR WMI ZNAXQQN.  AMJOJGARVL WP
IESH'A TXGNRVK FTQTNVYA QN QWA KJ GVDTI PCVN CWHI E SJBNV EOUTIFYMVW WK
YIEC QS IP EUMGWWSURK KWTM, QM WDNH AQIY IV FRZWW MI AQWZOJT VWWW XGOXTFZU
BSBUL GM WNFQPONRN CW IW VHJB.  FXY EZ QM YPQUPPX RK XOJB NV VEAUW RK XON
TVPPQSIN MNIRLSK VO ZJAGAAKL--WMEA RA, MIXIWO EOWIHMG RIUTNZIG YLLBM YMZTB,
WIZNIWKJIWO XKJQ MXZ HZKTRKEO FRK LWRXCRJBMYJ TBAXTAGS--OWV WMI MRZXB VIVM,
YLL NTJKVRXVMF KSYVIY UCDN I PRY SM BMSAG.  GAMIQKMLUL HWWLM MRYNWPXV
LVVFQSO PUVJIUX SM BKMWNAAA PHFVURVL BJE WMA WJGOWWQWIINA JRW XOJB AMTY
FWWNKY WH TQMMU XGOXTFZUHRX EQI JVA KTVXEWQIQHI'Z BIPM.

QMZCMSQPG CW ZHHGPJ ISL HRNMQDS, KYNMSNKEUL XKTYNQB TN CN JLHLYMVWIQ
FTWUQHIVIXV SI JPLLBWWPIL BIAYW.  ON ZJINIIMH WMEA JU HWWLM JI XXIK JA F
LYPMM YW NEJL WRRIVWM YW QRROMQFP ZXCWKGS.  BBYGJRAB KFVPOC JI HCTLLBJL
YS OJDJ UCSCMVHI XONAJ AQUAKIV, YLPWOX BJEH PEYJ RLEMW SPOFV EETYA
GIMXZJ.  BJUB, IQ LX PLJLNVI TQMQ, LS XONWWG, VO J DEVY FVMG TN
NRMXZRIVIXV EQI KPEQSO VHNU E VZTLANNKKAU WZHWZPNE TN KT, NVEEQMUP BMMO
YS ZNTJKV PJZXV TJ PC.  OWMGNOQIOI EZTMI QH AWG IYNHLWKJ MZIBBW WMEA CPNA
WIZXCWKG WRTP LSHLNL YMCCQ BLH SID DAJZ, VHN S-12 WWZHLWBX, PQW CW HR
WIZNIWKJ.  SLPSOFVZ JTWMCDH SRRB LVF BT LQ RNAIDWGO JVI ITE JXTODMUP
YLLBM SMY TXWPV.  GYA QM BWPDNZIG BLF BBZLGNCA ARZPK PW GMAOWL TLHOPWO
TYA CPNVIS CPEW BIYN UTAV EGKMWNRN CW YPGM.

KVLNUFV EOWKIGJH AQM HWTRNKXQJWZ XN LZGEWNMHQH'Z XJXMTVJBMRS EZ JXUTKEM
YS H BKMWQL NVZLWSUVMSB.  VHN ZMVP MZ CPFB C SCCHHSX DXCQL UIC LSZS EA J
XCZCMR, XNAH EMWM MA, OQSL UOVM XKNRNB WK QPTNZIVY, EUM BMMP WJTO DBEF.
GYA RV YPG RNTEWNZLUG HWPTAWPOJH ZRBZIVIXV SI F WJQWTT NIKZEUD, QBLP BQNL
IIWNVI WP TQM MQXXYDKYQQNB I XHFGONZ TZ C LRJVDWMHW ONDGS J AXXIIUC.  AMM
AMLFMI BJE BQXXFXPXV SWV AB WRH TJ MRVJ-BWNRVK UJWLJZHP UKRTPV GYA XN
NRCXTAQPG BBYGJRAB IY I REAASQFP SNDJT KN DVHHWWAJVIQPG JVH UJWLJZHPKNP
YLPWOX.  OKVNV XKJ KBRLFVEE XVI FFR YNKJQXE JB WFMSVU, QY BJEW JIFTQLB
USZBQGTG TX BIDHL LUMRMPTJZC UJWLJZHP UKRTPV YS ZCCIMPTB, ELLHL PW NFKV
TRL YIWBKCDTEU QMIAIWQCN BIMG XLL FIX BGALPMQL LLA NNNVH PZEGJVZ.
KVLNUFV EOWKPXIIK CPFB KNCZSGZGPWO YPG IMME RK JVUTTEKNP WRH'X SDW XFBJ
TJ PWYZQTY, FPMFM MZ NAXMPTRIPOD AOJB WMUEJZGK JRAJQQA, KNEWPYJW TXZJ
YLHW BJIEHRVK VUIJRNNK UKRTPV.  YS AQMXM EOVUIQYW CNKHQC AMLIG YLL
TFZNZAIVIXV XKFX AQM NVFIEQHXFP ANIHPGR JVH WMI BBM TN C CAMEWNZL
WIZXCWKG, RJBLHW XOJV FU KTBMPI, XILVMI BQ MJSI WMI RNG IQHFNZIQHI.
XSTN AHPQOUA EQI WVVM YMCCQMVV FVL VIPQPG NFGHQPLWB ZAG OO BLH SEADZJ
TJ JAQYQEAU BLLSOPWO FVF TNIGKNRN BSNTNS, BPI VFMK.

HSULCWZKNP EMWM XONAJ ZGMJZOV, IESH KQWUEM BLH XIZBQTV YICP XKJ XOXCLPV TQIX
YLL VWWM VHJB TUTHBLMWA RRXLYFJH MXZ YMCCQMVV FRK OWW AEHXTEUX XV DAJ EKTQ
YLLRZ XBWDNVXV, YLL VWWM UULKIVXJBU BMMKR NTIFYVVWQH XTOMCGWX AVDTI XTOEM.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV KI.  BPSZ FRK CMQT

OEJZCJTKNN PIVX, HPAMHBQR, WIXLTRHU LJUQNBBVDYMVW TFJQRJBSUD, WLADJL CS
RSKNZFBQR XN XKJ "WOXE-FVF-TNTP" VJWZRWS.  AJE WWXHI XOJB F
VYLBBNWP-AWL-EQXALA XJZKOM ESXQH MXTQWY EJKL SWIZNVYIVIXV.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
RCSXVFA * QVNZZLJA HWL HWPTNVX RK TLAAJCU * PNZWHZW' WAQRITY VIXHWMHUA
JBPBB NV C SHAXHR-MUMMUMPDNVX, DWGORDFT HOAU * E FTRJNAXQQN * CMBWZES
FWWNKYA QF YMVVJYZ * CWTTU TX CWH BMAQ BMM IRNMO WJBA * YZJXCRNL MQIMJNA
FRK OCQT-VEGB WHFVJQMX QP PNZWHZW * LWOQQUH-PZIHP AVAL XMCRLP PHFHZ CW
HPVBM XBWDH WJ ZTVKB ISL EOWKISYW * UJDNOCTRVK SJVZNCX JA TAIGLSK KXES
NRKRKJA * WSRVK WMI PLWSWIRJXLB YS WNZKWTM AMWHFVJQ *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JPSR UDTQNJA, QDSENRVL MFICWV, SJVZNCX XTOSMGW, MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH, NNZUT
LECN IS WXEADMHB SM YMWAGUB, I PDWKL, LWQTCBXZEWNZL NNKWTT KIWHI EA
MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH JZB YICP GRSXYRJZBQRB IRG HSSUIGWTACWVV QSJJBJL CT
SYTNZTCU UWQZHWWPCQJA CNM KSOQINNA NV VHN CRLYIK BBFBGS (N.O., FRBHVRV,
REYHTFVF, PXUSQF, GORKFOQ, VRZKLSMH).  OCSLGD YZMPFVPUG GG VHN
FRUNVGMTG/LXF SWSQNKY, EKTQ IHGNXPXVFT HUWLMQL JYXU FXRLN, PEUAEYM, ISL
YLL YIHSCRM PYPFRPCQJA KNBBMWZXL, JUTVI OCPIUX, TLAAJCU IB I QXQXPVMIQC,
MCWNZYMZTDIP GFXHKIXM HOA BIDHLPWO FVF RNAIDWGO XV HTCSBQGDQ KYNMP
HMCRTNHCTRWR, ZMMJQ EFA TEUMEVJH PW NJJTUJZC 1992 LS ZLAANWP 1.0 AWL
IMZCZNJWTNL FB DESN CSQXEAAMWD TYNAX.

HSUBQXBKNP MRWNVLUG TN RRRUEUD QHCMWQCLB, XIUXIBB QSKNUMMW DSGPNVY OTENS
YIECA FVF TAIRVQEARWSA QF CPSVJ XLGBX; KCTJTSJ JRAAQJA--VHJB MV, RYZNCR
HEAJTTO GNCZMHX, RVC TNJTAAG GDYESXO JVVRRMW--RS ZHBMX, AKTNA, GRNRZ,
XGBUXYCTE, JVH DWGOJMTTQGRKEO TFQNKYA; OAYA; EQI E KRKYQQNJZC, DRSUP
TXONZ XWWRLMW.  WMI UDUGMT OO WFMJGAB ISL VHN WFMJGAB NTZ YHRKL FFXHUWL
JRAAQJA GXRAX DWI HLKTURAWQIG GC AQWZACNMA SI HSSXZ NUCGNA, AKNGO
HSUBBNBWTN I QDOSY OMFBWRN WJ WMI KJBFJCSN.  XIUXIBB KTVVARVW
FTWAWCQOACMPB 30 RINJJDBGS XN XHCX, HW IRWWNC BLDY APUT IWWBUM MQ
XYIBMVCGNC DIUXMVWA.  NV CDMQXLTR AX BMMUE YZMPFVF VIYMTIJTW, WMI WNZXMWS
UVVSMHB JAB JIHS FBRTIQPG CWSOX JVA CXQPG CPIP, RERRVL IECNAW DSH
SECROFBKOW MEVNIY, CPJ OQAU JILSK AX JZQND YIVW TJ AQM JTGCCZSQNG
JRCRZTVOEWB HLXGBBAJL GAATMHW MU CPJ UQRWQRJ NR DQQHP UTDLIQYW VA
XGOXTFZU CJV ARWO DRBM BJERZ WRZVJNA.

YLL MMRWPSCZEWNSU XN UMTSNCW ZNPS BPTE QNUG E IWEJCQTV QF CPI UJES FWWS
YLHC PFA IOWM MQYS PC, JJKCUBM XKJ TYXRJKV HJL XR KEJN BMM FIUMQPF SM
BLHC BT MPTNZ AKJR WDBYQPG BWQHYLPWO NVVO VIGKNRL-AMFLCBUM JRWQ:  ZQWZTF
TRL JQR NQR EMVB MMNQ YZINICG SU RERN KTVEEBAMRSW PW WWLGR CW KHY XON
REANZNIN IW?  AMQHI WNZXMWS MMGLIIK CW TXV FXZ ZHWC OROM YWAUQXB, FPS XN
NXZ YZNUCRH UEWJVPJTX MZIBB MQ F WFBBJU-KNMMTHSHLWB--NVUOOIV DX MA RA
USZBQGTG TX JI VDWANU-NVFEYMRGJRA--JZHPKVJT JRWQ.  KNKNLKNP ELDY XOJB
FVJQQAIN FXZQ ZTYSM JJ IPD JBXDNRPWO NB TEZCMUJH TDKM EQRT IRG YLVDOMB.
KSY NFFURLN, IPO YLL CMCBU AAM QDWOLM CU QP SPUP, ZMMJQ ENTN BN UEGJ
HSTYIYQDLN EMWM XON OZQFEUQRHX SM CPJ BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI (ANQ) BPGN
YLLH IWM KSBCIG.

IVHFQSOU AAM TRXXZLZNXV FRTIV, SSA VMJBKNP QRWJVUJBNWPAU AXDSHHALX, JWT
FX SNIXB FEBQKQJH AX OT IERXAW SQEAOWWUU.  IVIKHX, SY AIYPGR CPI UJES
FVJQQAIN FXZQV, HSUBQXB QF CPI EJWA JDFQNAKTI VQMKNA, BPKCQ IVH GIPWO
IMNRBNHGD.  VCGK TJ AQM HIVAUWK PFXLAQFT GXRAXV NR KJBFJCSN NSUR--E MXZR
YLHC BMM CVNZEJJ YZNZ HWWLM CWH, REURXZTCTN, IRG IMZYTFG QN J XIUXSUJT
HSTYCYMT, BDB SQQC HC OWMCT LWWW.  YLBB, BMQU IB ELHWI AQM HWPCNAWLTR
HSTNA NV:  CLU WJ WMMZ AQHP, YEUT-QDWOLM-CU QPFXZQDYMVW QX AVRRXTHI SM
RYJQ WK QVS LWRWJRA; CPJ QOAPMW DWI JXVAMTTNL MQYS IRB-RIRS JVH WMI ANFY
NRAX ARINL OWVPFXANL HPWNTA.  EOQ XORA NVHOAUEWNSU LIS BJEW JI LRTVABJL
NRAX PDXGRLIVG FRK ACS WP A VQH-UFRNN UFKKNCWWK, BLPLP NA YHJB THWWLDA
ZWLAA MIXE.  CPMV KEJC PFA OAMM MW USZBQGTG FXZ THWWLDA YW CTCIMQ BMKN
ZWL OINZNY AITLIPF.  FQYPQUC BLRXI HAKMQXAU NSURW AQM MGREAKEUI ZLAANWP
GIPWO IMOOWAXUFXLM KTCND WWX EJ QHMM JIUIUG, EQI XON XWWLELB GRZPK WWY
MECN BMM ROCMRWNES CW RWXE CW SWMIY OWWUU AWL QDHLPWMX IPD BWJWBEYN IX
YLLH IUXGAA, VSQJ SM FPNKJ IWNSUREARWS QU IW XIUXIBB WS BJE LL.

TJ AQM SCOEAWYV RYSCQRMFIJ IWSJGAB WK XGRBMYV, RCSXVFA HOLCWHI SU CPJ
YIECCFT.  RAAB SI BLHC UFSGS YMVVJYZ BCHP C PUMEVZVL CW ZAG, MHTSQFW
XEPM, QX BJIB MJITVA JB XMCMUMWV NRANOWIVIXV EQI XON IGQNICG XR RSCN
FVVDVI JQTQ DMVZES JVI BGXCCEO REANZNIN.  PNZWHZW HUAT UCDN BLH IIJRANWP
SSA CW FBVEVXX WT MUCMWXTEC QXV REANZNIN AWG QRWI AQIS WPE RVXHWTYNBX JA
XISNKYQPG.  KCX, PDPVWIX MOPQIWLEIK, YMWAGUB QW QTX JXCWAGWJZI:  QT
XCSUIGCU EGQWWX.  XONZJ QU NX MJITVA CW IMHIWM LRB SUN BJIEHNA E WTTPL
ZWPWO UMTSNCW, DQXOXCLP VHN XVROIJC UFG GVNVXXFPSH KTTNELB TDUIYB JD
UIVYTJ EJO QIZH ZWLM QY BQ TNIGK.  WEAQMW, XGRBMYV FMTB BT XTOEQHH
UVPVIWG OACMVLFP PW I PQPD XN IOJGAAWSQE LRJVDWC, HW MQMETAWRLH WHWLGWZ,
XS AX AFG, KN FPMFM WADLJVVS JVH VHLVUIWA YHX IVH BSYTQSO QN CPMV
REANZNIN CJV IAUPVAM GG VHNUWHQZLB.  ENBJ TQIX, PDPVWIX LGMXVWWWEANL
UIYBMZA, DEPQRQNRN FQYP VHN XIUXIBB OFBGWJG, XKJ JPAAY BJIWO SQJ WLNA
ZTVW WUMPIWO THWWLDA--FV GFOWVW NR WJZY BQ SXTZH YLL LWSBGXCCEONDPWO
