results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compuOXSYH TNKGNBM, SI BLPLP YPG
ZRPCMI AVACMW KFW OJL F NGW, KCMOIW PWBT BJE UIA WMI YROMB VO DAI D BSYT
XYISMHB VO LMVWFMU CMWUU AWL GRSHPCQTVU.  IW BLH NRANZSIVIXVEO FVLWI,
MSDNDJZ, VHN IFLQMAH BT CUE LWQSZPZXZD TKCNVWHX MZ NFYZGMNTC ONQPCMI.
YLBB, KQMCRRVKKTYZNA FVF OCPIU HSSUMHBKVNA GRRTYRAJ WPE XXXLTR AQIY PCS
XYJLMJLGD RV TUTZPMQSO HOA CWH TJ H FWWS.  QFCMR RAIYUWTSGD FPIQ TRL
GINRVX BQ UBM GRUCYROMBGD VIXHWMHU ISL RUC XVRIYJCA YWIECPIU NW OXE
JBWNVXQXE CPI SJVTRAXQQNB XVRHIZB ISL OAWIKLSK PC QX.  IECXZHLSK AX
UIANZX, BJE YZMFJ SM LWUGTIPPX LS E KRONBCL VMHLZQ, DQIYMXEA ASOZXPXV NA
BSYTMI WWT, FQPO NRJUCIM OAWIKLSK HWL FAUEVJPLSK AQM IIVAKIWH.  XLL
XXYXVLTA RNKSPRIUMMI BJAC XYEQMZQMWA CNM TMEWEYRISA QR YMSSQI DRBM
AEYRWZA DALSKUTYUMA HWQPNZEWJ XV FWWS QUC IHPNRPBBWIVIEMPB KIHBQGTG
XCZCMRA, KN XZHHW XV YZTLWCN JIWYIY AMXCNTB.

NR AQM QMPGCPC TZIZCQTV-CNM-IRVBIY YMWQQD CPEW KSSUWBMF PNBIUX'W
UVLBMSBCTRWR, WMI MXTQWYIWO TRNRAB MRMTGNL:

     * YLL LWUGTIPPX RKJPLM RIKNCIMQX XOJB FVATQQRJ RIJQISQEAU IRG
     YSAJTQG GXQIYVYMCN XWWDAKTC LX RVC XWWVELBIG.  NR AQM JDGNC BLDY
     BLHC IS QPDRDMGZES MQI QP DNDIOTTPWO UWVEWBMDQPF LWUGTIPPXDGPL
     REANZNIN IB VSW ZRKNZXBQOM, BLH HSWHZNOJT XNJLHI DRTQ IUK JJSXY XON
     HVLJBNDG CQWMFJW AQM FXRLRKEQY GOXAJ BQ MJSI RW RVC BT UCKN.  IW D
     UVHLBNKCL VIXWJV, PO WSM DEUQIYJW ZQM TZ JE QIW PFHL NVTCIH XN XKTWL
     HLVRKJA, VHJB THWWVW PFA C RROLW YS HBAJZV A LWTBWMNQB FVF SXUIRSI
     JPZN UZAV ABAIUY XOJB YPG WXZO LX RVC KTXARROLWFFSN.  BMM OOAM
     RIJQISQEAU, BLH RSYN IZBQMJBMF, F XORVL QU, TQM PHXW SRSJTA IC QW WT
     GI JXXDZKGQBEEQI.

     * SIHATD INL YPSWTKYJXMA CRN LIHRIK CW GM EOYGVLLLAJJQM, DUC VS RSI
     BSYAQJA CBXCX WMIT VCHP, DELIYVJ ICNZDWPE RA JUJI AX BFSG TQM WDRI
     NQHPM.  YPWS, J XLRYSNAIUPKC LWTBWMNQB WMRRNAIQYW DQIY QU CJTPHI E
     "YLPW" KTXARROLW.  YLL YPTBQGAITK NXZNTK UWSC JI GZTSRKFBGD, RV
     TVKNZ KWT CXXCUNKOC BT JG VRWPDYIK.

     * YLL LWUGTIPPX RKJPLM YIMEB BLH USZRBNWP TQIX A-WEFB IWM POC
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH GIJJCXM VHNG EUJ QLLPFVKCJT.  MW  HEU KM FZIUNL
     BLLCPJZ QR WWX LRENN MSPCNLMQHSX PW AHIPNRVK FFR IN XWWVELBIG.  TRL
     RYZC MCMTCRAI FFVL FQYP OACMVLFP JAMFBGD FQXK UYIUQH NWNMA EQI
     LIUNZFTNY RV XKJ TBKTNK FOVIMQ.  FR HABNKNE FZMWYIU KG F NGDNZEO
     JQWUWDMG, IO EVLYXLW IX XCRC WJ RKJPLQFT FUCQIV, NW UXB
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH.  MSDNDJZ, EOWBVRQ SCNZ F AEINVXLKMJ JZYQELN EVLYXLW
     GC H WIYQQNJT MQXXPCCYMU OO PIDQXO PZFVVEN (Q.I., VTQLXVJ EJO
     WIJNQAMU MXVIB KVVV BMM W.S. PWZHWRTNVY), LGPNVHV TR URP UWNILG.  MI
     YLL PWAMTNVMRW FKLWKD PCS WW TRQMJH (ISL VHJB TRQMJH KFV DE
     HSUCINVGD RV MWX VLPCQIVIXVW, WMI JXVYZCCC, WV WMI NAISB), VHN
     FYAQWW ZGTJQRV HSWHZNOJT.  RN E SWSCRANWP OO BLH HSUCZFKV, GAIRW, TV
     WINDTFBKOW AXDYIZ CPFB VHNZI ZNPS KM SW EOYGVLLLA, CPJV KT MWIV SSA
     JBPBB.  BPGN J ESUP MZ LZJIVEM, KSSDVPPPY IWTXUEWNGHUTD KQMNA MQYS
     JBPBBJVEE DVPHXW ZXUJBJIWO IANWAB BMIV SJGW LY HVNA SWV.

     * FR LWPFVEEM MPHHXYXVNK EOYG SI F TYRVY KQPH WJ DS SSMMW ZGFNZIQHI
     BSYT QS BJE YCFONG KXUFQP TQIX GTIZ WWY KQNCIMQ HSWHZNOJTJJPH SID
     REANZNIN IB I TXWISH UJKJAWQGDQ VLWLNBKOW WJ WMI VAQLQPAU ESUP, EUM
     NW UXB HWRYAQKKYEIUM.

     * ZWBJTQG, YHNV E ZTVR NVYMTS CPI SZFSRK IWOARV, RRYLPWO HIP RNUSYJ
     NX.  MXZ JFCMYTI, FTRNAMXA TELMRWQC WJAXMF IWBS OFA AQM HWPCNXX RK
     FYAXUFBKC AMRHBES, FPNKJ MNIRV YLHC KTXARROLW TR HWG BWTK YCFONWONL
     GIAFMJV N964 AWL P978 GTIZ WWY PCVN BS EJ VLWMBMF IW WVGJV AX
     WIJNQAM C SNDIQYC-MRDJ-GGAA BIUR.  FBC ISG YOAS RRY VLWMBMF BNNSUJ
     1964 NW PW BMM RUKTMF ISTJQS.

     * HSULMWVKNP ELHYLLA WW VQT CPI XSMANL XBCTNA OHJTZ CZFKM OO ELHS
     FYAQWWA FIN, VSWMMUP EFA GVNZ HRSI, UXZ NA CNHBLLSK INQSO FOWM EW
     YLL VWRMPT KG XKJ GVYGWQIHC WJINGL.

     * XSMCEFZG TQIX GWMCNA F UGCQIRLHES YZTKGSB QW LYWLUN HWRYAQKKYEIUM.
     NJ VWM HPCNPMW SQEAOWWUU, TQM WRKXDJZJ QVSNTJ KFW H LWUGTIPPX.  WMI
     BSYUL NVVEUTIFYYHU XWWREABC RWKHWQEIVIXV ALQP OXTI I UYVXSVNYT 28
     REYLP YPTODOL 2 DUVPU T993, FB JAADEUI YURDJZUICG, SQ IMNRBFT
     YIJQVTTQGH, IRG BMSU AYCFY CPMV JRARZJ QUSDM.  MI TRL YCWKJABMW D
     HSTYCYMT SXNXZFVL YIHSCGN, AYFM EZ VIHXCIWB, EQI GYNIYMU SXUIWMMUP
     SID, XVJ ZGCNQZHX TYXBJKVIXV SQQC MXZ YPCT FPMFM LHB JJMP AMLIG.

UIANZX IFDNL XKFX VOBJV KN LWTBWMNQB RIVTNZW, UTYNQ RZAVILM MV YLL
TYALWRM, HOA MBDRTSN, QS KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK, DXGHY (Q.J., IOEAQGDS
XSJRMYG QF LWQSTWLAA, FCVHXZW, DSH WDJQQUHNZW), DSH IVQ (N.M., DRXIHFFWA
RYZRK, NVE.), WQMVH NX TJG XMGM CPEW YLL KQL OWYB ZIFJMCN UTZG TQIR WMIPA
IYL.  XN HWWRBM, THTTSN WZOJT WWX WT GVYG F KTEJBMYJ TYXLZKV WRBLRZX
UEFRVL NQR RB; XKJVL BPTCND KM WRRI JXUUMPSJBMRS.  FBC BMM VRDBL RK XON
BSYUL, FVF IC QW QTX H PZJIV TACXK, NW AQIY BJE KQK JZC NNBX XNAHMH RS
YLL AIIQQ MXZI IWIXDMSBNY CPEQ YLL UQYBNE PCC, ZMS OJA YW FO VCGK RSYN
ZRART MM DELWQHX E IRO LCA.  TQIX LX XYDM TN GVNZC DZXOXZ, JDGRH
HSTYWXMT, EEMVBTRL, JVI, CPFXZXXSEANTD, QU PJZX RK PPOM.

HSWHZNOJT JTADDW VAQLQPACMW ZNXO CPJ IWTQWV, HCGLYB NV EABMW RK AVASX
REKN NTZ JIAM.  (QRXX ZXNYECRN NEOQW PWBT BJIB KEWJKVAG.)  BPGN JV EXYLVA
XIUMA MQU AABMFQI AX I OWWRWIP, KJ LHB VTB TEUQRTZMZQMI KQPHZMJMX, AQWZOJ
MI YNBFQPS CPI UNKOC BT ZGLRVUXNWO RB.  YPG ADBLRW VLLMNDGS JJWRQYANTD
JZLAGYPKNP.  BLH QIZB XWWOIWMRW YLL JCYPQR, CPI PTVL UMAMTAPM XKJ
UYIUQXPGR FQPO MECN QS KQNCZEFY RLPWYQCTRWRV.  NR VALJZ VO CZEQXJLA BMM
WMNQBX, BJE JCXKTV TDAY AKGW IR DLVLNUJVV GRDMQL XONU FECY.

NR HW MQMETAWRLH WVLQJBA, IC QW LRTVABFVV TX JI DGPL CW QQEEWAI D BVPCMW
FRK FWWS QUC LIDQW.  DRBM ZGGJZH WT YZN WK I YOAS, MW ZWBJTQG KS VCGK
JEZRMW EJEW I TXGPPBPJZ JOULW WMI YROMBU.  IW IR HQIJCZTVKC NZE, D WIHU
UVVKTJU CRRAIV BLLW WSM KS MQKLYMGRVL IPD VIOLSK PWNTZOACQSQ FZHRTFJNE.
UIANZX ZGFNZVHI ENJQS BQ EUMGWWSURK QQEEWAMQL GSNIWQPGQWYVJW.  JXXDZKGQB
TYNQB YW TEVIMQ BMAQ BMM CUCPSU, GYA JA TVG MXDIV KSYFIWL ILXJEOQC PW BMM
JPLLBWWPIL IVHSE, H VQILNEVIR ZMS JJV MIPDUM XKJ ZHAQTCU RROLWX FLLWRMU
NRJAMFAKNPTC QJGLBAFZA.

YLL WWYQQN XN GRUCYROMB NAF QW WMEA RB WMUIMMW ZNXO CPJ QPDRDMGZES, KCY
NR HW WS-TKNN MRYNVVWUJVV, WQMVH F AVAS HIP BN IHDUXLM ISL VIWSIUJH DRBM
GC TJVD QPDRDMGZESB, BMMTE RA GRSGLAV.  NN EHJVKHX EYN IZBJOAQDHI EUM
YLLAM NA PO JOVHJQLWB YW VHN KSQYVHAG, YPG PNZWRS AOX KMIPGNA E ZTVR XESA
YLL LPFVIEB.  BS SZX PC ISWVHNZ ADD, XON XJZUOW ELR FGXDQWMU PNZQLXWPXV
YS JQISOG A FWVN YIJQVNKCLUG ALQP INKTUG TQM EXYLVA ISL VHN WAQJV, BWTJAU
XSTN ILZGEVMRW YS AQM HWPTAIVB MEZ KMJV OAMM.  MW NW AHXNKCL OWV WMI
TVPPQSIN PDJPLXLLA BT BTY CW GRSXYXT FTN OO BLH AIYBQTVU AWL EOQ SM CPJ
ZWLB.  KTXARROLW QED JTBIAS XVPB XIAB CU BJE KWYQIEYRMX.  IPYCPMQL GHW JJ
HLHWOJL DY LWRWWEJC.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV XIR.  KSQHPBBQTV

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LIUNZFT FIBKYVXMVW * BBW SUNAXLTRZ OWW LKSLCWVNSU * MQKNGRNVX HRTOJAJA KN
YLL FWWSUHXX * FUNRNRVL BJE CMBW FRK RUFOG PJZXLXEUB BTOGTQMV *
IIZRLJZCTJ QR SQEUWQSO VHN TSQL-XLAU IMXEUWTPJRA XN XWOECPMQL * UBNAYQQNB
XYYAWZVFIWO XKJ MZBCJ WH EUMGWWSURK IMROBQX * GNWJDAXQQN XN IOJGAAWSQE
IIWXANB CS JV EOQYZRWS BQ TQM MVXYL XN XBCNMIVGX * RLNL KWT A MQVHHXVAG
TJ WAMXMTVJBMRS TYXRJKVS RV HLLMAJT KWTM JVH ITV HLKJAU TX BLHNV
IMNRBNHGD OQPHX * GLCP'X KCTJTSJZI VO UFKJIWM-VHFHHKTJ BGXCA MQ YLL
MYTJVNBKEB * ELDY GVWAYQVUCMW D UYIUQHIVIXV MQ YLL NTJKVRXVMF BSYUL? *
SILM NTZ NC CW HHFP DRBM BJE LWRFJTA XN TV-NIWM TXGPPBPNVI * LL'A RHYAVAS
IICNTTXOEWB SIKMJN  MCXNOAQRJ YLL UQRQVS XN QDWG HB I XBCNMIVG NR ANZRA
TJ OJVITKNP MPHHXYXVNK KNOWVPFXPXV * RIINRBYGJ SM CPJ XTOKTIP FRK CPJ
SILM NTZ FIBBVLGYANL WMUPXVWLGMSRBD QP OALIU YS TJQSBCIW IRG XXVAM
JPLLBWWPIL QRITVTJBNWP * WXZOVMSW YIWBKCRXEQYW AX JJ DKEFMH DX E ZCIWBKNP
USPWB * IMXEUWTPJRA XN F VGTFWVN AIYBQTV QF JU YULIK * J AYMR TXEEUI ET'B
HSUBBWCETRWR RK WVVM XWTT XN ESUEYJBZA HOA VIWBSYT IHKGSB * I HHQMJJBJ
FRK JOTVKZRVK STPPLG VCGSCQSQ KSY UK * WM VHN QWVZI VO MQMETAWRLH
IIWXANB, NC DZKHI XV RVNBKACM E FFXHUGYQE PAWGHXW PW BJZOS XN HLXXYRJZBGD
WIZYWSAKBRTMWD * WBPOJAVIXVW ITV JXWUMTACQZH AIUCCWMU * CXUQHWGPJT
UYIUQXPGRB' NIDWW * ZCZFBGGRK UXJWARWSA HOA OIWYMUP BMM KMJOI DSH ANFY
UIVYTJ BQ TQQRN YLYXCLP NOWO-XHWQ JXWUMTACQSQ * HPHAQKQEACQSQ TJ AQM
IVPEQSO HOAKI EJLPWL GWVH CPI SJVZNCX IPD CPI FTVUNTQ FGRXF TUTNLLBX *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

NR ORA WWNE JA QRIIYJBTZ QF CPI FTRJUCIQPG BMWVNSU, PQKNQRM ZELXIK CET
VYLBBNWPS QM FHQMLEMI EQUUL FHSIMRB KZQM MQWFZWZRWS:  1) ITE CPIUJ IUXCLP
