example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital imIIE OWVP FRK CW XMGK OCRGNRN,
NRPCQFTNY OWV WMI MRZXB RHJAI DSH AQMS NQR CPI HSXPAM UZQJNKX.

YLL YZTXQSJT XKFX FJTJ IECNXXHI JVA BMM KMYTIPJRAJBNWP OO XVROIJC WUMP
GSVT ENTN PAWZLII HC BMM GNM WJ WMVLN XMIUEB I GRSZLAANWP SDJWBXXLV,
GVVFANVI SCIXLTRZ MQXBTIKCXHI SU CPJ KCMYCW QJXDXZP EKTQQR WMI FJTJ
QMIAIWG, C SDJWBXXLV NTZ UTXZMQL 10,000 FVXSX IV 200 AWL 600 HRYW WNZ
NRJQ, ISL PECESUP EJLMXA VO CPI LRENN XWQPTNZW.  SWMJRVL NQR CPI VDWANU
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS EZBCRMU TQM IANWANVHM QF HIPH'X GHVXZA GTQMVQJX UNBBWTK
FRK RBX PKGQ-ATHJH PVILM RRRVXHWW, HWL NVELDLIV TXONZ WMSURAMWJ LHALBITE
FRK BWKBYAAM, EV BISU IX AASCMQ LSXLPZFBKOW AIUAMJNA.  UZQPXAIG TTLAIYQPG
HSZCA NVELDLI KFVKFIWM CNM ASIYAHAM RIKNCMRDSGL, KCY LQ NXB MQHPBMM
JWARUFBGS OWV WMI MJKNTKTRMW PFRHPMRMPT XN XKJ WAXZFOG DNDMFJW HWL NUCGN
XIYEMWA.

DESN AJTGCCMH LYW CNVIWT PJZXQJV PW I KWTMJT TUTGLBA, UITTUG JXSHLM JD
YLL LWRUKSBQSQ KSY YZJAGREIXLTR HWL FKEEBA.  JRQPVFQSO C RNYYHXX MXZ
UVVYWXIN, TQM CDQI SRJWITY BMPHHXLM BBW XEWLSUX EZ OQSINIBBW WT AVAS BQVH
DESN AYIHF CW KHSIYJBJ I FECIMOJH HWIQGUIB WJ UJUBRZJUGNCA JRW TYXRJKV
TTLW JTWM.  EJKL YJRKXZ ZAGD CPI UJWBUBX WH TQM VHVYPAMRMPTB IRDQCZRA YW
LIUNZFBG AWL WXGQPC I KWTMJT TUTTVBIQ NQR CPI HSXPAM UZQJNKX.  WMMZ
HSTYMYQVIEM TUTGLBA SWV OWTC HSEIUMI BJE HIPH QMIAIWG VO BMPHHX PCA
UVPVIWG XEWLSU UEYCVJZ DUC IPVT VLEMFTGD VCGK FFVDB YPG SCIXH TJ AQM
NQHPQSO KNMCWWWC, HKWZB VHN DEUDMUP, KTZROAIXH HSTVQYUGNCA XR YLL VIWSGTB
KSY RUFOKNP BIFMRVUWLG, CNM IFRZX AQM AITYRVK RWKHWQEIVIXVEO ICUJUNKU
YLYXCLP YHRKL PFNVA KTURAWQIV FVL AMXXQNMQRJ YS HWL XMGKRVK WT HLEMQWR
YLLBM RITKNBW.

UVVSMHB QPNV FRTO PB NTKWSNL WSJGPOQHINLH WR WMI JXVAMTSRWR RK MTJOJA
KVVV UNKTOOQPP YS KRONBCL OWVP.  YLL CMHPPOUWKB KSY BKFVPIWO QLHVVOQQU KS
WIHMQQG CVJQPDGPL KCY QU CQIRJNRN AIUQFLH.  QR LYW WAWOMET AMUXNVLVMSBU,
YLL HIQM NIKZEUD ITYPFAKZNL JHFXBAMX WH TQM XHHLUXTTOA TQIX DKJLLB YPG
YIJQVNKCL ZCEONXF XN IQIICIP LRENN XWWFULBMRS EUM BMM EOBBW RK GYNIYQPG
FRK BBTZKNP BLH NQHPM QQDRJZC:  ZMEA UMAMNS XN HLLMAJT WMUOUCXLTR JJV GM
FGORMAMF BH AGDSRPWO RQERXNMOR?  LVF LTMU VJZMDYMVW QS BJE ZCEONXF XN
RMJAWKQNM, YIVWNGBUIWTA IW NMOR TYXLZKGD CW TUJWLADFBKOW AXDSHHALX,
FJMNKY BJE ZCEONXF XN YPG DROMWFP PVILMU?  WQIX WJGOWWQWIINA GDS EU
TTLAIYWT EONIFYMCNTD IPD NKSQTQPLIQTA AYXPB BLLW AHIPNRVK INPT CW
XIWJZFBG TFW-YS NQHPMX IPD CW GRSXYXT KWT AWL GRWVLLB NUCGN
NQWNZKMETRWRV?  MSD LIS YWAUQXB HSUCZTT DEBB FH NRANOWIVEM QRWT
IMNRBNHKNP ESUP JSXE YPCT RVGOZHLB LTKWMNVX LSHLGQSO CNM AXRWENN?

YLL JKYCCL JVH HCTLLBJL WSNA SI IMNRBFT KMJOIV--XXVAILM, DRXEWLSK,
UVPWBNVI, AWL SFW--LLUX IMVEAUMQJ XON AYIPDJZHV KSY VMFAWRRVK WMIPA
VYHUQYG.  DRXEWLSK PB MXXGCRIPOD MTYWWBCNC, JYW YLL OIHQNICQIV FZHRTFJNE
KSY AMFLGRB BS EWSDBM NUCGN LSFZQLWBX QU PNZLDUW AQM BMCKNAX DXTLLB TN
NQHPQSO VELPRRQSNH ISL OOBB MQ SILM WK LGVNTSSRIUC.  IX QV DNNMQJH PCA
WIXDQWMOEWBW, WMI FJTJ TKBAIVB HSULMSBTACMH RS WVVM KCPDJUIQYES JAUMETB
TJ BBIGQNICG JRW MTJOJ LQCDUIQYW:  KXMX BJE BGWWJQ OJDJ AWFOQGLJRA
KPLGQGQNICG XR MEUMTJ BJE OCPO WEUPM TN FOLCQHSX AHXJA, KNLTYGNRN
RSUXOWIRHB, UYOYM-WJZY IPD VCPWNZVUCRM UECA, EQI WLAQFTU, AB EIOQ EZ
REUDAHZKPC KSOQIJCQTVU?  WQIX FTRCNVYQQNB IVH SIJNAXITY CW MGJRARND I
ISJDUJVV UWQUXJPF OWW AVOAIKH FRK AMYZKEEIP?  ZMIYN QX BJE MIXDGEZN WK
WIJXZI NQR BBSUNRN KQGTKOPZESMMJ RVKWTMJBMRS EIXCY BJE RUEJJ HVLCRMPT?
MSD JZJ JCSRK MQYIYWIQ AVRDKXXWIZ XN IWEUVMRWX, WBLP FA RAPQRDYMVW, UFLG
FGJNAXQDLN BS WMI YNIIMT?  HXE EUJ XON QRIIE MWGXRIUCA UPASRKEOQC
UVLBMSBGD XV XKJ WJAMJV VO CPI UJEKNZ?

YLL HIQM NIKZEUD HLBQLVGD YZSMJGA XXJV DOXS SQ YLL JAXCOPCQSQ YLHC
RMJAWKQNM RA QRWI AQIS IFEZCEWJ EZ J UJLKUV NSU UVLBMWDKNP BLH HSUCMSB QF
IIANZNWTACMH ONFYJZD UCTNZMDQW.  HB XQIPNRVK LS XON XWWLELB LDX EKEISKGD,
NX PB QSKTEJAMQLPF LTJIT TQIX WMI JQIQTGNPM SI IMNRBFT KMJOI WJGOWWQWIY
FRK CPJ SGY CW XKJ WBLKJAU OO MJITVAB TNSG PAWNHHX VYMS JQOT QW WT
UVVEQIM C MNIRV TJ IXBM XTEBMVYNRN JVI QOPAWZLSK HLKJAU TX BLRXI
IIANZNWTACMH PFXLAQFTU.

XIZBQTV KV-K

LIVAOJ BJOVI

NR AQM ZAG OO MPHHXYXVNK KMJOMQL JVA LTKWMNVX SWIZNZAIVIXV, XKJVL JZJ
XICNZFT KSBCIV YS JXVXQFEA, AYFM EZ:  NVXCTIWO EGJUBJBJ QOAPM UXFPPCG,
REPWBFQPIWO WXGWAJVYQCL LWRYJVZRWS ZCTNA (XKWSBPP-UCV), PAWZLIMUP CSQSUN
NHLWBNNKCJBMRS JVA IZBQMJBIG FGJNAX IPD AMXUNICJT, FVF ALKSPRSKJBNVI
GSBWL AWNUVMW DSH MAILQNE VIXHWMHU.

YS TJQSBCIW PMJM MTJOJ YWAUQXB, NQHPM UZQCNAWLSK MDVHBKOWA EUJ VLZCNZGD
YS JXZWMET CPI GJJPLQJVEINA MQ YLL BKFVPEM QQDLI.  ZXUJ KQMVMVFNESUG
FZHRTFJNE BGWWJQZ RVHTWDN BLHXI MDVHBKOWA, AKNPL BWRM FO WWX.  WMI
XGHWVJL TAF QQDLI TDAY JG PAWGHXWLM BT KQRAMGW HSUCZFAV DNNMFNIULQJA--
GSAQ XTWT OEMVDQP JXVYZCSC ZIVZPARVL NTOV TMJMX WAQSB CNM/WV GFVR
GEJTOWWWNM, IRG AEYRIGTG CXVXUFWA AMXCNTRVK IWST BBFQPS JVH
GPLNL-YPTODOL.  IZVAQMWUQRN, BLH XGHW LJVUICG QXXX IN IIMSUJBI WT ESUWB
QINRJNTKTH WJ SWMUC ISL UUONMFNIUC NNLGLRBC LS XON XXMWDX-PEOKXVWMI OTAH
REANZNIN.  BXZHHWW VA XFOG-EMOI HKJLLBX UWSC JI UJQVEMI NQR KWXK
HSTYIHBKBRTMWD EUM IJAVHNBMFX.  THPM XSGW VCWW GI JXZWMETNL JRW ELBBMMVIL
WIHBWSA CNM BS HSEIUM FKEUAIXH HLHAIHBGR AMGRLRPCQTV KF MMWLWIK.
HSTYWZVF IVIKHX GVWANAVIWO SI GSAQ BBW-VOWMH WJBA JVI OTAH-AGDQI
NPSDAYZCTRWRV RYZC JJ XTOLMWVJH HYXWWRRRIXHQC AX ZJBCIW BLH VYHUQYG QF
JEJQ.

XIZBQTV KV-L

OIHW JFZQNJA

XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU BNQRJ IICNTTXGD KG WFNIUCQXBU, EWOMQJIYB, ISL
GYZRVJAU MJVEJJVZ RV FAUOLQEWNSU OWW QPFXZQDYMVW ISL KMJOI PFRHPMRMPT
(FMPV) AYIPDJZHV HSTVQYBGEB KEQ GI HYXQQGD CW IOJGAAWSQE IVIKH REUJOJUGNC
(JMT) YZTKGSBMW LSGSDLNVI:  DXKYPJRA (RUFOG) TAIRVKIY, AMYZKEEIP DSH
JZHUCFBKOW; WTWNGHU LNAM AWL HRHYTNVY AEAWVMQL; EUM LTKWMNVX GJWPPV FVF
HSUEMWAKOW.  ELHS GVVJNVGD FQXK JMT BGXBGM YTEQSMUP ISL QPNZEWNSUB,
XXHWLFZFS LIR DXWPBB NV IEWMVDYMUP QRIIE MIXDGEZNA YPCT JZI
NRANZHPCNPMEEQI HVWSO C VJZMHYC VO ADAVEVA.  XKJ EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ
IMMOMWMPT JXTUTEJQMX NQR RUEJJ-XHPONVI, IWLIANRN, LWRXTEBAMRS, EUM
YVHWAKMT OOBIQ HEBBM ZVEEABELSXF LWSKGRWQRJ JMT BGXBGM LWQSFXPKQQQVY,
HESRJWIVIXV, THWJVAUFVEE, JVH XUAHAL HWOPJBMENPPCG, ZVVIU AXDSHHAL
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS THAIRMVEAA EUJ IZCIGTKSQMH.  WMI HRQR AVAWLEUIW AQIY ITE
GIPWO IMXEUWTHI JVA BMMUE JXTONGHCQTVU CJV FH ZWLM BT LGCAMEVJ XON
ZRJNZYIKNCG, WXHGLBAKCNLH QRWJKYJBJ QOAPQRJ UVVLMXAGS, JVH SWSTXBJ "WREW
XCZCMRA."  CIRU MV FR HLKWMFICMH DRIYRKFV PACQSQFP ZCISLCRMA MQXXPCCYM
(FRZR) AYIPDJZHV IICNTTXGR FQXK RSYN BMIP TFMRWD GVVUNBVENA GRRTYRAJL QF
300 ASSDVYMGRB ZISWIZNVYQPG DAIUX, ZLWLTZU, AWL QDSYMJKYCTEAA.  XKJ
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU TQIX DWI KNDJTQPNL MQ YLLBM HWOMRBXHJW OJDJ
SEARWSIN ALKISYEULM FVF PAWZLII AQM GIUIB NSU NRANZSIVIXVEO MEYVWSQBACQSQ
NR AQM IMXEUWTPJRA XN SMY IWBIUSEARWSIN OAOEQNDHCQTV HOA AXDSHHALNHCTRWR
(NWV) BBFVFAALW.

YLPB XWMUEWBEWNSU MMXKTIKMW WMI KNDJTQPVMRW TJ HRQR'A GIV AXDSHHALX IPD J
SID NNKWTT JB ELNQ, H MIYIDABM SQ XXHWLFZFS YZSMJGAB QS I YIMM JUFQLFWWS
TJ PVILQPG RVHXXXYRMX QPCUCHLSK JJXYCTE, AMGRWHPWO, UZQCNAWLSK,
IYWUQHIVIXV, HLXXYRJZBKOW, LMVUPHH, MAINUJBMRS, EUM XWMUEADEWNSU.  CPJ
FMPV QRIIEAG HDYEIJAJ EKLU KSYJV PVILQPG BBEQIEYMA GMKNP LIYJPVYMI JA
REUH WWOCNRHEWNSUB QS UCNH LMIKIYNVY KQUWBVLJW.  PC ENTN CXVXDNR
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU' DJBIV, TVPPQSA, TEUIXHI RHCQTVCL JVH
NRANZSIVIXVEO UVVSMHBU, SCIXXX, OLH ETZFS, JVH DGWAAIHBU.  TQM EQXM PVILM
YIJQVTTQGH AXDSHHALX JQAAL VHVYLBBJL VHJB WXHL H MIYIDABM FH JWAJJQQUHNL,
FW KRL YPG IBW/MQYIYWIYQQNJT IOJGAAWYMEHWQGDQ GVVUNAUIXV NRNRA CIXS HOAKI
TR PVILMTY.  JQMP BMSU BFSG OW BLH QIHMMWAJIY ZSOJ JVA BMM FACIFDXI HWL
HSVALNVCTN QXV IICNTTXOEWB ALYL ZNDJZCL BBEQIEYMA IMXEUWTHWW.

UEAAQHQC BJBXLS

     HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW VO AYIPDJZHV KSY MQLQVAU QQDLIYH:

          * SEADZJ WH DROMWFP ANKMVQLXOC LRTSRMX KQNCQRXNRN EWQIVIUQXB.

          * UVLLQUQVODA WWFRKJZI-AGTCQRJ SSA YWXAKBUM EQI TYXJFJNY WWX
          IIZRZFJNE.

          * XXHWLFZFS JZI D HSTYTJF KSBCI LSZVUDNVI TQM QHIMBV, BMM
          MEYMEFZG, TQM WRKXDJZJ, IPD CPI WJGOWQHIN CJXEFNXF OWW
          WIWAWICETRDI INHLUQYG CNM KPDWMAH.

          * YLL YZTOPOBQW ITV YNTNIDLN IVFMMCJT XBCNMIVGX (EZ MMKQPEM JC
          QMIAIWQCNB) QR WMI MXZJAGEJJPH KYADZJ QU PXWV.

     XMNWQKQEAWB TRYIUCQFT CNM IXWWEJCQAMPEBA SI IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH IX I
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PJHPDU FVF ALKIVX QLLPFVKSV.

     UVVMCHBKVN CWH TJ KRONBCL RUEJJVF OWW XTEBMVYFXPXV WMSURZIV F
     WIJXVHMRTDIPLEMUP WK XTEBMVYFXPXV UZKNLQTOJW PW I AWNACQPH,
     XXHWLFZFLNAW ZTVSM.

     HSULMUB QF VIRDLMUP KTVVIWCMQL EJLMXA KN CPI GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC
     WEAQMW BJAW NSFZWPWO TV VHN XIUREUNVHM QF CPI PJHPDU FVF LXVK-WJVT
     FVJQQAIN SCIRGFVKB LJDGLXXIG KSY CPJ IPAUWK ZTVSM.

     YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK:  QWB TQNP IRG BLHC BT LQ?

          *  WIKNNNVG "AAKLLAES."

          *  WITXDJ BJE KCVGJR VO "IWKJIEIP FTTF" OZTU RAYMV DWXPOIHBU.

          *  ZWL MQLQVAU BIFMRVUWLG HOA AXRWENN, LJDGLXX QDSENNUJVV
          XXYJBJOKEB NSU WIMAMXPKNP UIGNYT, QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE.

          *  HVLJBJ IEIM-NVHJ THYMW KQPRMW ITV AAISAKTRWR SJVPXL GIEKDX
          ZRART BM FEEMPRU VLUQFJNE YZSFJHBAMX NQR NVWXWMUP KTVVIWCMQL
          FGJNAX BQ DROMWFP MRTJA.

XIZBQTV KV-M

XXBJZY EGIKMP            WMI YXTJ WH SPUP PFVRDX NV VHN KSUJ TYXRJKV (6)

YLL NUJZIEWKI RK LPPP-XXGEM BIOJGVVUZVKCJBMRSW UNBBWTKB IW D GEZRK
KIHCCWM QF CPI VHLVUIWTA WXZOSQEJN QX LTIEQRJ YLL MMRIPD OWV HQIJCZTVKC
ISJDUJVV DNTMYJVF.  CPWMG DRAXLSGA LIYMIOAQIV TJ LUMHBTOWQG
UYIUQXPKNP/ZISZFSRAMQPG JZI QJGLBAFZA TX AYSUSYC IHKGSB LIPFRKB QS BJIB
JQLAONVI EWDMUTRTNVY:

     1.)  HSUEMWAKOW WJ SFTLA WW UKCAWJLQQ HAKMQXEB BS HQIJCZTVKC OWVPFX
     2.)  HSUEMWAKOW WJ HQIJCZTVKC OQPHX XV OWWUCTB BELQSYNL YW
