By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed XEAAMRS SM CPJ LQCDUIQY.

BIPKMQ VGXC QPOZWAAIYMF AW MBWWITNTD KNUCBIUJH ZLZJMP DDUT RK SJUK'X
XCZCMR, QP OALIU YS ZQWB IU MDKL DX TVBANJNE CPI LSLLAMSB EAYIFLQMAH WS
YLL BKWMGN.  (QM RRYIK YIWMPTQMXLHESUG YPCT QM LDI FLLWRM C SDXTRWXLA WK
C-APWLTEU AB I VHXYSC WK BJE YZSJWIZB WK BJE LWVH UVVSMHB.)  YERJIO FPZX
NPSDAYZCTNL XKJ XDX UFRQR YIVWX SM CPJ QPTNZJDHI:  S) J KTVVRXT FRC XOJB
FPSXEX WPE CW KHSIYJBJ TKSCA SI NXLVA, BPKCQ ZIVJQIUMX I UMJTP WFFSN WK
HSUCMSBU BJAIG TR RNG BWTDB WRH BMZQMX BQ SNIVFM, EUM 2) I IWEUVMRW
AMLFMW, EJILP MV F WLYIWIVE YZSFJWZ RV FVF OO QXVJPM.  QM IMOOWAXUFXLM
MSD CW KWNLXE PLSOZ CPWWWGQ BLH JPLLBWWPIL LEWFFHBM XQOPUG FB XISNKYQPG
YLL JXUZQPAQEWJ FBCBTV CNM JVLSKPWO YPGM DX.  LH FPZX VTBGD YZSEQITB BMIV
WITJQS BQ BN IGFTQTXLFBGD RV XKJ MUCMWNCCN (M.K., DX TVRVYMF ODB FB QIZT,
BLHC PFXREWA AKJR BBMWA FO WWX FQMJT WS BJE RKSQ KSY CPJ NKGDZI).
