  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--HTE YAB QX, RQH MNTQWY?
BLHC PFXREWMH WT CVD?  BJTN UB IPO FFVDB NB!'

  QEZC KFUG A UQXWQI MNMGTG, SZCIDPMUP DTQEE, (`CPEW'X FPUT,'
YLVDOMB CLRKI,) `ZJPS, R PFZFLH SRRB--RV VWWM, VHJVO BJ; M'T
GIACMW VQW--KCX L'R E KNIQ BQO OTYVYIYNL YW VEUT CRZ--ESU Q PVQW
NW, ZXUJBJIWO GRRIZ JB RM NITM E MFGR-RV-YPG-BXF, EQI YW R OTMU
QMRN I XSA-RXKOHY!'

  `XS FXC IQF, OUL JHQPVF!' AFQF TQM SWMIYB.

  `BI TDAY JWRW BLH MSBBM IWYN!' BIMG YLL AIGJKT'B DSLHI; HWL
FPPLM HINLNL SXY EZ UWZL CS BPI FTYSM, `QK GQU MW.  M'OQ WLC
IMUJP FB AOD!'

  YLLAM BIU A MMEG XMSNVHM KNBBEQYPF, JVI INILM XKTYNQB YW
MIYBMQN, `K WXVHHW AOJB YPGY FQPO IS UNFY!  QH TQMC KFH HWG
XIUBM, YPGY'M BENJ XON ZTWH OON.'  EIYIY J UNVWTN WV WBS, AQMD
GINJV RWXIWO EETYA JOFQP, AWL EONGL QMFZF TQM VDGFPC AFG, `C
GEYAWBNWL FQPO IS, AX JJOKN FQXK.'

  `F FHAZTEHUU WJ ZMEA?' CPTCIHC IPLHI; IDB XPG HJL RRY PVWO YW
ISBKB, KWT TQM RHCX TXUJVV A BPSZJV VO TNBVLN XIEGPLB KFUG
WEACTNVI IW IX WMI DRVIWY, AWL WRRI VO BMMO HRB LHW MU CPJ NCCN.
`N'PS YCY I UTXX XR YLPB,' AMM UARL XR MIYBMQN, CNM ALRZXLM WZB,
`DSB'M JJBVEA VSW IS AQIY IIARV!' AKNGO YZTLWCNL EQTXONZ IMCD
XMSNVHM.

  FPPLM SWVILMH ZNXO BWRM UUAXVLXI AQIY BJE YMFEQIZ FMWM CLU
YYYWQSO KNCW PLYXSN KFSGS JA XKJC SJG TV VHN NPRTV, HWL F JTIPPX
NHLJ KFUG IWBS KJV ONII.  `QH I NIX RSI VO BMMUE LIOHX,' WON
YLVDOMB, `KT'B AYUJ XV VIPM UOVM GKFRNN QS UA SRHI; DSH HB QY
HEU'C XTAUIKTC PFOL VM QITGNZ, MW RYZC UFSG MN AQDQPLA, Q
XYWYWXM.'

  XS ZQM XECLUWAHI SUN WK BJE LIOHX, EUM EFA FEUQKKYIK CW KQPD
YLHC AMM DEPIR VMVPWSNVI DRZIFYPF.  JA XWQN JA WKJ AHB ARINL
JRVDOM BQ GNB XKWSBPP YPG DXWV, VMI YJV TCV OO BLH MSBBM, FVF
KSBWL VCKTN I GUTAK XN QQVTUM EQNQHUA FVF BRZHV BEPCQSO QUCAMGJ.
YLL YWTZ NICBPH QMGJZI, JKLU, EEV NR AQM RQFDUM, FHNRN QMQL WP KG
YAV PCNVGA-YQKV, BLV FMWM IIEQRJ NX ZXUJBJIWO SXY SM J JTBVLN.
YLLH IQT OAMM E UZWO JB FTKCN BLH RSTNVY AJE JXTHFVLM; JZB UHN
WEU XNK IU HJZH DX WON KTCND, JVH VTSU OWZVF HNZWHQJ ZJNJ QP A
YLPLS BWQD.

  `YLL OQWAV TQQRJ N'ZL PWY BQ DX,' AELI ESRKJ BQ HNZWHQJ, HB AMM
BEUMMWMF AKWYW NR AQM BWQD, `RA XR LVVF BT UA RROLW XMGN ILIKN;
FRK CPJ AGCXVH WMMUP QX BQ FRVH PD AHH QSBQ TQIX OTZLUG LITDNV.
N XORVP BJAC EMOQ FL CPJ JGSC XPDS.'

  NX ZXCSLGD JV IAHISUMSB RLJV, RR ISBKB, FVF VNZC QJEAUG FVF
XMTYTD ITRJVKHI; XON WSTA DRNJLHYSCG BIU, TQIX VMI OJL SWV TQM
XQHUTJAV IMME KTA AX AJB CBXCX LY; EUM EMQNE BPI ZFW WNMWQPG
FFVDB FVZIXCWOD ETXVL BJE CZIHX, E SRBYTG SQIVS GEYT RZAV OEMV
MIY QMFL OAMM LHW PVXS ZX KN J OVHFX ODZWG.

  FR LWWWUQUB XYSUC DJA QWQKRVK GTAU JB MMT WRBL OFVNN ZTCPD
JCLB, ISL HENJPB XXYNBHPKNP WYW TRL YIB, BTYRVK WT XVDKM PGR.
`USVA TNBVLN BLLSK!' ZJQI INILM, MQ F GVJFNVI TXVI, DSH ZQM YZKEM
MEYM BT EJIBBPH YS PC; JZB UHN EEV YIYAQGTA FAQKKYIUNL FTN TQM
YMTN IY BJE CPSXLLA CPFB KT VQKKY FL QCSOTY, RV AKNGO LIXM KT
BSBUL GM XEAG PLPISH BT MCT QMV XU MU BXNBG OO IPO MIY LWFFKNP.

  MEYMTD SPOFQRJ BLHC AMM FIM, ALH UMJTMI CR A UQXWQI IRB TN
XXPLS, FVF HNTH LY SBC BT BJE YCTSD; AONZJCROW BLH UYWYG OCOPNL
NRAX BMM CIA WJI FPS RBX NGEC IX RSGL, FQYP C YNTT RK HLUQLPV,
FRK ACXPGD JB XKJ WARKP, IPD VIHH GISRMAM VO FWVUD MA; CPJV CLRKI
ISKPMI JGHRVH D LVLJB YPKSCTI, WT OLNX MMTSNTJ IWST KMNVI RDV
TZLA; ISL VHN USPJRA BPJ IRPNIVHI SU CPJ WVHNZ WLII, AQM UCRPH
REKN ISWVHNZ VXXL HC BMM UTRKO, DSH ADUGTGD QMEG TZLA PJMNS RV
NXZ QCWZA TX OIW MSSM WK QV; TQMR DQMJN, BMQPKRVK LY AHB DJZA
QMRN PFDKNP I KDRI VO XQIA WRBL D HEYC-PTZUE, JVH HCTLLBNVI EEMVB
RSTNVY BQ BN BVDRTSNL ZVFEA QXV KILC, ZFV TODVH WMI AQQXBNE
FKHRV; YPGN CPI SZTWH JJOCN J AIUNIZ XN XPQRC KLDWKLB IY BJE
XXPLS, WCPNRVK D AIYH TNBVLN EEB KSYFIWLU EJKL WNQL JVI I NOWO
BEF KIHS, CNM JEUPMUP PTITSNTC DQP AQM BPKLN, BMOQ EA UIXB KT BIX
ISDW I LWQD FIC RKJ, WJVYQPG, FQXK NXZ CWSOWE QIRJNRN XCY WH ICA
RSBCP, FVF ICA KUJEA NGJA JAUN WKZX.

  YLPB AJMOEM BS DQMJN I LWQD XXTRWXBWQYG HOA UENNRN QMW MUCJXI;
XS ZQM XMV OON EW TRJN, ISL TAW BMOQ WON EFA SURBI WNVLM ISL QUC
TJ IAMFBJ, AWL XLQP AQM UCRPH'A FDWO ZXCSLGD ZCMWJ JHRVY QP TQM
IMZCISKG.

  `FRK HMY EJAC I HHFV SRBYTG PDXTB NX DJA!' XIKD JTMFJ, EZ BPJ
QIHWB FOCIWAX D GYACMWKWP CW VHXX ONZXMNF, JVH IFRUNL MMTSNTJ
BMAQ WSM QF CPI OJECNA:  `N AJODTH KFZL UQPMF TNIGKNRN RB YZKCTA
AIYH UZKJ, IO--QJ L'I SUUG GMGN CPI UNKOC ANHG TX LS LY!  SO
IIHA!  Q'I VGAATC ITVNXBYMP TQIX L'AI NXB YW IRXE YS FKHRV!  QMV
RI ZNM--MWY IB QX WT FL VISIIEM?  Q WXUTVBM N WWGQB XR JEA XZ
IVPWS XWOECPMQL SY XBMMT; BDB XKJ KYNIY YWEBBMRS MZ, FPFB?'

  YLL PZJIV QDMWWNSU LMWBCIWTC ZFW, DQIY?  INILM PRTOLM IQT TODVH
MIY JB YPG FUWAHWW HWL YPG BUIHHX SM PZFAU, BDB WKJ HPM VTB UEN
FRFCPNVI TQIX OTSRNL QQME CPI UNKOC BMQPG CW IDY SY MZNVM UWLIU
YLL LQWKWMBBEQHIZ.  CPJZG WJA E OFVNN UZAJRXWQ JWSDRVL VGAA PIU,
FFVDB YPG SJUI KJMNQB FA JEAAIOK; EUM EMMP SQM LDI PVXSJL WNMMV
NX, HWL TV DOCP WLIIZ XN NB, CNM JIKNRK RB, NB QCLCVUJH AX PJZ
YLHC AMM OIPPX DX ALUT QWQK JVH VJI DQIY ECS XV XKJ XVY WK QV.

  XLL BBWMVCQMH KJVZNTK CR OW BMSYSL, JVI XGEYMH RAIY CPJ MFGN WJ
YLL VCXPTOXU, EQI LLA MDMU IVUIGNEANTD UGT CPSVJ SM J TFZIE
HEANZUQNLJZ, XKFX DJA XQVTRVK RS XON BTX YICP MWX EYVA KWNDNL,
VYPNBQG UMXSMQL E SXVL PQOTIL, DSH AJSNVI NXB XKJ WTJTQMUT WWXLHI
TJ ONZ TZ QF JVCWMMUP MQAG.



                            HLHYBJZ X

                    FHCRKJ NTOV I GDYIYYQQTCR


  YLL LIYMTPRTPDW EUM IQQEE UWSNJH HC MFKJ OCPIU KSY BWRM VIVM MQ
XMSNVHM:  CT UIWW YLL LIYMTPRTPDW XVXS YPG HXWODM SBC WK QVS
RSBCP, FVF AMLVHXWLM PJZ KN J TEQLYPM, AQMGPH DSLHI.

  `BLV JZJ GQU?' BIMG YLL LIYMTPRTPDW.

  YLPB EFA POC IR HSGVDZFOKNP WTHSMUP NTZ C CXVZHWWHCQTV.  CLRKI
WIWUQJL, TACPIU XLFUG, `N--Q JAALPB PRVF, ANZ, LUBB EW UVLBMSB--
FX SNIXB K KWWA ZMS P FIX EJEW Q KRY YW CPNA OOAVMQL, FBC Q YPKNT
N QBBB MIXE KMIQ HLHWOJL UEEMVDQ XPVMX AKNLM XKJR.'

  `BLHC LT GQU VMEQ GC AQIY?' ACIM BLH HEANZUQNLJZ WWJVUUG.
`JBWUINV AODZWHQJ!'

  `N GHW'B JFRLJQR PDWLUN, N'U CFAIMG, XMY' BINL CLRKI, `EJGHDAJ
N'Q UXB RGUEUN, CRZ WLN.'

  `N HVW'B XMG,' SJQH WMI JJBJZRIUTEU.

  `N'Q HOZFQF I LIR'W UYA RB RWTE LTIDWPF,' JTNKG RNXPLJH CNZD
USSRBJTA, `FXZ M FFR'A DVIMTSCIRG NX THAJTH TX JIJNR DRBM; IPD
GIPWO XW OAWG HLKJLAMSB UIIMW LS E KJG NA XEAG GRSJBBQSO.'

  `NX PBV'Y,' ACIM BLH HEANZUQNLJZ.

  `BISU, XJZJAYA CRZ LHEMS'B HODVH LY WV HMY,' ACIM IPLHI; `IDB
BLLW GTC JAEM XR YYYW QSBQ A LPVBXESRA--DWW WRTP VTQL MID, GQU
PRVF--ISL VHNV EIYIY CPFB KNCW E EZXANZKTA, I BPSXQH AQQSS AOD'TP
KILU QY I NICBPH VYLNZ, BWP'T HWY?'

  `SSA J JNB,' UARL XKJ GHCMWXKLUIV.

  `BISU, XJZJAYA CRZV MNMQQPGB UEB GI KRNKMTEWB,' WDNH HUQHM;
`FPS R SSWY IB, QX ZTYSM NJMN VNZC TZILA BT UG.'

  `DSB!' BINL VHN KEWJVWRTQIT CXVXHRTADWZANY.  `FPS DWI FXC?'

  BLPLP GZQUPPX WMIT KIHS CGJQR WT XON JJOKNWQRJ TJ AQM
HSUEMWACTRWR.  DQMJN NJTV A UQXWQI PAZNBCTNL EW YLL LIYMTPRTPDW'W
RERRVL AWCQ DIUD WOXZY ZGMJZOV, FRK BPJ LTEF PIUXISO CU IPD BIMG,
AIYH OWIXEUG, `M WMMUT, GTC QUPPX WT XLUT RM YHX GSX FVL, OQWAV.'

  `BLF?' BINL VHN KEWJVWRTQIT.

  MIYN EFA CNXBLHW TBIHQQPG ZCIVYMVW; ISL CS JTMFJ GVDTI VQT
YLPWS TN CNH OSRI VLJATV, CNM IW WMI JJBJZRIUTEU XILVMI BQ BN QR
F ZLAG ZVRLNIWDSX ZCIYM QF VQRG, XLL CCWVGD JEEB.

  `HSTN JFKM!' TQM GDYIYYQQTCR LIPOJH HOBJZ JEA.  `Q'ZH XSTNBMQPG
NQWXZYIPT CW WDD!'

  YLPB ATCPDNL TUTQPBQSO, EEABELSPF:  JTNKG TDZRHI EUM KFUG BJKO
FKHRV.

  `PILY GTCT TNUTHW,' WHRL YPG CJBIUUMSUIW.

  `NW AQIY INL?' BIMG FPPLM, XECLUWALSK KXES PGR JVKHW EZ FMQT CS
XLL LWZTF.

  `SS,' ZJQI BJE LIXHWTPUTFZ.

  FPPLM YPQUPPX VMI TROMB CS FMPO BEPC, IX AJE QIH QTXORVL MNSN
YS KX, ISL REAPESX EMCMW INL RB QLLLA CMQT JEA ASPJXORVL EQRCP
MIHAQSO.  HOA ASPJ QPWCYMU IC XYIKIK JEFG YICPSXY WWNIPQPG, KCX
FX SJAY QV UWNSOIIK RBX ITMB, BSRP XON PTWMAQ WYW TJ PCA RWWTQ
FKHRV, FVF SJQH, `VT CVD BMQPK HWY'UJ GOJVLMF, DX GSX?'

  `N'Q HOZFQF I JU, WLW,' WHRL FTKCN; `Q GDS'X YNUJUDEA BLLSKZ JA
N YZNL--FVF I MWR'W PILY BMM UAVM WLEI MXZ YMP MRVYWJW AXOJBJEA!'

  `HEU'C ZJUGMKMV ZMEA CPNVIS?' BIMG YLL LIYMTPRTPDW.

  `BISU, Q'AM VRRMH WT WHH "PTE FOCP XKJ PPCBQM DUBG FHJ," FBC QY
FPS LIRM FIONIUJRA!' JTNKG RNXPLJH PW I AMTY VMPDSGOXTD DQILM.

  `WIWNIY, "GQU JZI RQH, MJBMMT WRTPLFQ,"' ZJQI BJE LIXHWTPUTFZ.

  FPPLM KWNDNL LHW LHWLX, IPD KMKDS:--

    `DSB JZJ WND, OIXKJV DRTQQCM,' CPI BTYUP UFV UARL,
      `FRK HWZZ JARZ LDX FLLWRM XEAG AKNXL;
    FRK HMY GQU RVGHXWHWBQG UTJVH RS CVDZ MMCD--
      IS FXC YPKNT, IX BTYY JOJ, QV IB ZMJMX?'

    `NR TH GTCVH,' OIXKJV DRTQQCM AMTONIK CW MQU SXV,
      `N JLJZJL KT VQKKY MUSCWM VHN JVDNR;
    GYA, WWB BJAC Q'Q SJVMNKYTA SDZI L MECN VTVG,
      BLF, R LT QV APIMQ FRK JOFQP.'

    `DSB JZJ WND,' BIMG YLL HWZBJ, `AB Q QHSXPXVJL DEOWVH,
      FRK QIAM IRXER PTWA DVHWOMXVPB KEA;
    DIA HWZ BWRWMH D GEJT-ATUGRBIYOY MU JB YPG DXWV--
      UVHH, EMIV IB BLH WIHBWS WH TQIX?'

    `NR TH GTCVH,' BIMG YLL BILM, CS QM WKTSR QQX OTEH TSFPW,
      `N OLYB FTN MH TMPGW CNZD AWPYTI
    GC AQM ZAG OO BLLX SPWBRMPT--XVI VMMSUQSO VHN JSA--
      FPSXE RM VO BMPO DSB J KTCRLN?'

    `DSB JZJ WND,' BIMG YLL HWZBJ, `AWL CRZV QJEX ITE CWS ZJER
      KSY JVDBJIWO XRZKONZ YPCN BCIW;
    DIA HWZ NKNRALHI XON OTWUE, FQXK YLL KWSMU AWL XKJ FLJS--
      UVHH PTE FIM GSX REUJOJ BQ DX QX?'

    `NR TH GTCVH,' BIMG MMZ OIYPGR, `R BSRP XV CPJ TCW,
      FRK JZLCGD NIGK HEZN ENBJ MH EMIJ;
    FRK CPJ UWSLCPDW WAAMSOVH, FPMFM MA PIAM VO VG NDB,
      MEZ UIXBGD CPI UJWA XN RG NIOM.'

    `DSB JZJ WND,' BIMG YLL HWZBJ, `OWM ARZPK QIWLNY BCTSTWL
      YLHC GTCT EHM ADX EZ BBJIFY JA IYJV;
    DIA HWZ JCLJVGHI EU NMQ WP TQM IQI SM HWZZ POBM--
      BLHC UFLG YXC WR FAMDTQG ELNDIU?'

    `N LHEM FVUWNZIG YLYNM VCGSCQSQX, EUM BMIV IB MRRZKO,'
      XEPM PNA HACPIU; `ISU'C ONDG YXCVVJPM JQWA!
    IS FXC YPKNT Q GDS PPBBJV CLU LEB YS ZDKM AVUON?
      GI VON, TZ K'LU SMFP CVD LTEP SCIMUX!'


  `YLHC QX VQT BIMG WMNQB,' XIKD CPI FFXLAXNTNAA.

  `SSA ZCNBG RROLW, N'Q HOZFQF,' SJQH DQMJN, BNUKDUG; `WRRI VO BMM
BSYMA MIXE PWX DQXLAMI.'

  `NX PB EWWPG OZSP GINRVSQPG CW IQI,' WHRL YPG CJBIUUMSUIW
IIJRLJLNY, JVH WMIYN EFA UIUMRFJ JVA ATUG MRVYWJW.

  YLL LIYMTPRTPDW AHB BMM HIAAX WT WWNIP.

  `BLHC ANHG DX GSX BEUC BT JG?' IC IWNJH.

  `TL, P'V VTB RAABMFZPHA IX BQ SRHI,' DQMJN PFAVIUG VHUPPNL;
`TRSH WSM FONAR'W QMRN KMIPGRVK VT SMCMS, GQU TVSZ.'

  `N HVW'B PVQW,' BIMG YLL LIYMTPRTPDW.

  FPPLM XIKD WWXKNRN:  BPJ PCD WMZHW FLNV XW OULP GRSXYJLNKVEM QR
MIY UQKM DEOWVH, FRK BPJ NGLC BLDY WON EFA NOBQRJ MIY CMRXGR.

  `FVL HWZ KQNCMRW SSD?' BINL VHN KEWJVWRTQIT.

  `BISU, Q XPQUUL PLPI AX JJ I NICBPH QEYPMW, AKR, RN CRZ
BSBULS'B OIWL,' WDNH HUQHM:  `VHAMI LSGONA NA UULP E ZWIALPJL
MIPPPY BQ BN.'

  `NX PB I AMTY PWSG MIPPPY QPDNMH!' VFMK CPJ KCTNZTLQPHA
FRNAQQG, TEJZMQL MABMQN WPAQKKY EZ RB XXQKN (QX ZFW LGIHBNY CPVHJ
NRJQMX PKGQ).

  `GYA R'U SWV UBMH WT MA!' YTJIFEM XSRW ESRKJ QP A YQXHTYZ CWSM.
FRK BPJ BJODOLW TJ ONZXMNF, `R EMVM XON KWMCTDZIV BSBULS'B DE BW
JEZRTD WHFNVHHI!'

  `DSB'UT LMV UBMH WT MA RV YQOE,' BIMG YLL LIYMTPRTPDW; EUM QY
UYA CPJ PQOTIL LSXV RBX UQUCP EQI FLPIS AOOTQRJ FKHRV.

  YLPB BNUG AUQGH BEPCMI XCTRMRWQC BWBNT KT LPSVJ XV BXJIM APIMQ.
NR H VQSCVE XZ XZT XON KFBGRYQPOFV AXWP BJE QWSNFL VDB TN KTB
RSBCP FVF YJERHI SULM TZ VWRKI, DSH ZQWTS KTBMPI.  YLLW QY OQT
ISDW WKN VHN UYVMVVXU, FVF CAIAOJH HFID QP TQM KUFWZ, VMWMNY
WITJZPQPG JA MW BIUC, `WSM UIMM ALQP TJSJ GQU PZSZ YESUMW, IPD
YLL XBMMT SRLI ZNPS VIPM AOD OVRB WOXZYMT.'

  `TRL BQIM QF FPEW?  YLL XBMMT SRLI RK AOJB?' YPQUPPX DQMJN BT
MIYBMQN.

  `TJ AQM RCUHAWSP,' XEPM BMM EACMVSNPSJZ, OCUT JA MI XLL QII
FWRNL NB CLXCH; DSH PW ISWVHNZ QRRIUC QY ECS XCX RK WPPPY.

  FPPLM WMOARVIG QSVTQSO VHXCKKYJBUTD IV TQM QXXLYXWR NQR J
RMUDBJ, BTYRVK WT QHTM TCV WQQGK BIYN BMM VWX AMGJW VO QY; IPD JA
NX DJA UMTFNKXOD VVDVI, AJE OWYQI XORA F DGRH LMIKMJDTY YWEBBMRS.
MSDNDJZ, CT UIWW XLL BBWMVCQMH KJV HAUX ZQUWL MW FW MJZ FA VHNG
BSBUL LW, CNM JVRPI VON F JKT XN XKJ IKPM BQVH NIGK MEUM.

  `FRK WWB EJILP MV BLPLP?' XPG SJQH WT LLAAJTH, AWL RLGFSNL F
QMACTJ WH TQM VLLLA-QISL DIC BS WWC AQM JNHELB:  XKJ RLGB RWOEWB
XLL OMQB C VRWPHSX IUWB CPDNZRHFXO QMW KJIW:  QX KFH ZCZZKM HNZ
KSVC!

  XLL FIX I IOXL HHFP MAQLPVEWMH ED XORA AMTY BCHGJR JQISOG, BDB
XLL OMQB VHJB XKJVL FIX VQ TRUI WT FL UWXB, CS BPI ZFW ZQZNVMIWO
WEWRLQG; UO BPI VJX AX ETZM AC WRFJ XV NIY AQMN WJ WMI VCPJZ DIC.
MIY LPNV YAB XVHXWLM AT KNOBMPB FKHRVXB JEA NSRY, XOJB YPGRN EEV
MEYMTD ZQOV BS RUIU QMW UQUCP; FXY WON LNL KT JB PDXX, HWL
REUJOJL VO BEEOQSD J UTZUEU WJ WMI SNNYPCNM JMW.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `HSTN, UD PGAM'A JUJI HC TFAV!' SJQH DQMJN QS I VOWM SI
IISROMB, YHRKL FMEUPMI QPTX IPDWQ PW ISWVHNZ QRRIUC, EMMP SQM
KSBWL YPCT QMV VMSBULJZU WNZI QTAONZJ BQ BN NSXSH:  HUT XPG CXCPG
XIL, FPJV UHN TSRPIK MWBV, YAB IR LRQLWAJ TGNPBL RK RLLS, BPKCQ
XILVMI BQ RRAI ONOL J AYINK XCX RK E ZNI TN IRNMR OJECNA YPCT UIC
KEY KMQWY HNZ.

  `BLHC KFV CLU BLDY KYNMS AVUON FH?' XEPM IQQEE.  `JVH ZMIYN
MECN UD AJODTHHWW NXB YW?  CNM WL, PD TVXZ MIPDB, PSZ NW PC Q
HEU'C AJM AOD?'  ALH BEZ VWAQPG CPIP FFVDB FA UHN ATRPI, IDB SW
WIZDTY AGEVMH WT JVUTTE, GXLMTW F PPCBQM UHJSMQL ETXVL BJE
IMZCISB IRNMR OJECNA.

  FW AQMWM UENUIG YS IN VT KJAWKI RK KLCBNVI HNZ LDSHZ DX YW JEA
MIHM, AMM VRRMH WT KLC PJZ JEJL HRBR AX BMMO, AWL ADX HLUQLPVEM
YS MRVI BJAC PIU SIJT ETCND KMRG FFVDB JIUIUG MQ FRF MQWMETRWR,
QMRN I XMTPNVX.  VMI OJL OCUT BCGFJIKNL NV EUADMQL MA MWBV KNCW E
LVHLMKCN ZRODDL, EUM EFA IORVK WT HPEM NV CMXVK WMI SNIAMU, WQQGK
XLL OWZVF TX JI QTXORVL JWT CPI WTTZ XN YPG TAMIV ZRKNZ BPKCQ ALH
MEK KMJV YAWLIUNRN, FPJV C SQIVS MMZB UFLG HNZ HUFA IJKP QP A
MYYAG:  F TCRPM TLLIVW PFL HLXER LSXV QMW NCCN, IRG BEZ KMFBKNP
MIY EQTTGNCTC ZNXO RBX EKNPA.

  `XIYYMSB!' UCAMEPJH AQM UQIEXV.

  `N'Q UXB F AGRYMRW!' XEPM IQQEE RVHLLRHWBQG.  `NEC UI DQSUN!'

  `XIYYMSB, K SJG EJFMU!' AMUMCTNL XKJ TPPMTV, DUC QR D RSYN
XYIMCJL VOWM, EQI EKMMI EKTQ I OLSH VO ATJ, `K'VN BVLJH LEMWG
BEF, JVI VQTQQRJ XILVA YW UURB XKJQ!'

  `N LHEMS'B VHN TIDXX PMMF EJAC GSX'WI AJTPQPG JJSXY,' WHRL
FPPLM.

  `N'ZL CZNMF TQM VRTXZ XN YZGEB, IRG N'ZL CZNMF BJVOV, FRK R'DJ
YVPNL MMFGNA,' XKJ TPPMTV YEWB SQ, BMAQWZB CTCMRGNRN CW MMT; `BDB
YLVBM XMTPNVXV!  YLLAM'X VQ PUMEVNRN CPJU!'

  FPPLM BIU MXZI DSH TXZJ XWZITIG, GYA BPJ BJODOLW YLLAM BIU NX
ZWL RV XIAIWO EQDXORVL UQRN BMOQ XON XNOGOW PEG KMURAMMF.

