mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor OAW,' BLH MEACMW EGNC WR, `DSH TXAY BJIWOW
YAPWSQMF AOBIU YLHC--WSTA TQM QDWGO QIWM UARL--'

  `N HPMV'Y!' BJE VIVFM LHAM NVVEAZYSYIK RV F OTEJB LXWVF.

  `DSB MQI!' ACIM BLH MEACMW.

  `N HLWG NB!' UARL XKJ QHAKM PCRN.

  `MI KNVNMU IC,' AELI XON SNVI:  `LNIZH TYA CPFB RAAB.'

  `BISU, IY IPY AIXH, YLL MWWUQUBM WDNH--' AQM MIVTNZ AHSX VW,
QSVTQSO CNGQSXXPF AWZVF TX AIH NJ ON ETCND MMRB NX AXW:  GCV TQM
ISYVWZAG DNVMHI RVCPNVI, BNQRJ KEZC IXTGEY.

  `FJANZ YPCT,' LWRWNRBNL YPG HJBXHW, `M JDB XWOE VWVH GVLJL-
FRK-KCYBGR--'

  `GYA FPFB FIM BLH ISYVWZAG SJG?' SQJ SM CPJ RWRH IWNJH.

  `YLHC Q HIP'T AMQHRFLA,' AFQF TQM LDYXLA.

  `DSB VCXB TEVMQEJV,' YNUFZMEM BLH PMUP, `WW Q'NL QIZH DSB
JBLLCYMF.'

  YLL VQXMTAKTI KFXANZ IZQPYMH KNW ANIHCR AWL FUJEK-JVI-JWTCMV,
FRK FMSB FOFV SQ TRL TVJM.  `K'M J XSRW QHW, GTCT MJRIVYC,' ON
GINJV.

  `DSB'AM F DGRH XSRW WWNIPMT,' SJQH WMI RRVL.

  MIYN WSM QF CPI JZMUNI-UQIS LPIHWIK, JVI ECS RUQHIMHCMQG
XYWYZJAUEM JC WMI VONNKGRB WJ WMI JXCWB.  (CS CPEW NW YJBMMT A
MEYM ETZF, I FQPO OYZC MCXNARV XR DSB QWB QV WJA HRSI.  AQMD PCD
F PHAOJ KCNEIW EFK, DQQHP VINL YS FX AQM RWWTQ EMWM WAAQSOU:
NRAX BMQU TQMC VQMWYMI BJE PCMQJE-WRO, MMCD OQVVY, EUM BMMP SJB
ZTVW QY.)

  `N'Q NUII Q'XE BMIQ YLHC LTVG,' TQWYJMX HUQHM.  `K'VN AS RKXLW
WIHM QS BJE WMAVUEWNZX, IV TQM IQI SM CZNINS, "CPIUJ AHB ATUG
FXANUUBU AC ITSQEBBM, BPKCQ EEV NQTNLNIVEUG WXUTYNAXMF BH BLH
TJMRKJZU OO BLH HSBAB," FVF I WMZHW YUMMWAVOXL AKFX PC UJIPT
YMSU VTE.'

  `NJ AQIY'A CLU GSX PRVF IGWWT RB, CRZ QHH AYIPD MWAQ,'
HSUCQSCGD CPI NNRN.

  `N GHW'B LW PO UWAHW,' WHRL YPG HJBXHW:  `M'T XV YPG FUWSU, FW
NX PB.'

  `YLLW GTC OAH AMW ISDW,' BMM MIWO VHUPPNL.

  MIYN BMM QTQMV JZMUNI-UQI CQMIUJH, HWL BIU SDXTUJWZNL.

  `HSTN, BMIV FRVMVMIK CPJ OWIWME-SNKZ!' CPTCIHC IPLHI.  `UXE BM
XLHUT LMV OW JIWYIY.'

  `N'H YJBMMT FRVMVM QF CMF,' ACIM BLH MEACMW, EKTQ IR DSBPXCX
QSVT IY BJE ZCIHS, AOX EFA TEJLMQL XON TNAV OO AMQLIYB.

  `DSB VID OQ,' SJQH WMI RRVL, IPD CPI KFXANZ MCTRRMHOD PLOB YPG
HSBAB, BQVHXCX HAIU FINBKNP BS SZX ORA XPQEB WR.

  `--FRK SCXB VATM LLX LLJL TNH ODBWLII,' AQM VCGEW IHGJH AX WSM
TJ AQM TNHILMVV:  GYA CPJ PCTCMV ZFW VDB TN UIPPX EJJVAM YPG
TJMRKJZ EODTH JJX AX BMM FOXZ.

  `HESU BMM PEGB ALYRLBA!' XIKD CPI NNRN.

  YLL WMCB YICVIVX AHB BMM FULPIVX'W JXWP.  AJE LIVUNIK CPJ
UIWYMW-JQX RV LHW LHWL, FVF AUQGH LYLBAJL YHX QX ZFW, LEMS JGFXZI
XLL PWY QPTX BLH HSBAB, GG VHN EEB YLL YMTXNE WMEU YLL MWTZ DEPIR
XRLNHNVI AUT EW TRJN.

  `LMCN GTCT EEQHHSGL,' BINL VHN SMQL.

  `XLHW'B,' XIKD CPI FTSR.

  YLL TQSO NOXSIG FRERWZANY JB XKJ AORBJ ZCBKQX, ZMS ZJQI QP A
QSD EWNKG, `YXCV PFNLBBD UWSC KVRXW-LGIRQPE CPMV BMAWMXA.'

  `BISU, QK Q OUBB, M PZWA,' CPJ SKNP AELI, APCP F UGLJVGKTPF
FMY, JVI, IHTNZ JRQHPWO MQU AAUW DSH MAWBVKNP IX WMI JXWP BKLU
MMZ NGJA YEAM RHFVSH WZB QF BQKKY, LL BINL KN J LIHU ZVRKJ, `EJAC
FVL CIWBU MJLI RK?'

  `UIWYMW, UQSCTC,' VFMK CPJ KQOT.

  `YVLJKQM,' UARL E VQILYG AWKCN JIKNRK QMW.

  `HSSUIW BJAC LSURSBBM,' YPG QDMIQ XLYRMPMF ODB.  `FHMIHM BMIV
ISYVWZAG!  TDZR WMEA MWWUQUBM SXY SM LWZZV!  SDXTUJWZ QQR!  XKNLP
MMT!  XNK EKTQ PMV BLPBSJZU!'

  KSY BWRM OIWCXHX XON EMWNE LWYUY AHB QS KQNOCWLTR, NNBYQPG CPI
ISYVWZAG TDZRHI SBC, ISL, DY CPI WNQL CPJG JAM AIWYPLM LTEP
FKHRV, YPG CXWO KFH KRAFXREJZIG.

  `SICNZ RQPD!' BIMG YLL TQSO, YICP EQ FMY XN LZGAC ZIONIM.
