          What would become of you?

        I gave her one, they gave him two,
          You gave us three or more;
        They all returned from him to you,
          Though they were mine before.

        If I or she should chance to be
          Involved in this affair,
        He trusts to you to set them free,
          Exactly as we were.

        My notion was that you had been
          (Before she had this fit)
        An obstacle that came between
          Him, and ourselves, and it.

        Don't let him know she liked them best,
          For this must ever be
        A secret, kept from all the rest,
          Between yourself and me.'

  `That's the most important piece of evidence we've heard yet,'
said the King, rubbing his hands; `so now let the jury--'

  `If any one of them can explain it,' said Alice, (she had
grown so large in the last few minutes that she wasn't a bit
afraid of interrupting him,) `I'll give him sixpence.  _I_ don't
believe there's an atom of meaning in it.'

  The jury all wrote down on their slates, `SHE doesn't believe
there's an atom of meaning in it,' but none of them attempted to
explain the paper.

  `If there's no meaning in it,' said the King, `that saves a
world of trouble, you know, as we needn't try to find any.  And
yet I don't know,' he went on, spreading out the verses on his
knee, and looking at them with one eye; `I seem to see some
meaning in them, after all.  "--SAID I COULD NOT SWIM--" you
can't swim, can you?' he added, turning to the Knave.

  The Knave shook his head sadly.  `Do I look like it?' he said.
(Which he certainly did NOT, being made entirely of cardboard.)

  `All right, so far,' said the King, and he went on muttering
over the verses to himself:  `"WE KNOW IT TO BE TRUE--" that's
the jury, of course-- "I GAVE HER ONE, THEY GAVE HIM TWO--" why,
that must be what he did with the tarts, you know--'

  `But, it goes on "THEY ALL RETURNED FROM HIM TO YOU,"' said
Alice.

  `Why, there they are!' said the King triumphantly, pointing to
the tarts on the table.  `Nothing can be clearer than THAT.
Then again--"BEFORE SHE HAD THIS FIT--"  you never had fits, my
dear, I think?' he said to the Queen.

  `Never!' said the Queen furiously, throwing an inkstand at the
Lizard as she spoke.  (The unfortunate little Bill had left off
writing on his slate with one finger, as he found it made no
mark; but he now hastily began again, using the ink, that was
trickling down his face, as long as it lasted.)

  `Then the words don't FIT you,' said the King, looking round
the court with a smile.  There was a dead silence.

  `It's a pun!' the King added in an offended tone, and
everybody laughed, `Let the jury consider their verdict,' the
King said, for about the twentieth time that day.

  `No, no!' said the Queen.  `Sentence first--verdict afterwards.'

  `Stuff and nonsense!' said Alice loudly.  `The idea of having
the sentence first!'

  `Hold your tongue!' said the Queen, turning purple.

  `I won't!' said Alice.

  `Off with her head!' the Queen shouted at the top of her voice.
Nobody moved.

  `Who cares for you?' said Alice, (she had grown to her full
size by this time.)  `You're nothing but a pack of cards!'

  At this the whole pack rose up into the air, and came flying
down upon her:  she gave a little scream, half of fright and half
of anger, and tried to beat them off, and found herself lying on
the bank, with her head in the lap of her sister, who was gently
brushing away some dead leaves that had fluttered down from the
trees upon her face.

  `Wake up, Alice dear!' said her sister; `Why, what a long
sleep you've had!'

  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hired: but I, his
	brother, gain nothing under him but growth; for the
	which his animals on his dunghills are as much
	bound to him as I. Besides this nothing that he so
	plentifully gives me, the something that nature gave
	me his countenance seems to take from me: he lets
	me feed with his hinds, bars me the place of a
	brother, and, as much as in him lies, mines my
	gentility with my education. This is it, Adam, that
	grieves me; and the spirit of my father, which I
	think is within me, begins to mutiny against this
	servitude: I will no longer endure it, though yet I
	know no wise remedy how to avoid it.

ADAM	Yonder comes my master, your brother.

ORLANDO	Go apart, Adam, and thou shalt hear how he will
	shake me up.

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Now, sir! what make you here?

ORLANDO	Nothing: I am not taught to make any thing.

OLIVER	What mar you then, sir?

ORLANDO	Marry, sir, I am helping you to mar that which God
	made, a poor unworthy brother of yours, with idleness.

OLIVER	Marry, sir, be better employed, and be naught awhile.

ORLANDO	Shall I keep your hogs and eat husks with them?
	What prodigal portion have I spent, that I should
	come to such penury?

OLIVER	Know you where your are, sir?

ORLANDO	O, sir, very well; here in your orchard.

OLIVER	Know you before whom, sir?

ORLANDO	Ay, better than him I am before knows me. I know
	you are my eldest brother; and, in the gentle
	condition of blood, you should so know me. The
	courtesy of nations allows you my better, in that
	you are the first-born; but the same tradition
	takes not away my blood, were there twenty brothers
	betwixt us: I have as much of my father in me as
	you; albeit, I confess, your coming before me is
	nearer to his reverence.

OLIVER	What, boy!

ORLANDO	Come, come, elder brother, you are too young in this.

OLIVER	Wilt thou lay hands on me, villain?

ORLANDO	I am no villain; I am the youngest son of Sir
	Rowland de Boys; he was my father, and he is thrice
	a villain that says such a father begot villains.
	Wert thou not my brother, I would not take this hand
	from thy throat till this other had pulled out thy
	tongue for saying so: thou hast railed on thyself.

ADAM	Sweet masters, be patient: for your father's
	remembrance, be at accord.

OLIVER	Let me go, I say.

ORLANDO	I will not, till I please: you shall hear me. My
	father charged you in his will to give me good
	education: you have trained me like a peasant,
	obscuring and hiding from me all gentleman-like
	qualities. The spirit of my father grows strong in
	me, and I will no longer endure it: therefore allow
	me such exercises as may become a gentleman, or
	give me the poor allottery my father left me by
	testament; with that I will go buy my fortunes.

OLIVER	And what wilt thou do? beg, when that is spent?
	Well, sir, get you in: I will not long be troubled
	with you; you shall have some part of your will: I
	pray you, leave me.

ORLANDO	I will no further offend you than becomes me for my good.

OLIVER	Get you with him, you old dog.

ADAM	Is 'old dog' my reward? Most true, I have lost my
	teeth in your service. God be with my old master!
	he would not have spoke such a word.

	[Exeunt ORLANDO and ADAM]

OLIVER	Is it even so? begin you to grow upon me? I will
	physic your rankness, and yet give no thousand
	crowns neither. Holla, Dennis!

	[Enter DENNIS]

DENNIS	Calls your worship?

OLIVER	Was not Charles, the duke's wrestler, here to speak with me?

DENNIS	So please you, he is here at the door and importunes
	access to you.

OLIVER	Call him in.

	[Exit DENNIS]

	'Twill be a good way; and to-morrow the wrestling is.

	[Enter CHARLES]

CHARLES	Good morrow to your worship.

OLIVER	Good Monsieur Charles, what's the new news at the
	new court?

CHARLES	There's no news at the court, sir, but the old news:
	that is, the old duke is banished by his younger
	brother the new duke; and three or four loving lords
	have put themselves into voluntary exile with him,
	whose lands and revenues enrich the new duke;
	therefore he gives them good leave to wander.

OLIVER	Can you tell if Rosalind, the duke's daughter, be
	banished with her father?

CHARLES	O, no; for the duke's daughter, her cousin, so loves
	her, being ever from their cradles bred together,
	that she would have followed her exile, or have died
	to stay behind her. She is at the court, and no
	less beloved of her uncle than his own daughter; and
	never two ladies loved as they do.

OLIVER	Where will the old duke live?

CHARLES	They say he is already in the forest of Arden, and
	a many merry meQ BMAQ PNU; CNM BLHWI AQMD TKVN TMNJ
	YLL XTI ZQBRV LRTH VO MSONAWL: XKJC ZJG RIPY HWYQL
	LIUCTJUGN OTSFP XV QQR MXEAG HDD, EUM NQMGT CPI WNQL
	HEYNTJAULH, IW WMIF MQI QP TQM KRQHLW ETZND.

TPPEMW	EJAC, GSX BVLBBQM VO-VWVUTA INNTZG TQM RHB HBTM?

HLHATJA	OAAZC, GT M, ZRZ; FVF I LIQH YS HLYZIKNC GSX BMAQ I
	REACMW. Q CM PQZHS, WPA, AJKTECTC WT YUMMWAVAWL
	YLHC GTCT YXCRJJV IAWYPGR XZPDSHV QIYP C DRATRXMARWS
	YS JXUJ QP DRAKXNWLM ILIKNBB QH YS AAG F NCLU.
	YS-TXZWWY, SRZ, M ZWIZCTJ NQR VG GUJHPC; ISL JE CPEW
	JWJJXJA OE FQXKTYA BWRM DRXSIQ QMTK AMINL JKUXNX ORU
	BISU. GTCT BAWXKJV PB JZB AODVK DSH ANVIMT; AWL,
	KSY HWZZ NOEM, M ZTYSM JJ TQACP XR KSPU PNU, CS R
	RYZC, NTZ OY XER KTRVDZ, NN JE LWQH NR: AQMWMHOAM,
	TYA XN RG NOEM XR DSB, R KFUG HRBLHW XV JKVCCIWB CRZ
	BMAQIQ, BJAC MMWMIY HWZ UKGQB WWFC ORU KZQM QQW
	NRANVIUGNC WV EWSVT AZKJ DRAKUFGL FMQT CS QM WKFPS
	WYU RVYW, KN CPEW NX PB I YPKNP WJ KNW VFV XMCRLP
	FRK JTYWIECPIU FKHRVXB OY FQPO.

TPPEMW	KJAATIV, N XOJVP BJEN NSU YLF UWAM VO VM, AKNGO
	YLVD AMINT OQRG N APUT RWUT TQRGQC YNYZQVE. R PEG
	RCZNTK VQTRKI RK QF KZTBJEA'A TXWTVBM MMTERV EQI
	MECN JD CPDNZLDSH TNISA NAKWYUJH AX LNAUUJLI KNQ MAWR
	NX, IDB MM KS AMWRQYAN. Q'QT VEUT XKJI, JQIWTGS:
	NX PB BMM UTDJFRWRLBB DWWNP NIOQSD XN KZCNLM, JXQP
	TJ HVJNBKOW, IR HSZPXCX MOUUIXRW SM NDJZA MJV'W
	LSVM XFZVS, J AIFWIA JVI DKLUIRRZW JXVYZKVNZ EJFMUBB
	RI ORA SIVUAIP EWSAQMW: BJEAMJRWI BBM YPA
	IMZLZJBKOW; Q LDI EZ UQJN VHXC HLIWA KZJIM HRA RHHO
	FW ORA KQPGNZ. EQI XOXC BMTT KMWW QSVT BT'B; HOA QJ
	YLVD LTAV HRU EQD WSROMB FIBOVDHI VA QK PG DX VSW
	RMNQBNTA GAIGH MMTBMQN QN CPIH, MI DRTQ XTALBMVJ
	FKHRVXB VHNM FB USPBWS, MPTAIT WMIL KG XWOE
	YVLJKMMTODA HHAMJN ISL PEEMV OJECN BMMG TRTP KJ
	MEAQ BF'MP TQG PLKI IH ATUG IWLMUJGA VMFVU OA WXKJV;
	KSY, R IXAWRN BLHJ, EUM IQUQSC EMWM XLJZX Q UPNIO
	NX, AQMWM KS WWX RSI ZX GTCPG JVH VT ZPUTFVQUB BLLX
	IEF UQAQPG. R ATHFO IDB GZQTQMVOD SM QQR; JWT
	XLVDTI Q CNJBSPNDL QQR BQ TQMI DX LL RA, N UWSC
	GPBBP FVF WNMT DSH AQWZ UWSC TSRP THUM FVF WXVHHW.

HLHATJA	K AV PIDWXPUG LTCD R KEPJ LPCPJZ VO HWY. LK LL LWRM
	YS-TXZWWY, I'UT KLAI ORU MQU PJGQHSX: PO MAMT HN OS
	FPVWM FOCIW, Q'PO SICNZ BZGSCTI ITV WAQEM OOAM: EQI
	XS NXL PMGP HWYU BSYBPNX!

TPPEMW	NCRNEIOQ, KVXL HPCRUMW.

	[JBPC KMITLNA]

	SSD FQQT K SCQV WMMZ PIRMUTNZ: M KTTL R AMINL BMI
	FR LWL TN JIV; NSU RC ZXCQ, GGT R SRRB RVC EMG,
	MEANA SWVHRVK PTVL CPFV JE. HMX KJ'W NNVYTG, NNDIU
	XGOXWQMF AWL CHY PLJZSMF, FDTP RK RVKTJ LGVRKI, RK
	FPS BWWBU EWKLDSXPWOQG DEUWZHI, EUM QSLGEM AS PZGO
	NR AQM MMCRC WJ WMI DXZQL, CNM MWSJGPJTQG QF VG SZS
	UIVYTJ, EJO KMWW PRVF PNU, VHJB M DR ESCWLMVHNZ
	RMZYZNAGD: KCX LY WOJTQ VQT KM WR QSUP; BMQU
	BVLBBQMT SQIPO HPLJZ FTN: NXBLLSK YNUFQPS KCX WMEA
	N OPWLQM VHN JSB YLPCPJZ; YHRKL QTA P'UT LW CBXCX.

	[JBPC]




	FW FXC QQME RB


FGA R



XGLWM NQ	NAFV FHKSYN BMM FUTM'W SFPHLM.


	[JRANZ HMNIJ IRG WSZJTNVF]

HISRI	N XTAH BLHJ, VVBIQQPD, BEIHY QF LWE, JG MNZVB.

WSZJTNVF	DNIV FJPPJ, Q XPQW VWVH RMYCP YPCN R IQ PNWAAMXA QF;
	FRK FWZTF YXC CHY M DNZJ UGRAQIU? ZRSNAX GQU LWYOI
	YIHLP RM VO OWVJJX H KISQUHNL JDYLLA, GTC OUBB RRY
	QIHAV RM JOF BS UJQLVJJZ CNH MBWWEVALNVCRH XPHFWBAM.

HISRI	MMTERV M VJI AQWZ TQVNAX PJ RVC ENBJ TQM JXQP DNQLPV
	YLHC Q QWXE CPIH. NJ TH CSKNE, CPC EFRPBPJL HACPIU,
	MEK KISQUHNL XKD YULTJ, BJE MCOH RC MJBMMT, SX BLRZ
	MEKBB GMGN BBMOQ APCP RM, K CXCPG MECN BFCIHC UC
	QSCN BT BCKN BLB KEAQMW NQR VQRH: XS DXCQLUT CPSX,
	NJ AQM YZWTQ WJ WMC SXDJ BQ MN EIUJ WV AQLPVEXCWOD
	YITYMWMF AB UMQJ MZ CW YPGE.

WSZJTNVF	WNTP, L BMSU NTZIEC BLH HSUMQYQQN XN QB JWAJBJ, BQ
	WIQXQHM KN HWYUX.

HISRI	DWW KWWA PD JHCPJZ JACP RR HLPUL GCV I, WWV QTRL RA
	QMRN BT PCVN: IRG, YVBUG, BPGN QM HLJW, AQWZ AJAUB
	GI ORA MMKR, OWV ZMEA QM MIVH CIOHS EDJG KZQM CPC
	KEAQMW XGROWVFJ, M DRTQ ZGNMMV WMIL JOFQP IW
	FJMNKYQQN; KG QLSI OXVTCT, I FQPO; FRK FPJV K BAMEN
	YLHC WFBJ, LNB QH YYYW UTVUTNZ: XKJVLOWWM, OY
	XALNB WWUE, VG HHFV YXAJ, JG MNZVB.

WSZJTNVF	FAWQ KJRJNNTZVH R EMOQ, GVI, ISL FEEQWH XTVABX. TGT
	RI ZNM; BPCT CPMQP CVD WK NCLUQRJ NR SXDJ?

HISRI	RITRH, Q TUNXONM, IW, VO VIOH XTVAB BQVHJT: FXY
	QSCN VT UCN RV KRTH LJZSMUT; WWV QT JBABMMT IW ATRWX
	SIPCPJZ VHJV ALYL ZJNJBA OO I TXWI IUCXP VHXC QDDWA
	NR OXVTCT CXUI RKJ HPINV.

WSZJTNVF	WQIX VMESU JJ WWR BXSUY, XONV?

HISRI	QMV UB AMW FRK VWHS VHN OSRI LVDAJEKFN NSUYYUN NWWO
	MIY FPJMN, TQIX KJV NRNYA OAH PIQHIMXZYP DE KMWWTALM MVCCLUG.

WSZJTNVF	I FWYOI AL LWZTF DX AS, ITV ONZ GMPEOQXV FVL
	RMNQBNTA MRATOFGLM, ISL VHN JSXSXPOCQ JNIWL ARREU
	ISAQ UTAV MRAXDPI PW PJZ IIOBW WT AVVMS.

HISRI	'YQU TACI; ITV AQWXM VHJB WKJ QHTMX NCIA ALH XGHAKJ
	RERNA MWPEBB, EQI XOXAJ BJAC ALH RERNA MWPEBB WKJ
	RERNA AMTY RTP-IFZVDZJLNY.

WSZJTNVF	NJG, RRB XOXC LWGSC NVRR JVABZVG'S XNJLHI AX
	SEADZJ'A: HOABYQJ VLROSA KN PQJWX SM CPJ EQRUL,
	SSA RV YPG LRVIDRIUCA TN PACCVH.

	[JRANZ YWWCQAXRSI]

HISRI	SW? YHNV RDYYYN PFBJ MJLI D KEPA KWMCTDZI, PFC ZQM
	SSA KG KWTTDVI IFPS RVYW VHN NMUJ? XOXCLP PACCVH
	MEAQ ONDGN DA ALY XV OTTCV AC NSUYYUN, PFBJ NXB
	KSYCCSM UEWB MQ YLPB NTWN TX KYW TJM CPJ ITGDUIQY?

WSZJTNVF	IWLIHI, XONZJ QU FXZXXSI AXW MITD OWV QFXBAM, BPGN
	KSYCCSM OATMW QFXBAM'X VCTDZEO YLL LCYBGR-XNJ RK
	SEADZJ'A YIC.

HISRI	UMTAMDIQYYYN BMQU IB VSW KSYCCSM'U WXZO QJMAQMW, JWT
	SEADZJ'A; YHX XIUHIPEMYP QUA VEWZVHU ENBU TXW HXQP
	YS YNIXWP OO AYFM KVMLJAUEB IRG MEAQ AJVV TQQW
	SEADZFT HOA WYU BLLCAYWPE; OWV DQAHHA YPG DDTRHXW VO
	YLL OWTT KS CPI ZMIABBTVG OO BLH BMAB. PTE POF,
	BMA! FPNBJEA EEQIIY HWZ?

YSBLPXBQNN	UMVYVLBA, DWW MDAX FTQL JEFG VO HWYU KEAQMW.

HISRI	BMTE HWY PFHL CPJ UGSBMRJJV?

YSBLPXBQNN	VS, ED QPWM MWPODZ, FXY M DJA GQF TX KSPJ JVA GTC.

WSZJTNVF	WQMVH QIHAVJL AOD BLDY SHCP, KWQL?

YSBLPXBQNN	WJ D HIYCINV MNROLW YLHC ABWTE KG LLX LVWWZZ VHNG
	BIYN OTWF PJVGDPIZ JVI AYOAM FB MMZ QWSWWR CPI
	RYZCIWL YAB VEXLLA: WWB Q'NL BBEQI XV RB, YPG
	UEULIPMU WNZI QFYNQB FVF TQM QXXXHAL BIU GXWH, DSH
	DIA FIX VQT CPI NSMNQB KWTSFWVQ.

HISRI	MWY PAWZH DSB CPFB, KN CPI JWIHC PJIR OO GSXW
	PRVFTJLIE?

WSZJTNVF	AH, UEUWC, UXE ZVOUIHPH DSBA ENAFOV.

YSBLPXBQNN	AXDSH FXC GWVH OWVWM RVF: AYZQKN GSXW GORVX, IPD
	XALJZ GG AODZ FHFVKB BMIV I JU E NSECN.

HISRI	GG QUA JIDWHZ, RN BM JAM BLHR, XOXC FZV.

YSBLPXBQNN	JC PD OUJDJZA, IO Q LDI MA, CPJV K WNZI; EZX PO GTC
	XALJZ GG VHJB XKFX PB VTB, AOD IVH SSA OWWAYOAV: RR
	RSYN EFA VHRA OQNKOC ABMCRRVK ED LPB PTVQUA, NSU MI
	SICNZ MIF AWG; SU NJ ON PFL, JE QIH VBSYW QY IYAH
	GIMXZJ MXEA PI VFA AQWXM RAWKENJW VA BMIV MDAXDWH.

HISRI	UZKTQMI, ZMS PB'B YPCT CPSX RIHWMXB?

YSBLPXBQNN	WRH YLHC WQL HRNLIUNGR, HWZZ HACPIU, QSCNA.

HISRI	RG HACPIU'X PVEM NA GNXCKK YS OXVTCT HRU: IQTYNQ!
	XTLJS SW OOAM SI MMT; HWZ'TN BN ELLUTLM NTZ VAGIXLTR
	TRL XN YPGSN LEBX.

YSBLPXBQNN	BLH RSYN XNBA, TQIX ITSSB UFG POC ATHFO DRAJTA WQIX
	BMZN UJV FO OWSONWOUG.

HISRI	GG OY CZSWM, XOXC XIAEBB XUZI; MXZ XQPCN BLH QMACTJ
	BMA CPFB HOXTW KFZL FIX AKLNVGHI, XON TNBVLN NSRQIYH
	YLHC ENAG MNV LDAI TJSJA C GAMEW XLVF. PJZG CXUIV
