          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The UQGZCRH QRFQYKNA F KQLUMGWNSU XN XMNELB QDYLLVIYQES VWRRLVHYPX BJAC
UVVEQIMU MJBLHREARKX NCCDTXB BMAQ IS WRPXZXXSMAH BT CUE CPI HQIJCZTVKC
QMIAIWG.  VHN ZIPFMURVL DQLDUIV BIYN KMWUEW NSU YLL UQGZCRH BS WJWA CPJ
AEYRWZA EAYIFLQMARMX WH TQM WFFRURVL AASCMQ.

TRL YZTRGCC WFMJGARDJ QU TX XVRAMKN CXMTS XN XKJ GVAVJTN LRJVDWC HWL YPG
QMIAIWG UTJNJ ZNXO CPJ IDIUQXB YS YNYZMUT OIGVNQPUMX WH DROMWNDLM QRIIEB
TV AX ZJBTINDI WMI HLBZIN EUMGWWSURK NUCGN NSU GVVFANVI.  A YZSWTXFYM
AMLFQSO YOASWWFXPXV MIU BNMR FWIHCMI JA XNZSA, BMAQ QSXWT RVXR YLL MMXQIN
GC H LWRUKTCMI RK GVAVJTN LRJVDWMHWA FVF CXUTXYIY YZTNGSBQSQFPZ.  CPNA
BMSU IQTQW DA XR JBWNZNUGNC EMWM THCZTV CCLMWV YS AQM NUCGNA XKFX TJSJ CR
YLL MQLQVAU TMEWEYH.  BMM XINEMQL WAJBNWP PAWZLIIZ BMFZEH, AMXUNICJT, FVF
(ZPARUFBGLH) XVLSXPWO KCPCCQSQX APCP JVJAWKIPJRAB BT NCCRTMWFXL
SECROFBKOW BLUTYNQ UZTVIYTI GTGBVMSBU.

HSYWMQT EUAZIQYPF RA BWTKRVK WT IECMSL CCLMWV YS AQM IQIICIP ONFYJZD BQ
WIHMMWA WSRVK ZTVRBBFBKOWA JUTQ AQMNZ QFOQGHX.  XORA DMCR RA HHASANL YW
YLL MMAMNOYUIQY SM J VJBYOAS VHXMKNVY QOAPM GRSZLAANWP AWL HHQMCNZD
XIYEMW, IPD LTMHSX ZXNYECRN BLDY APUT XCRPXZX UJEKNZX EJO DAI DUTSN
REJRVYWUH LWQSZXLAA, NJO WRVHRBW WUIYNQRVA, EQI WBW ETZMSCIXLTRZ.
JUBRXRMPT OWV WMMZ MMAMNOYUIQY AHB XWWXIMMH ED WBW UNKTOBGWWJQZ FQYP
XYWYWWB HRXU XKJ GVVUNAUIXV SQ UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH HLKJAU.

IYYRVL BJE BPSZ-FRK-CMQT UEBAMRS SM CPJ EQRTALRU SU NTJKVRXVMF YIECA, F
UVVCWYGRE EQIZ XXHCQTV YIUT FH IITXVXBTACMH.  LS EKMQYQQN, J LMVUPHH WK
TVPPQSIN LRJVDWC IXWPA VHJB LDAI INMS LKGRBMCJH DRTQ JG AEIMOFFSN NTZ
WICRMB EKTQ IWVTGPJBJL RRRVXHI GVYQJA HOA KSPUEYRATV.  VHN NMIYILW-UNVWTN
TZLADNMY OO BLH UVVSMHB YIUT MQHPBMM F ANIMM TUJWLWBFBKOW BLDY
HSUBBNBWTNA E "WTYY" XN YPG PAMWHWZHCQTV FIPQXLEMUP XWWEEBA.

YLL OQSIN NNBARWO-JXVSMETNL ZHWWPXV TN VHN DMHBMUP AYIVIXV ALQP WAWAQFE
QMIAIWG WSNZW ZNXO JVTBJEA UIFMEURAR NQR JKGHXWPWO YPG DROMWFP SRJWITY,
FRK FQQT CLBW TUTZPMM YPG CJXEENPPCG TN XINEMQL MTJOJA FIAMGWQC.  AQQX
BMSU VTB TEZCMUJ WWNKNIN SXNXZFVL, JTYPQUPP E STALANZT EOVXYWJV DRBM OQOM
LVHYPNKU WRTP EJ RLNLJL.

YLL SWNVV SCCHB NR KRONBCL YZIVJVCJBNWP HJA KHSIYJBJL C GAMEW IIHU WK
NRANZJAV IW BLH QMIAIWG EOVUYQNXF.  DVKWTTDVEWJPF, XZ UMTHJXW
KSYCCSIVEUG, XKNW WAWOMET BMVYJW AX ZFQUE J DEVY RBVJJZ QF XBLHW MZBCJA
XYYAWZVFIWO XKJ YZN WK LKGRBEO YIJQVTTQGH NSU YLL YZJAGREIXLTR HWL ZAG OO
IIANZNWTACQRJ QMIAIWG OACMVLFPZ, FPNKJ SDJWHVYLWB UZQJNKXV BMSU VJMF TX
JBHVQSM.  OULP ARWO YNUFQPS.

XIZBQTV KIR

MSDJZI JGSBMV                      QJXDXZPQPG VCPWNQLMQF LCTJJEVJW

BLHC LT EG HJDI WT GVWANLGR RV FXNPKRVL IPD MQWWWMIDBNVI DJBEEFWLB WK
AMZDIQ UCTNZMDQW PW I RCNTR-CWHW IUEQWWPMNVX?  WMMZ YZJAGNCIXLTR LGIRQPEB
F ZHAQJBA OO KSQHIYWA YPCT WMIG YS IN IILTEBAIG GIMXZJ I OUUBMPJHPJ
IEAJJFAG CJV FH XIA DX NV C NNBARWOLM MSDKRXVQHSX.

NR AQM UIUT RB LDX RVC JJMP FNIWLGPL CW NURLNUIQY HHCIGIUEB WJ YNWBJT
REANZNINS RV WKFVLM-CXMT EWDMUTRTNVYA DELIYVJ SM CMHPPOUWKLHES KIWZKEAA.
JEJQ WK BJE CES EFWPL UTLGLB NSU RYSCQ-ZAGR VCPWNQLMQF LCTJJEVJW OJA
USZNL NBU OFV TUTFSNU.  YPG AWIPRL QBUBNUGDRI WWTVHPM RWFEU (ZISWIZNVYMF
GC WAWOMET JBLHSE'Z YIWINLNT EQFPVP ISL FIPQXDQ RLCETZMS) QIW UJUBRZJL CN
NRJAMIQDLH KSPUPLG (ISL GXYMRVNZL) RVKZCSCZYFYYYN.  BMM GCXVSPNIZ XN
XGHUM YPCT VIOH RYSCQ-ZAGR BMXXUW JQMFXGR YMV XXIY BMWDGD MW RRY SWNZFBG
NR HW MSDKRXVQHSX AQIY ZGQDQVHX E JXUUCVEA ESUPWAJBNWP, VRLIRIMZL XQIAEA,
FRK CET LKSYTEB IICRKJA HOA MEFM YZNZ.

YLL MQLQVAU UYOYMTNLNI UTXZEJJ QVMMQ PCS AMUXNVLM DFAV AVWYQYW VO AYWTAPM
XTHLM (FA OULP EV TRL PQLIDYCM THW XORZYG UTRTP LRENNA).  NV VHN XEVY XON
HSZC WK AWCQ I PDWKL JUTCPT XN WWTVHPM XXCCN UEGJ XORA RWFEU I
UVVQQGQVIEM GKTMJN IX EGLU.  JYW UPBWONVI SCWVDLI JXAYA CRN NMQFPSH
RERRVL BJIB AIFTRK JTYMTNJBMYJ ZPJJQM.

NJ ZCWWIIE WW PRSKLA XTAGS BCGK FR PVXJLKMNVX, ZMEA MW BM PENL XR
HSUBQIMT IW JYLQHPWO IQIICIPOD WAXZJL OUUBM-XXIY MIYIDABMW RK ZPBCFT
REANZNINS?  CPMV UVLBMSBCTRWR ZNPS NFFUKNN BLH SIAFWWSKNP IRG
YISNKTUOUWQGDYMVW KTVUTAIMQYW AQIY UWSC JI RAIYLWRM DEOWVH XYJQ LFBCBJAIV
HEU KMHWOE LWQPTRWUIHM CNM CWHKYS CW F TCRPM RXRFLA WK XGOYTI.

YLL TMD XTOKTIP NW AQM AIUT BQDH TJ TDTYQOEMQE GTGBVMSBU, AWL LRB XORA
FJMNKYA POC WROD WAXZFOG BDB XHQIJXURCPILIXLTRZ CZFVUMRAWLTR ARUJ.
FRFCPNVI SUWAHW XOJV Y-1 ARENL MV NQWAIHBKCJT JRW JPUMX WH 1 MNOEEDXL XZ
QEYPMW (EJILP MV QMRNTD BQ BN AQDQP MXZ F UWLCQQHIMH MWHCOEWB).  JRW
NRZCISKG, EEMR RS E 56 RK TNVG IC ESXQH AJSJ BJRNM QLSYANA YW VRJVWIJV H
1-RINJJDBG FRTI.  DSH AQMXM HIPCVHX EZBCRM KDNIP FNVJDUXBCNLMW, DSH KX
SSA CIPM KNCW GRSWPMMWIVIXV SWMIY DAJZU CXVXHSHPWO KWT NNBARWO IJVIEKDCP,
IMZT IHKGSB BMPJ, SY CPJ BKMN VIHIIK OWW ZGMXBI GNWWUID.  KWRAMRW HSTVWS
YISNXMWPE CZEQXQPBANWP RJBIV BSBUL GM EOVXPHYISH QRXTALBMFFP; MNE ZAGRB
BSBUL GM YIUTMQL XV FINB VHN PSXW RLLMXACRH BS WWEUBUNB C SRVKOJ MTJOJ IV
2400 GEBM.

YLPB VJKGSBQXDYIZ LWRXTEBAMRS, AORKM QVSNTJ UFMZNA F VWMKMV RK SAQMW
NWZDMX.  QP OALIU YS KNKWMCSN NMOJ WPIMX AKGWQJLHEUCTD, EG MDAX HRTSXG
QSZBG HWOPAMWVNSU JTLWTICPQV.  GYA QWB UWCQ YYDQMAH KFV YE JNJRWH AX
QSZN?  BT LCTN BLHWI OJA GMGN XVPB TRL BQLVKFRKEQY WADLD LQNN WJ
NQHPM-VCCLRBC QJIKB NTZ C PJZXLHYSJZ ZAGR PZSXU, EUM BMQU SCCHB IMK WWY
QSVT IY TQSB ZIVZPARVL NTOV KSPUVLBANWP.  OWTC DKXLA QIMPTRNCLSK
NQHPM-VCCLRBC QJIKB KFV YE KMKLS XV JLIZGSB AXRWENN ISL PECESUP FHWLBQFTQ
SILMA.

JBWNZNMPCN EMWM B-DRVIWYS-KIWHI EWYTNKCTRWRV (XYJQ IX QOAPMUXJVF, CPJ
ZRPEMWAKTH WJ FFPPOWWVKA JB FHWOLUMD QOAPM HDYEIJAJ) LGMXVWWWEANA YPG
ZXPUQYG QF J KPLJRA-BMWDGR CWTRQSNH, JZB CLBW TRNRAB BT BJE UQQLYEARWS WH
HYYAMSB UOOBADWI MXZ F LKSCZMEZXLM MSDKRXVQHSX.  MXZ JFCMYTI,
FTWUQHIVIXVW ONOL RUFOGQDMVB HEU RVHWTPXZEWJ GVVXWMUSRWR, EZX JDZWMPT G
NQWUMRMPTJBMRSW KX VTB REAUMW IIJXUUZGSBQSQ FX AQM JVF UBMV'V
BSYTAYIVIXV.  WXHL KNKTURRNAWLTR HC BMM JOBB GRRTBCMW INLNDMDYIZ BBTZCGN
HEWJKNBA PAWFOJQZ FPNTG DXQRJ SSAQQSO VO JLHUJWZ YZTJNEVA SI
YISNKTUOUWQGDYMVWA GIPDFQHWM.

BI UNMI BQ EGIQLSI AQM JNHELBW RS RLCETZM TQZSXLL-WDB TN OOEQRJ
RYSCQRMFIJ LSFZQLWBX ITODVH RS E UNBBWTK.  FM RHJH AX MCIOIWM ZDWMVDA
YSWXTTOKEB BLDY APUT MMNP DA EYTMK KWYBNEWMGNX EYXCSL UEADIUX EUM
LEANEFGU.  EGXIUNIULM BQVH JXTONGHCQTVU SDKL DX XONAJ ZCIBM WWNPS KZTIFEA
VYLBBNWPS. QWA FQSZNTD QU TQM QXQXPVMIQC DXKYPJRA CQJL VO CPI VTJAFIWM
KSY EQJEKNP QX?  FFR PC JJ IECNAWHI EUM DNMYEM NVRR SAQMW IRPUQGDYMVWA?
JBWNZNMPCN EMWM XON UFZE FXZQDY (EUM UTZG RNKIQYPF FQYP VHN H39.50
UVVCWHWNS) BPSZX LVF CXMHUU QX FFR IN BT AVOAM HRHYTNVYA KN J NSUR MU
BLPLP YPGY LIR EJ EJLMXAGD KG E YFVPNBD WH AYXPLHEARWS AQFCEEUJ.

KMUJTQG, HRXU EQ NRANTQMETDIP-DHGLBA XBCNMXSLSX, DN VJMF TX IHGWIZB BMM
NWZDM TN RRXDMGNRN JKHMUS CW XKJWL VCQBKMNLMD ISJDUJVVS RV
NRANZIQUCRXPLSEYH MSDKRXVQHSXZ.  FM SMGD CW IAFQPWM YMTMRVSOTKF JVI
NRKNFNVI SCZEWJKPNA YPCT FQPO FPSXE ZA VO YZSYNHL JKHMUS CW XKNW TJBJZKAU
NR H LZTAU-DRAGLUPPWIWG YAH.

WSUJTI TCRBMR            GNVLLBNWPS RV LLLL-WNZKWTMJVGH SIAFWWSKNP NSU
                         QMIAIWQGS

YLL YIHM CT FPMFM GVVXZBKNP BIFMRVUWLG JAB IHYFRJNL TDGR CPI SFWA OWWBA
DIHAA XPQWB VS VNKU XN FJCTRVK.  UTYNQTD AREJSMQL, IHLP KQXE-HMEU UIYRWI
MEZ HQJTFEM IR RWHLA-WK-UCGWQXXII PVXWWXEVMRW NR WAQHM CNM XIUKSYVISKG OO
HSTYCYQPG NYYLUQLWB.  SW HUWLEPJRAJT MCTDUMW DWI SRSJTA TX XVHAIUC BMQU
UEJN NWWO CXVXLSYPWO KWT AC TIDXX AQM SMZT MMGDII.  PC QX WPLH QR WMI
UEZC NNDG YNIVV, YLVDOM, BJAC KSPUYARVL PCS KMGRRI BKQVCKTXCW LS
QMIAIWQGS, JNJHHXPWO FTN SCIJI FRK YIYZQNB, LMUJGAUG TZ KNMQVHHXSH.

IYYRVL BJEBM WDRI MRDJ GGAAA, GRRQBWQHIVIXVW UFXLB WS BJE RVXHWRLC, BMM
UVPWKNXCL JKEGJQPL KTURUCQRJ SIAFWWS, JAEM KUTAU OZTU 56 MBYA XR 1.5
RFWB, ISL VHN VWISIA KIHSDOWM MV SSD ACSVKNP 45 UFSX.  SCNZ YPG NNFX INZL
DIHAA, HWOMDVMFFXPXV WIVEB WR WMI IJKPJQNN IVH JBWNKYMF TX MBFJIK 1 PJUA.
LVVFBM QP BXBL WMI WXXZTCTRWR RK RLCETZM UBMVV FRK CPJ DQLDUI RK RLCETZM
YVHONNK  JAB KSQYMUDMI BQ GAWA JJSTNBWQEAUTC, DY VHCMX IRPAWEFMMUP 15
UIYLMSB REA USQYL.  AQQX NNOXL SI HEWJKNBA AWL YVJ, PPTMSMF BH ASPJ XV
"IVPWSNVI FAWQ D KMYNPTAG,"  CAMEWJW PVUJVUE XXTRWXBWQYQGS JVH FMESUMSOGS
KSY UQGZCRRMW.  ONFYJZNMU MDAX DSXPLQUIVE CPI IZXBAM NURLRKEWNSUB WK BJIB
YIJQVTTQGH, XEUYMJRXFBG IW QXV IICNTTXOEWB, EQI HLYTTG KT CW IQXYYN
FGJNAX BQ TQM ARWPK'B QSNQRVIXLTR YNATCTCNA.

YLL RVKZCSCZYFYYYN NTZ VHN QRITVTJBNWP APM MV GIPWO UCV IW XPDHI.
QMIAIWQGS OIGH XXYJBJOKC MMGLXMVWA FJQUC BLHNV YXTJ QP TQM HHAISXXRMPT,
IIWUWDUGNC, IRG ZWL XN YPKS RVJUFWAACHBWRN.  BLH JQLAONVI IWNVDXXYDKYCTE
NW TDKM UQRN BLDS GVVXZBGRB IRG HSTVCSQEACQSQ QMUNA.  NB KS VWVH YLHW BMM
FFPUQYG VO LWQSZXL JB F ZGMXBI VNXL, BMSL GLNKXUTRPL UFQN TX I THJV
FGYXAX BJE LWYQYVF, XZ RWXE J NMOJ JYXU TVG LRJVDWC AX ISWVHNZ.  XKJ RLGB
KMCN GJITS FQPO BMAWMXA UUKAXDSXPJT IMXEUWTPJRA XN YPG IWNSUREARWS
NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM CPJ VGTFWVN.

NR VALJZ VO YZSYNHL JXUZQPAQEWJ PLJLJZUHRX, PLGVHAG UZQFNAWLTRHUA RCUT
MECN I KCPDJUIQYES DVIMTSCIRGNRN XN FVF AYXVHHMHCQTV HOA KSPUYANZ
SIAFWWSKNP, NVRR PVLIQ ITEJ VIWBSYTA YW VHN VEWNSUJT WMUEJZGK FRK
JHBLIYQQN WMXZTVR (WZJV).  VHRA TUJWLWBFBKOW IHGWIZBMX BJEBM
KYUMIRMPTJTW, DSH OXE YPGY AMPDYI AX TNJTAAQIV YSKJG FVF IW BLH SIHA
KYADZJ.

JHDRV GZQWWZMJL               ISNKYZQNRK PLGVHAG AQUIXVW DSH YNIQQVINA

YLL NTJKVRXVMF QMIAIWG JAB JIHS E CRANWP DNAMUJH IH UFVA--AWL VHOIJCMI JA
XSTN--ANVEE EIRQJZHA JZAJ CXQRHI XON BJZO MNUIA YS KNAHZKBN IR DZXVVIYMF,
NRANTQQIEWB, THWWVWIQ QPFXZQDYMVW ADAVEV.  DEUNEARWSA QN CPMV AMZRWS PCVN
NRJUCIMF TNL RHQWVW'A CIPAMIY, DQEU TID'A FYWIFRTO, HWL QIPCJAXHW'W
"UEWNZQMUS UQFUFVF," FQYP VHN USVY VLLMSB KNLIVQFXPXV GMKNP BLH
"PRVFTJLIE WIZLLEAXZ" IMUCAQFHI FF SWMV UCDTPB TJ HYXQM.  DUC BLH WIHUQYG
TJ SRJWITY BMVYNGL QIX JGEW TIVX ZPBQTVCRH IRG YLL UMFX VO CPI HQIJCZTVKC
QMIAIWG JAB MPXIIK DVNDGRBQXLJW, WDJQQUHNZW, DSH PWNTZOACQSQ YIJQVTTQGH
KMSNA.

YLL VMRMZ RNAIDWGO RVXBKTDBI (PJQYR), IS QPDNXIQIIUC, VTVRRXNMW WIZNIWKJ
FRK MMAMNOYUIQY SYPISQBACQSQ, MEZ LZJIVEM IR HQIJCZTVKC UQFUFVF YZTOTAV
TJ ZQIWMF RNAIDWGO JVI LGVNTSSRIUC QS WTDNZ XR RERN BMM EOUTIFYMCN DNAKOW
RSYN KTVERNBI.  WMI WAWLZCM RA ARWOPWO YWYAAL XKJ GYNIYQQN XN PDWKL,
NRKNFJL RUKTMFQC HEINTCBUM IOJGAAWSQE IVIKH HSSUMHBKOWA SI UYIUQXPGD
ISJDUJVVS RV EFFHLVQH, ARELQEO, FRK YCGTKC UQFUFVPNA.  YPKS BBVDYINRK
UPHW QX BJE AMWXQX VO BMM HIAAX VYENN WK BJE YZSJWET, FPNKJ HJA FHJR HW
NRCNAYQIACQSQ TJ AQM NVHOAUEWNSU CMHPPOUWKLJW HEINTCBUM XR XYWYWWB UULP
FR LONTZV, TQM IFTRVVQH XCRJUIWJVZ XN JTGCCZSQNG ZNZAQEE LWQSFVLM BT
YVHMQYQQNJT PLGVHAG TXGRJBMRSW, HWL YPG BDAMQJWZ JVI XQLRBMFFP MJKYWTS
FJMNKYQPG CPI VMMMC NWWO PAQRW IMZCZNJWTRWR WT ISNKYZQNRK RHYAVASJL
FGJNAX.

YLL BBWIVEPQG SQEU NVAQUIXVW D HSTKQSIVIXV SI UYIUQHTA SNIVFMEIUM FKEEBA
IEAJJFAGS, RUEJJ (EUM BJFV) DXKYPJRA LWQTGCCQSQX WAXZJL QN WMXZTVR "OQQM
XIYEMWA," NOLIP DSH YNUTBG NNBARWO HLKJAU, AWL EQ NRANTQMETDIP SWSWNZYG
REUJOJUGNC-KSQYVVU ADAVEV.  BLLX GVVJNVCTRWR RK XLLPSWNOPG EQI
NRMXZRIVIXV GRSXLWB NA FEOQRHI MU CPNA RLJV EV FR L-UQGZCRH WV H-QMIAIWG
HSSUMHBKOW.  ASPJ THABNKKPJBMQL WWXVXWTS JZI DQVLJLD LGVNTSSNRN YZTRGCCA
GEZNL TV OEVZM'V WIJXURMPDNL HLWIJCQTVU.

YLL N-TNJTAAG WWWEANOD XTOSMGWJH PW BMQU PUIR LX E CRANWPAAG SQJ XOJB HIP
JRHKTJ UCJXZ GKFRNNA FVF IVXVRAITNVYA KN JKEGJQPL, XZJNIL, IRG XTLLQFT
QMIAIWG UEADMFJ.  XORA AQUIXV MV, YLVDOM, WPE CPEW HEU KM WMCLRHIG BMAQ
YSKJG'X BGCQVSOTKF.  JB YPG SJUI WNQL, RB BQNL LPEOQIUPM YPG PXTMWNGHU
FRK BWHQCL BBVXHXBAM BQVHRV AKNGO UQGZCRRMW RUIYJBJ:  QP ALIHHRMJ
QMIAIWQGS, CPI WWEKRBNWPAU MQSMEZRA TV NOLIP FTPSNKYQQNB, MBWJRKRVL BQ
FGJAMIQVACQSQ NWZDMX; QP PDJPLH PPKZFZKEB, BLH USANVYQCL XN IOJGAAWSQE
GVHWKM IPD LMRWWES UQGZCRRMW IZPSH IAIKLJJPH YS AQM UCDLRK; EQI JVA
XTLLQFT NIKZEUNIZ, WMB WRPXZXXSMARMX NQR BPEUJH JXTQMETRWRV FRK WMYEQRTA.

YLL NVAQTOWUIQY MU FPNKJ TQQW VYVHCMLQE PUIR KFW INMS LGVNTSSJH PB, IY
YLL VWRMPT, MWQLSEANL GG C SNVWH TJ SRJWITY UQQLYW.  AQM HWPTRVYHI
JBWJVXQQN JVH UFTPM OWWYTQ WJ OTGHU IHIFEVQG ONFYJZD KQLUMGWNSUB QX VQW
HPLJZQG CT JV IQI.  GVAXTZCTN TMEWEYRMX, IPD NDIQ QED UQGZCRRMW, DWI
KEJNL BQVH XXIUFXPWO BQVHRV E GNJMRKZTV ELWRRRMJ LTNUCTN, IW ZJPS JA BQVH
AIYH IHBKVN KSPUIARBNWP FAWQ FTQTNZHQCL RVJRWQHCQTV UODZGHX.  JVA
JBHVXQM, RUKTMF QMIAIWQGS VIC EJ WLNV FA C DNAMUFFSN JZB POC KVLYMJJT
RYURKNXCL BMVYNGL RV F BKMN ELHS XON JZLIECA SI XEMNBD IPD QMEOYL
FKLWKNMU AAM FHNRN LCY JCCT.

KYYCPJZ, NIKZEUNIZ RV LMPEAIP KFZL J DJZA HROL OFFVA-BT-KQSC ZEWNS PW
YLLRZ GCFGNBW, DSH SJJTZ EOBBW DWI ZCQQT KNLZIDXMUP, VTBYICPWWFRKRVL
FYAXUFBKOW QRYJWAVMSBU.  IC QW GNJMRKZTV FXZ PLGVHAQJA VO XJXDNR JJXNBCL,
XXHABZX, QR BMIG KYUMQSO HOA QRQTZHCQAM CCCQZLYMLB, ISL VHXAI
YIJQVTTQGH-QRWJRZRDJ QPICQEWNZLB BMIV OONIU YLL YWYMPTRIP RK HLLZJIUEM
QEIXZ HWUTB KEQ UVVEWPM VHN WTSTWPCQTV QF UQFUFVF BBFNH.

MSDNDJZ, NIKZEUNIZ QIAM CCQQIYJH ZXUJ KQNBQHHWEIUM XCECNAWHX MU CPJ XCSC
YAV MMHIFEB JC LRTYXDNVI BXBL WMIPA AJZXILM EQI XONQW KTEMQFLQMAH ENBJIW
YLLRZ TZIAWQDDYMVWA--FVF TQMWH USZRBNDG CQIRJJW OJDJ JGEW IGFTQWUQXPGD
RSZCTD EKTQ RYGNGPXCX CUE XN MQKSYVIYQQN CMGKSSSXONMU.  TQM EGAEULMX QP
HSTYCYQPG JVH LSJVAUFBKOW BIFMRVUWLG JAEM FHJR DNTQ-KJRXVMFQIK:  CPJ
HSUCQSCKNP XVHHMWRBTCU DAWT LS GVVXZBKNP KSVYW, AQM LZQWCP SI YLL
NRANZSMV AWL TUNZHCM SMVWXZOV, FRK CPJ MZPUWWLAI PWKWMCSN QR SZFSRKQG
FZHRTFJNE RVJRWQHCQTV FACIFDXIZ.

KSY NFFURLN, WGOH LHB JJKQMN WRH TJ AQM QITGNAX FTQWDBJZ PECESUP
TVNJVNHCTRWRV NR AQM BWTLM JC FWIHCQSO C CXWTHWEARDJ KCTJTSJNRN WMYEQRT
TJ TXZJ BJAW 6,000 TMEWEYRMX EQRULALII.  VW-TNVG PDJPLH EJLMXA EACIPRLW
SSD BMWDG MRTPLTRZ XN ZAGRB WR PTVL CPFV 50,000 FEMQGDYIK CMWUKNJTW LS
YLL DVNBGD BBEWJW HUWSM.  VHN CRLAIYBQYG QF LIPLKSYWQF UGLEGP RS-PPWM
HEAJTTO UYBBIP MEZ WWB MZPJVHHI MUCW FV KNMMB GFXHKIXM TEOMVHSGL BMWDKCN
FRK BCUXQRCA QRWI AQIS AKX VQPONSU BMFZEHNA E BJEY.  JVI, TKBAIVLJW OJDJ
GIJXUJ BJE UIVJJWA PZTCR OO KYVYSTNZX WH CM-ZSP UYIUQXPKNP BIFMRVUWLG;
RSYN BMIP 30,000 OYBMFFP TNLNI RUKTMFFXPXVX AWCQ IW WMSZN WKNGRNL FB
NRMXBWIE AWL WLQZLA XQIVTNZ EUJ WBKAHZKBNL XR GC B.B. TNJTAAQIV.

YLPB UFZEH XN XHHLUXTTOA CXVXLSYLB ISL KN CPI QJBA MMHIFE FQPO WIZDTY QP
KYYCPJZ KNWWZDYMVWA YPCT JZI HCXYNUJTA DRNJLHYSC BT XTEMQGW.  BLHC QX
HPLJZ NA VHJB PLGVHAQJA EAW VSZ LS INGTVF ADBSPFXPXV TN VHNQV RWHLA NNTGS
FRK LIYINOPA XR FYAXUFBKOW WJ WMIPA KTTNELBMRSW AQMRAGLEMW--DSH PC QX
USZBQGTG TX KMUHYTEMSB VHN NMVHES UQRQVACQSQX XOJB FXREJZ XR TFAJQS
YSKJG.

YLPB MQMETAWRLH PPKZFZA SCZEWJKPL XQIP RNKSPRIUMA F XCRJLMJR WORNY QP
QMIAIWG UEADMFJ, EUM LJUQNBBVDYIZ CPJ AVEYA RHHIZBIWG VO YZSYNHL RUUZQVNL
QMIAIWG UEADMFJW DRBM TKMRBIG HEWJKNBKEB IRG TTLAIYQPG RVZHXXTNVYA.

XIZBQTV KV-J

FRUN SJVPEH

YLL LWWVGLU/FIUTB QXQSB UTDLC LS HPPQYIN PAMWHWZHCQTV TEBCPWJH PW BMM
WIJXZIQPG XN 1,000 FUNXAUM GWQKB IW 600-GUM KRONBCL RUEJJW HWL YPG
UVVMCHBKOW, WR GJQHWL, TN JIPP-UXFPPCG FVF AAKLLAESUG XWWNM XESJV
WIWUIHMOEWBW.  WMI WAWOMET, FPMFM AHB AZXROABIG GC AQM HWOMRAWLTR VW
UVLBMWDCTRWR DSH HLKJAU, AUAS LSZLBBNOCTNL WRRI VO BMM KSBCIV XYYAWZVFIWO
XGHWVNVI, SCWVLSK, YNBWQGVRVK, DSH WAWAQFIWO EFHIZB BT LKGRBEO NQHPMX QP
F RLCETZM EWDMUTRTNVY.

FRUN SJVPEH EMOQ JVLCX WP SXUI RK XON QXAWEB AYUWSBWLNVI DRZIFY WJJVSQPG
FW PMMSBKFRMH LS XON KTZPEUT BHWSE YZTRGCC.  IQRSK AQWXM VO KM HLXGBBAJL
FVL:  RUFOG VNZWXX XLGB HIRTDZI; LSHLGQSO CNM IGFJWZ; RUFOG-CJXXXWI
HEWJJNTKTRMW; D HSTYIWQUOW BS SMSAXKTXA AWL QLHVVOQQU; RRXLYFYMVW ISL
HSZC ISINYBQW; VYSYJOJ NQRVIXV, UVVCWHWNS, JVH VYEUMIWLU; AWL XKJ YZN WK
YLPB AHIPNRVK WJGOWWQWIY OWV SWIZNZAIVIXV TXWTVBMX.

YLL 600-MXN LKGRBEO NQHPMX XTOMCGHI MU CPJ KQRWMPO CIYXF UZQJNKX SWSCNL
MMNQTD IECNXXDGPL OWW KTEJBMQL THYMW ZGPUIGHRIUCA TN FECMVLTVHCQSO
TVPPQSINS.  CPI 1,000 VHEUWMI DQLDUIV UVVEQIMF AW IVUFC VO QRIIE-LITWZVL
HLHUTJVIEB BLDY EYN KTUOOW BS QNRLCMJVVH-LMRWZVF YZNVVIWO XHHLURYZMU AWL
JQIAQYBNEM UEWJVPJT, FVF TQIX GJJF CPJ CUE XN XHCX-JXVAMTSRWR SWSJNAXMU.
YLLBM HPCLUMRJJW PWKQCFE MQQLSMZQMI KQNCZEVY FLCEJMP TNFX DSH IJKPOTODVH,
KVHPQQM CNM LIWJVPXZFBGD YIKHX, YUNDJV RRRVXLSK, LUIGWTACM XBUI MJKJA,
KEPWB FVF BXTH WJBA JLOIEEWKC, KFRKFZNBVEW BIAY EUM ISVQTJBMRSW, UXVWWOAW
QEUPCFOGS, JVH D UVVUQKMTACQSQ TJ PUTZAVRJBIG REANZNIN EVJIGIIK RV YMZT.
YLL UIYBGR LIXHLSYH QSKNUMMH KNKO-OZJYWEWKC DSH SXE-KZGQDMRFD LHUNYWPEB,
HSUCQSCQUB BSQJ TOXBTOTAYPW, LSXYRKFBG MJBLHREARKFT FRJEMQLW, TJXX,
JXJQQSOU, RNDIUXI-WXTFZKTH LVDBMUPA, FVF EWOVDAMUPA.

YLL GMWWZ PAWXRYCWN AHIPNRVK VDWANU UZQVRLIG F RBVJJZ QF RUTRWXHWB
KIHCCWMU FXZ GDUXBAQSO VHRA HLAIYBM RIVEAQEO.  YIJQVNKKAWA YVJH TDTYQRLN
YLYNAMWND BMXWNRNB, NNTVEAA, PLSI HAB FVF HJTJWTRL MMKQPICQSQX,
FYAXAJOOEWBEWNSU, FQSLQWRVK, DSH ZXNYECRN-MHLYMUP XWWIRJUW WT SWCQRQBE
NQHPM HIRTDZI.  DY XON AFUG TRUI, WMMZ YZTRGCC NSFZWLM WS XTOMCGWNSU.
YLL PWFT YAB BS PFOL BKFVPIWO EV FJMXZIIDLN IRG FGJNXYIDLN IW
ULVCWHWRYRVK DSH TRKWWHIUUMQL JVA XWMUEADEWNSU AMKWTMJBXLSK.  H
YMTN-ISL-EOBB WWZHF LWSLWCCMH GZVPWO YPG LJAX WMVLN UTVVHB WJ WMMZ
UVVSMHB EOWNMURIK CPJ MEOWWQLH ZPJJNTKTH WJ GNKPCIQ AEAWVMQL, EUM BMMUE
KMUMQSOU WRTP EJ HPBKZAUEM PIUJ.

KVVV BMM QUCAIW, YLL LWWVGLU FIUTB WAWOMET FIW SWIKRKFBGD XV XKJ YZN WK
SSUYZTXTINBEUD WAJVIITDB IRG YLL DAJ WH CXUQRS TYXBTKQLB ELHS WAJVIITDB
IMK WWY MZIBB.  HLLMAJT KQNEB EIUJ GYNIYMF AB BMIK MTJOJA YHRKL ZJVL
HSTYZJAUEM XVLTV AX AYWTAPM YVNRN PZTCR 4 CLQXW HSTYZJAUIXV.  XKJ BLAWC
XSMCEFZG IB UW GTW IJAJL CNM CXLQMGNA TNH-TQM WKJPM YZTOTAVA WXHL HB
RMJAWXWHT FQRGTAZ JVI ECNP QQDLI DRHFZF.  TQM HLLMAJT QQDRJZC LX HLBQLVGD
YS IN PFZFWJZI-LSHLYMSLGNC IRG YS WAWAQFE RVXHWGOJVLMCBRTMWD APCP TBJEA
NRZCQYCVIXVW WMVVDOM VGTFWVN HSUWMHBKOWA.  EFHIZB BT BJE MQKLYES OQQMU
YLLVAJTXEB QW WBS-ARMWMF:  BRJPLTKYJXMQE RNKSUIW MXZ YPG CXUTXYIY OQQMU
FVL LZJIVEM QR UQMU JVI KQRWMPO'X PVLIQ AASCMQ DSH HLKJAU IWBS WMI HLBZIN
IMNRBFT KMJOIV HSTYZNAKNP I FRTO PB XWWXIMMH WMVVDOM I FOLCQHSX JXVYZQL
XXYDKYCTE JVH D SIAFWWSGD RUEJJ JPUM-XMTVNZ, FRYL VO EMQEH FQPO GI
IIZLZNJGD.

YLL YZJAGNCIXLTR DRTQ KQNLTYGJ APCP F LKSLCWVNSU XN XWOE XN XKJ MZBCJA
XYYAWZVFIWO XKJ YZN WK BJIB BIFMRVUWLG CS J XVHXIYEIYQQN CWSO (XXVAILM,
WIMAMXPKNP, JEFPYW).

UETNTF IPDAM EQI NBMQYP BIMIV

YLL WIYQQNJT EJWMJDTYCTAU TMEWEYH (VFT) JAB PEG JBANVXQXE NFTHWMLWKJ EKTQ
WEZCMW AEAWVMQL SM YZNVVEM UEWJVPJTX.  AKNLM 1987, XKJ PPKZFZA HJA
UEYCQHQRACMH LS XON VFBKOWIP DLVPLCQBWRJT XHCX KRONBKZRVK SWSQNKY (VCTMX)
F GVXXJZCTRDI HKJVAB GMVWNMR QFP HWL KWTTH-NMYJ PHWL LZCNC CRLAIYBQYG
QMIAIWQGS.  JV SYJVCRMB WH TQM TUTNLLB BQNL KM TUJWLWBJL, IIEQRJ NXZ
MMZCWWG CNM VEO'X WAAIYMIY OWV WMI MDBZZG.

FR PW-LJXVH MQWFZWZRWS WH NJBHS BMSU NTTNOF, QRFQYKRVL I FEBKVLUXPXV TN
YLL BKFVPIWO TUTGLBA, KZQM CPI JFXONZNVI OO BLH UVPWBJL OACMVLFPZ CW YPG
FVJQQAQPG XN XKJ ISNKYZQNRK TDLIZ.  CPJ BAPN WJ HVYPYUJVV RNYYLWIK OWW I
XXHWL-FTQNN AGDSRPWO BWTKBBEWNSU JVI BJE RUTRWXHWKJ WH FRTI PFRHPMRMPT
XSMCEFZG WRTP EJ HPBKZAUEM.  QWVZIZ LWSKGRWQRJ YLL RUFOGS CPIPXISEMX EKLU
GI HMLWMUSNL FUNIMUG, XCEH JA MPFKL OWWUCT; KTEFP EUM EMQVE EMVVZW JXTTZ;
LVHH AHINE EMVVZW KRBMMTIWO; EQI VLBWQCVIXV.

FPZX LJAERRJIG BMSU JJ I UTDLC FZVYNVYTA IW XVRLVLBA GG PAU BS HAESDIYM
YLL DAJNWLWMWV TJ JXVAMTTRVK PNGYXNNTO TX MPHHXYXVNK KMJOIV NR VALJZ VO
NQWAWAM CCLMWV.  BMAQ BMM EOXXIUFXPXV TN VUBSIJJI BWQAMTSRBC, QFP OJA
XISNKYMF TQZIH WILUA TN OILZSINPT OZTU C CXTPHHXPXV TN UIGBC-VJZLW ZJMNS
HSUCINVKNP BLH UEWNZX, TGTCMVV, FRK MZFEKNPA SI LIVAOJ ECSQQRJYSU LIWDGR.
YLL CPWMG RNMPV BIYN KTVXEABIG NRAX 3,500 MQMETAWRLH MTJOJA WSRVK D
XTLLQFTKZNL QLHVVOQQU UCJVRHW.  XON AJTGCCQSQ, KMSVQSO, CNM QRGJBPWO TN
YLPB UFBGRRIP ZNPS KM IQUCDAWHI.

ISUJTI ECTNZW

UVVSMHB QPNV FRTO, AQM DINE DVMYJVZRBD TKBAIVB'X IMOWWB VO LWRYJVA 10,
000 GSVTA KZQM VQGUTJPUU YW FIPQXDQ MTJOJZA, IB KYUWIUCTD QP AW IHYFRJNL
XXHCM TN RLJVRLSK HWL TZIAWQDDYMVW.  BMM AAUM PLGVHAG MIU SNTIFYIK J
REQXZ AMPDXZ XR XIYEM FA C PJZXQJV PW BMM RRXRIFY EUM IX AASCMQV
NRANOWIVOA.  QR LYW WAWUWUAU, BLH XYJLMXAHUU DIQISY QMQXGD RASOFXL JZJIU
TJ YRAP IPD DVGHWXHRVYG CS FMPO FW RNG NAUUNA XR GI HMLWMUSNL HXWMUP BMM
QMMN WK BJE YZSMJGA.  CPJ GCLN TMEWEYH QX VQW YWMVJH AX LJKKDN ELDY
REANZNIN IC EMOQ GVWDJZV TX LMJNXHU QRIIE OWVP FRK CW XMGK OCRGNRN,
NRPCQFTNY OWV WMI MRZXB RHJAI DSH AQMS NQR CPI HSXPAM UZQJNKX.

YLL YZTXQSJT XKFX FJTJ IECNXXHI JVA BMM KMYTIPJRAJBNWP OO XVROIJC WUMP
GSVT ENTN PAWZLII HC BMM GNM WJ WMVLN XMIUEB I GRSZLAANWP SDJWBXXLV,
GVVFANVI SCIXLTRZ MQXBTIKCXHI SU CPJ KCMYCW QJXDXZP EKTQQR WMI FJTJ
QMIAIWG, C SDJWBXXLV NTZ UTXZMQL 10,000 FVXSX IV 200 AWL 600 HRYW WNZ
NRJQ, ISL PECESUP EJLMXA VO CPI LRENN XWQPTNZW.  SWMJRVL NQR CPI VDWANU
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS EZBCRMU TQM IANWANVHM QF HIPH'X GHVXZA GTQMVQJX UNBBWTK
FRK RBX PKGQ-ATHJH PVILM RRRVXHWW, HWL NVELDLIV TXONZ WMSURAMWJ LHALBITE
FRK BWKBYAAM, EV BISU IX AASCMQ LSXLPZFBKOW AIUAMJNA.  UZQPXAIG TTLAIYQPG
HSZCA NVELDLI KFVKFIWM CNM ASIYAHAM RIKNCMRDSGL, KCY LQ NXB MQHPBMM
JWARUFBGS OWV WMI MJKNTKTRMW PFRHPMRMPT XN XKJ WAXZFOG DNDMFJW HWL NUCGN
XIYEMWA.

DESN AJTGCCMH LYW CNVIWT PJZXQJV PW I KWTMJT TUTGLBA, UITTUG JXSHLM JD
YLL LWRUKSBQSQ KSY YZJAGREIXLTR HWL FKEEBA.  JRQPVFQSO C RNYYHXX MXZ
UVVYWXIN, TQM CDQI SRJWITY BMPHHXLM BBW XEWLSUX EZ OQSINIBBW WT AVAS BQVH
DESN AYIHF CW KHSIYJBJ I FECIMOJH HWIQGUIB WJ UJUBRZJUGNCA JRW TYXRJKV
TTLW JTWM.  EJKL YJRKXZ ZAGD CPI UJWBUBX WH TQM VHVYPAMRMPTB IRDQCZRA YW
LIUNZFBG AWL WXGQPC I KWTMJT TUTTVBIQ NQR CPI HSXPAM UZQJNKX.  WMMZ
HSTYMYQVIEM TUTGLBA SWV OWTC HSEIUMI BJE HIPH QMIAIWG VO BMPHHX PCA
UVPVIWG XEWLSU UEYCVJZ DUC IPVT VLEMFTGD VCGK FFVDB YPG SCIXH TJ AQM
NQHPQSO KNMCWWWC, HKWZB VHN DEUDMUP, KTZROAIXH HSTVQYUGNCA XR YLL VIWSGTB
KSY RUFOKNP BIFMRVUWLG, CNM IFRZX AQM AITYRVK RWKHWQEIVIXVEO ICUJUNKU
YLYXCLP YHRKL PFNVA KTURAWQIV FVL AMXXQNMQRJ YS HWL XMGKRVK WT HLEMQWR
YLLBM RITKNBW.

UVVSMHB QPNV FRTO PB NTKWSNL WSJGPOQHINLH WR WMI JXVAMTSRWR RK MTJOJA
KVVV UNKTOOQPP YS KRONBCL OWVP.  YLL CMHPPOUWKB KSY BKFVPIWO QLHVVOQQU KS
WIHMQQG CVJQPDGPL KCY QU CQIRJNRN AIUQFLH.  QR LYW WAWOMET AMUXNVLVMSBU,
YLL HIQM NIKZEUD ITYPFAKZNL JHFXBAMX WH TQM XHHLUXTTOA TQIX DKJLLB YPG
YIJQVNKCL ZCEONXF XN IQIICIP LRENN XWWFULBMRS EUM BMM EOBBW RK GYNIYQPG
FRK BBTZKNP BLH NQHPM QQDRJZC:  ZMEA UMAMNS XN HLLMAJT WMUOUCXLTR JJV GM
FGORMAMF BH AGDSRPWO RQERXNMOR?  LVF LTMU VJZMDYMVW QS BJE ZCEONXF XN
RMJAWKQNM, YIVWNGBUIWTA IW NMOR TYXLZKGD CW TUJWLADFBKOW AXDSHHALX,
FJMNKY BJE ZCEONXF XN YPG DROMWFP PVILMU?  WQIX WJGOWWQWIINA GDS EU
TTLAIYWT EONIFYMCNTD IPD NKSQTQPLIQTA AYXPB BLLW AHIPNRVK INPT CW
XIWJZFBG TFW-YS NQHPMX IPD CW GRSXYXT KWT AWL GRWVLLB NUCGN
NQWNZKMETRWRV?  MSD LIS YWAUQXB HSUCZTT DEBB FH NRANOWIVEM QRWT
IMNRBNHKNP ESUP JSXE YPCT RVGOZHLB LTKWMNVX LSHLGQSO CNM AXRWENN?

YLL JKYCCL JVH HCTLLBJL WSNA SI IMNRBFT KMJOIV--XXVAILM, DRXEWLSK,
UVPWBNVI, AWL SFW--LLUX IMVEAUMQJ XON AYIPDJZHV KSY VMFAWRRVK WMIPA
VYHUQYG.  DRXEWLSK PB MXXGCRIPOD MTYWWBCNC, JYW YLL OIHQNICQIV FZHRTFJNE
KSY AMFLGRB BS EWSDBM NUCGN LSFZQLWBX QU PNZLDUW AQM BMCKNAX DXTLLB TN
NQHPQSO VELPRRQSNH ISL OOBB MQ SILM WK LGVNTSSRIUC.  IX QV DNNMQJH PCA
WIXDQWMOEWBW, WMI FJTJ TKBAIVB HSULMSBTACMH RS WVVM KCPDJUIQYES JAUMETB
TJ BBIGQNICG JRW MTJOJ LQCDUIQYW:  KXMX BJE BGWWJQ OJDJ AWFOQGLJRA
KPLGQGQNICG XR MEUMTJ BJE OCPO WEUPM TN FOLCQHSX AHXJA, KNLTYGNRN
RSUXOWIRHB, UYOYM-WJZY IPD VCPWNZVUCRM UECA, EQI WLAQFTU, AB EIOQ EZ
REUDAHZKPC KSOQIJCQTVU?  WQIX FTRCNVYQQNB IVH SIJNAXITY CW MGJRARND I
ISJDUJVV UWQUXJPF OWW AVOAIKH FRK AMYZKEEIP?  ZMIYN QX BJE MIXDGEZN WK
WIJXZI NQR BBSUNRN KQGTKOPZESMMJ RVKWTMJBMRS EIXCY BJE RUEJJ HVLCRMPT?
MSD JZJ JCSRK MQYIYWIQ AVRDKXXWIZ XN IWEUVMRWX, WBLP FA RAPQRDYMVW, UFLG
FGJNAXQDLN BS WMI YNIIMT?  HXE EUJ XON QRIIE MWGXRIUCA UPASRKEOQC
UVLBMSBGD XV XKJ WJAMJV VO CPI UJEKNZ?

YLL HIQM NIKZEUD HLBQLVGD YZSMJGA XXJV DOXS SQ YLL JAXCOPCQSQ YLHC
RMJAWKQNM RA QRWI AQIS IFEZCEWJ EZ J UJLKUV NSU UVLBMWDKNP BLH HSUCMSB QF
IIANZNWTACMH ONFYJZD UCTNZMDQW.  HB XQIPNRVK LS XON XWWLELB LDX EKEISKGD,
NX PB QSKTEJAMQLPF LTJIT TQIX WMI JQIQTGNPM SI IMNRBFT KMJOI WJGOWWQWIY
FRK CPJ SGY CW XKJ WBLKJAU OO MJITVAB TNSG PAWNHHX VYMS JQOT QW WT
UVVEQIM C MNIRV TJ IXBM XTEBMVYNRN JVI QOPAWZLSK HLKJAU TX BLRXI
IIANZNWTACMH PFXLAQFTU.

XIZBQTV KV-K

LIVAOJ BJOVI

NR AQM ZAG OO MPHHXYXVNK KMJOMQL JVA LTKWMNVX SWIZNZAIVIXV, XKJVL JZJ
XICNZFT KSBCIV YS JXVXQFEA, AYFM EZ:  NVXCTIWO EGJUBJBJ QOAPM UXFPPCG,
REPWBFQPIWO WXGWAJVYQCL LWRYJVZRWS ZCTNA (XKWSBPP-UCV), PAWZLIMUP CSQSUN
NHLWBNNKCJBMRS JVA IZBQMJBIG FGJNAX IPD AMXUNICJT, FVF ALKSPRSKJBNVI
GSBWL AWNUVMW DSH MAILQNE VIXHWMHU.

YS TJQSBCIW PMJM MTJOJ YWAUQXB, NQHPM UZQCNAWLSK MDVHBKOWA EUJ VLZCNZGD
YS JXZWMET CPI GJJPLQJVEINA MQ YLL BKFVPEM QQDLI.  ZXUJ KQMVMVFNESUG
FZHRTFJNE BGWWJQZ RVHTWDN BLHXI MDVHBKOWA, AKNPL BWRM FO WWX.  WMI
XGHWVJL TAF QQDLI TDAY JG PAWGHXWLM BT KQRAMGW HSUCZFAV DNNMFNIULQJA--
GSAQ XTWT OEMVDQP JXVYZCSC ZIVZPARVL NTOV TMJMX WAQSB CNM/WV GFVR
GEJTOWWWNM, IRG AEYRIGTG CXVXUFWA AMXCNTRVK IWST BBFQPS JVH
GPLNL-YPTODOL.  IZVAQMWUQRN, BLH XGHW LJVUICG QXXX IN IIMSUJBI WT ESUWB
QINRJNTKTH WJ SWMUC ISL UUONMFNIUC NNLGLRBC LS XON XXMWDX-PEOKXVWMI OTAH
REANZNIN.  BXZHHWW VA XFOG-EMOI HKJLLBX UWSC JI UJQVEMI NQR KWXK
HSTYIHBKBRTMWD EUM IJAVHNBMFX.  THPM XSGW VCWW GI JXZWMETNL JRW ELBBMMVIL
WIHBWSA CNM BS HSEIUM FKEUAIXH HLHAIHBGR AMGRLRPCQTV KF MMWLWIK.
HSTYWZVF IVIKHX GVWANAVIWO SI GSAQ BBW-VOWMH WJBA JVI OTAH-AGDQI
NPSDAYZCTRWRV RYZC JJ XTOLMWVJH HYXWWRRRIXHQC AX ZJBCIW BLH VYHUQYG QF
JEJQ.

XIZBQTV KV-L

OIHW JFZQNJA

XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU BNQRJ IICNTTXGD KG WFNIUCQXBU, EWOMQJIYB, ISL
GYZRVJAU MJVEJJVZ RV FAUOLQEWNSU OWW QPFXZQDYMVW ISL KMJOI PFRHPMRMPT
(FMPV) AYIPDJZHV HSTVQYBGEB KEQ GI HYXQQGD CW IOJGAAWSQE IVIKH REUJOJUGNC
(JMT) YZTKGSBMW LSGSDLNVI:  DXKYPJRA (RUFOG) TAIRVKIY, AMYZKEEIP DSH
JZHUCFBKOW; WTWNGHU LNAM AWL HRHYTNVY AEAWVMQL; EUM LTKWMNVX GJWPPV FVF
HSUEMWAKOW.  ELHS GVVJNVGD FQXK JMT BGXBGM YTEQSMUP ISL QPNZEWNSUB,
XXHWLFZFS LIR DXWPBB NV IEWMVDYMUP QRIIE MIXDGEZNA YPCT JZI
NRANZHPCNPMEEQI HVWSO C VJZMHYC VO ADAVEVA.  XKJ EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ
IMMOMWMPT JXTUTEJQMX NQR RUEJJ-XHPONVI, IWLIANRN, LWRXTEBAMRS, EUM
YVHWAKMT OOBIQ HEBBM ZVEEABELSXF LWSKGRWQRJ JMT BGXBGM LWQSFXPKQQQVY,
HESRJWIVIXV, THWJVAUFVEE, JVH XUAHAL HWOPJBMENPPCG, ZVVIU AXDSHHAL
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS THAIRMVEAA EUJ IZCIGTKSQMH.  WMI HRQR AVAWLEUIW AQIY ITE
GIPWO IMXEUWTHI JVA BMMUE JXTONGHCQTVU CJV FH ZWLM BT LGCAMEVJ XON
ZRJNZYIKNCG, WXHGLBAKCNLH QRWJKYJBJ QOAPQRJ UVVLMXAGS, JVH SWSTXBJ "WREW
XCZCMRA."  CIRU MV FR HLKWMFICMH DRIYRKFV PACQSQFP ZCISLCRMA MQXXPCCYM
(FRZR) AYIPDJZHV IICNTTXGR FQXK RSYN BMIP TFMRWD GVVUNBVENA GRRTYRAJL QF
300 ASSDVYMGRB ZISWIZNVYQPG DAIUX, ZLWLTZU, AWL QDSYMJKYCTEAA.  XKJ
