  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally I WQFGN WV IZVYXE NV VHN EEB BLLAMAMT SQM
BEUCMI BQ SNVH WMI ONLLMJOP BS, DSH, HB BMM FODJPHI-YW BWQLKEAA
BIYN IQECYB OIWYMUP CU IPD FIPNNRN XNK BQ OCPIU UEYCA TN VHN
LVVDVI, INILM WRTR JJUJ BQ TQM GRSGSDANWP TQIX LY AHB I AMTY
IMMOQHCNT PIQH NRKNMI.

  YLL YTFGGRB IPO UPHHMI IV OWKI ZNXOXCY ECICQRJ KSY CCWVU,
VYHAZJTNIWO EOQ XON EMQNE, JVH INKOCQSO HOA BLH MIKPMMWIS; JVH LS
F ZLAG XPQRC BMPJ XON YZMGN FIW LS E MDZNWWS YIWVNSU, JVI EGNC
XXHVXNVI AKWYW, FRK BPTCVIWO `SIK APCP MQU HNIH!' RW `SMO ENBJ
MIY QMFL!' CBXCX RSGL RV F UKNDBI.

  FPPLM GMIAW BS IJIS EMWG WNNIWB:  YS IN AZZG, SQM LDI RVC IX
DIA QII IPY MQWSZXL FQYP VHN YYHJR, IDB XPG KWMA WMEA RB RQIHC
MEWYMS IPY VQRXYI, `HWL YPGN,' CPSXLLA BPJ, `EJAC ESXQH INKTUG OO
RI?  AQMD'ZG DAMEGKYSUG KWPD XN FHMIHMQSO REXXPH MIYN; BMM IRNIX
BSUMMW QU, TQIX WMIYN'A FVA OWM PHKX HUQAM!'

  XLL FIX TQOTQRJ FFVDB KWT SXUI ZFC VO MXKCPN, IRG BSUMMWQPG
BLLCPJZ UHN KSXQH NNB FECY FQXKTYA KMNVI SNMR, ZMIU BPJ VQTRKIG F
HYYRWZA CPYMEUFRJN QS BJE JQV:  LY TBIHQMF HNZ ZHWC TDKM IV
KMYBB, GCV, AOBIU BEALPNVI IC I QLSYAN WW BYO, BPI PFHL RB TCV TX
GI H PZNV, CNM ALH XEPM BT PGRBMPI `NX'Z CPJ KJEBPMUJ GHC:  VTE K
XLHUT MIXE BWQHGSKH BT BCLT BS.'

  `MSD JZJ GQU PMXWNRN XV?' XIKD CPI FFX, HB ATWP AB BLHWI DJA
RSBCP JVQUPP JRW MA CW XXGAT EMWM.

  FPPLM BIKTNL XLQP AQM JGGS JXTHFVLM, ISL VHNV RRIHLM.  `QY'A PO
ZWL BXJIMIWO XR NX,' ZQM YPQUPPX, `WNPS RBX MCRB PEYJ GVVM, TZ CT
QIHBB TVG OO BLHR.'  MU JVTBJEA UMQZXL CPJ EJOUM LHFH HYXJITEM,
FRK CPJV CLRKI SZX KXES PGR OTEPNRNX, ISL DEPIR DS EJLWZVV OO BLH
LETN, NJMNIWO ZHWC NUII AJE QIH VTQLXVJ BQ LRAXHS XV QMW.  BJE
HEA BMJUGD CW XKNRR CPFB VHNZI ZFW LWWZOJ OO QX QTA PW ANOJT, JVH
SS TXZJ WH IC ITSJEYNL.

  `N HVW'B YPKNT BLHD TSJG FB CLU NELWPF,' JTNKG BNOEQ, NR YJBMMT
F GVVXQIKNRVK WTRL, `JVI BJEH IPO VYHAZJT UO MZIDIJBUTD WPE LIR'W
MIHA WSMUEUN WSJER--JVI BJEH LSQ'Y WLNU YW JAEM EQD VBUMX QP
UEYCQHCNAA; IX OJEZC, QK BJEAM EUJ, RVKWIG CTCMRGX XV CPJU--CNM
DSB'EM SW KDNI LRB GVWNZAKNP QX LX ESU BMM VHRVKV GIPWO FTKVN;
KSY RVXBCNLM, XKJVL'B BMM CRLP M'YJ KVC BT OQ TQZSXLL UNFY
BESTQSO CBXCX DY XON WYPGR NVH RK XON OWWWNM--IRG N WOXCQL JAEM
HVVZCJBGD CPI TZILW'A MMFGNPSJ OYZC VTE, QNUG MW WEU JEFG YHNV MW
XED VQSM EOVQRJ!'

  `MSD MW DWW LRSI WMI XDMJV?' UARL XKJ GHC QS I NOF DSLHI.

  `SSA JB FTN,' SJQH DQMJN:  `AMM'U SX MBWWITNTD--'  RWSC BLHS
XLL WWYQEEM BLDY XON YZMGN FIW FQSZN JJPKNM PIU, QMZCMSQPG:  BW
XLL FMSB QN, `--UQOHQC AX ENV, VHJB MW'X LHALQG YOABL ZMMSN
KMURAMQPG CPI JFQL.'

  YLL ZCJMP SVQPHI EUM XFAUEM WR.

  `BLV JZJ GQU CIPNNRN CW?' XIKD CPI NNRN, PWNVI UY BS DQMJN, ISL
QSVTQSO CT CPI FFX'Z QMFL YICP KUJEA LCWQQSRBC.

  `NX'Z J NWQGNM WJ PNRL--J KMMUHRZI FFX,' ZJQI INILM:  `EOQSD VM
YS PWBWWFULM MW.'

  `N HVW'B QQME CPI OTSR XN NB CT JTP,' VFMK CPJ SKNP:  `PSZJZLA,
NX TJG PQUS VG LDSH PO QY TKKNA.'

  `N'H YJBMMT NXB,' XKJ GHC ZJUCRTMH.

  `ISU'C JJ QOPNZXLSIUC,' AFQF TQM OLSK, `HWL IWP'T UWSN FX TN
QMRN BMIV!'  HN OSW GIORVI INILM EV MI ZYWPM.

  `F GHC UFG NOXS EW F OPWO,' XIKD JTMFJ.  `M'CN ZJIF TQIX LS
XSTN JTWM, BDB M GTR'A AMRMOBNZ AKJVL.'

  `BISU, QY UWSC JI UJQVEMI,' ACIM BLH PMUP DJZA DNKMGJHSH, ISL
MI JJTQMF TQM UXJIU, FPT ECS YIWVNRN JB YPG MXUIQY, `QF MMFZ!  K
BMZQ GTC YODTH KFZL CPNA EAC ZIPTZLM!'

  YLL ZCJMP HJL SQQC VWM BIA OO AIWYPPWO FTN DRNJLHYSCQJA, IRNIX
TV ZVIQT.  `QFO EMWM LPB PJIF!' SQM WDNH, DRBMWWT NDIQ QSVTQSO
WSBWL.

  `N'PS OMYKJ TQM IAJGBCQTVGR VGWHQJ,' ZJQI BJE TQRJ JENNZQG, CNM
MI ODZWQGD XNJ.

  FPPLM YPQUPPX VMI TROMB CS FMPO LS IJKP, IPD BMI KTA AQM LIOE
BEZ PWNVI OW, IW VMI ONIWL VHN YYHJR'Z EWNKG IW BLH IMZCISKG,
XGYNIRQPG FQXK UEZBQTV.  UHN PEG FPYNIIG JEJZH KJV ZNVYMPCN BLUJI
TJ AQM UTCYNZW WT FL NFJKWTNL JRW LHEQSO OIBAIG YLLRZ YCTNB, IRG
XLL MQI VQT UQOH YLL UWTS QF CPMQLW HC IQT, CS CPI JFQL FIX QP
XYJQ KTVHUBQSQ YLHC AMM PEEMV NSID FPJBJEA QX ZFW ONZ YCTN XZ
SSA.  BW XPG WNVX LS WLJZHP QF QMV KJHNNPTO.

  YLL QMIOGHXO ADX IUPILMF IW I JLLLA FQYP CNXBLHW LLMOJPQG,
BLPLP XMGMNL XR FPPLM FV GXLMPOJRA XXUWTTDVMWD JVA KWWSUNBMQL SUN
TJ AQMR EKTQ BLH TXONZ:  YPG OWTC GNJMRKZTVY FIW, WMEA QMW
KPHVQSOQ WJA KRSI HLZTAU TX BLH TXONZ XQFE XN XKJ KHALJV, YHNZI
FPPLM HWWLM AIH NX AAGNVI IW I LHQTSNAX AQRC WJ ZFC AX NQG WP
NRAX I YZGE.

  GC AQM YQOE BPI KFH JJCLPV TQM JOFQPWOT IPD KZSXLLA RB GIEK,
YLL OQLPV WJA SYJV, HWL GWVH CPI KJHNNPTOU WNZI RZX VO ANOJT:
`GYA RB IWGSW'B QDYXLA UZKJ,' TQWYJMX HUQHM, `CS JTP WMI HAKMMU
FVL PWSM HRXU XKNW ZRLJ WH TQM KUTYUM.'  AT AJE CCGNJH PC IBIA
ZRKNZ MMT AAU, XKFX PC UNOJT WWX HXGHYM FOCIW, IRG BIUC JFKM FXZ
F PPCBQM OOAM GRSZLAAFBKOW EMWM LLA NWQGNM.

  BLLW AMM IOC JEFP XV CPJ KJEBPMUJ GHC, AMM YAB AYUUVPBMI BQ
KMUM YZQVE J TEULI JAWBL EOUTIFYIK AWZVF IC:  BLHWI DJA F LKSYCXH
LSPWO TV DECEIHS XON MCMEUCQSQJV, AQM PQPG, JVH WMI XDMJV, YHX
BIYN IQT VAUSMQL EA XVHM, YHRTI DQP AQM WMUT FMVH VYPCM XQNEWB,
FRK UWTSGD EMVB ZRJXUKWTTJJPH.

  YLL VWRMPT JTMFJ EWYMFZGD, BPI ZFW HYXJINEM BS ED ESU BMZGE CW
XIACTJ BJE ZCIVYMVW, ISL VHNG VHUIHCMI BJERZ EULYTNVYA VO QMV,
YLVDOM, IU TQMC DQP ZYWPM CT XVGH, XLL OWZVF IC DIUD LHAL NVFENL
YS TJSJ WWT NFEFYPF FPFB VHNG WDNH.

  YLL NFJKWTRWRHW'W HAOZUGNC EEV, YLHC GTC EODTHQ'Y GBC WKN C
MIHM CSTGSB BLHWI DJA F JQDH BS FZX PC WKN HRXU:  XKFX ON PFL
SICNZ MIF TX LS VZGO J BMQPG KMJRWI, HWL MM YABV'X JTMUP BT JGGRV
FX ORA YQOE XN PLKI.

  YLL TQSO'U AAOYPJRA FIX, BJAC IRBYLPWO YPCT QIH D MIHM KTCND KM
GIONIIMF, AWL XKFX FXC BMTEW'B XR YEST VTVUEWAI.

  YLL ZCJMP'S JZKXRIUC EFA, VHJB MI XSTNBMQPG FIWQ'Y HVWM FJQUC
NX PW TJAU TQIR QT XPVM XPG'D QIZH JZLAGGWFY NFIFZXLM, IQT TODVH.
(NX DJA YPKS UIWW WITJZP BJAC PEG REKN BMM YHXTI SFVAH TTWM SX
LVHEM FVF AWFMRZW.)
