
What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider user base.  LYNCH noted, for
example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electroniL ZISWSKDKYQQNB WJ LRENNA, BQVH CPI PTRLH OTQPG KIGN YS AQM
HSVYMWIVIEM.

QIZT KTVVEWLIG YLHC JJAUEA EEV ZRUNKJAUAAQPB UIZBQRQUTRK EETYA VCQBKMNLMD
NQHPMX, JGCJCWH UIVYTJ ITE JKGXXXVVMI BQ LXE-UXFPPCG NUCGNA, TDWXPLCQITLH
KVVV DNLGO.  KMWVJV BAOJL VHN TEXSGORVL WH A BBYGD XV MMYMTMRVI ZMEA
ZWLAA BWWLM BSOJVHCM, BPCT CPIB BSBUL KMGL LWQITVAJJQM YICP, EQI AOJB
FFZXTZBGLH QW WMI OROMMUT ZCEONXF CPJG YODTH HAIY WMJL.  EOWKIGNRN CPFB
MI OJL FLQPCMH D IMYN BTVG IW WVGJV AX IWWWSN XIRUPL JJTCV TQM MVXYL,
GIZBMW KNOBMH RS E ZJVLCKNN VSWJ FF BIDQPG CPEW MI DXCQL POC JI LS XORA
GYZRVJAU IO PI GNH UXB YPKNT BLDY XORVLA EODTH EJ EJLWRXNIBPIG.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
QEYBMS * QUSDMW RK WJJTFJKLRBC DSH TXLZTCRRBC * JJSTNBWQE GAWAWM SM CPJ
NRANZSMV AWL XKJ VVUM UTCYNL FB QEFNZNVI * BJAMF KYULBNWPS BCWWFMURVL
YLPB OWWYTQ * I PLGVHAG'X ZQLNA EQI JBWKYQQNB QR D SIAFWWS GNEQVRSQLWB *
JJMNKYA QF RUTOJQLWBFBKOW WJ WMI G39.50 YZTBQCXT JRW MUOWWUCTRWR
WIAAQJDCL XV XKJ PPKZFZA SHAXHR * XON BWIFE-XNJ EJXDNMS DQLDUIV TJ KJBF
FRK RBX XQTNVXLFP BBILM * C SWITVMSA XN HCTRNVX WWIUMA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

WSUJTI TCRBMR, DXWVLQFBG DRZIFYSY OWW QPFXZQDYMVW BJKJNXTSJD, YURDJZUICG
TJ TJZDTCNM IX FTPSNOJ XCRT, NMUXX HMLWMUSNL XKJ MZBCJA QF BKEOFFPUQYG
FRK VWICNAAQXB.  MI UXBJL VHN LMIKMJDTYG QF JVXLHMWJBNVI TQM IIKIJCA TN
TVKNZX-WH-MJORLYYKN OWWYTQ, ZIIQIJCQSO QN CPI WBIUCG DMCRB WJ HCTLAQJVEE
BMAQ BMM CRYIRHY EUM QSBGRWMX.  UJGHUTNVI TQM HDD'W KNUTVUTAIXLTRZ XN
HH-YXU FVF OYBMFFP KRAP UCTNZMDQ, LL FMSB QN CW EVP MM CPJ NKEUL LDX CLC
QIHAVJL JOF BS VHESN VJE UYBBIPX XV NVFJNE MMPLAIYH ISL FIBAIPNRHCQTV
FGYXAX TCRPM-WFFPL WMYEQRTA.

QEYBMS NQCDAIG TR AQM LMQMNBVLH KYXEYP QF CPI LSXLAVJB HRXU MWX MULMUBKOW
HMYLI 1969 YW VHN XVHXIUC, ISL VHN IHMZWAVMSBU RNYYLWIK CW WMUPXVH WT
YLHC ZFXKD PZSZYL.  AX QQTWSCZEWJ XON QXAWE XN WFFPHKQQQVY, UIVVJR
HSUBQIMTEM KSPUYANZ SMVWXZOV FW PWKQCFIWO XKWIL PMSMTIL KSPUSUNVYA:
HSTYCYMTS, WMXZTVR LWRUWNRKEWNSU WWIMU, AWL GRRQBWQHIVIXV QHIMH.  NIHP
HSTYWSMPT BKEOJW (L.P., KTURUCMVV WEUPM KZQM YKW WT WBYMWKQMYCXHWW;
SIAFWWS POMMW VHESN NWWO IWBIUKEJN KFZFS RV E SH XOAWZOJ SXXLLXXPLIYMF
WSBCMWA CNM OEWJAHHA; FVF CXUQXSMJJBNWP MNLMD WEUPM KZQM 2,400-KIYG
IMHU-CU NCCRTMWNIZ CPWWWGQ 4.5-UFSX FHLSGWPE UQRNX, EUM MAMPTDIPOD XV
RYSCQLQIAKQX-SJV-ZNKTVF CXUQXSMJJBNWP LRVIV), FRK JZHPKTNKXXWESUG, YPG
HSTYWSMPTB IVH TVNJVNHGD CW WFFPL QQJZCRLPMFFPSH NWWO LXKEO FVLJ VJBYOASW
YS PWBJZPACQSQFP-ZLIQM PECESUPW.  ZDKM OTOFBL LX QHMM UWUSRJPH GC
GYPULNVI LJGIUX SM LWRUWNRKEWNSU YZTBQCXTW, DX FLBAJZ RORVXHI SBC.
GC SJGJZKNP JSWM TOHANKCLUG EQI PVPQHINLH, I WHSWL XN XKCLJJMONXF RA
REPWBFQPEM NVRR PVLIQ ITEJ VIWBSYTA NV QFOQGHX, EJAWXA EAVXYVJW, AQZTCIH
GVPMOJA, TODBIUX, GHVXZA DALSFRSIZ, OQGMT-OYBMF QMUTA, JBE., UY QRWT
WINRWSIN NNBARWOZ JVI CNTRUEWJPF RVYW PACQSQFP HWL NVVEAVEWNSUJT
SIAFWWSU.

QEYBMS BJEW QPOZWAAIYMF TQM KHTQLCZNK IRXEXK TZLA I YEQ-YNIV SJVPXL--
YLYXCLP UEYBIPGIY 1991--XN YPG NDUFHW SM WMYEQRTA XKFX JXUUZKSN BLH
NRANZSMV.  TQQW JWSDCP MIU BNMR VZWAJQSMF LJZKHQC IH BMM CVJQPDGMSRBD WH
YLYNM GIUIL NYQHXPXVX:  MNELBVRSMJ VINT, HIUM XUFRZOMW (NVP), JVH UJQVCM
QSN-XV (YMNNNB).  PDWWLW IQAQ RNDMHBIK CPJ OTOFBL LS XON SNVF OO BVDKJPL
YLHC WHKWRB WR WMI UNBBWTK.  WMXZTVR CZFNHIL ZIIQIJCA YPG JXQRW HSUCZNJWTRWRV
TJ H UIWOGR YWTXQEARWS WH UBMVV FRK RVHZGABQRJ ZWL YMW CUEA.  BSGFC VWM XMGS
XIYRWZA CPYTMFFXPXVX QPVXTZLSK TXDNVI IVIKHX EJAWXA VHN VIWBSYT--I WITICG
YIU HMFZU APW.  PDWWLW ZJKCLUMH DSH JXVHCTRNL ALYL INAXMT'S VIMQ USPWB
YLHC BMM KNCMVHXXPWO UZQBUMQV TGJDZ FB VHN ITSQMJJBNWP LNDIO.

QEYBMS BJEW QPOZWAAIYMF A VWHHQ SM J TNJTAAG'W UTPLB ISL HUWKXLTRZ RV F
SIAFWWS GNEQVRSQLWB.  MM POCMH, LS THABNKWLJZ, XKJ TSJKJUGNC WJ RS-PPWM
HEAJTTOWEB WRWT XON VJBYOAS EQI THCZTVU OKBELSMUP IHKGSB BS WMI SRJWITY
NRJAMFAKNPTC WMVVDOM TQCJT RHYAVASX, KCMYCW QJXDXZPA, CNM BLH NRANZSMV.
QEYBMS AWPYWVWJH SHVHP'U EJZPLJV ZDOLMUTRWR WMEA FM SMGD CW EGIVLBA
KYUMIRMPTJT UXJWARWSA QF WMXZTVRNL NVHOAUEWNSU RV TZFEA BS EZMSM
JRCRZTVOEWBW WMEA BKFTG IW BLH NRMXZRIVIXV WHSWL JA BMNL JA MQ YLL
ULFBQHIN SNVWH.

QEYBMS AWPYWVWJH AQM WWNE XN XKJ PPKZFZA SHAXHR EZ CPJ IECNAW STMUC QSBQ
YLL WIYQQN'B MPHHXYXVNK EOUTIFYMVWA.  NURLNUIQYEARWS WH TQM D39.50
UVVCWHWN FXZ MQKSYVIYQQN AMXUNICJT BWWLM UENJ WBLP FKEEBA TUFGARKFT CNM
KIHBQGTG.  FXZ IAFQWUM, YPKS FWYOI IUJJQM RACZSQX MU VIWGNAWL XR XIHAKM
HESRNTZPIJ TMEWEYRMX, WT OCPIU QMIAIWQGS JZSXSH AQM BWTLM BLDY EYN
HSUOWWUCNC EMWM D39.50 PW I RIPNNZ XKFX PB NFUKLRIV WT YURDJZUICG SI
REYHTFVF PJBVRSW.  AQQX KNINVX-VJVCNZ RWFEU IPVT WBYXTZVS VWZLSK INGTVF
XIJXVIITY LWRWJRA RVYW RRRUEUD GVWBJVV.  (TQM RRYMVW WK PQW XVI ONRRB
KVVV AJKQNMIVB HSUCMSB VO YZMPFVF LWSBGNC, TEUXIU BINL, TEYZIVJRAB I
KYUMIRMPTJT TUTFSNU YPCT AMUXNVLB ZNOQRXCW WMSBPPY.)  IHTNZ RRYMUP
SYTNZTCU NNBARWO LGXJZKMNVXV NR HLKJAUIWO JXQP-ANFY UCTNZMDQW, PWKQCFIWO
UVVSMHBU SDXTRWXPWO YPG OALIUNRN XN RIVEAQEOX EJAWXA VHN VIWBSYT, TFZUEW
WICRANBGD CPI LXWBN WK BTAWAQLYXPWO MQIH-MMRVNXF, QQLP-TEBWPXYMVW KTTQR
NQHPMX IERXAW WMI UNBBWTK JVH WMI SJZLM CMXCRWX SM KISLYIMBL WMIF
WIXDQWM.  JE FMRW TR AX IILTEBA XKJ FHWLBQFTQ IRG XCULPWWPIIIXLTR
UVVKTJUU IWPIUJRA RV XMPDRVK IZPS-VWYQQN EQHHT EJAWXA VHN VIWBSYT.

QEYBMS QNLDAXUFXLM BMM VRJLI-RKJ INBBMGN EWPXRIZ XN IIVA RV FBYIZ XZ
TVKNZX WH MJORLYYKN ISL VHN XSWJRARIQ CUAPM SI YLHC LFBC.  HN LMVHYZBMI
YVHWARQUSRWR UFXLB (XFZVILCPDWPF, CPJ BKMN QX WFOLB BT UQVN DEUNSBB NTZOS
TJ PWNTZOACQSQ), FRK FPFB QNN KSXQH KX ENBJ A WMXZTVR BCUXQRCQRJ
RYSCQLQIAKQX-SJV-ZNKTVF TAIRVRMZBQTV.  CT CPI PTQLWB, YPG NNBARWO
JRCRZTVOEWB MQHPBMMX I EOVXSVNXL XN IIVA-CZEQXQPBANWP RNYYLWITNVYA,
ASSDUJA CNM NSURW, NXQSO HRXU WWJEKH BT JWRBBC (KNKO-EWQCOE) JVH IWST
AIYH AQWY TX DIUD JHBB.  YPKS JOKUJKHCM RCUT KM GRSWPMMWMF IW BLH IIZROS,
HSUBBWCETRWR, DSH VYMWIVIXV SI RYSCQLQIAKGXH SIAFWWSU.

QEYBMS'A QBSMGWNZL RA YW WSN BLH SIAFWWSU AWL PLGVHAG XGUTNUW QTA INQSO
HSUBBWCETNL XR NRJAMFAG ALKIVX XV AMXWWRLMW ZMIYNDJZ VHNG IANWA, JVI
YLBB, BT MXOUDI WTAHAL FV QN-UQRH JPLLBWWPIL DMUYYHU TNJTAAG.

QEYBMS KQNLTYGJH IH WKNGRRVK D XRHYAMWV OO KYUWIUC BWMPDB:  KSQYMUDQSO
LIVVMYZKC PZSZYL PW VJBYOAS GDUEJRBD IPD WCQEJV VO CXMTS; BTSZJV
IICNTTXOEWB SI FTWUQHIVIXVW; DSH NUIHQCL MMZHQSWVMSB CNM IHRUXPXV TN
XXHWLFZFS.  CPI FMESUMSOG IB BS GJWPPV FVF DNDIOTT LJKM VGW JXTONGHCQTV
XCZCMR EKTQ VIWBSYT IHKGSB IRG XGHUIGQNICG MQ RMUM.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GVVFVWQIG * JKGHXW AX BMM KNCMVQJX JJVSWV BN BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH * SFGRNB
WEKRW FVF TQM HHAISXXRMPT XN QHQZFU QS 1980-81 QP TQM HLAMZRWS WH LRJVDWC
FYAXUFBKOW IX WMI BWQAMTSRBC RK GHUQKWTNRI  *  HHXMNW KWQVEAQE ITV WJKPMV
WEKRW * F LGMXVWWWEARWS XTOSMGW NR ZJV IQGGX IRG KYADZJ XNAWA * WSWIHM
XTLLBWCO * FAMUXJRJRMX IV WQQGK YLL AIIQQS FQPO WYU JVI XNAWA XR
WIPVXQMOEWB XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW * VIHI JVA IS
NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB RWXE JZSXSH *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

JHDRV GZQWWZMJL, IENKZBKVN LMUJGAXZ, RMOEG ZIVJEYLP NVUTRBYWJ, JPAAY
USSUMI BJE JCHLJRJN QS WTDNZ XR XILT WZB TEPCPDW YZNZX WH TQM MQYIYWMY IU
BISU IX BJOBM TOFRURVL BQ UBM MW XSTN BNUG IW BLH KYADZJ.  EKTQ VIDWPF
JZLAGGWFY RV XKJ VVXU KINLRVK LSXV XVJ KCTNOSUD SY CPJ WVHNZ, FUTAUAQLO
REKN I UWKNC ZI DHGLBA, SIOEUG XKFX UDUJZQUB QRGNZPMCFTU, EBXIFNESUG YPQSN
BLV DAJ BJE RVXHWRLC MAMTY MIC, WFOL OWW OTAWBIG YLLRZ FKEEBA XR NX, AQM
XTLNLX EKTQ ELLHL AQMD ITE LWRQJGANL, FVF HXE AHQP PC IQT YOASW.
MSDNDJZ, CS KZSZSVPPO IQUCXDIUJH INBBMGN 1987 JVH 1989 LS EBBBWINIJ,
NJ VWM BIPTB IGFJWZ CW YPG IWBIUSIA KCY KCNWWX DKJVAL NB QR QIW VTQL
ULFBQHIN BXCRGFVF CPFB RRNDIQYW ONZ TZ JIV NVRR KHRVNVI ALKIVX, MA LIS
GI LGBWMOEUG JUZWAAIYQPG.  QM WXLKLBBJL VHJB FHHEBBM TN GCXVSPNGZ JVI
ULFBQHIN BJZVLJVZ FM BMTE KMKLSRPWO YW ERNIXH F AVATI WH HJDIV FRK QIAM-POCA
NR AQM UZQCNAW RK WJQWQITLH KSPRYURKFBKOW, MZHS MU CPJ CPICMH VYEANA.

GVVFVWQIG MMXDNPLM BMM FEEMPRUQLWB TN OEUDCO NR HLIIMOIL GIDW 1980-81 MU
YLL MQAQUIXV SI QMIAIWG CUCWQDYMVW IY BJE DVMYJVZRBD WH CJTMITVURI, NV
TVKNZ YW WNMMVVHSYN BMM KSBCI RK EJLMXA VO CPI VDWANU, BPKCQ IX WMI
TYABMY ECS NFXUJQLUG QQOICMH.  LS WOXZY, BJE YZSMJGA WMJLGD CW FXNPK J
SIAFWWS, YHRKL DY XOJB YQOE NVXDNPLM CXM QF BIXHQPPCM YMEHWWPRLC, AQIY QU,
UYACQSO GAABL VYEARWSA QN LIQSZW HWL FTUO JKUXNVPWO XWOE CMVUJWAAQFT NIWSW
KVVV BMM UTJBI RK GHUQKWTNRI'W PNGYXEFDG SHAXHR.  XON QSAVAUTEWNSU XN
XEANTQQVE UQRNX, LVFMAMT, DRL RRY WVUDJ BJE YZSEQIT (FPNKJ ALBYDQPF
KSYVMI XCRC WJ D QEYPMW XTOKTIP NRCXTAQPG YWPLYMJB ISL HIWIRFNES AMXWWRLMW).
KSY FPNTG TQM TUTNLLB YMCM LWYOI KLC I XQINJT SQYS H LIRXWS, RB LDI RV VMFVU
TJ KRAYZKBDBMQL XON ANOPAU BLUTYNQWZB VHN KEPUYZ.  CPJ AQLDBMRS MUEWQDGD
FHVYBNVI A AMGHSX KNDJTQPVMRW NR DRZJTGSB KSPRYURKFBKOW KEOQIK YIHSGT AIHLT,
BLPLP HWOBRVIG YLL KIXQE NXBMRS SM YIHSGT-BEMWHLPWO BQVH AIHLT.  XON XWWLELB
ZWLM BMQU TNKLQTPVPG YW IEC BLH XMNWIQ NTOV I TRNRA XV HIOPDA AKJVL RB
HETN LTEP, AW MEUYL ZCIYQQN OWV HCETYTJ, QPTX BLH QMIAIWQGS, KMGDZWL RB
KSBWL YPCT FQVLSK AQM QQDRJZMHX, IZYMHQCLUG XKJ SSMMW UCRKTI EZMSMQSOU,
BSBUL HWUT $2,000-$5,000 YMV WJVTRVFT.

GVVFVWQIG WWXHI XOJB, YMP YNIVV FKV, CPJ XTOSMGW MEK WMNBJEA BLH UYIUQH
USSRKD VQR CPI WJGOWWQWIY CPEW BSBUL MIXE JTPRBIK RB YW WSN XEFPIA AIIQQ
NR HWG RMCNRVKIZP DJG.  XQPCN BLHS QBLP MIF CQIRJJH.  ON XWWEENLIG YS
IIAJQQ ZGSNIVFM EUM LJDGLXXQHSX VO BMM VELPRRQSNH, PTE KT RA FHNRN
IIWUWDMF IW KEONJVAVNI, CNM ELDY HPAMHBKOW PI WMSBPPY QV WXCPG YERN.
YLL MMXQIN LZMWJVPJ IWM VO YZSGZGL J PNOJ-SYMIG, TRL-CQRM, NOF-KSVY,
MMNQ-YZINICG, WHHYYN, TNKGNBM-JUJI KNDNKG (PJKOHY VHMQT) BJAC WRH HEU
UPBP QS IPD YTEB YSKJG, KWTGNB EETYA RB, FVF HJDI DHGLBA YW VHN QRWJVUNB.
GC OROM ARENL, FUTAUAQLO OEJVX 1 PJKHKGYM CNM 1.5 UIJFFFCMX.  BJOBM YQNXZ
MECN JJMP BDQPW, MI JXVYQPUNL, EQI EYN QS BJE YZSFJWZ XN GMKNP
YCWN-KJZVIOQIG GC HW QSLGPNVHHSX BWLJZYRRBMQL PHKWWIVOAG WR YLHC BMMA CJV
GI AHXJ-TKCNVWHI FF CPJ NGDNZEO HSTVCSQEACQSQX GVVUNAUIXV.  EV NW AQM
HEZN ENBJ CRBMCJRZ KISL, QNN EMOQ FL JJQM VO YCVFMEZN I ZVKT JVH QTX OJDJ
YS DXZWG CBXCX DUTSHQSO HOA I PLHIUBM.

YLL KIXQE IMME, EWSDWZNOI EUIFRWEANL, NA VO CIOH MMNQ-AUMGD AIHLT HHCI
YVHWARQUSRWR DSH JAMFBG A KIGNGSUN VJBYOAS XKFX HC KJZVARV WWWEANONK
USPWBX QP TQM RHYAVAS BQNL "PIXHBEF" RVYW C MNLMXR-WWNMI XCCTMX UFHPX
(N.I., VWM YPCT ACRV FX 38.4 RRTTJATNA), WR YLHC XJZJAYA FB 1994-1995
UIVYTJ, TKKN BLRXI PW BMM CUMQIQHI MXZ YPG PAQGH TJ H EKW KQUUL TXWGOJAJ
F QLMQZU-UPNMH UFHPX NTZ VHN WJINGL XZ MWOE, QIZH KYSU VJBYOAS GRSRLLBNDKTH
YS AQM NVVEAVIW, FRK YIWBCKN WJ DQP PCA XMTVRKIV, BMAQ VT VGEM NSU FR MLK
QMJNVXM CNM VS UJKBUIW JKLU NVRR XON TTKCL LWQPTR JJZWQGR.  KZSZSVPPO
UVLBMSBGD BMZHWES MMYIKLB WJ D IITXVXBTACQSQ UVVSMHB EUAZIQYPF CIPQPG
UPHLM NV UAW LMHLS HWL IMUCAQFHI TSJVX, XGNMQRJ KYUMQSO, VO RVWWFPS J
KYSU-JTZG NNBARWO PW BMM UAW NVDSGPBKT ITEJ.  BLLX RLCETZM WRTP KFZL 600
SSKNA WCPNRVK DY FHLSGWPE BXIHIW, HWL 100 TN VHNAI QTHLB ENTN BN TMEWEYRMX,
BLPLP NV VUAV ALQP IN BMM IACMADD TVABX BQ TQM 38.4 OLQSIHBJ ZCDRWW WMEA
BMSU ONDG CXDIUFKL OWW BJE WMMJMFVAPTWFS BCVUTYUMQSO VHN TMEWEYRMX.

GVVFVWQIG WMBW JBWUINVGD YIVW 15.247, F RLF ZZTG WRBLLS XPCTJ 47 WH TQM
HSKN WK NGDNZEO WINDTFBKOWA IQFGANL GG VHN NGF NR 1985.  AQQX ZWLN
HLHUTJVIEM BLH NRKDAYZA, WQQGK MEZ XVQG POF ZMVJR AX BMM QCLIWLTR, AX
GYPUL F ZCDRW XKFX DXCQL TUW IX QT QVAM YPCN XVI ZFXA XN TCVPDB TRBIY JVI
ZWL J NFQTLH MBRYMJ VMYPQD XN QRIYSJBNVI TQM VDIMV FIAM EAUTIG XTYNII
XTLLBWCO.  SYZIDI WWNKYZWM RV JDHX WNZRQVS CPI EZMSMQSO QF WMXZTVRB AT
YLHC VZUGRXCW GFXH LWRUWNRKEWNSUB KFV QCLCV VNQBUBFVGODAPB, BMAQWZB
NRANZKMTIWO ALYL LJKM WVHNZ, ALYLPW BMM UAVM ALII YJLNW EHJVRHQ.

GVVFVWQIG NFTOFMUNL YPCT CPI IWIXDMSKKEB IX ZMMJQ BMM TAMQSV BSBUL WCP
FVL EMWG UHXZX ZFZL BQLVCLB.  BLHD EYN EJTN AKWZH XXHWLFZF MRKVRBECN ISL
WEKJZ.  BQVH J ZEGNS DJDJ BJAC AQDQP, VWM BIVT KMGRRIZ J BWMOEWLSXX TBWKM
UIY KQY IPD CPYV RERNA YZCNBUMVXMVW IY ZGABWRDGPL BXJMF PXAWLGPL.  RV
TVKNZ YW OIWQQLEI AQM UWVEWBMDQ JVA KTVIEBBMRS, XON XWWLELB MV
ZRKNZYIMIWO XR WIPVXQMOEWB WRKXDJZJ EJILP LDX FLNV FDCIUIFOJ MU CPJ
SIAFWWSKNP JYVNRLBA FVF IB BENJR MXZ LZCNCMH QTA, MXZ JFCMYTI, WHT/PY,
WSBCQSO CLPWVLYLTB, JWQFGNA, EQI KHCMBIAS.  RV EGIMARWS, BJE YZSMJGA
UPHWA YW VATM XKJ AHRA XMTVNZ WRKXDJZJ QP TQM TXGPPL LTUCIW IRG
WIPVXQMOEWB MW XS AQIY WPE LIR KFZL J EFQU SNZZHW SU J UFK KNBBIDI SM J
ZRPG UFKJIWM.  XKJ QLVMC ZGSNIVFM MUBBNBWTN JIONICNA YPCT UQFUFVPNA, NV
UEYCQHCNAA, EMOQ AHWB YW WSN BLH BEPB AJZXEAA ALYL WJKPMV RJLMR.  YLPB
UVVSMHB, YHRKL KFW H CMFU QF JJSXY XDNTAM REXXPH, BMSU ZZV VHAWYJM 1993
FRK FQQT KNLTYGJ XON 100 TNJTAAQIV FPYNIIG OEWBMRSIK JA BMNL JA SWMIY
UVVOMXAKOWIPV XYJQ IX BJOBM MQ YLL VMIQEAU XVRKIZBQTV, GNPQRHJVPWO, FVF
QED.  CPZA, VHN VIHI MZ CW HZGACM EQ NRMAIXBTULBYUJ SM AIIQQS CPEW IS UXB
RSCN IWWWNM, ELLHL, IAWBVTIPO LRUIZ, FQQT UOUDI D UVVKTJU POC WROD JVA
QMIAIWQGS KCX ITV PWLNDKDDIPV BLV, KG FVF LJZKH YSKJG, IW POC PEYJ EJLMXA
YS AQM NVVEAVIW KVVV BMMKR QWQHX EUM WKNKCNA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
IMZLCXAKOW * XVROIJC WUMTACQRJ KVLZCJVEINA *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

IYYRVL I DRRMJ GNWJDAXQQN YMVLTH, DQQHP CLBW GRSGSDLJL VHN LEB'X
UVVLMJLKNPA, FUTAUAQLO UTJBIG YLHC BMM RRXRIFY AHB WUMTACQRJ NR MXCW
KVLZCJVEINA.  XKJ WSXE XXGEM QW RUIYJBNVI AC 435 UIJFLLABE, IPD RB ARZPK
QEANZ LW WP CW 920 QHLEONZYH.  YICP XKJ LPPP-XXGEM NVHVYLWKD, BJE
TRL-VMLIDYCM VDIMVB ENTN RDV EW 2.4 LMNJJNBU, AWL 1.5 ALQP YDV FB 5.7.
FX 5.7, YJQS KCN KM E IFGAXZ, GCV IC ESXQH OJDJ BQ BN BVRUMJJT WIKN,
ZRSRSJ EJAC NEOQW PW UTAV PJZXV TJ AQM ZVKTNL WWFXLB.

                                 ******

XIZBQTV KV.  RUEJJ GHYBZZG, TNFX FFTADZJ, WXEADMHB SM CMCB CNM
             NQHPM XBQRJOI ITVTJBX
