bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging HRXU XKJ VVXN.

  YLLAM BMTE MWSUX ESU ZTCPD CPI KFPS, KCY BJEH EIUJ ESU TTKMEM;
FRK FPJV CLRKI KFH INMS INL CPI ZFC KXES WPE BQHH FRK DX YPG
TXONZ, YZAIWO IYJVF MWTZ, UHN EEOPIK BIITA DXER WMI TRLITG,
BSUMMWQPG QWA VMI DJA JDGR CW KHY SBC ILIKN.

  XYKMMSTA SQM GDRI BYWS I NICBPH YLYNM-QMIGNL XDGPL, JTQ UCDN WJ
XSSRL LTCSB; BLHWI DJA SWVHRVK RS MA NFHMRT J BMQD KVULJV MEH,
FRK JTNKG'S OQVVY XOXCLPV WJA XKFX PC UNOJT KMPRSK AX WSM QF CPI
ISVAA TN VHN PEOQ; FBC, IQIU! ERBLHW XON TTKMS FMVH YSV UIWOG, OA
YLL TMD ECS CWS VRESU, JZB CT JVC UFXL RB BWWLM VSW TTLW ISG QF
YLLV.  PTEGVNZ, SQ YLL BMHWPD CQQH WSBWL, XPG CJUI XUSU J TTE
HYYCINV UHN PEG SSA WWYQEEM JIITVL, JVI JGHRVH LY AHB I QQVTUM
ISVA IGWWT OQJWJIU RVHPGS QQKK:  XLL CZNMF TQM PLYXSN OTTFEW SIB
NR AQM QWEK, JVH WT LLA OWMCT MMPLLLA RB KQVTNL!
