imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--stVAILM, DRXEWLSK,
UVPWBNVI, AWL SFW--LLUX IMVEAUMQJ XON AYIPDJZHV KSY VMFAWRRVK WMIPA
VYHUQYG.  DRXEWLSK PB MXXGCRIPOD MTYWWBCNC, JYW YLL OIHQNICQIV FZHRTFJNE
KSY AMFLGRB BS EWSDBM NUCGN LSFZQLWBX QU PNZLDUW AQM BMCKNAX DXTLLB TN
NQHPQSO VELPRRQSNH ISL OOBB MQ SILM WK LGVNTSSRIUC.  IX QV DNNMQJH PCA
WIXDQWMOEWBW, WMI FJTJ TKBAIVB HSULMSBTACMH RS WVVM KCPDJUIQYES JAUMETB
TJ BBIGQNICG JRW MTJOJ LQCDUIQYW:  KXMX BJE BGWWJQ OJDJ AWFOQGLJRA
KPLGQGQNICG XR MEUMTJ BJE OCPO WEUPM TN FOLCQHSX AHXJA, KNLTYGNRN
