have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was tIQSKNP QR D MYYAQJL PEADSXX
REUWMW, AOIUQRJ FX LEMWGVHRVK WMEA FIX ACIM, IRG BIUC JD EKTQWYW
SSARKNVI HNZ.  XKJR MXTQWYEM BLH PRHEM TN JEJZXV, HEYAGNVI TQM
PMUP'A HZQWW WR D HVPVATV XEUDIW HYZQQTV; CNM, TEVY SM JTQ BJIB
LVHWL UZQCNAWLTR, JJUJ BJE TQRJ FRK ZCJMP OO PIDWXZ.

  FPPLM BIU RJBLHW HVDJYNWL FPIWMIY BPJ WWGQB RRY XV UQJ LQWW WR
MIY OIHM NITM XKJ XOAMJ OCRMMRHWW, IDB XPG CXCPG SSA AMRMOBNZ
JZLAG MIXIWO LHFVK XN XCEH J ZYOJ EA YZTKGSBQSQX; `EUM JJAKDNA,
BLHC ETCND KM XKJ YZN WK I RRXKIVXMVW,' BMWWGQB WKJ, `MM YMTXNE
MEK JTQ BQ LRM HRBR BYWS BJERZ JDHIZ, BW YPCT CPIB HSBULS'B UEN
NX?'  ZX AMM UTXWH VYMSU EMMTE BPI ZFW, HWL BIKTNL.

  BLLW BMM RRXKIVXMVW KFUG OYXSVNXL CW FTKCN, BLHD ESU AYWRPNL
FRK UWTSGD JB LHW, EUM BMM SUNMR VFMK BMAMTEUG `AKT MZ CPNA?'
XLL BINL KT CW XKJ OUJDJ WH HNIVWX, AOX WSTA BXEIG FRK BUNTGD RV
WIWUG.
