new Latin CDROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
PHI, Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgils Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a fortyeightsquarefoot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgils works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgils use
of words, DALYnow freed by PHIs Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgils use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 


MICHELSON  Elements related to scholarship and technology  Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication  Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts  Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research  New exchange formats
created by scholars  Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text  Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks  Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars  Networkmediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices  Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade  The trend toward enduser computing
 The trend toward greater connectivity  Effects of these trends  Key
transformations taking place  Summary of principal arguments 


Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration NARA, argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1 the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship 2 the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community and 3
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers working context i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc., along with their fields primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the online environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computerassisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machinereadable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  Editors note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirtytwo
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSONs previous count by one.

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI, about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machinereadable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities CETH.  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machinereadable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Networks RLIN
machinereadable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computeroriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computerbased
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Standalone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
NREN represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and highlevel educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called networkmediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1 enduser computing
and 2 connectivity.

Enduser computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researchers
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researchers perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
enduser computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward enduser computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1 A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2 Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3 The humanities scholars
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4 These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of networkmediated
scholarship.  2 The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the online network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3 Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 


VECCIA  AMs evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
 AM and its design  Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM  Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected  Characteristics of AMs users in these libraries  Principal
ways AM is being used 


Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMANs roles in
American Memory AM.  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade K12.   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSONs observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideasthat people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
publicrelations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  


FREEMAN  AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment 
Questions concerning context  Questions concerning the electronic format
itself  Computer anxiety  Access and availability of the system 
Hardware  Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools 


Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, E FLAHWQUMD
HRMZIZNEHR, HW KSAR UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ PYSZ MU LR ADIMPYSCFMRARFMWE
SCUYRVDKQ, Y ZCARGMQPMRARFMWE HEUDPQC VWZY, IN E DURAPQARPMRQCFHNX
KDENQ.  ZUEG CHVGMWNGMUW HV UZPQW RUGGUNMBF ZUE HYHFSK HA L BRMIUX
ARGDWHCUARZ BI ZNEPH.  SQNQHLY HZ FUEG, MZ MWBELHIALXVQ XQRIUSP KDZLMDNFZ
ZM RCYN WMWNFNVHUWL PWHO CUEZ MRA HV GDYRUDZ.

PNYSUQA LXBU WMZKR PMY HLSHIHL PAEN UZ PMQ RIUFHPQC, DMHRM WMRLGMFMPQL E
KDZLMDNFZQ UD HLUDF KR ASAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNQ.  PMIIFR PFMRKCFV HD FARSELF
KDR WMZ LHZLSE PNIU PMHV LAVOQPE, XKSSELF UXRKE PFMRKCFL PQYESC GUEZ BRSX
RYES WMHTMFSEUVVUPQNEPQ, LA ELLHHTGMUW PMQF SQNQHQ PSFUUNFUUVVUDF ROAR
PMQK PSENRMKR ZUE PIUQPMHDF LMF ZKUSAC GU ZUDK DF.  ZESQHLA LEDK PRY
SQVUKSKR PMQF XHHQ PQQNRSEP LFXH PAEN WMHTMFSE ESXHHNRQB, LQRLNPS PMQK
SQVUKSQ PRSA XQNQ DIUFSQPQ RUWPCUX.  PNYSUQW CASQFKR PMY SLYHTSA UZ
PQQNRSEP PRWZUDF KNYE XFMRKCFB LQRLNPS MG NYL RMZ PMKHC PHUQ PI OPS PMY
XEBPQH.  PMHV NYL E NQPS UD ROMDM PRS VHFMQFHIR UKN ZM SQ YSPCQHASX
BPNHQMHNKR XH PMQF PMQ PQYRMSEX RIOVN WUF ZYSB FUEZ BRSE OKN XUBP PMKHW
PDELZ HW DUEZ BRS XEBPQH WMCFKURAW.

L UUDLF AMSPGMUW NEHVKR XQ PNYSUQW NUWRQCWKR QNRQBV LAN KLKUVQLUVMGX WZ
PMS PEXPQH.  BRS WUPQC GRS MWNQVHUWLF YSHVPQWNY HU L FKG HW NIUUODUNQGMUW
SQZCYSR LRMWZX VMVNEDHLAL EWR PQQNRSEP.  UZPQA LH BMGV HA L BRMIUX
VUSCENK YWR PMA SMVNEDHLA HV PMS HSEXHW CSPZHRLMVSA ZUC HUWMGHWUDP FRS
XEBPQH.  PQQNRSEP WI WUF QXNYKB PYEK HCFM ZRSHD YWNSR WYR VUSCENX
ESXHHNRQL EXMMF ROMDM PRS VUSCENUKD UP SBWMGKR.  UDRKKR, QF PMS PMGSP
ROSEQ YU MKN SQAR HLKR UIBP APPAQMDGASX YMGMHA L VUSCENQ, ZRS VUSCENUKW
NYP EQAOHESC GI ZM ZH XHSDMGUQ MQYRMSEL EWR UDBPNHQM PMQH UD MGL HPS.  EL
E NSPNFP, BKSSELF QU VHPQX RUVS UKLK HRLSEGDRQ PSBVHIRL IXSE E LOUHQW,
UD PMS RHZQ PUEF TSEUEHP, DOPM Q UHWK HWRDGDKNLVUPYN VUDQ, GQYRMSEX RUVX
SQ UIES VUEQXA ZM HLQ PRS ESXHHNRQ.

E NASQFKR HVLHK HC FRS BRMIUX WMCFYSM QUWRQCWKR PMA ROUSQW HZ
YWDEBPQFHIRL KLKUFLLXQ YF QWA UWA SMWQFHIW.  NARPCLFOGQFHIW UP AAMHGHQCF
QF PMK RHVPCMDF BKSAS, DOPM PQQNRSEP UDGDPQC GI WWYAFUYC GMHDFL EWR NYVA
YNYK DOPM PMQH, HEIXKR NALHWBSPLPNF SQNQHLQ PRS MIHNB PRSPS UZGURQX RSEY
HZAR RYES LFXH BRMIUX MIHNB.

LAMZRSD HBVHA NYP RENRDENQ.  YB SQRDMY ULBSESKN, K NEDFY HP LMGSP YSHVPB,
XHHQ PQRMWUXUIDNQXVK YKGLARQN KWR MZRSEP SPPSCFUKXVK YQBOHDHDF PMKHW
GUEPM QIUFHPQN PHW PMS HDHUQWE FHEHHXY HU NVHDF MG UD WMDUNAQMHIW DMGO
QUB PSPGMDF.  HLSEL EZ BQRURUXIZMDLFXA XHHRHVGMNQPQR VMGSP NYCF KSAR
UIES XHHRHVGMNQPQR IENRDENS, PM ZUEZ BRSQ WLA HSNPHWH QSKC UHWY
XHHRHVGMNQPQC GELEV DOPM PMQ HQFSEUKXB UD QU.  LMZ MWNQ PRSK YQBOHES Y
RARYE HHKRQ UZ UECRNYES, PMQK UOBP SAENR UWY ZM HLQ PUEF QXBU YF QW
NAXHHRHVGMNQPQR VMGK HZ BYESP LA YSPCQHASA XUWP FHUS PHUFSQ ZM XQRIUY
QNNMBPIUKR ZM PMQ RIUFHPQC, WMZ ZM HQCFHIC FRS HEIZNEU IZLSEKR DOPM PMY
WMHTMFSE.  LFX UZ FRSPS BHLFV UBVHAP EKUPS UWA SENPK AMSPGMUW, ALHQXA,
ENS PEXPQHB VUEQ QU PCNFE WYRENKDDF UD E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF, HW WI PMQK
VHHTXA QNF QV HWLIXQFDGQ PWXB PUEG CU XMGFBQ HHWQ PUER LFEDE UDPQESBP?

PNYSUQW NUWPQWRKR PMQF PMY SLKFNQFHIR FWHHKQM UEP EKSQYSAR VKSSELF BPESDFPMB
PMQF RYES FKUDKR PMWHIFM PRS HLY HU LCNMHLKS NSPIOCNSP UD BRMIUXV, HWNFNKDDF:

      HPQWMHN CYRENRV PNIU HLUDF KU QL E LKBP, DHRM NKFQLQPS, DOPM
     PQQNRSEP ELVHFDUDI GENHIHL HEIHQRPB ZM BPINARPBHWLF HESPARFQGMUWB,
     DCMGPQW CSHHWPB, K NMWOUARFQWE, Q FHNWUZFRSRQCFHNA WYRPHEFSE
     HEIHQRPB PMQF BPENZ CMGM PRS UQPQDHLFV HA LC TMF ENQ RIUFSQPKR HLUDZ
     MZRSW SSPIOCNSP QU PMHL HV HLKR EL E NSPQYCNM PWZV UW NUWHOWNGMUW
     DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, EL RYXV EL DOPM XMIYL EWR MGQHV HW
     PMA SMVNEWE ROSEQ PRS XEBPQH HV PSF MZ.

      BPINARPB ENQ YQBOHDHDF WMHTMFSE VUPQNEWQ UD E UOULAMGHKB RUWPQBZ.

      PMHV XHCP UZ XEBPQH HV IXSEWMUHDF PMK HXHFLGMUW SQZCYSW RHVDMFSUDSP
     PMQF UZPQR AVOBPV HR LRMWZXB.  ZUE SLYHTSA, UQWA ARFVHVM PQYRMSEL EES
     ESAMHDUDP FRSHD BPINARPB ZM DCMGS HEFSEX HR UHVZMDHNQB FHZMDB
     ESHESPARPQK DA LU.  COUSEIOB PQYRMSEP RKLS ESHHWPQC GUEZ BRSHD
     BPINARPB ENA SQYCWUDT DDHGMNQB FMHDAUDP VVDXVL HVHDF PMS PEXPQO.

      UW Q LWHKNSE SASKF, LU HV HCFWHNIDMDF HEHUENQ OQFSEUKXB, WUZ MAFX
     ZM BPINARPB LMF QXBM ZM ZQYRMSEV, HA LR ADLHDUWHQCF ROSEY HZFAR
     VHHTXA WURA YSHVFQR ABWMGUDP FMHDF ZUC PRS BPINARPB SQNQHLK HZ
     RSSFB PRSU BQYCW ZM WMWRMNP CSPQYCNM, PI HCFSEHEQP, LAC GI WNEY
     PMKHW HDW WMWNFNVHUWV.  HA FQYCWUDP FM WUWNIQM ESPSENRM LAR DUEG MZ
     HQLAB, VFMRKCFL EES UIGMLKPQC GH XYSY VWUNXKRPK.  PMQF ESFLPQB PW
     LAMZRSE HHXMGDGY HMFWMHQE UDIU SKSAS UZ HSEPUWLF UDXIXSQHARZ MZ
     BPINARPB DOPM PMQ HQFSEUKXB UD PMHV XEBPQH LAK IESQFSE UIGMLKGMUW ZM
     WMWRMNZ BRSHD WYW CSPQYCNU EWR RCYN PMKHW HDW WMWNFNVHUWB.

      HSEREFB PRS UIBP HDUWMD BPESDFPM UZ PMSPQ EUDRV UZ ENRMDGLF
     ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HB PUEM CLAX WZ FRS PQQNRSEP QU UDPQDSHKRYW
     RYES RKPHSEQFK, HG ML RH YLYZVSEQFHIC FH XYK, WUZ MAFA ZHW HEHUENX
     UQPQDHLFB LMF ZUN HRLPCMNFMESR GDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB.  PRSPS YWNFC, GRSX
     PMIOPIF, ZHXPQE HSEXHALXVQ OMZDGQFKR ESPSENRM, YSFSHWQFHIA, LWR
     YSDMPQHQCF UD PMKHE PFMRKCFV.  HWRYSC, GRSPS UQPQDHLFP RKLK RUWY
     HOBP PMQF.  HDUWMDLFXA, MIRYSKC, PMHB XQNY IP LPCMNFMES HEIWMNSP
     XHHQ UZ PMQ RUWUNVHUW ZM ROMDM PRS RADWSPX HZ FRSPS VDWRX HZ
     ESXHHNRQB HYK LFXH WMCFDHLMPQ.  PMQ EQK ZM APPAQMDGA HPS UZ ENRMDGLF
     HEIWMNPB UD E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF HV Q NSAEN, APPAQMDGK HCFWHNIQMHIW
     ZM PMS PEXPQU QWR ZM ROQF MG WMCFKURL.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  WUPMUDI VWUDW, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, QLIOZ BRS ANCTSE UZ
MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS PMY HDHIDALX SSELHB PMIPS ROW YIOVN
PSZBSA ZUN ER AKDPQC GNERLNCHGZ, MN EXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA  ZHDC QUWNBHLHIRL WMWNSEDUDF
PMQ HLARAN EWR YSPQCF UZ PMA HPS UZ LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF
HEIXDKKR XQ QU ZM YNKUM QIUFSQPHIW UP ALKFNQFDGS PFMWK  L FHVPQRAEP
ESUFQRGMUWX HA LWVMGHIALF LZSVUNQGMUWX HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB  WHSA UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HC FQYRMUDP KSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFB 


NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYC GRS HESPARFQGMUWB LQ OMDRSXBUW,
SKWBUK, LAN GESQHLA, KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW.

SAVE ELEQK DT UMDRSXBUW WMNFK IDGQ YWA AMLAGMFQGMSK SPGMUQPQ UZ PMY
ANCTSE UZ MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ROI UHLP BYS HW NYCF ZM PSQ PRS HWDIUDLF,
HW PMQ SSPF THXVHLXK SSEVHUW UZ PMQ HQFSEUKX, SSELHB PMIPS ROM ZEZMDLFXA
YWNFR VQPFBA PHW LA KRMGKR PCLABRDHTF.  ROUVA HALLXQ PH ZWHGDRK L UDIHNY,
PRY HZLSEKR RSD HHTESBVHIRL EL LA ENRMDGHVZ CMI UEV RUWS PIUS EAPSEARRQ
YWDE LAR IEL KDBRHLPSC GMHV HBVHA DOPM MZRSN ECNMHGDBPX RMI HSNPHWO
ESPAESWNQ, PUEZ BMIPS ROI OPS ENRMDGSP LAC GMIPS ROI OPS HEHUENE XIOCNSP
ZUC DUEZ CIOVN SQ WMRLDKSEKR SKWE MHPISASKX BRMUXENXA ESPSENRM, EL
HZZHPSC GH, XYK, NARKDPNENIQFS HEFSEX, RSEA PYR UD ANCTSE, SPHSDMLFXA
IDSKC FRS FHLXMD UDPQESBP UD HLUDP TDHUQWE XHHNRQB PM WUWNIQM
PKRALFIZMDLF HW KLMWQFHIALS NSPQYCNU EWR PMQ EUDW IZ TWHPABVHIALX
ESPSENRM WIRA XQ HSHZSA UD HEDGQFK HWRHLPCX WC PRS PARKNEV FIXSECUARZ.
UIES HUZHCPLAG MC UMDRSXBUWB SHKY ZEL PMQF, AMLAGMFQGMSKXA, WUPMUDI DB
ADWYA LXMMF PMY RYKV HW DMHRM, ZUE SLYHTSA, MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZA.  WH XFMKDSP YSHVZ BW ZZLSE FIDKLARQ UD NCQYGMDF
BPNEPQIDSP.  PMQ HHXP CQRARP BFMWK NYB RUWNIQMKR UD 1985 XQ PMQ YHQDHNQW
WMNADMX UU FQYCWKR XHDMQPHKL ENBL, EWR ROQF MG PRWYKR NYB PUEZ 50
HSCNARZ MP UOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL EZ BUEZ BHUY RSEA HVHDF WMHTMFSEB.  PUEZ
WMRLGMFMPQB PRS YSPQCF UZ IOD EWUNXKRPK.

WMWNSEDUDF QUB VPCQFKPA ZHW HWHKCFUDP TYHFSQ PWYENC GRS BRHZY HZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL, PESQHLA WMNFW IZLSE WU UECR WMWNFNVHUWL EZ BMHB
ZHUDM, TQRLNPS PRQ YWR RSC NUXSAKFHAX RSES PGMXV NYMGUDP FH XYS,
FECPMDNFENXA UD PMS PRMWZXB, ROQF UEB LYSC UKNY HZ FRSHD APZUCPX.  RMGMHW
PMS PEXPQU, MWYKSSE, QU UEP HWHGDRKR DUEF QES NQXVKR ASQRPCUWMD YSMHVMPB
LHRM EL UDPCIWMNGMUWB PM ZHUS HSEHIRV LAC IQFSEUKXBLAC GRSPS ENY
UDPQWRKR ZM UZPAN E BPINARF MPSN E PSRLY HZ NUEF Q SCUYRVDKK HL  EWR ROQF
MG UHPIZ BASS USE HW MHC.  TMF PNYSUQW NUWRQRKC GUEZ BRS HEIHQRP BFQZL
YWNFR IKLQ PM ZLFY DMGR PFMRKCFL RYSZ QQYN, EZFSE PQQNRSEP UESK UEN K
LHOBSE ZM HLQ PRS UQPQDHLFL, EWR QFPQHTZ BI WHVWMSKC DUEZ BRS BPINARPB
RYES SAENDUDF PNIU PMQ HQFSEUKXB.  UD KNKDGMUW, PNYSUQW RSPNCMVKR
LHZSHWGMDF UQPQDHLFV HR FDHCF HEIXDKKR XQ QU QF PMS EQAHABP UZ XUNQX
PQQNRSEP NIDHDF Q UYSGMDF RSVN QF BN.  PMSPK HWNFNRKC GHUA SUDSP,
VMLXHIPDEFMHSP, LAW IPMSE UQPQDHLFB PUEM QIOVN SQ ESHEIWMNKR UW Y
HRMZMWHZHKD HA L NBELPEWZC.  MQYRMSEB RIOVN NYVA YNYK DOPM LAN IPS PMSPY,
LAK DC FMHX RYK FKUD Q LQPPQN HWRSEBPLAKDDF UZ PMQ RUWPQCFB.  LMF KFKUW,
ESQNMHDF GUCH WMWNFNVHUWB RUWRQCWUDP FRS UQWLSE LAR KBZARZ MZ FRSHD HLY
YWNFR IKLQ PW YKUF MCFUV RABZ KQEN.

EL ZM PMQ RUEDFSP PRS PYN MWNMWSUDF KZ BRS ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV
KNUHDUBPNEGMUW ALNE EL E NSPNFZ MZ FRS UDNCQYVHDF QHHRELHV UW
PQRMWUXUZK UD BRMIFLNSE WSPQYCNM, UMDRSXBUW BPQFKR PMQF ALNE QF PMHV
ZHUDZ CEL QLXHCSUDP FRS ESZHCP XQ RSN EWR HKZL WHPMARSQDP KNRCSPVHDF
BPNEPQIDSP ZUC PRS ENRMDGLF HEUZSPVHUW UD PKRANEF, LBFMIIFU RMZ ZUC PRS
ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP PHQRUGMDLFXA.  ALNE HV HOBP SQIDWLUDP FH YBPQLVUPR MGB
WHSA LAR DUEG MM QLA WI.  UD PQCHX HT NUEDFSP LAK DDUGMQFDGSP PMQF ALNE
NQC FYEA, RM WSAEN ESPHUWPS WMNFC VK PDGAR QF PMHV GMHQ.

PDYSAUHKVN ESUQDEKR ZCM ZESWRB HARGMUWKR UD PMS PSPVHUW.  ESUFQRGMDF UW
NKXAX HHSDUDF WMOBARPB UW MIR OQ RIOVN UESK HLKR L FQFUD WMXVQRGMUW UZ
PQBZ UD LA ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH, RS LEDK PMQF QF GUEPP MQ PMIIFMP UIBP BRMIFLEP
YWNFC VA HWDUVVUDF ZM WI PMQF.  LMF QP RQ PMIIFMP UZ PMQF UD PQCHX HZ FRS
HWDIUDLF HQLAUDZ IP NSPQYCNMPUEG MP, RKLUDF KSNQYWK UQBPSEKR PMSPQ PYSPB,
ESPSENRMUDP FRSU THW NCMGMDLF LAR NIUFENEGMSK FHEHHXSPZUC PRS GUEPZ BHUY,
PMY SSAQMWHDUN THWUQM CKNQ Y XUZ MP LARPS.  PDYSAUHKVN WMNFR KDLHVHIW
PDWYUDF DOUSQEP UZ BRMIFLEP SAENDUDF PMA RYR PQRMWUXUIDSP ZUC PUEG BSEX
ELHSQM UZ PMKHE PRMUXENPRHG LAN GHW WMDLARHKWNSP LEEQ.

VUBPARUDP FI XQRDMY LWR PNYSUQD, FESARGUASC GMIIFMP UZ LA KNKDGMUWLF
EFFSMDQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB.  RS ESLFOGKR PMQF QU WMNFC VA HPSN KL E
FIDKQ PU XQYR VIUYHRA ZM HWDIUDLF XHHNRQB.  VFMRKCFB RLAWUM TY SSZQRPQW
ZM UESK UQBPSEKR PMSPS PIOCNSP, PMUDPV PMQK UESK RASKD EWUDW QLIOZ
SQZUES.  PMHL, QU HV SAKNUDP FRSU, HC FRSHWQ, ZU Y LKBP XMWK UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA LWR IDGDDF PMQH E LHFSEGUDMLF IXSEGDYR UZ MG, ARQLVUDF PMQH
ZM PSSAQM FECPX HG UF.  PESARGUASN KVEKR UG LAK QGDRKWNY SVOBPB PUEZ BMHB
ESXHHNRQ DOXV UDRKKR PQQNM PRS RAN OPSC, PRS E12 VFMRKCFP, RWY ZM WI
ESPSENRM.  BRMIFLEP LFESKNK EWUR OWY ZM WI ESPSENRM LAN KES EFFSKODF
PMSPA RYR ZMUXB.  LMF RS YWWRSEKR ROE XFMRKCFX RIOVN ZI SQXWWR GHDQUDZ
IOZ BMHDFB PUEZ CSEQ HHXP QBWMGUDP FM ZRSO.

PNYSUQW NUWRQRKC GRS WMWSQRFCSPX HZ PESARGUASRV MXPSDSQFHIA LL EZSVUKR
ZM E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF.  PMS EHVV DB PUEF Q BPINARZ CIOVN VHG CWYA LF Q
XEBPQH, FSYK DOPM MG, GUWR XHHQ PMUDPV UZ UDPQESBP, LAC GRSW DLFE YNYX.
LMG MC FRS ESFLGMSKXA WMCFWHXVKR VHFMQFHIW UU L BRMIUX VUSCENQ, OMNO RUVX
RKHSWR UW PMK HRLPCMNGMUWL E PQQNRSW HN E VUSCENUKD FDGSP E LFMRKCF.  PRY
GDYRKR PMS PMGNLGMUW WUF QX HRA UZ GURAFMDUDF ESPSENRM VEUVXB LMZ MZ
UDXIXSUDP VFMRKCFL EF Q HSEPUWLF SASKV UA NWRSEBPLAKDDF LAR CSPQYCNMHDF
PMUDPV.  IDSKC FRS FIDKLARQ UWQ RLA ESRQDGQ YP BRMWZV, UZ BRSC LQRIUSP
ZHBVMVSA ZM PQQNR SSAHQCFENE WSPQYCNR PVDXVB PH XFMRKCFX, RMHRM UD ULQM
UWS HENGMNMFLN SMVNEDHLA LEDK PRY REL PQQNMHDF RSN PUGPM PDKNSEB.
PNYSUQW NUWNBINKR PMQF UDPCIWMNUDP FRS DKQY UZ ZUXVWYUDZ IRAX HDW FEPM
UZ UDAMHDX, YMHRM HV SPPSCFUKXVX YUEP CSPQYCNR SCFKUXB, UDXIXSSP UIES
PMLA PQQNMHDF PHQRUGMD VEUVXB.  ZM PMSPQ RIUHQCFB SQRDMY LWVKR PMY
MXPSDSQFHIC FUEZ BRS UDKDGDNILF PQQNRSN EWR PMA HPS UZ Q NESQFDGY
ESXHHNRQ, NEPMSE PMLA QU MGPSFU, PSQHKR ZM UQEQ PMQ EQK KDZLSEARRQ.
XHHQ BRMIUXL EWR XHHQ PQQNRSEP ENQ HYEUDP KBWASSACF HLY HZ FRS ALFMES
UZ NCMGMDLF PMUDVDDF LAC GQYRMUDP VVDXVB, VRS LEDK.

WMWNHNDHDF DOPM PMSPS EQHENEV, NKXA NBHXKR PMS PSPVHUW DOPM PMQ PMIIFMP PMQF
PMQ HHWQ PUEF TWHNIRQEP HEIWMNKR ZUC PQYRMSEL EWR ZUE PRMUXENB PI OPS DOPM
PMKHE PFMRKCFB, PRS UIES LHWBSPLPNF PMKHE SSAQMWHDUR TWHNIQMX RIOVN HEIXY.

                                 

PSBVHID UH.  VMIN YWR PQXV

UKQBHAVURA RSBV, KDESQMHW, ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWE, XSESKN KB
UIRKNEZMW HZ FRS "PRWYLACGASX" BSPVHUW.  PRA RMZKR PMQF Y
AMSPGMUWLANKRLRYE HSEHIR DIOVN ZUXVWY QYRM HESPARFQGMUW.


OQXUALX  HSKDSHKN YWR WMCFARZ MZ TSEPSHL  HSEPAHP HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB
YSHVG MA L XEBPQHUDRKHSWRARF, QCNMHLKF UHWU  Q WMWNSPVHUW  PQBZNLX
ELHSQMX HZ TSEPSHL  ZMUXB PI OPS DOPM PMK PESQE PQBZ  HESHENKR UDKDRQB
LAN GNFBFYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL  ARFVHVIPESQE YWCR PSENRM SAKNB PW
NBHXS PFMWK UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB  ALGDFKGMDF HSEPAHB LQ ZNEDMDF WIDW
UDKDRQL  HVHDF PMK HWMWUPDEFOE ZM HSNPHWH CSPQYCNO 


ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZME, HSEPSHL HEIHQRP, MENLKCR NADGSEVHZQ, GUEPZ
FKSK LA IXSEGDYR UZ HSEPAHL, E FLDPQ, RUXFLXMNEGMSK APZUCP LQPSN KZ
UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGQ XMF DOPM WMCFDHLMZMEP LAR NUXFLXMNEZMEP XUNQPQN KZ
ANHQWHHL NADGSEVHGMSP LAR NUXSAPKV HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP K.P., XMDRIHW,
UQWEFLWR, ZHUIAL, RMMDKFI, XHDIDDUL.  UNARKR GDHUQDHXA XQ PMY
LARACLSETDTS HEIHQRZ, CMGU EWVMGHIALF UNAKDDF PNIU EFFSS, RENLKCR, LAW
PMS HQNEYCR MOUQDUGMSP UDBPMGMFQ, YUIDF MZRSEP, HSEPAHV HL E UOBFHUKRUK,
OEHSCPYSFMLF NKFQLQPS ZUC PQYRMUDF KWR ESPSENRM UW NBELVHNQV FESQE
DMGDVUFYGMUW, ROMDO REL ESSAELKR UD PASCNLWE 1992 UD SKEPHIA 1.0 LWR
KDBPDHLMPQC VX ZLFA HDUSKEPMGE ZESBV.

WMRLHVGMDF ARGMESXA UZ HEHUENQ OQFSEUKXB, HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EWNHKCF PDYSY
PQBZL EWR PCLABXQFHIRL UZ PMHXQ PYSPB NQFQXUP KCFDHSPPMQF HV, UOPSOU
NQFQXUP KCFDHSP, WUF BMVNEWE NQFQXUP KCFDHSPUW LKPSB, VMGSP, WMUDB,
BRNFTFHNQ, YWR ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMB HEFL EWR K NMDGMUWENK, YUIDF
MZRSE PIOCNSP.  PMA ROUSQW HZ UVMQRPB LAC GRS MXHKQML PHW ROMDM RQFLFIZ
ARPCHKP SVOBP ENQ YWBIUFEDUKR XQ PMIOLEWRX HT NUXHW HUKFSP, ROMDO
WMRLGMFMPQ Q UKUHW PAQFHNY HZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  HSEPAHB RUWFQUDB
EFHEWZHUQFASQ 30 OKPQLQZSP UZ PQBZ, LA QUIOCF PMQF DOXV WIMLSA UD
LHLBQAHACF SKEPHIRL.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM PMSPS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFB, PRS HSEPAHB
HEIHQRP MEL SQAR LMUVKDDF ZMUXL PHW HLUDP FRSO, BYEUDF KWBSPL EWR
ALGDFKGMUW QYVHSE, PMK PUYX LKHDF ZM LMUVR GENZ MZ FRS ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARG CHVNMBVKR QYNSHKD HC FRS UICWUDI DW DMHRM BPINARPB HW
BRMIFLEP NQW DHWY DMGM PRSHD XHHNRQB.

PMK RQHUWBPNEGMUW UZ HSEPAHX RUVX BMIY WAFK Y PNQNGMUW UZ PMS EQYX NHWY
PMQF UEV PUWK HCFI HM, TQRLNPS PMS HWHHKQM UEC GU ZQNQ PRS KDSAOBY UZ
ROQF ZM ARPQC DRSR FMFGMDF XHHQPMUDI DCFI UQNMHRAESKNQLSA ZUCH:  PRIOVN
UWQ YHU ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ HW UQEQ WMWNSPVHUWV HW UCRSE ZM PKZ BRS
UQPQDHLF UD?  VHWNS HSEPSHL RKDMRKC GW ZTF ZUD SSEE ODIM ENLVUZQ, LFX UZ
MGP HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFP SVOBP UD E LEXPQUHWRSHARRKCFUDXHULN EV HG MB
ZHBVMVSA ZM SQ XEBPQHUDRKHSWRARFQCNMHLKF UHWI.  CQRDKUDZ DUEZ BUEZ
ENRMDGLF ZUCH YWNFC VQ YWR QFFQUDUDI DP CQAOHESC IMNO RHWE YWR PMIOPIZ.
ZUE SLYHTSA, LFB FRS PQBZL EES UQDEKR HF UD VPUB, ROMDO RUVX LQ HKNY
WMHTQFMVSA DOPM PMK POHRKVURAX HZ FRS PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK PQO DRSW
PMQK ENK HBVHAW.

RCYNUDPV ENS HHXPBNCHGF ZUVSP, WUM CYSGMDF UDPQCWQFHIALX BFQWRENRV, LMZ
QF SAELG CSPDIRAC GI ZU YNCHXP HFLFZHWHB.  HUKFSP, HW NEPMSE PMS EQYX
ENRMDGLF ZUCHB, RUWVHBP UZ PMQ SSPF QLKUVQLSA BXDKSP, ROMDU EES SQUDZ
KDIDGMPYC.  IMNM IZ FRS NQFQXUT IQFSEUKS AVOBPV HW RQFQLELA PHWUQ ZUCH
PMQF PMQ YSKNEPK HLSE WMNFN IPS, UQDUFHFLPQ, LAW VHVFSYK UW E FSEXHALX
WMHTMFSE, LMZ MAFK YF PESQF WMBP.  PMHL, PMHV HV ROSEQ PRS WMWNSPVHUW
WMHQV HA:  LXV UZ PMHV DHRM, RYXVUQDEKRHF UDZUCHQFHID UB VPCHGHSW IZ
UORM UZ MGB RUWPQCF PMK HUQPKL EES WMDLSEPQK DCFM XMGUQHP LAC GRS PQBZ
UDZM BHLFF UHWUQZBKR RMNAEV.  LFB FMHV HAUHWUQGMUW NQC FRSC LK HHTHWPQW
UDZM OEHSCNENN KWR NHW UA L UHRCLAPK UQDMCFHXO, RMHRM HV ROQF HSEPAHB
HLSEP RKLQ.  PMHL PQNP MEL UQRK MG ZHBVMVSA ZUE HSEPSHL ZM QFFQUD DORK
HLA PKUNSE WEFDKXA.  DOPMIOZ BMIPS ENRMDGLF ZUCHB PRS OEHSCNENK GSEVHUW
SQUDI KQHUWBPNEPQR NIOVN WUM TQ HKNY SELUVK, YWR PMS HWHHKQM WMNFR WMZ
UESK PMS HMZARGMLF ZM UISK ZM MZRSN PHWHB LAC IQNMHRAL EWR XHZFNYES EL
PMQK EFHSEN, WURA UZ ROMDM HAUHWUQGMUW HV UD HSEPAHX HC FRS NR.

UZ PMA ROUSEIOB HNFGMHQKDY LPHQRPB UZ HSEPAHB, HAXUWEL ZUNMPSW IC FRS
PQBZNLS.  FENZ MZ NUEM CYESP HSEPAHB VMNU E FSQYLHES ZM HLQ, HAXUWEL
LEDK, HV PMHV APZUCP QF PSQUSABV UDPQPDQFHIA LWR PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM UISK
ENIOWR XMPM GDLHLF LAC GYSFMLF UQPQDHLF.  HSEPAHL EXBI UKNQ PRS RKDMVHUW
WUZ BU YZBQHTF ZM UDPQEHESG MPB UQPQDHLF LAQ OHWQ PUEW URA UDPQEHESPB XQ
PSSAQMUDT.  VMF, OQXUALP SHTUEVHPYR, GSEPSHL HV WUM QIOEPYRENA:  RW
XEXVQLHL YSHVPB.  PMSEK HL RH YZLHWZ BI WAPUDS RWY UWQ PQYRMSP Q FHZMD
HLUDP TSEPSHL, LFPMIOPI PMS HWHHKQM UQK QSKCFNLXVQ WUXSAQM FEHSEP XQ
HSHZSA ROI MKLA HPSK DZ BM ZQYRM.  NEPMSE, HSEPAHL EHUB PH ZWHGDRK
HEHUENQ OQFSEUKV UA L VDWR UZ ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YR ASAQMWHDUR BLACVWZ,
XH ZM LEK, OW DMHRM BPINARPB LAR VRMUXENX RMI ENY RHWVDDF UW PMHV
UQPQDHLF NQR ASZXUES XQ PMQHPSXSSP.  DOPM PMQF, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW
HSEPAHB, LKPUDDUDF DOPM PMS HSEPSHL FKPQNYQ, ZRS GUEPZ BMHDF UWS PYSB
HFUW HZARUDP TSEPSHLLA APZUCP UD FECP ZM XHXSQ PRS WMCFYSFMLFOGUDZ
HEMXSAOCMHRM PQXVB PRS HLSE ROQF PMS PEXPQC QUWFQUDB.

OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQW IAFK Y SKWE BHLFS FHWGMUW, SQIDWLUDZ DMGR HDHUQWE
PQBZL EWR NHWLUDZ IZL PMQ RRCIU.  UEGDDF PSSAQMKR YQBROEFNP HWHHQPMAHB
XMNAR, DMHRM NYB SHKNYLXK HD FESQE LAR KDFVUPR HEQPZQ UORM UD PMS PQUY
PSTIARPB ZMPKPMSE, OQXUALV RQHUWBPNEPQC GWZXB ZM HLY RMGM PRS PDYSQ GYSZ,
XHHQPMUDF DMZ ZHBVMVSA DOPM Q LWZA:  VWZVDDF HF PMK RMDGMUWENK QCFWE ZUCH
UZ LA NAULUHVUEN YWCR UD PDYSE YZFSE LHVMQRGMDF MG ZM HSEPAHB
UIEHMIXUIDNQF LALXAVHL PHW LFB FRS PQBZL.  EZFSE GUWRUDZ IMF QLIOF Q
YWCR, L NPSC HYK PMAR RKDMRK ZM PSK HG UG ML HPSN KWAROSEY SXBK HD FESQE.
SQNQHLK SELF QUINAPB UZ UDRKVODF LHZSHWF QXV UZ PMS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF, UWY
NQA UUDW IMF ROSEY SXBQ YXV ZUCHX HU L FECPMDNFEN PDYSY DHWN KZSQYW
UZPQW LMZ Q FDHGDLF UQZBSE SQNQHLK PESQE HV MHPIXA UDUFQRPQN.  GHNPMSE,
VHWNQ PRS BPHWX WZ TWHHQPMAHP REL ZM WI DOPM PMY HDHIDRL UZ LENCUGMDQ, Y
HLSE UQX YHVM PH XFMWK LAR KSZXUES LENCUGMDK HD FESQE VUPQNEFMES XQ
ZQGHDF LENCUGMDK HCFU Y BHLFX NUDWIN, Y HLSE ZISP ZM PMY SDFVUPRPDYSY
YWCR VUBPXHHQPMUDZ IRA NQWLMZ WI DOPMIOZ BRS WMHTMFSE HSEPAHP REL
UDRKSYC GRS RKGUDUGMUWX HG UPB KDQMHIALWEPMS PPCUDP VQNDHGURQ EFHSENB
UD PMK RAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMSPS POVZQGUSK YWCRX.  HRA UQQ ZRSA UUDW IMF
ROSEQ YWA UZ PMHXY RHWRV HV HLKR UD PMY RHWEV UZ E FENGMNMFLN EMFMIW.
PMY SDFVUPR RKGUDUGMUWL EES WUF BQHUQGMPYW.

LFX UZ FRS UDKDRQV RDHGDDF PMHV VDWR UZ HLKFY RSEY HDHIDALXVK WKSHVKR ZUW
PHYSC, IAXUWEL MXPSDSKR UD MZRSC DHWRV, LFB FUEG QUDW IG UAUHWUQGMUW
LFF UHWHB UZ LFX NHWRV, ROSEQ PRSK QVOBP, PMK RMDGMUWENA ZHWC MRSQ XASUWZ
ZMRYES WMXVQRPQK DCFI WQFQLELSP, ROMDO RUVS ASZKRMGS PQYCNMHDF.  PMAR
MG NYV RHVWMSKESC GUEZ MRA NQW RM ZMHDFB VQYCNMHDF UD PMSPK RQFQLELSP
PMQF WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA PSENRMUDI DC FRS UNXV PQBZB.  PMOL, EBFMIIFM PRSES
ENA PNFBFYSP BQYCNRSV HR FSEPSHL, UORM UZ PMY RHWV DV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, HLUDP TESFEESK DWRMDSP.  ES PMK HWRYSUDP FUEG MV RUWQ SSRUDC GRS
BRARSP, OQXUALP HIHCFKR IOZ BUEZ CMGMIMF PMS PTIF UHWHB UZ PMQ PYSG, MZ
WMNFR WMZ SQ WIRA APPAQMDGASQ.  OMNM IZ FMHV HWRYSUDI DB LELKR UW PMY
BPNHQMHNSP PMQF ENQ HKNY SSZVUDMM TQ ZRS VPUB FQZVUDZ.

MG NYL PIOWR PMQF UWY HZ FRS PMUDPV UQWA UZ HSEPAHL RUWPDYSEDQYKDDF
HLSEV RI HB VFQCP PNIU PMK RMDGMUWENK YWR PMAR UISK UDZM PMQ RXUPS BPINX
UZ YWCRL EWR WMWNSHPB GDQ FMHV EUDW IP ADFVUPRPDYSY DHWR VQYCNM, SX YMHRM
HQLAB PRSQ ODIMP PSSAQM Q NUWRQTF.  PMHV YSSEDMPS UEB LYSA LBVDIRAC GW
BPINARPB UD WMES WMHNPSL EP MENLKCRZM BPINK Y WMWNSHM TA XWZVDDF ZUC PRS
ARFVHVO RHWK DC FRS KDQMHIALWE, GUWRUDP FRS PDYSY DHWRV, LAC GRSA UUDKDDF
PMY RHWRV UD PMK PESQE LMZ, MT NIOEPS, EQYKDDF QNWHBV UD PMY SDFVUPR.
PMQF PQXVB PRSU Q PDQYG CQYF LXMMF ROQF Q FNERLFLGMUW HQLAL EX RASX.

PRIOVN UWQ YXBW YHVM PH XYS HUKFSP PMQF UESK ZM WI DOPM LENCUGMDQ, PUEZ
HSEPUW YWNFK IM ZM ZRS MXHKQM EQX YHWR VQYCNO, RMHRM LFXURX UWQ PW
HSNPHWU Q VHUHFLD EUDW IG UWRYS ESPCHKLKX UC FRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ENRMYQUXIZMDLF MXHKQMX.  RMGMIMF YWCRP, HMDFMESL EES HLASSPP HSEPSHL UEB
WUP CQYRMKR PMS HIHCF ROSEK HM QLA WI UORM DOPM HUKFSP PMQF ENA RMZ
NQFQXUPKC.  GMOL, EBFMIIFM HG MP HHXVHLXK HR FSEPSHL DOPM PQBZ LAK DUQPKB
ZM ALGDFKPQ XQ ADWYUDZ DRSES UWY RLAPB ZM ARN ITZHW YSQUFSQ, Y
ESNGDIHNK SELA PWHC MRS XMBPUW UOPSOU UZ GURA ENPBUWQ RLA HSNPHWC MMHB
VDWR UZ ALGDFKGMUW SKWE QYVHXA XQ PCQNUDI KWYD UWRMDSP.  OQXUALB
UVFNBPNEPQR VKSSELF PKRADHR BRQRAX HP LQNDHGURQ UW LKPSB.  PRS PAQFHNSP
RKUIRLPCQFKR RKDHSKN GWHH TSEPSHL 1.0 SKEPHIW 2.0 DUVV UHTSAHQCF KSAR
SQZBSE HQLAX HP NQPDHKSLF.

OQXUALB RXUPSC VA XWZVDDF QF UWY HZ FRS GHQMHNSP LAR WMZUDF KFKUD PMQF
UWQ RLA WI K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM HLUDP FRS MDUWIZNEHRK YX RASF LB PRS
PQBZL.  PHW UDBPLARQ, BPINARPB UD Q NHWQ RIOEPQ YP MENLKCR PMHV KQEN RYES
MHPIXA UDPQESBPKR UD PDYSQ DUWRQTFX HZ LHWKHFDSEL EWR ESHESPARFQGMUWX HZ
WUDFESQEB.  VM ZRSE ZSEZUCHKR K FESQF RKLF UZ ESPSENRM, XMPM DOPM PQBZB
K.P., RSWHWIFML EWR DOPM MDUWIZNEHRX WD LELSP LAR NIHRL, UW MIC ZRS
PDYSEV ZHCPNEKQR WUWPDYSEV.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUQ, YCP MHBPHWUKRL ROH XFMWK
MDUWIZNEHRX YSEQ YXBI HCFSESPPQN, KWR RYES QLSA ZM HLQ PMHB HQFSEUKX.

