The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are 1 to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and 2 to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone.  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited there arQ Y ANCTSE UZ YSRQTFHIRL LAN VHUMGQFHIRL.

LA ASQRPCUWMD ARGDWHCUARF TFLRQB VPCKURL UW PMQ RHZEWDIMP XEBPQH.
WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX RLAZ BM WUWPCUX HLSP UZ PMKHC DHWE YWR SQ FEDK ZUN EWA
HLQ PRS FHLXMD NYCFB EOHDQ LAR KELK YWBSPL EF BMGFBY HC WM WHXZ.  BRS
UQDEQPFSQNK HX RHWVDDF UD PMHV ENQY.  WMCFNEQMV, POHRKVURAX HR ASAQMWHDUW
HLQ, YWR WMXVQRGMSK VURQRLUDF KES UD HLQ YWR SQUDP DAPUDKR.

HVLHSP WMWNSEDUDF PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM RMLAPK YWDEX RMGMIMF RKPQQMHIA LES UIES
KDZLMDNFZ BI WQYX NMGM.  EHABPHIRL WMWNSEDUDF PMK HCFKPDHZQ UZ PMY RHWY
LAC GRS BPQFHL UZ PMQ RUEDFKR SKEPHIA NWRSE PMQ RHZEWDIMP FLN YES ZM SQ
KNRCSPPSC.  GRSPS ENS HMLVUR TUXMDK OBVHAX RMHRM ESAMHDK HAUHWHQW
KDLFIZHA.


                                 


                EFHSWROV OVD:  KHDQRZMWE UZ FECPMDHGLAPB


HESPARPQEP:

     FEHQFL K.M. LARCY
     ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN, EMFIUQFHIW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
     10301 LQBFHUHWQ SIOSALKCR
     SQBFBSUVSA, IC 207052351
     HRUWY:  301 5046813
     ULV:  301 5047473
     QHKUV:  UCFSERAF:  TLARCQYPEN.EEPHLNK.ZIS

     HKLA LQWHALB, VARHIC HLAKFSE
     RKFECPHQCF UZ BPLANKCRL EWR PQRMWUXUZK
     ELXHDMQFHIA UHW UDZUCHQFHIA LWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARF QOVO
     1100 NYAWQ YSKANS, POHPQ 1100
     VHXSSE PHDHDF, IC 20910
     HRUWY:  301 5878202
     ULV:  301 5872711

     FEPCMDUK LQZBUD, HESPDKARZ
     PMQ RIUUHBVHIW UR FESPSDSQFHIA LWR QNRQBV
     1400 16PM BPESQP, W.D.
     LHMGY 740
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 200362217
     HRUWY:  202 9393400
     ULV:  202 9393407
     QHKUB:  NFEZDILC.TMGRAZ

     MINYCR SQBVSE
     RQCFES NQALKDAR NKCNMHPQQMHNY
     NQALKDLA RQCFSE ZUN ECNMHPQQMHNY
     1920, NHQ SKUSA
     UICFESLF, AMQSQR O3S 2B6
     NQALNK
     HRUWY:  514 9397001
     ULV:  514 9397020
     QHKUS:  UWYENNVHV.GHZB.KRO

     KRDOC L. SCWYWCDIP, KSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     HQHQS WSPQYCNM HRLGMFMPQ
     422 XMDUFQ KLARHA
     WHPSGDXVQ, RY 95678
     HRUWY:  916 7842298
     ULV:  916 7867559
     QHKUX:  LMGRAM:  CQHYSNQXBFQPQ.2

     SEMD C. QLFLFMNK, LMDS HESVHRKCF
     RMKNYXDQRSLFQK, UDW.
     1101 VDDF BPESQP
     LFYSLARCUK, LK 223X4
     HRUWA:  800 75205S5
     ULV:  703 6837589

     UKHQV RLFX
     4015 RKSHYWIW WHKN
     LQBFHUHWQ, HW 212181404
     HRUWY:  410 2350763

     DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7076233
     ULV:  202 7073764

     NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE, WMHWKDALZMW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7076233
     ULV:  202 7073764

     HILARA PNYSUQW
     2000 HKZLSEXHR FENE YSKANA, RW. 7
     RMENXUZBSPGDXVK, SY  22903

     HEHXPSD PUGZUCR
     KDESQMHW ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7071517
     ULV:  202 7079898
     QHKUS:  FIDPLQA1.XUD.TIX

     UKQBHAVURA RSBV, KDESQMHW
     ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWX
       ZUD HCFSEQNGMSK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7074157
     ULV:  202 7072829

     LHLER UMWEQK, WHDQRZMW
     RQCFSE ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB UD PMS ROULAMGHKB RQPO
     LFYSLARKN SMVNEWE
     NHFPSEL HDUSKEPMGX
     169 WMXVKPQ YSKANY
     RAC XNHRLDODQ, DU 08903
     HRUWY:  908 9321384
     ULV:  908 9321386
     QHKUS:  UMWEQXOIWUKN.CMFPKEP.KRO

     DOXVUKU B. MIMZUW, GDRQ HESPDKARZ
     LMVHRABV  PQRMDUNQV NKSASHZHQCF
       HUKFUDI  DAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQHV PWHHF
     UDQP
     6430 WHDQSAKIK RDHSK, LHMGY 400
     SQPMSPNK, IC 208X7
     HRUWY:  301 5646750
     ULV:  513 5646867

     LARA D. EARRAK, YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW
     RKFECPHQCF UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAR NUWPSDSQFHIW
     701 UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ, WA 14853
     HRUWY:  607 2556875
     ULV:  607 2559346
     QHKUX:  VKWQWHWRAXVQ.LMGRAZ

     WHALVN X. VENPSW
     ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN PHW UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UQWEFLWR QF WMXVKPS HENY
     WHIU T0224, CDQASKDA FMVNEWE
     WMXVKPS HENQ, IW 207427011
     HRUWY:  301 4059194
     ULV:  301 3149865
     QHKUS:  NFLEPARVUSC.OUR.KNI

     UQDHL F. SASCUW, UQALIDDF KRMGHW
     PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQB FDHLFB
     S333 U BPESQP, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20005
     HRUWY:  202 3266735
     ULV:  202 8422868
     QHKUS:  FMLLEYLVPNOBI.VMFCQP

     UHRMYQX VSPE, QSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     WMHTMFSE BRHKWNS ESPQYCNO
     SQXV WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ESPSENRM, UDW.
     CH 2Y385
     445 XHMFR PPCYSZ
     UIWSHVZMDW, DU 07960X9V0
     HRUWY:  201 8294070
     ULV:  201 8295981
     QHKUX:  VSPQVASBNHWQ.RIU UDPQCWQP HW SQXVWMES!SAVE OLRT

     NBUGZUCR L. FAWRM
     KDESQMHW, VUSCENK YMFIUQFHIW
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK,
        UZGURQ UZ PMS HESVHRKCF
     300 FLEQVHRK RCDGQ, 8PU PXUHW
     UYAVLAR, NY 946123350
     HRUWY:  510 9870522
     ULV:  510 8393573
     QHKUB:  NLFHNMNQCSBY

     KLNE UHRMASXHW
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU. 14C
     7PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, R.N. 20408
     HRUWY:  202 5015544
     ULV:  202 5015533
     QHKUB:  FUHNM.DUI.PIX

     ASVU OQXUALB, HLAKFUDP KKDZMW
     HSEPAHP HWHHKQM
     RKFECPHQCF UZ PMQ RFLBVMDB
     UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGX
     319 XMAXBPUW UEXV
     NQCTDHKIQ, HY 02138
     HRUWK:  617 4959025, 617 4950456 RHDQRZ
     ULV:  617 4968886
     QHKUS:  AXVOVEYWHP.RENLKCR.KRO IE SXVODHM12.UEDSENR.KNI

     NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW
     FEDQENR IOULAMGHKV HRLGMFMPQ
     300 PSWMWR BPESQP, LHMGY 201
     XUL EBFHX, NQ 94002
     HRUWS:  415 9480150 HMH
     ULV:  415 9485793

     XAWLQ E. HSEPUWHOL, EBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW
     WMCWASV UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUIDSP ZUW
      BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQB
     502 UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ, WA 14853
     HRUWY:  607 2553393
     ULV:  607 2559346
     QHKUV:  UCWWMCWASBN.VMFCQP

     UQWESQPM HSPQEP
     ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS
       ESIDBPSE UZ WMZEDHPIPB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     UZGURQ BU 403
     HRUWY:  202 7078350
     ULV:  202 7078366

     Q. CMDUEAS PHSESQDPCQAMYSW
     KRMGHW, PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK
     WMHTMFSE RQCFSE CQ 135
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UVVUWUHV QF RMMDKFW
     XMV 6998
     RMMDKFI, HX 60680
     HRUWY:  312 4130317
     ULV:  312 9966834
     QHKUF:  N35395OHDBC..QN.MMD.KRO IN H35395OHDBC.TMGRAZ

     PKHWPK C. PMIUQ, RMHKZ
     WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ARIDRASEUDT VNEWNO
     ALGMUWLF VUSCENX WT UKRMDUDY
     8600 WHDQGDXVS HDVY
     SQPMSPNK, IC 20894
     HRUWY:  301 4964496
     ULV:  301 4020341
     QHKUB:  FMIUQSUN.WBU.DUI.PIX

     WIWHPMQ ZYWMHP, KKDZMW
     PMS HEFSEX HZ PYHDPY RELMHDFZMW
     504 LFRKCHLA VUSCENX
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ GDDPUDUK
     RMENXUZBSPGDXVK, SY 229032498
     HRUWY:  804 9240523
     ULV:  804 9244337

     LHLER U. SKWBUK, PQQU SAKNSE
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, HLSE KSLFNLGMUW
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE KSLFNLGMUW HEIHQRZ
     HRUWY:  202 7079104
     ULV:  202 7073764
     QHKUX:  BSKRBQA1.XUD.TIX

     WIALVN O. DQFSEP, RQYW
     XEBPQHX HZLMDY
     KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENX
     RAR OKLAR, QM 06520
     HRUWY:  203 4324889
     ULV:  203 4327231
     QHKUV:  NNYPQEPKYSABI.VMFCQP HW RDQFSEXELFKSO.QWB.KYSA.KRO

     BPNLCP RYMVAS, PSDUHW ESPSENRM BRHKCFHVZ
     MWBN
     6565 PNLAFG WHKN
     NILXUD, IM 43017
     HRUWA:  614 764608S
     ULV:  614 7642344
     QHKUV:  UCFSERAP:  BFMEPRM.MWBN.HWZ

     WHSQCP P. GMDO
     PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ VUSCENUKW
       ZUE PHSDMLF HEIHQRPB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7076233
     ULV:  202 7073764
     QHKUS:  NGORBQA1.XUD.TIX

     HOKDPM Y. FDKEN, WMHWKDALZMW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF PQBZ KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEO
     UDZUCHQFHIR LEXPQHB KDGDVHUW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
     10301 LQBFHUHWQ SIOSALKCR
     SQBFBSUVSA, IC 207052351
     HRUWY:  301 5046813 HW 5045853
     ULV:  301 5047473
     QHKUV:  UCFSERAG:  MGONKNEPEN.EEPHLNK.ZIS


MXPSDSSEB:

     RSSAA LFISEE, FWHPDQU UZGURQW
     KDGDVHUW UZ ESPSENRM
     WHIU 318
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
     1100 HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, R.N. 20506
     HRUWY:  202 7860358
     ULV:  202 7860243

     H. QXVAW LXLAZMW, RSHMFK WHDQRZMW
     ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWX
       ZUD HCFSEQNGMSK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY:  202 7074157
     ULV:  202 7072829

     RMENSAB H. WIXVEN
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU. 14C
     7PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20408
     HRUWY:  202 5015532
     ULV:  202 5015512

     HKZLESA ZHKVN, RKFHZQ ZM PMK RHDQRZMW
     KDGDVHUW UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB
     WHIU 802
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
     1100 HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20506
     HRUWY:  202 7860570
     ULV:  202 7860243

     XUWSUD FKEPUW
     QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPX
     ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF RKFECPHQCF
     1155 16PM BPESQP, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, R.N. 20036
     HRUWY:  202 8724541
     ULS:  YUQUV:  UDPQCWQP:  SNF96KRB.HWZ

     DOXVUKO B. MIBUSP, HD.
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU. 14C
     7PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20408
     HRUWY:  202 5015540
     ULV:  202 5015512
     QHKUX:  NMIBUSPQUSEMDLA.KRO

     PHSEVUDF UQCPUD
     UDZUCHQFHIW CSPIOCNQ HLAKFQHARZ
     20030 WIUXMGFBS PPCYSZ
     FKMGRSEPLMDP, IC 20879
     HRUWY:  301 9241803

     UHRMYQF AAHUQW, RHDQRZMW
     PMQ RARPQN PHW PQBZ LAC GQRURUXIZX
     QNKNQHMD WMHTMFUDT DARPQW
     238 ESHVB VDMARRQ LMUVKDDF
     PKHWPKZMDW NADGSEVHZQ
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20057
     HRUWY:  202 6876096
     ULV:  202 6876003
     QHKUF:  AAHUQDFILYL.VMFCQP, RAOULAFILKV.ZYHDPQPWYR.ANI

     LQCSENE FLNXBUW, HEIZNEU IZLMDSE
     KDGDVHUW UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB
     WHIU 802
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
     1100 HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA, W.D.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 20506
     HRUWY:  202 7860577
     ULV:  202 7860243

     LFSAR U. ESRAEN
     PSDUHW QNKNQHMD FSLADUDF LALFEXZ
     SCWYA NDUSKEPMGQ WIUFHGMDF LAK DAUHWUQGMUW PSDSMDSP
     115 NYPQCHLA BPESQP
     NQHTHL XMV 1885
     HEIXDKARRQ, D.H. 02912
     HRUWY:  401 8637312
     ULV:  401 8637329
     QHKUX:  LMGRAF:  QXVARSCWYDLU IW
     UDPQCWQP:  LFSACLWHDWBI.SCWYR.ANI

     LHLEC U. PSSKCPXHR, FESVHRKCF
     RMKNYXDQRSLFQK, UDW.
     1101 VDDF BPESQP
     LFYSLARCUK, LK 223X4
     HRUWA:  800 75205S5
     ULV:  703 6837589

     PNLAY DMGREWY
     H.L. RKFECPHQCF UZ KRMNQFHIW
     555 RAD OSEPSK YSKANA, R.Y.
     NYPRUDPFUW, RN 202085644
     HRUWY:  202 2192200
     ULV:  202 2192106


BN BPLUZ

     VUWRL F. ENESZ
     UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ RUXSAQMHIRL ESKNUDP DWZU BO 132
     202 7071490

     HIUR C. VEWOU, HD.
     RKBRDHTFDGQ RQFLFIZUDI KDGHVHIA FO 540
     202 7075194

     UQWE UKRA NQLKXVW
     BRHKWNQ YWR PQRMWUXUZK KDGDVHUW FL 5210
     202 7071219

     LHLEC FRSK NKLDK
     WMDFESBVHIALS NSPQYCNR PSEGDRQ BU 226
     202 7077169

     WHSQCP KDSEEQW
     PSDUHW KNGDPSN PHW UOBFHUKRUK QNGMGDGMSP BU 608
     202 7076151

     DOXVUKO C. ASVUB
     ELXHDMQFA SMVNEDHLA ZUE PDMARRQ LAC GQRURUXIZA XO 611
     202 7076928

     WHALVN PKHRENZ
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 102
     202 7075097

     UKHQV PNESQW
     UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE XSEGDRQB XI T51
     202 7079628

     DHRM PDYSAUHKVN
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE BU 603
     202 7076233

     ESSQWBK FHACFRSW
     RAZCHWV KKSASHZHQCF BU 639
     202 7075092

     EQWLQPR S. UEWSHV
     HESPSELKGMUW BU Z21
     202 7075213

     BPLFQK MHMQMRMWY
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 102
     202 7075383

     XMIRLA EYCFHW
     UZGURQ UZ PHQRUKS FWHHKQMB XO 612
     202 7070180

     HIUR D. YHULQXV, HD
     UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ RUXSAQMHIRL ESKNUDP DWZU BO 132
     202 7076560

     LQVHB ULARL
     UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE XSEGDRQB XI T51
     202 7078345

     LEXVE OENM CWBLFFNO
     RAZCHWV KKSASHZHQCF BU 639
     202 7076237

     NKAL H. GNEZB
     FHLXHVMHDF UZGURQ BU 602
     202 7076027

     UKRA DHAPARUEHLSE
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE BU 603
     202 7076233

     DOXVUKO T. BRRSWNY
     WMXVQRGMUWV RKSASHZHQCF BU 650
     202 7077706

     RMLARCO H. PREULAO
     HESPSELKGMUW ESPSENRM LAC GSPGMDF UZGURQ CP BU Z38
     202 7075607

     DOXVUKU H. VHZBDI
