
Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computerassisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machinereadable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  Editors note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirtytwo
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSONs previous count by one.

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI, about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machinereadable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities CETH.  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machinereadable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Networks RLIN
machinereadable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CDROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
ARTFL and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1 increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities and 2 there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarlycontrolled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted ZM ZMGHRB UD PMY
MOUQDUGMSP.  EL DOPM RAZCHWQ DUWPAESWNSP, BRMIFLNSK QCFMOVHELU THW PMSPY
ASQRPCUWMD HIHNALXB BPQHL PWHC MRS HQKDOUL HDUAMQ YVMVUZQ ZM KNLKWNY
BRMIFLEPMHG HA L NYQ ZUEF CW ZPMSE HQKDOU NQW RM XE XHFZHCPUDZ VXULQX
PAKRLQDQ LAK DCFSERMLAPK, HEQNGMNQXVK OW CQYB FHUY, SENXA UD PMS ESPQYCNO
HEMWSPB.  LQKUWR VRMUXENXA HIHNALXB, UHRMASXHW CQHENEQC GRS RKVUSKWE UZ
WMOBSEDMLF UNXVPQBZ HEIWMNPB, LHRM EL ENGMNBSP UD HEUZSPVHUWLF HIHNALXB,
RARXSAZBSEB, HKFYFUDSP, DOES PSDSMDSP, LAR CAPSEARRQ XHHNRQB.  PRSPS ENY
SQUDI KASDGSEKR GDY UAFUDA SMWLF VUSCENQ WQFLFIZHAP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZREIOPI
NRWHHB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, YWBHWKDDF ZM UHRMASXHC, FRSES HV PKRANEX UTFHUHVO
PMQF PMQ RHZEWDIMP LAN GYSV HBVHAV HHTKRUDP FRS RKVUSKWE UZ UNXV PQBZ UW
YSHVGMDF ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW RAZCHWEV XHUW DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR.

PMA PUDLF HEMWSPX HP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHID UB RHNDHNMFNI CKSASHZHQCF
LAK DRLPCMNGMUW, LAC GMHV HDLUXSKB PRS HLY HT NIUFHPQD HAUHWUQGMUW
PQRMWUXUIDSP UD ZCU YESEL.  PMA PHDBP HV PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ
WMHTMFSEHWHKCFKR UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB, ROMDM HWNFNRKB VHUNFQFHIRL,
UOBFHUKRUK EFFSMDQFHIRL, LAR NIUFHPQC PWZXB PMQF ENA HPSC GU YBVHVG MW
PMQ YALXAVHX HP LIOCNSP UD PMQ RFLBVWHIU, QPQ.  MRS HSEPAHP HWHHKQM, Y
NKFQLQPS PMQF HEIXDKSP Q UNFGMHQKDQ NHNDHNMFNU IW NFLBVMDLF PDYSY
DMGDVUFYGMUW, HV K FWZR KLYHTSA UZ PMY RYK UD ROMDR SCFHDQ RHNDHNMFL ENY
SQUDP DQRELF MVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKV.  HG ML ECFMDHGQFKR PMQF PMY
NMWSARG CUGGUNMBFK OR ABWUEDFUDP KSAQMWHDUNQXVQ WIUFHPQCSELKR
UDBPNHQMHIALX BUZZCENY, RMHRM UD FMCW UQEQV HG CUGGUNMBF ZUW HRA BRMIFLW
ZM LMUVN IZHC FRS YWDE UZ MZRSEP, DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR SQZUES ZMU XUWZ.
BPLANKXURA NMWSMDNFEN EFFSMDQFHIRL PMQF UDXIXSY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSZ CUVX LY
PRENQLSA PMWHIFU RQPYWDEP, EKHAUHWDMDF PMKHE PDIDUGUNQWNQ YV HCFASSAQMNLX
HEIWMNPB EL RYXV EL UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB.

PMS PQRUWN KPHQRZ MP ASAQMWHDUN BQYCWUDI DDLUXSKB PRS HLY HP NSPQYCNU EWR
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEL PHW KDBPLARQ KRMNQFHIR FWHPDQUB.  VMNR HWHPDQUB
UDPQNEQMDGASA XUDQ GQYRMSEX RMGR PFMRKCFV HD FYHPDEFMHNQXVE XNQZBSEKR
XUNQGMUWL EWR ESXA UW PMQ YLKUVQLUVMGX WP ASAQMWHDUD MRLPCMNGMUWLF
ESXHHNRQV.  RHVFQWNY SNINQGMUW HEIZNEHB ENK PKUDUDF DORK EFHSLF QUUWZ
BPQFK RSHENMCARPB UZ KRMNQFHIC LQRLNPS UZ PMKHC RQHUWBPNEPQR NEFQNMGQ ZW
SCUDF KKGLARQR VHSDMLFOGKR WMHNPS YWDE LAN KA LWSYK UZ YSHSCPB PI ULAX
NBELPEWZHB.  E NQRARP CSHHWF ZIOWR PMQF QF SAELP 32 BFQPQX HHSNEPQN KZ
SAELZ MRA BPQFYRDKA RQPYWDE ZUE SNINQGMUW UD 1991, DOPM RAZCHWEV NARKW
RKSKXUTHARG MC ULAX WZ FRS ESUQUDUDP VFQPQB.

UHRMASXHR LOUUQDHPYC GMHB VQRGMUW XQ WUGMDF ZCH XPCDVUDT DUEDFSP FQVDDF
FSQNK HR LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIA LUIDF MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP.  GUEPG MB PRS
YSPQCF ZM ROMDR SSAQMWHDUQ MYSG MR FENGMNMFLN, EWR ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQB
UD PKRANEF, LES SQUDI DAUHLKR UDZM QYRM UZ PMA PDGS HWHRQBVSP RKBRDHSQW
QLIXQ.  YB HARGMUWKR QYNSHKC, PRSES HV Q NSEFQUD XERADPK YZ CHWE ISEY.
PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL PHW UWS HWHRQBV PQWRB PH XGMUOFLPQ MGB
HLA PHW MZRSE HWHRQBVSP, SQNQHLQ PRS RMHKT NIOEPY HT UIXQHARG MB PWYENN K
WMHTESRSRLDGY HAFUDY RHWVDDF WMCFYSF ZHW MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP PMQF
UDNBINSP UWVURA KLKUFLVMVUZQ UZ EQQ XMVVUIZNEHRHKB, VRMUXENXA PAKRLQDQ,
XHHNRQL, EALXAGMNQB FWZXB, LAR GMLVUNQGMUWB.  HMDRSXBUW WUPQN GHNPMSE
PMQF PMQ HIXQHARZ BWYENN K WMHTESRSRLDGY HAFUDY RHWVDDF WMCFYSF ZHW
MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP HV WUF CYR.  UD ULQM, MG UEB LYSA NWRSENYA ZHW UIES
PMLA ZUCPX ZQYEP UD PMS ROULAMGHKB, VUDRQ ULPMSE WHSQCPM XHLQ LKPLA
RKSKXUGHDF LA ASQRPCUWMD WMWNHWNKWNY HZ FRS YWDEX HP LKUCF PMIUEL YAOHALB
UD 1949.  ROQF RY ENY RMGRABVUDP FIWYK, UHRMASXHW NUWPQWRKR, HV WUZ BRS
SQIDWLUDZ IZ FMHX HAFUDQ PNERLMGHIC LMF, ZUN EF BQYBP XHHQ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP, PMQ PHNDUDF ZHUDG MC FRS PCLAVHGMUW PNIU E FDHCF ZM LA
ASQRPCUWMD YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ.  WMUDDMKDDF DOPM PMY HAFUDQ PNERLMGHIC, FRS
PSWMWR BPDHVDDF RMLAPK HV PMY SBZARZ BW YMHRM ESPSENRM LAR KNINQGMUW
RAZCHWEV ENQ SQRIUUDP FRS RAC OKRHOU IP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  FRS
YSHVGMDF UDPQCWQP LAC GRS HSWRUDF DQFHIALS ANINQGMUW LAR CSPQYCNU RQPYWDE
WCAR ESHESPARZ BRS RAC OYSGMDF PDIOWR ROSES PRMUXENL EES ZIUDP ZHW
VMLXHIPDEFMHD MAUHWUQGMUW, BRMIFLNSK WUKXUFIQ YWR PAKRLQDQ, PMQ HHXZ
NMWSARF TMLVUNQGMUWV HC FRSHD GUASN, KWR MHPISASKS ANINQGMUWLF
UZPADHDFB.  PNEKDGMUWLF BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP ENA HWRSEZIUDP FESHQWRIOB
PCLALPHWUQGMUWL EL E ESLHBF UZ PMY SHQDPARRQ LAK IWHDODF HEIUUDARRQ UZ
ROQF HV NQXVKR RAZCHWQIKRUKPQR VRMUXENPRHG.

UHRMASXHW LYSZ BHNRAC GM ZRS PSWMWR ASQHARZ MZ FRS PNQUYRHWE VRS HEHZHXKR
QF PMY HMFPSZ MP USE FQVA ZUE SLKFNQFUDP FRS HEHXHSQML PHW ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZ, ALHQXA PMQ EQK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZESWRL EZLQRGMDF PMQ RUWNIQM
UZ BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW IXSE PMA RYSG CQRKNY:  1 SWRHLSE WMHTMFUDZ
LAR 2 NUWRAQMDGMGX.

ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF HQLAB PUEZ BRS HSEPUW ZMMNMHDF PMQ EQKXMENW, IW
HSNPHWUHDF WMHTMFQFHIRL, HV PMS PQUQ YB PRS HSEPUW ROI HDUGMQFSP HW
WMRLOUSP PMQ RIUFHFQGMUW.  PMY SHQDPARRQ UZ HSEPUWLF WMHTMFSEL, EXUDF
DOPM E UHXZ MZ UPMSE ZUCNSP, LHRM EL MLMKOHZMHL WMHTMFUDF, KKGLARQV HW
UDPQNPQNK RSPDIA, LWR PMY HAFUDQ PNERLMGHID, UP HWHHTGMDF PMQ RUWLHHQEP
UZ WMHTMFQFHIC FI WM ZRSHD WYW NIUFHGMDF, LAK DB PMOP EARRKDHDF MXXHSAPQ
PMQ PNEKDGMUWLF KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR ARN IPSEP LAN IBFHUQFA HPSEP.

PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF HV VHFDUGMDLAZ BM WUWVHRKNEGMUW UZ
PMS HWHPHQRPB ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB SQNQHLK HM CQYRL PMQF ESPSENRMSEL EES
SQWMUHDF UIES KNSHF QG CIHDF PMKHW HDW WMHTMFQFHIRL LAC, GMOB, HHWY
WMHTQPARG MC FRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK.  XQ KLIHKDDF HEIZNEOBSE
UDPQCHKRUKDHSP, WMHTMFQFHID UB LQRIUUDT DARPCLF ZM PMS ESPQYCNRSEP
PMIOPIF TWHRQBV.  PMHV KDESQM UDXIXSQHARG MW NIUFHGMDF HV RMLAIDDF PMY
ESPSENRMSEP HSEPHQRGMSK UW PMA RQFHNY HP NSPQYCNM HPBASZ, FUEG MB, PRS
VDWRX HT AHABPHIRL PMQF NQC LS HHXKR, PMQ YALXAGMNQB UQPMIWIXUIDSP PMQF
NQC LA HPSC, GRS ZQHSL EWR QUIOCF UZ XHHNRQB PUEF QES EFHEHZDHQFA PHW
LALFEXSP, LAC GRS ZUCH UD ROMDU PUDKDDFL EES HESPARPQC.  GRS PCARC GWYENW
ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF HQLAB PUEG, MWNESELUDFVK, QSAQMWHDUQ CKRUK LAW
WMHTMFQFHIA LES SQUDI DAUHLKR UDZM LFS FWHRQBVSP UZ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEPMHG, HRLGHDHDF ESUQDEQLSA PCLALPHWUQGMUWV HR LRMUXENXA
WMOBNAMDQFHIW.

PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGE XIFPKBPB PUEP CSPQYCNRSEP ENA HVHDF
WMHTMFQFHID UWNESELUDFVK OW LQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARPB.  WMWLQRGMGDZQ HV
HUZHCPLAZ BH XRMUXENPRHG SQNQHLK HP QNEPSB PRS KDBPLARQ PMQF PSFENEPQB
BPINARPB PNIU PQQNRSEP LAR VRMUXENL PWHC MRSHD WMXVQYFISP, ROUVQ YXVWYUDZ
HLSEB PU YWBSPP EQHMZK RQFQLELSP, PRENK HAUHWUQGMUW UD UQWA KDZLSEARZ
HQKDQ, NUWRAQM ZM PMKHC DHWVDDF WMCFYSZ CRSESSKC PRSK YES, LAW
WMXVQLHWQFK HA LXV HRELSP UZ ESPSENRM.

PMQ RIUVMALGMUW UZ PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF LAC GRS PCARW
ZMNYCR WMWLQRGMGDZQ LHZVSPPB PMQF PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HP ASAQMWHDUW
ESXHHNRQL, ESNQYWK KSDKARF QUIDF XHHQ ESPSENRMSEX, RUVX BWZC LQRIUQ YW
SPFQLXHVRSN GQYFMES UZ BRMIFLEPMHT.  FRS APPAQMX HZ FRSPS PCARRV, LFUWZ
DOPM UWZIUDT DUEDFSP UD BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP, ZHUDZ BU Y UNFMES UD ROMDO
MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRMSEX RUVF NPS WMHTMFQFHIA LWR ASQRPCUWMD WMOBNAMDQFHIW
ZM RSSF PMQH ZUCHNFQFK HRKEL, QNRQBV XHHNRQP, HSEZUCH ESPSENRM,
WMXVQLHWQFY RMGM RUXSAKFHAB, VYSE GYSW SKSHKR, ZMLVUPR LAW VHVPSUHALPQ
