Storage System CLASS Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An imageserver filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the imagefiling system are cataloged
in the online catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelveinch platters.  A veryhighresolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Re retrieval software  "Digital file copyright"  Scanning
rate during production  Autosegmentation  Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning  Compression and decompression of images 
OCR not precluded 


During the questionandanswer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

      Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unixbased server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations, in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

      The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornells legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

      In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

      The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriatelya kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

      The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornells mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  They wanted a
     printed copy.  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the projects selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

      Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for displayan inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

      CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Tradeoffs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

      OCR has not been precluded images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with lessthanideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good CSPNFPB.  LMZ BRS
     HEIHQRG MB REFFMDHDF LA HUKFQ PUEG MX HP LNUGUDMARP CSPUXMFHIC FM XY
     LHVMQRPQC GW ZNC UD PMA PMFHNQ.  HHWYHSKC, PRS XEBPQH ENRMMGQRFMES
     LAC GRS XEBPQH FSLA UESK L FIZMDLF FSQNQ PH XZMES LA MWD HUQPK UG MG
     UEB LYSW NEFFMESC.  VMF PMQF HV WUM TKHDF WIRA WUY.

                                 

PSBVHID UOV.  KDBPDHLMGMUW, RAZCHWEV, LAR WQPYWDEUDZ:  ITFHIRL ZUW
KDBVQHUDQFHIW


GORM  HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM NRWHHB  HZGMUWL PHW FHLXHVMHDF UD NRWHO 


WHSQCP GORM, PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ VUSCENUKA UHW PHQRUKX
HEIHQRPB, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPL, EWR UIRKNEZMW HZ FMHB VSPVHUW, GUEPF CMZKR
PMQ SSABVKR LMP BIUYRUEF QDYNYCR DMCNOUBPLARQ UZ UEGDDF ZUHN SKWE
KDBPUDFIHVRSR GYHFSS ESHESPSCFUDF DQPYWDEL EWR RAZCHWVDDF HW QF SAELZ
SALAUDI DC FUEG CHDQRGMUW, ROUVA SQNVDDF LAXWRA ZM PHQYA GWHC MRS
BPWHDFSPF THXVHLXQ SQNVIWHNAK DW NRCIUX.  PMDR SSZESBVKR PMS RHZQ PUEZ
HQCTSEX HZ FRS LNKDARRQ YWNFK DIHC FRS KDBRHLVHUW.  RS BPESBVKR PMY
LHTMMGSA UZ PMHV FECPMDNFEN PSBVHIW, "UTFHIRL ZUC RHVPSUHALGMUW," LAW,
WMWNSEDUDF NRWHHB, PMK HHTHWFQWNY HG NQPSEUHDUDF ROAR MG YWNFC VY RHVY
ZM WMRLDKSE KDBVQHUDQFHID UW NRCIU SKEPHL RAZCHWEV.  E LMIZSUDF VHVZ MZ
HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM NRWHHB UDNBINKR:  PMK PWHNARV ZUE PASQRGMDF
WMOBSEDMLF FHLXHVRSEP, LAK DRUIOPS FHLXMDQFHIW DRSES ZHBVMVSA SKEPHL
WURFWHGUZ MD PIXSECUARF TMLVUNQGMUW.  E LHUUVEN VUBP ZUC WQPYWDEB
UDNBINKR:  RKPQCHUDUDZ DRSW URA PRIOVN WMRLDKSE KDBVQHUDQFHIC FREIOPI Y
RAZCHWV, DRKCFUGKODF PMQ HQRUEDUBHX HE SCFMGHKB PUEP QVOBP ZM FSQNK HPQHB
UW RAZCHWEV, DKARGMZAUDP FRS ZHUX UZ YSHVGMDF RAZCHWEV, RKPQCHUDUDP IWY Y
HEIWMNSE  YWNFR NMIHXQ SQPRYAR RAZCHWEV, LAK DRKCFUGKODF PMY SSAHQCFX HZ
Q LHLUDSPL EWSLAPKHQCF UD L AQPYWDE.

HZGMUWL PHW FHLXHVMHDF UD NRWHU:  QW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSD SSELHB
PSFUFHLXMDQFHID.  UU LW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSD HL HPSK, DM QLA SQ WURFWHGUZ,
LHRM EL PMK PIXSECUARF TDHCFUDZ IZLMDK PZH HW PMA RQFHIALB FQRURMDLF
UDZUCHQFHIR LSEGDRQ CFHV, UD PMQ RELY HZ PIXSECUARZ.  BRS HEHX LAR NUWB
ELXHDMQFKR DOPM QHFSWXUDF KW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSN EES MXGDIOL.  EUIDF PMY
HEHX, PMSEK HL RM ZWHMLSA PKZBUDF KWBSHPQW.  IRA FEEX PMQ SUVF LWR, UD
APPAQM, ZISP UWSP NYK.  YUIDF PMQ RUWX, RRSW URA FEEX LA IOPBDKY
FHLXHVRSC PH ZSEZUCH PMY RHWQ, GUEF TMLVUPRSE DOXV HSNPHWC MRS YWDE MG HV
MXVUPKC GI WM, XMF HSEREFX RMGMIMF PMS HWHNIQMHIR ASZSEGMPS LAR VVDXV UD
UQDEQPUDF KWR KDBVQHUDQFHIC FUEP BIUY RIOVN PSQE.  PMSEK HB PRS XMWK UZ
WMOBSEDMLF FHLXHVRSEP PMQF WI ZHBVSPB PUEG QUDW IP ASZSEGMPS UD
KDBPDHLMGMUW LAC IENEQGMDF LMZ BUEZ MLSHIHLXA ENS PASQRGMSK.  UD
PSFUFHLXMDQFHIW, URA YSSEDMPSL PNFB NUWPCUX, LMZ BRSW URA UOBP UEWRSA
UQZBSEB VMNU EV RHVPCMVMFHIA LWR UQDEQPUDP.  VMNU EES XHHQ UZ PMY HTFHIRL
ZUE HMLVUPRUDI DC FRS NQPS UZ NRWHO.

UD PMQ RELY HZ FQRURMDLF LAW VSPDID UBVHAX, RMHRM ENQ YXBI HHTHWFQCF,
PMSEQ YES UQWA UQZBSEX RMHRM UQWA QF PMY RHWEVMIF ESNQYWK ADYR K FWZW
RKLF QLIOP:  CQPDHKSLF XEBPQH ESAMHDQHARPB LAR NHXPB, ROQF ZM WI QLIOZ
HUKFSP, PMK SENHIHL NQFEVMVUGMSP LAR GFLFZHWHB, PMQ PNERKUZPL SQZCYSW
WMBP LAR GSEZUCHLARQ, WMWNSERL QLIOF BMWLFENQY RAZCHWEYVMVUZQ,
UDPQWHHSNEVMVUZQ, QPW.
