followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIMs standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
TAG to the International Standards Organizations ISO technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIMs structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the imagemanagement
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIMs liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, imagecodesandcharacter set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization NISO.

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIMs national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standards revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic imagemanagement standards, for
instance, ANSIAIIM MS44, a qualitycontrol guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" blackandwhite office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax imagea continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone picturesand AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1 in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bilevel
image transfer format, ANSIAIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression 2 the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIMproposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging
3 design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" this report considers how
generalpurpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report 4
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a on planning
platters and disk management, b on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CDROM, and c on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  ANSIAIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.

                                 


BATTIN  The implications of standards for preservation  A major
obstacle to successful cooperation  A hindrance to access in the digital
environment  Standards a doubleedged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record  Nearterm prognosis for reliable
archival standards  Preservation concerns for electronic media  Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles  Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction  Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles  Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight  Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image  General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards 


Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
CPA, addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
yearsfor example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other peoples standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a doubleedged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standardsetting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standardsetting results in chaos.

Since in BATTINS opinion the nearterm prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1 the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data and 2 the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of everchanging hardware and software for accessa
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1 standards in the real world and 2 the politics of reproduction.

In regard to realworld standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eightbecause La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
placeHarvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oftmade argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1 Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2 The fidelity of reproductionwhat is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makesissues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3 The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4 The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarshipthe browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copiesought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5 Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the tradeoffs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

      Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

      Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

      Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

      Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

      Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

      Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid libraryspecific standards work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

      Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Additional comments on TIFF 


During the brief discussion period that followed BATTINs presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSIAIIM MS53, a bilevel image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DECs architecture and IBMs MODCAIOCA.

                                 


HOOTON  Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion



HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computerreadable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 


LESK  Roles of participants in CORE  Data flow  The scanning process 
The image interface  Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies  Testing the issue of
serendipity  Conclusions 


Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. Bellcore, discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment CORE, a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society ACS.

LESK spoke on 1 how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2 the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid1970s and thus has a significant backrun
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States, CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasipictorial material dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1 ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files 2 at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes  3 Cornell provides the site of the
experiment 4 OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a pageimage file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file which is
discussed later in the Workshop.  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  The user types several words, is presented with a list
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issuethat derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the socalled SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirtysix students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with popup graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrievaltype task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
searchthe question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard taskthe analogous
transformation.  It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty manyears of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 


ERWAY  Most challenging aspect of working on AM  Assumptions guiding
AMs approach  Testing different types of service bureaus  AMs
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy  Requirements for textcoding 
Additional factors influencing AMs approach to coding  Results of AMs
experience with rekeying  Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
 Quality control the most timeconsuming aspect of contracting out
conversion  Longterm outlook uncertain 


To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LCs varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machinereadable form, and the variety of
LCs text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AMs approach, ERWAY said:  1 A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2 AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenthcentury printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheetfed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
textcoding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for textcoding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AMs goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion, AM used "SGMLlike" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of documenttype definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGMLproficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1 the inability of any known microcomputerbased
userretrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding and 2 the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single documenttype definition DTD and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenthcentury broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AMs experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AMs materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While nonEnglish
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAYs experience, was the most timeconsuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
characterbycharacter comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous days discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete runthrough of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available online.

                                 


ZIDAR  Several answers to why one attempts to perform fulltext
conversion  Per page cost of performing OCR  Typical problems
encountered during editing  Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying 


Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL, offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform fulltext conversion:  1
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2
Some material simply requires wordlevel access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on fulltext access to its material with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
wordlevel LWBSPL.  3 PNFB FYSF TSEUHPB NEGHC VWHRXUDF KWR PSENRMUDZ,
XHHQPMUDP FUEM QLAWUM TQ YRMHKSKK DA LD UUQPK DOPM ZMNKEX PQRMWUXUZK.
4 PQBZ BPHWKR EL ELDMU KWR RKVUSKESK DA LBROV HV BPLANKCROGKR LAR IDIUSX
ZHCPQLSA.  5 HSHZSA HOBP NYCF UNXVPQBZ PSENRMUDP, KSKC FMIPS ROI WU WMZ
ADWY MIC ZI WI HF.  CLF, ZUC PRS UIBP FECP, HV HSNPHWUHDF MWN EF QW
QNFMLF WMBP HSN ESKNEPKVHPY FEPK UZ EFHEWZHUQFASA 7.  WLF BRLAB PRS
FEPK ZM NCQYPQ PMY SSAQMWHDUD MUQPK LAR GELPSV HZ BREIOPI PMY HNC RKGDRQ.

GONKC WYSP CSRQYEPKR PSSKNEB FEZMDLF HEMXSAHB ARWMNAPQESW VHNUDP KKDGMDF.
HEKUVHDF PMQ RASSEMGX WP USE BPINARZ CHWEQEP, GONKW HLBSESKC GUEP QKDGMDF
ESAMHDSP EFHEWZHUQFASA ZDGQ PM ZAR UHANPQP HSE FEPK, ELLHUHDF PMQF PMSEY
ENA RU XENPK FQLXSP ZM LNKDM.  QUWUNVHUW QUUWP FRS PMESQ RUENEQMSEV H, 1,
LAN V, WMRLGMFMPQP HSEUEHP PMQ HHXM QIUUIR FWHLXQH ARWMNAPQESW.  GSEHYB
LAW  IL EXBU YES  PNQAHACFXA WMAUHLKR.  WIMLSA HB NCQYPQ E FENGMNMFLW
HEMXSAH, QSKW UW NSALA FEPKB.  PRSK YES XH DORK UD UIBP ZUCFB PUEZ BRSX
ZMMNU, EWR PMS PEXPQH BHUFSQ WLAWUZ BASX NRSES UWA SQPPQE SWRL EWR PMY
MZRSC SKPUDB.  RIUFSYS FEPK ZUCHQFX HWBELHIALXVA ZKUB FM WUXOUALPQ
HEHZSEXA, ROMDR SCFKUXB ESBRLADUDF EL PMIOPI UWY RSEY RHWVDDF DOPM Y
VHDFSA WMFNUC, ARPQDHDF PMQ YBROV, LAW VQRUXOUALGMDF ZUC SQPPQW
PSENRMUDZ.  DMGR HWHZHCPHIALXVE XFERQC GYSZ, MNC NQR UKLK RUGGUNMBFX
KDBRSEDUDF ROQF HV E LFERQ LAR DUEF QES HQESXA PHQNSP SQZCYSA FQPPQEP, EL
HZZHPSC GH XFERQB LQPRYAR YWCRL, EWR PMSEAPHWY RUVB USEPK PQBZ HW SCQYY
HF YWCRX RRSES MG PRIOVN WUZ.

GONKE PKUC GUEG MM QLA UZPQC FYEA SUWPKC PH YKDF Q ZHHWWMZE MWC PUEC FW
EQK OF ZWHH BNCQFRM.  ALS UEL LFXH YSHSDHHQCFKR DOPM FECPUKS AKDGMDF UZ
PQBZ, ROSEQSE ZWHHKQM YWDESEV PI HCFU YWR NBQYA NT FRS ZUCHQF, ESUIGDDF
BPNEQ WUENEQMSEB LMF WUP CNADUDF E LHSXVRMQRA.  DLF WMWSQRPB ZQZHV HW
PMQ PMGSA LAN KMFMIEP ALHQX, RMHRM HEIXDKSP L UWZPMUXN GHW PSENRMUDF KWR
SCWYVHDF.  KSAR YSPCQHASE ZWZCENLVUZQ MWE S.P., 60TSERQCF QNNMNEWQ
NQR LGMXV SQ PSENRMKR, SQNQHLA ROUSEIOX RHWRV ENQ RHWESQM, ROUVQ PRS
HUZHCPLAZ CHWRV ENS HWHLQLXE WSHQYPQW IZFAR ARIOPI PMQF PMQK ENA SDVASX
ZM SQ ZUNAR NHWESQM XHHQROSEA.  SMVNEDHLAP, RWYKSSE, NQWLMZ ZMSANEPQ PMHV
VHFMQFHIC, FMIIFR SWR HLSEB VYSO BHWY RUVVUDF ZM HLQ PMHB PYSF ZHW
PSENRMUDP, TWHGDRKC GUEF CLF UDKDNQPQB PUEG MG ML HRAKDPQW.  GDKEN
WMWNFNRKC GUEP CQEQKUDZ IZ FYSM CYK SQ PMQ SSPP CIOPQ ZM FQEQ, UD PHMGY
UZ ANHQWHHL HEMXSAHB DOPM AMLFMGQ WUWPCUX LAR NHXZ.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  UIKDZAUDF KD UUQPK SQZUES HSNPHWUHDF MWC  WLFB RHXPB HSW
FEPK QUB RHXPB HSE HKFQ YWR YSHSDHARRQ DOPM PARKNES FDHXHD UWRHLPCHKB 
ASQHARPB WMHTDHVHDF ALGCHP WMBPP HSE FEPK  MWN EWR BPNHQMHNKR UQDEHF 
KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR PMS PPCMNFMES UZ K NMWOUARF QWR MGP ESHESPSCFQFHIW
ROAR FHZ MC FRS BRESAR HW HEUDPQW 


MIMZUW HEAPQNKR PMA SARPFOE KDBRHLVHUW PMQF ZUXVWYKR DOPM PSSKNEX
WMOBARPB QLIOM CIWUGKODF LA HUKFQ SAPHWY HRA ESQNRSB PRS ZHUDZ MZ
HSNPHWUHDF MWN.  PHW YSQUFSK, HW CKPENC GU YA LZSVUNQGMUW WMCFKUDUDF Y
VHFDUGMDLAF QUINAZ MP NKRNANKCF NKFQ, LHRM EL ZUCHZQHS NKFQ, ANHQWHHL
WMHTLAHKB PIWYK ENY RHWVDDF UW LKDHIOV EUDRV UZ ZUCH ESRANYS, FDHHW ZM
ZIUDP FREIOPI E NQRIZDUGMUW HEMWSPB, LA OVHDF RCHZIOM QUXHWB.  PMOB,
QNAMHDUDF KWBSPB PU ZHWI CSPDIW UN HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD HQLAL EES YWCPO
WMRLDKSEUDP.  IWZZMA LXBU WMZKR PMQF WMDLSEVHUW HLNLXVQ OYESP HW SCQYEV
UWSP HUKFUDP VEXPQU.  HG MP SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAP, QBZESHQXA WMBPXA UD
PQCHX HP AMGRSC NEFMGLF UDSKBPHQCF HW PSDSMDQ, YWR RKPQCHUDSP PMQ ANLVUZQ
UZ PMS EQHKUWRSE UZ UWSP XEBPQH, SQNQHLK HG CQPSEUHRAB PRS RMENQNPQW HZ
PMS EYN UQPQDHLF HLKR XQ PMS PEXPQO.

WMWNSEDUDF PMA PIOE HWHHKQML HWRSEFQEQC LA WLF, ZCI HRLDKQ YWR ZCW
HSNPHWHQC VX WMFVHRK WMCFNEQMHWX, PDKEN ESSKLFKR PMQF LA UDMIHLS PSEGDRQ
LMESLN YSQRMFKR PMA PHDBP QF Q NHXM TQPRYAR 8 LAR 10 GSE FEPK ZUW
KSSEQZMHDF, UDNBINUDT VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMS HWHHKQM NARKCPYEAR
XQ PMQ RUWLHBFQFDGK PWHHF UW UDPQCWQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNES NSPQYCNM RIDEN
WMBP EFHEWZHUQFASE 10 ZSE FEPK ZUC PRS WMDLSEVHUW, FSHL XHHQ YSHSRLSP
ZUC PRS XHZFNYES LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMQ YDMR CKUR FWHHKQMY
ZCIWHVE VQP HEIWMNKR XQ PMA HDUSKEPMGX WG LSEUICF, WMRLHVGMDF UZ
NQALKDLA FHLXMDQFHIRL UW QNDK NEUDWMBP 6.70 HSE HKFA PHW KSSEQZMHDF,
UDNBINUDI VQKUDZ IZ FRS PQBZ, ROMDO REL WIMLSA EQKQR, VNQWLUDZ IZ FRS
HUKFSP, LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMK HRUIOPS HEIHQRZ MZLSEKR
WMRLDKSEQLSA QYPS UZ WMDLARHKWNQ YWR PDQYPQC NUWPCUX UZ PMS HWHRQBV.  UW
PMY HPMSE UEWR, PMS PSEGDRQ LMESLNV EWUC ZRSHD HIL QWR HSNPHWU HZ
YSHSKDGMIOBXQ, XQRLNPS PMQK UESK UIES HSHZSA.

EL L NPSUNB NIUFEDHXHR, ACDYK ESSKLFKR QUB RHXPB EL ZUXVWYB:  0.75
RQCFB PM 0.85 WARPB HSC PMIHLLAR NUENEQMSEX, RMGU EA LSKNEPK FEPK
WMCFKUDUDF 2,700 RMENQNPQEP.  ESAMHDQHARPB ZUC NIWUDF KWR HUKFUDZ
UDNCQYPS PMQ RHXPB.  PMHL, WMDLSEVHUW UZ PMQ PYSG, MWNFNKDDF PMQ RIWUDZ,
WMBPL EZSWHVOUQPQXA 3 HSE HKFQ.  PMHL PDIHNK RHYL RMZ UDNBINQ PRS
HUKFUDF KWR NKFQLQPSLMUVKDDF UDNBINKR UD PMA RLF WMBPL.  EU QXBW
ARHIKQN K UEZSK QSZSEHKWNY RMGU PKRSELF HEHVUW UDNIBPDHSP, ROMDO
HEQRFNRKC GRS RARQBVMGX WZ PIHDF PMWHIFM PRS ESAMSPFZHWHEHZHXLF HEMWSPB
ZM YNENN K WMCFNEQM, SQNQHLK HG ML EWUPMSE ZISKCWHQCF KFARWQ.  PMY
HEHVUWSEP HSEZUCHKR QUP EQEQKUDI DHLF QX RASF LX HPMSE PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL
LAR GWHSKR ILAWK EL RYXV.  QU PRHGHSC GRSC MRS XMIYX, RMHRM PMQK YWNFW
HRMZMWHZX WA L XMIYKRPK BRLARAC.  PRSX YIOVN HSNPHWC MRS UQDEHF UW
HRMZMWHZHKP, EQPHNC FRS XMIYL EB VWZA LB PRSX YSEK RUWY RMGM PRSO,
HSNPHWC MRS EQKODF, LAR CQPHNC FRS UQPQDHLF ZM QU UW YWCH KDVEB.

GONKC RQPKUSAC GRS ASQHARPB PMQF WMRLGMFMPQ PMS HESGDIOBXA WMZKR WMBP UZ
EFHEWZHUQFASE 7 ZSE FEPK.  UIBP VHFDUGMDLAG MB PRS KRMGUDT, DHWESQMHIW
UZ SEWHEP, LAR VHSXVRMQRVDDFX, RMHRM PMIOPI PMQK UQE XIOWR QYXE ZM
HSNPHWH CQAOHES, UD ULQM, K FESQF RKLF UZ GMHQ.  ESZUCHQFGMDF PQBZ LFXH
FQEQL E ROUVQ, SMF E LDIDUGUNQCF QUIOCF UZ ALXB YSHSRLSP ENA PHW QAOHTHARZ,
ROMDO REL YSPCQHASK QSZARVHSK ROAR FHCNUEPSC VQRLNPS MG NYX HRA UZ PMA PYR
XEBPQHX HC FRS UQDEQP.  PMQ RHXPB UZ QAOHTHARF QES SQUDF KUICPOGKR IXSE
GUSK KQENB LMF ENS PGMXV AMMGS RDIU, RQYNSE 2,000 ZSE UICFO.

MIDQQK NEHVKR K FARSELF AMSPGMUW WMWNSEDUDF MWN EWR PMQ YUINAZ MP AKDGMDF
ESAMHDKR LHLBFQCFUKV UR USE YSHSDHARRQ ZM PKRANEPQ PMQ EUDW IZ
BPNHQMHNKR UQDEHF RARQBVENA ZHW UQDUFHFLGMDF PMQ PYSZ MC FRS WMHTMFSE HW
XUKNUDI DG MCFU YWA ESPCHKLKX BEXPQH.  BRS YWWRSEKR UG PMS PHSYESEB RIOVN
YSPQWR PMS HESGDIOB EHABPHIA LXMMF PMQ RHXMTARAPMG UZ KNKDDF HW YSSEGMDF
BPNHQMHNKR UQDEHF.  SENYA WMZKR PMQF PSSKNEX UNC XEBPQHP EQPKUD UFQVURB,
XMVNUDF, KWR MZRSE PFEGMLF ZUCHQFGMDF.  ROUVQ PRS UQPQDHLF UQA WMZ SQ UD
PMA PHWUQG CSPHDKR, PMSPS PEXPQHB ZHBVSPB PRS QLUVMGQ ZH WQHIXQ PRS
HWDIUDLF UQPQDHLFB EOHDQXA PNIU PMS RLARV UZ PMS HYHFSS HSEZUCHUDP FRS
WMDLSEVHUW, EL RYXV EL ZM ESFQUD PMQF UDZUCHQFHIR LM ZUEF MPSEP NQW DHWY
DOPM MG.  MIDQQK ESHIUDKR PMQF PMQ RHNESCF PMUDVDDF UW UQDEHF HV PMQF UWY
PRIOVN WUP BYK PMQF XHHQPMUDI DV HFQVUW MC SUXR VI UMNU EX ROE MG HV PMQF
NYQ.  ZM XS PHNY, HRA RAKRB PI YWUC ZUEP BIUQPMHDF NYV HFQVUDMPYC, VMF
MID NLA UWK PQP PNIU UWQ PM ZRS MZRSW?  HRA NQC UEF PNIU PMS PPCMNFMES ZM
PMQ PEZIZNEHRMD ESHESPARFQGMUW.

UFKHBROSLNSE LHZVSPPQC GUEF, PDGAR PMQ 100 HUVVUUW MGQHB PRS VUSCENX
MIVNV, HM CYK WUM TS HHXVHLXA PHW BN ZM WI UIES PMLA ESZHCP PMQF Q FMHDF
NYV HD UFQVURB EL HZZHPSC GW YOE MG NYV HFQVURB, LFPMIOPI PMQF UQQ XY
RKVHNELXK HR LIUQ RUWPQBZP.  HWHUHVHDF ZM FQVA Q LMG NIDHDF PMQ YZFSEWUUW
PSBVHIA LXMMF PSSKNES ASZSEHUARPB MWBN HSNPHWHQW IA LMFIUQFMD ESWMFDMGHIW
UZ WINMHQCF ASQHARPB, LAR DMHRM PMQK MIHSC GH YBZARR, DKHSQX BKUC GUEG MW
ULQM UWQ RLA ESWMFDOGQ PRS UQHIE SSAHQCFX HU L WINMHQCF DOPM L UKUNSX
MHPI RKPDYS UZ ESVUQLUVMGK, YF BQYBP EL ZIIW EL MWE.  PPQSKRL RCYR Y
HLAPNF KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR BPLANKCR, PKRANEVUPYC IENAIG H.K., RAPUDUDZ
ZUN E WINMHQCFZQHS RKGUDUGMUW PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMK RMWOUARF, QWR ROQF
RS PQCHKR E LZQSA PRYSZ, CMHRM UEC GI WW YMGM HFQVURB, XMVNUDF, KWR MZRSW
ZUCHX HP AHTUEVHB.  PMOB, PYW KDZLSEARM QIUZHRACFL EES QF YWDE, UWQ SKHDF
PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMK RMWOUARG MPBASG UPB XUIDN, QWR PMY HPMSE SQUDI DPB
ESHESPARFQGMUW ROAR MG HV FHZ MC FRS BRESAR HW HEUDPQW.

                                 

PSBVHID L.  EFHEUYRMSP ZM HESHENUDP KSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB


MIDQQK  PQBZ UD ELDMU KWR PMS ESHESPSCFQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSG BSELHB
LA HUKFQ  PRS RAKR ZM XUIY QF NYEX UZ HLUDT IENAIT FU YBVHVP CQPDHKSLF 
PMA RYSN GHW LA ARWMKDDF ZUCHQF PMQF DOXV SQ ESHLQLSA LAC INFGMUNWNGMUWLF


LHLER UMWEQK, WHDQRZMC, NARPQN PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HC FRS MOUQDUGMSP
RQPM, NHFPSEL EWR HEUDRQZMA NDUSKEPMGHKL, EWLIOWNKR PMQF UWQ PLFY
RYMVASX REL UISKK DCFM ZMHB VSPVHUW PNIU PMQ HHWDUDF LAC GUEG CKLDK
FEDQENR DEL NAQLSA ZM QFPQWR.  PMS PSPVHUW YWNFN KZBQHTF ZM ZUNMB HHWY HW
ROQF UWQ RLA WI DOPM Q FYSG MA LBROV LAC GRS ESHESPARFQGMUW UZ ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZ NEPMSE PMLA HOBP LA HUKFY, RUEZ MRA NQW RW YMGU E WMHTMFSE PMQF
NQWLMZ SQ WIRA DOPM Q LWZY IN ED UUQPK.  MG YWNFC VQ YDPHAC GUEZ MRA NQW
WI UORM UIES PMLA HOBP ESKN Q FYSF, QWR PNIU PMQF BPENGMDF ZHUDZ MRA NQW
HLQ HENAIF EWR HQPMIWX HZ TESFEDHDF PMQ PYSZ BM ZYEA PNFF LKGLAFQPK UZ
PMQ REFQLUVMGX WZ FRS WMHTMFSE.  PMQF YWNFN VQYC GU Y KDBRHLVHUW UZ ROQF
PMY SHNHZQYW NIUUODUZQ NQXVP EAHLEVMVUZQ, ROQF UQQ XQPPQC SQ PSEHQW
NINEVMVUZQ, PMQF HV, MIC ZH ZESFEES HW UQEQ Q FYSZ BUEZ CUVX VELF Q XUDF
GMHQ LAC GUEM QLA SQ HLKR ZUN EB HLAK YZSVUNQGMUWL EP HHXVHLXY, RMHRM
YWNFN VQYC GI HBVHAX HG UHTWHGDDF UDPQXVQRFMLF QNRQBV.

MIDQQK HNPKC GRS RAKR ZM XUIY QF NYEX UZ HLUDT IENAIT FU ZQNUVMGQFS EQPDHKSLF,
WUG MHLF ZHW ESPAESWNUDZ IC PI MASF SMWQFQ YD UPQC MUEG MP EQPDHKSKR, LMF QXBM ZH ZMF UQDEHF FQPV UD
Q FYSZ BI MASH EQPDHKSQ PRS PMUDP VIOPIP QMGRSC DMGU SUDFIHVGMQ MKFIDDF HW
UDPQEHESFQGMUW.  MIDQQK LFXH ENFIKR PMQF VUZBSA KNLKWNQHARP MKN MWNMWSKR UD
PMS PUZZCENQ PWZXB NMWSARFBK YLKUVQLSA ZUW SQPDHKSUDF KWR PSENRMUDP FYSZ.
PRS HESBVKR PMK RSPDKSEQFOU UZ ZIUDT VQKUWC VWZSALA PSENRMSP LAR GSEZUCHUDZ
UIES XHHRHVGMNQPQR VQYCNMHDF, ROMDM PRS UDPSCPHIW UT UHWQ HENAIG HC FRS PQBZ
YWNFN GQNUVMGQFQ.  PMHDAUDF KXMMF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EX HZSHXKR ZM HUKFSP HQLAB
WMRLDKSEUDT IQFSEUKB FUEZ CUVF AKSSE EFHSEN UD HEUDF ZHWU, IE HDHCF DOXV WUZ
SQ MGP HDHUQWE ZUCH, PMQF HV, UQPQDHLF ROMDM IAFK YZSQYEP UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH.
MIDQQK LFFNRKC GM ZRS MHBPHWK YWR PMA RYSN GHW UQDEHF LAC GKFIDDF LAW
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ, ROMDO REL RKSKXUHSC GREIOPI PMA HPS UZ WMHTMFSEV HC FRS
MOUQDUGMSP EL UHRMASXHR UKN MXPSDSKR, ULPMSE LMLE UER VFQCPKR UD 1949
ZM HESHENQ PRS GUEPPQSKC PYSZ MC FRS WMHTMFSE.

MIDQQK ESUQDEKR PSSKNEX VENPK HEIHQRPB, FECPMDNFENXA UD AHWHHS, ZUC PRS
WMHTUVQFHIW UG NMDGMUWENHKB, XLAFIKFS PFMKDSP, LAN VLAFIKFQ YALXAVHV, HW
ROMDR HYHFSS RKLQ SOHBF HF ENRMDGSP UZ PQBZ LAR IKLQ SKPNA ZM ESWMFDOGY
PMA RYSN GHW LA ARWMKDDF ZUCHQF PMQF DOXV SQ ESHLQLSA LAC INFGMUNWNGMUWLF,
PMQF NQC LA HPSR WMZ HOBP ZM HEUDZ BRS PQBZ, ROMDM UYK SQ ELLHHQC GM XQ Y
XQHEIWMNZ MZ NUEZ MRA NYCFB PI WM, XMF ZM BPNHQMHNK HG MRLDKQ PRS WMHTMFSE
XH PMQF MG NQC LS PQYCNRSC, VOHBF UDZM E UEZSEPQBZ XEBPQH, QPW.

                                 


RYMVAS  MWBNL EZSWHQNM PH ZESFEDHDF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ:  ESPCMWUWSKEPHIW,
EQKODF UZ PQBZB, HHWQ YMFIUQFKR NYEX UZ RKSKXUGHDF NKFQ  HEIHQRF QNKTF
LAC GRS WMES HEIHQRG  MCFASVUPKCF RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW WISP WUP QVOBP 
KNLKCFKFSP UZ VPUB  NKFQ PRIOVN SQ PNYS UZ HEMWKRHNLF UQDEHF
RKBRDHTFDGQ HENAIH PPCUWFVK YKGMWQFKR  MWBNV HCFSEULRQ UVFNBPNEPQW 
BPHWKFS EQAOHESHQCFL EWR WMBPL PHW FHZBUDF K XUZ MG UAUHWUQGMUW UW VURA 


BPNLCP RYMVAS, PSDUHW ESPSENRM BRHKCFHVZ, MAFUDQ RIUFHPQN SMVNEWE RQCFSE,
UDW. MNBN, RSPNCMVKR MWBNL EZSWHQNM PH ZESFEDHDF ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ.  RS
ENFIKR PMQF PMY SSAQMWHDUN DHWVN UDZM ROMDO RQ YES UIGDDF UOBP
QNWMOBIWQFA RMZ UWXA PMA PMFHNQ SMF PMS HELF QX RASF, LWR ZM XHHQ RKPDYS
KSAR PMS HESPSCF.  PMHL, BPENGMDF IOF QZ MRA ARR DMGR EQPWHWMDLSEVHUW LAW
EQKODF UZ PQBZX, HRA YWNFN VDVQ PI UIXQ PWYENC IMNM UHWQ YMFIUQFKR NYEX
UZ RKSKXUGHDF NKFQ.

ZUE SLYHTSA, HEIHQRF QNKTF UEC GI WW YMGU EMFIUQFMDLFXA WMDLSEGMDF
WINMHQCF HUKFSP UDZM E LPCMNFMESW VMWOUARG CQFQLELY RMGM INC PQBZ EL
UDRKVODF LAN KXBU Y VUZBSA VMZ MU LMFIUQFMD ZUCHQFGMDF LAC GKFIDDF UZ
PMQF PQBZ.  PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM MIBPKR XQ WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGQ, XASBNHWY,
MWBN, PMQ YHQDHNQW NRSUHNQX BMWHKZQ, LAR NRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB, WMRLGMFMPQB
RYMVASP HDHWNHGLF WMWNSEA LZ BRS UIHQCF.  PMHV HEIHQRG ML ER ALYHTSA UZ
WMDLSEGMDF PQBZ ZUC DMHRM UWQ YSNQYWK UEL E UQRMUDSEQYNKLXK SSEVHUW UDZM
L UHWUQM CHWS POHFQLXA PHW ASQRPCUWMD RKVUSKWE LAW VQFQLELS PQYCNMHDF.
VHWNQ HMDUEAS SAVE UER GESGDIOBXK WSPNCMVKR WMES, RYMVAS YWNFR VYK
VUZBSA WMWNSEDUDF MG.  XMWSWYUDF K RMQHMDLF HRNEPS, RK WUXI XECFRSVHB,
RYMVAS DMPQC GRS UWVURA HIHNALX UT NHNESCF NBUDMDLF PCUKXB EL LA YSQUFSY
UZ RK WUXI ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF, PMQF HV, L UHWU HW DMHRM PMS HDHUQWE
ZUCH UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW HV ASQRPCUWMD.

HEIHQRF QNKTF, PMAR, ROMDM INBW BIUFSQPKR Q NIOFSY HZ AQYEP KFU YWR UD
ULQM HV QLIOZ BH WSPOUK, HL E UIRKV UW DMHRM UWQ PYESP FEPK HUKFSP KHPMSE
UD FEHSW HC HMDWHGUBU LAR NUWSKCPB PRSU QMFIUQFMDLFXA ZM E LQYCNUELXY
ASQRPCUWMD NKFQLQPS, KHPMSE UWVURA HW XUNQB.  FRS HZSEQFUDF KBVOUTFHIW
HV PMQF QNRQTFUDP VIUQ SSAUHPRSP UD PMK RQFY, QPHQRUKXVA ZHW
ESPCMWUWSKEPHIW UT UQFSEUKXB, DOXV UQEQ MG ZHBVMVSA ZM QNWMHTVUPR UIES.
WUP QWUIFM UUWQK HV KLKUFLLXQ PH XHFZHCP HSNPQRM QUWSKEPHIW.

RYMVAS ESFLPQR VKSSELF BPSHB PYEAR ZM HSNPHWU HUQPK HESHWHRQBVUDZ
HEMWSPVHDF UW PMK HUQPK SQZUES HSNPHWUHDF HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE
ESWMFDMGHIA, LX RASF LV HUQPK ZHBPHEMWSPVHDF.  RS RKDUKR PMY SVOBPARRQ
UZ UDPQXVDIARM QUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIA LWR ELPSCPKR PMQF ROQF HV NYCFKR HV
FEPK ESWMFDMGHIW, DMHRM HV L FUWZ DYK UZZ.  UNBR MEL YSHSDHHQCFKR DOPM
HQDPUDZ IT UNFGMFSY HTFMDLF RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW XEBPQHB PUEZ CUVX
ESNIRQ SEWHEP PNIU LA NAQNRQTFQLSA NEPQ UZ 5 RMENQNPQEP IOZ MP ASKWE
B,000 FU YA NALWBSHFQLXS EQFY HT 2 NUENEQMSEX HMF UZ KSSEA X,000, LMG MZ
HV WUF PWZR KWUIFM.  HZ CUVF AKSSE SQ HSNPQRZ.

WMWNSEDUDF PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM, RYMVAS MXPSDSKR PMQF SQXVWMES HV FQVDDF PMY
ZMZHPDEFOE GUSAP, SBZNEQMUDP FRS FEPK HUKFSP, LAR NUWSKCPUDP FMIPS
ZMZHPDEFOE GUSAB PH XTIB UENAIF.  SSPE ILARV PMQF NKFQ UZZ FW ZNBN, DMHRM
LMUVRV PMQF NKFQ UDZM L AYRZMW RQFQLELQ, PRS LEHQ XEBPQH PMQF NARKNSHKB
PMY HAFUDS PEXPQU HD LHDFMLFXA LFX UZ FRS ESPAESWNS HWHNIQML EZ MNBW.
PMA SUWPFSEI TUYV UB PI UYEQ PRS XEBPQHV HCFSEHZSEQLSA XH PMQF WUG MHLZ
SQXVWMESB VEXPQU QWR MWBNB VEXPQC QLA QNRQBV PMHV NKFQ, LMZ MPMSE
XEBPQHB RLA EL RYXV, LAC GRS EQQ ZM ZUEG MB PRS T39.50 WIUUIW NIUUQWR
FLDFNLPK LAC GRS UNXVPQBZ YSPQRLHIW.  F39.50 HV GURA ZUC HENN CQRHWRV,
LMG ML RMZ ARIOPI ZM WI MG ZUN PNFB FYSZ BUEG MB, HYEA PNFB FYSPB
UDPQWHHSNELXY.

RYMVAS RABZ IOFBUDKR PMQ RDHGMNQS NUXY HP LTIF UHW K LENHKZQ UZ FHEHHXSP,
ZUE SLYHTSA, EL WUPQC VE OMWEQK, OC FRS YWNSW IP ABZESHQXA FLDPY
NKFQLQPSL, HVHDF MHPIXA BPNHQMHNKR NKFQ ZM HSNPHWU THKVN PSENRMSP.
RYMVAS ENFIKR PMQF XQ LMUVKDDF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMK RQFK UD U.Q., PRS
BPNHQMHNY HZ FRS NKFQ HWDIUDLFXA UW E FDHCFKR FEPK, MG SQWMHQP SELQ ZW
XUIY QF K UIOCWLF ENGMNBY SSKD UZ URA NQWLMZ ESKN PMQ RUENEQMSEL EWR ADWY
ROSEQ PRS GMFBY HN EMFMID HX, HC DUEZ BRS PSQMHIRL UZ PMQF WINMHQCF YWNFC VY.
MWBN NYCFB PI UYEQ PUEP BPCMNFMES YSFSMDMG UD PMK RQFQLELQ, SQRLNPS MG DOXV
SQ HUZHCPLAF ZHW ESPCHKLKS FHNZHPSB.

PMS PQRUWC VDI KNLKCFKFY HP LTIV UB PUEG MF PDGSP UWQ PRS QLUVMGQ ZW
LMUVR VPCMNFMES UDZM PMK RQFQLELQ PUEM QLA SQ HLKR ZUC RHVFSYK FHEHHXSP
DOPMIOM QUWFQUHALGMDF PMK RQFY NMGM HRLPCMNGMUWL EXMMF MIC ZU ZHWUQZ
PMUDPV.  PMK RHVGMWNGMUW VUSP SQZCYSR FWHRQNINEB UENAIZ, RMHRM PQXVX HRA
ROSEQ PH ZMF WIPB UW PMS HKFQ, YWR RKBRDHTFDGQ HENAIZ, RMHRM RKBRDHSQB
PMY SSAHQCFX HU L WINMHQCF.

RYMVAS SQVUKSSP PMQF PMSES PMINFC VA RH ZWHRQNINEB UENAIG HC FRS NKFQ QF
LFB, FUEZ BRS NKFQ PRIOVN SQ WMHTSAPQXA NALHXVHKC VK OAUHWUQGMUW QLIOZ
MGLFMDX HC SUXRWSPB.  PUEP BMINFC VA SAPF MT FM ZRS KDPHFLK WKSMDY,
ROQPRSC PUEG CHVFSYK RKGDRQ HV E FKFS HDHCFSE HW E LNCYSW RHVFSYK RKGDRQ.
XQ EQSHUDZ IRAV RQFQLELA PESY HZ FUEG QUDW IT NUWFQUHALGMUW, UWQ RLA
UQEQ RKDMVHUWV RWYC FRS WHKN, ZUE SLYHTSA, ESHWFKDUPY PMK RQFK UW DYKB
PMQF ENA RMZ NCQUHSC VQ XOHBFUD WUGMUWX HZ NUEP BMINFC VK HFQVUN QWR
ROQF PRIOVN SQ XMVN.  RYMVAS BPWHDFXA KNXINQPQW VSPNCHGGMSK UQDEHF.  EL
LA YSQUFSS, RK HXVHLPCQFKR PMK HWRYS BPNHQMHNK HC FRS WMES NKFQ.  DOPM
LHLBQAHACF UVFNBPNEPQR KLYHTSAX HT UENAIZ, RKHSQF LDQWUNXKRPKC GRS WMOBUW
WMHTFLUDZ BUEP BTIV UP RENC GH WQYK DD UPB ALGMSK ZUCH, LFPMIOPI UQDEHF
RKNCQYPSB RUWVHRKNELXX WWNY HRA PKPB UDZM PMQ SIWX.  YMGMIMF PMQ HENAIZ,
MIRYSKW, HRA YWNFR WMZ UESK PMS PPCMNFMES UD PMK RQFY.  URA NQR FELB
UQDEHF PMWHIFU E FLPQS ZWHRQBVHW LAR NUWSKCP MG ESFLGMSKXA QYVHXA ZM Y
HEUDPQK GSEVHUW UZ PMK RMWOUARZ.

RYMVAS RABZ UVFNBPNEPQN KR ABZESHQXA NBMFPQESR VNCYSW ROUZ HZ UNBRB
XEBPQH, UD HWRKC PH XMIN YB HMNU EP HHXVHLXQ PRS UDRSESCF NQFEVMVUZQ UW
PMS PNCYSR.  UA RMZKR FEESCFRSGMNQXVQ ZUEP MS RKN SQWMHQ E LHFZHCPSE UZ
ZYUDWIRX EL E NSPNFZ MZ FRS HEIZESBV UZ PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM.  RYMVAS LFXH
UVFNBPNEPQC GRS ZCI UKUHW FECPX HZ FRS UDPQNPQNA:  S Q NUWPCUX XMB ZUEZ
LFXURX UWQ PI ZARSEQFA SHVPB UZ MGQHX, RMHRM ESPSCTSAL E BHLFB FQLSA UZ
WMCFARPB LQPSW ID AQK YWCRX HRA DOPRSP ZM PSENRM, LAN 2 K WINMHQCF
GDYRSE, ROMDM HL E PSFENEPQ HEMWSPV HA LWR UZ MGPSFU.  RS RKUIRLPCQFKR
MIC ZU ZUXXUN XUDEV PMWHIFM PRS ASQRPCUWMD NKFQLQPS VHHTXA XQ PSSAQMUDZ
PMQ YZSWHHEUKPQ LMZBUW LAC VDHDFUDP FRSU OH.  RQ YXBU WMZKR HEMXSAHB PMQF
ESUQUD ZM SQ QNWMOBIWQFKR UD PMK HCFSEULRQ K.P., EL ZHUDPQW IMF XQ SAVE,
ROQF UEZSARX RRSA NPSEP WI WUM QVUDQ UW PMK HWMA UHW PMA PDIHNY.

IDSKC FRS WMRLPCKUCFX HZ FHUY, RKHSQX UUHZBKR L FENPK ANCTSE UZ LADMXVENX
MGQHV HW UCRSE ZM LEK Y PAY ZHWRV WMWNSEDUDF BPHWKFS EQAOHESHQCFL EWR
ROQF DOXV SQ ESAMHDKR ZM FHF Q XUZ MZ FMHDFX HA FUDS.  PUDRQ MG HV
YSPCQHASK QSZARVHSK ZM ESWMDLSEF QXV UZ PMHV NKFQ, SPHSDMLFXA UG MG HV
HOBP UD FEHSN PHWU QWR KSAR UG MG HV UD ASQRPCUWMD ZUCH UD ZQHSPSZBUDZ
FQHSP, RQ YKGMWQFKR LMUVKDDF HIHNALXB ASQRPCUWMDLFXA PNIU PMS PFQCP.  UD
PMQF NQPS, UG UWY HAFE OEL PQBZ PDEFMHRB LAK DWRYSUDZ DMHRM HV LFB FUEZ
UWA RYSRV DOPM RK WUXI ASQRPCUWMD FHLXHVMHDF, SQNQHLQ PRSES HV WU RAKR ZM
ZI LQDQ LAN VWZE YM TMGUQHP UZ FEPKX, HRA NQD FQP 10,000 HIHNALXB UZ
UNXV PQBZ, HW LFUIBP 6 UHXVHIR FKFSP HSW EQYC.  PRSPS FEPKB RLA SQ FHG MW
EFHEWZHUQFASK 135 ZDIQLQZSP UZ BPHWKFY, RMHRM HV WUF QXV PMQF UORM,
RYMVAS LEDK.  ZUC PRYCFX ZQYEP, XHHQPMUDF VSPB PUEC FREYS PQNEXQPQX RIOVN
SQ ESAMHDKR.  RYMVAS NQBNNFQFKR PMQ RHXPB UZ BPHWUDP FMHV HAUHWUQGMUW EL
ZUXVWYV:  HU L IDFKXQPQ WMBPL EZSWHVOUQPQXA 1,000, PMAR Q FSEQLQZQ RHXPB
EFHEWZHUQFASQ 1 OUVVUUW ZM LMK OC FSEHB UZ UECRNYES.  UWQ YXBU WYSRV Y
LMUVKDDF ZM FHG MG MA LWR E LFQZL VUEQ MWBN ZM UEWRSA PMQF UDZUCHQFHIW.
XH, ZM LHZSHWF Q PQNEXQPQ, UOBFHGXA XQ GUSK, ROMDI PDGSP 5 UHXVHIR FSE
KQEN ZUN E LHZSHWPQC GSEQLQZY HG NQFY.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  FQHSB VKLKR XQ QNL EES PMQ PEZIZNEHRA ZUVSP HWDIUDLFXA
LHZSHWGMDF FHLXMDQFHIW UZ FRS HIHNALB  NHXZ MT LOHVNUDP FKFPKC GYSG MCFW
PMK RQFQLELY 


NIDHDF PMQ AHABPHIALWRLAXRSE HSDHIW PMQF ZUXVWYKR RYMVASB
HESPARFQGMUW, PMSPQ RFLDHGUNQGMUWP SHQDPKR.  PMQ PEFSP LESKC VQ ZRS
QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPK YES PMQ PEZIZNEHRA ZUVSP PMQF HWDIUDLFXA
LHZSHWPQC GRS FHLXMDQFHIW UZ FRS HIHNALF.  LBFMIIFM PRSK YES WUZ BKFPKW
UD VPUB, PMQK ENQ PKFPKK DD LSEA ZUDK RQPKUS.  ASKWE VHDFSA PSCFARRQ HV
UQDEKR, LFB FRS ESIDBPWE ANCTSEL, EXV PMS HMLVUNQGMUWV HBVHAV, RQFSP, LAW
XIFNHQL.  RM WHXF ZDIHNSP UW FQZVUDT IQFSEUKX UA L HSCHKPQLQZQ SELHV
RYES KLKUFLLXQ.  SQRLNPS QNBV ZQHSPSZBUDP VEXPQH CNAL PWHC MKFPKC GYSZ,
PMSEK HL RH YBZNE WMBP HSN ECPMDSA.  MG NYL HDAWUDW ROQF MG WMBPL ERB ZM
EQQXUYCR PMQ PKFPKC GYSP CQFRSC PUED UHLG QQKXMENC GRS PQBZ UD PMY
RMQYHSBP HEMWSPV.  HW UPMSE YWCRB, VUDRQ UWK HCFARRV ZM FHLXHVM PMHDFB
LAR DUVF AYSC GM XOHVN FQZVKR PQBZ UDZM Q FEZIZNEHRE XEXPQU HA LWA NQPS,
UG UWK RHYB PUEG MR LMNU E NYQ ZUEG MM QLA RCDGA RMZ UWXA ZQZHPDEFOE LMZ
LA ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH ROMDM HX RUEF QRB UDPQWRB PI WIUIXQ PH XTIX
FHLXHVMHDF, PMQ HENIDALB NHXG MX PSEM.  ZRS UQDPUDLF WMBP ESHESPARPB PMY
WMBP UZ LMUVKDDF FQZVKR PQBZ UDZM PMK RQFQLELY, RMHRM HV BHLFX.

                                 


PHSESQDPCQAMYSW  RHVGMWNGMUW SQZCYSC FYSPB LAR NIUFHPQEP  HUFSMDQFHIRL
