     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing fronttoback registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire bookfunctions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy.

      The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, bookcloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under 65 per single
300page volume, with 30 percent overhead includeda figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittlebook program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a selfsustaining
program could be developed for CXPs report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access CPA.

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 


ANDRE  Overview and history of NATDP  Various agricultural CDROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus  Pilot project on
Internet transmission  Additional products in progress 


Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL,
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the onepage pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
landgrant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and fortyfive of these libraries banded together to
establish this projectto evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the communitythe university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
levelconstituted the groups chief concern.

Since January 1988 when the microcomputerbased scanning system was
installed at NAL, NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the projects discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CDROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanningandOCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science i.e., international agriculture and research, acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop.

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CDROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the landgrant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requestsa topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the projects
success had led to its extension.  ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1 An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomya
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908to scan and create bitmapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thingput the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.

     2 An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3 The George Washington Carver Papersa joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carvers papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 


ZIDAR  A separate arena for scanning  Steps in creating a database 
Image capture, with and without performing OCR  Keying in tracking data
 Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking  Adjustments during
scanning process  Scanning resolutions  Compression  Deskewing and
filtering  Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver  Equipment used for a scanning system 


Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
NATDP, National Agricultural Library NAL, illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CDROM.

ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CDROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contentswhat will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc. 3 perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDPs file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CDROM would
reduce the access speed.

This upfront process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,0007,000page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a fulltext record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not requirA PHNPMSE XUIDNQX
PSFENEGMDF UZ PMK HUQPKL.  EZFSE HSNPHWUHDF HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE
ESWMFDMGHIW, LQFRG UISKB PRS HUKFSP UZZ FRS UECR KDVE LAC IKUCFKURL Y
XIFNHQ PRYSZ.  BMIIFM PRS XEBPQH PCQNEV ASQRPCUWMDLFXA, LFB FRS
HEMWSPVHDF BPSHL EES LFXH PCQNEQC ILANLXVX YMGU E XUP VRSQP.

GONKC WYSG MXVHLPCQFKR PMQ EUDRV UZ KNHOBPHQCFB PUEZ MRA NQC UYEY RRSW
BRLADUDF PNIU FEHSN EWR UHNCUZUVU, THW YSQUFSS, EKRIHDF HUKFSP PMQF RAKR
PHQRUKS ULANVUDP, VQPGMDF ZUC RMGRSDHDF HW PDYK BRLFQ, YWR KNHOBPUDP ZHW
SCDIMPRABV HW ZUC PRS ROUXQ SWZE YZ MRA GMHQ.

ALGCG HB VNQWLUDF KG 300 CMZP HSE UDRM, E LFQWRENR VNQWLUDP DSPUXMFHIW.
PMIOPI KNQANLPQ ZUC NEFFMDHDF PQBZ PMQF HV LFX UU L BPLANKCR VHPY, 300
RGO VL HRLOHFQLXA PHW LAK EUDW IZ TMIZMPDEFMHQ CQFSEUKX UN PHW SKWE BHLFX
PQBZ.  UQWA BRLARAEP LFXUN ZHW KDZLSEARG MUQPK ZUCHQFB, PUGZ, UT NIOEPY,
SQUDF K RK ULQMH XFQWRENC.  VMF UG UWK HCFARRV ZM YSRMLAPK HUKFSP DOPM
MZRSE HYHFSQ, PRS QLUVMGQ ZH XNQW UPMSE HUKFA PHWUQPB, KSAR UG PMQK ENY
SABV WMOBUW, SQWMHQP RDIUSK WSPHDQLSA.

WBMGF PWHHF 4 HV PMS PFQWRENR NIUHESPVHUW ZUC WHWUQX LFLDQLARDMHPQ
HUKFSP, HGKP ZUD PNEE XNQSA HW WMXUW.   PDKEN ESWMOBARRKN 1 IVHDF PMY
BPLANKCR WMHTESBVHIRL, FECPMDNFENXA UG UWQ YZBQHTFB PI UYEQ HQFSEUKX
KLKUFLLXQ YWR ZM LFXUN OPSEP ZM WIDWXUKN HUKFSP LAR CAHPS PMQH PNIU
NRWHHB LAC 2 IKUCFKUDUDF PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM IOFTMF LA NAWMHTESBVKR HUKFY,
SQNQHLK HD UUQPK YSRMLAPK NAWMHTESBVKR HUKFSP ENQ HHWA SDVASQ ZM XQ YLXY
ZM NCHXP HFLFZHWHB.

GONKE SHTUEVHPYC GRS HUZHCPLARQ UZ RKVEYRUDF KWR GUBFSEUDF KB
ESAMHDQHARPB UW ALGCHP HFPDKNKR XEBPQH.  ZUD HRLFQWNS, PNQWLUDT VIOWR
XMIYP, HENGMNMFLNSQ XWZEV FHLXHVRSC VQ ZRS PARKNEV FIXSECUARZ CMIPS FEPKB
ENS PEQRYN, KWR PCKODF ZM BRLA PMQH BPNEDIMP UG MWD HB PM XS HSEZUCHKR,
HV YSPCQHASQ ZHUQRUWLHUHDF.  PMS PQUS RUXRV ZUN PUVPQDHDF UZ
ZHHWAMLFMGX WW HVNSE UQPQDHLFB.

GONKC RSPNCMVKR HUKFQ REFFMES PNIU UHNCUZHWU, OVHDF EL LA YSQUFSQ PREYS
ESASL PWHU Q VHBZEXKSARESAS PSZ MZ FRS FEHSEP LAN VQPPQEP UZ PKHWPK
NYPRUDPFUW NQDSSE PMQF UEC VYSR FWHNIRQC VQ ZHLEQPKA HDUSKEPMGQ.  ZRSPS
ESLHBFKR UD EFHEWZHUQFASK 3,500 OUQPKX, RMHRM ALGCH RKN UER VNQWLKR XQ
MGB VSEGDRQ WMCFNEQMHW, BRHKWNQ YZSVUNQGMUWV HCFSEALGMUWLF WMEHHWQFHIW
LEMD.  ALGCF EXBM WESQFKR VMLXHIPDEFMHN CQRHWRV ZUN EWBSPL.  RQFRG KDW
WUP MKLS PMNR PHSDMLFOGKR QAOHTHARF QL E UHNCUZUVH BNQWLSE.

NAZUCPNAQFASQ, ZRS HEMWSPX HP LNQWLUDP ZWHO BMDWHGUBU NYL RMZ LA
NAAMLFUGHKR VMNRQBV, GONKW SSHHWPQC:  VQRLNPS UHNCUZUVU TNEHQ VHPYB SENX,
MWNQVHUWLFXA XHHQ PNQUSP RYES UHBVKR, ROMDO RMGMIMF PHARKDDF UORM GMHQ
LAC IUWQK WMNFR WMZ SQ ESNQTFHNKR.

MWC NIOVN WUM TS HSEZUCHKR PNIU PMS PNQWLKR HUKFSP UZ PMA PNEHQB.  PRS
LXYSKDDF UD PMQ PYSP BHUFSX WMFFHZ BYSZ, CRSW UNC NYP ENA, PMQF WMNFR WMZ
KSAR SQ KRMGKR.  ALGCT FSPPQN GHW RAFKGMSK SKEPHL ZHVHGMSK HUKFSP,
FLWRBREFK SSELHP HHWPCKUZ MDHARFQGMUW, LAR VUDFVK SSELHV RNLSFKFY
UHNCUZUVU, CUWY HZ NMHRM PSQHKR ZM LUPAQM PMQ ANLVUZQ UZ PMK HUQPK LMZ
LFXH UW WURA UZ PMQH WMNFW INC SQ HSNPHWHQW.

UD PSSAQMUDP FRS UHNCUZUVC MRSX YIOVN HLQ, PRSESZUES, ALGCH RKN MZRSW
ULQMHWV HC UUDW.  GDKEN WUPQC GYW ULQMHWB PUEG MAUFNARRQC GRS AMLFMGX WZ
PMK HUQPKB:  1 PRS UDRSESCF AMLFMGX WZ FRS HWDIUDLF LAC 2 GRS QUIOCF UZ
VHPY ESNIQMHIW UC FRS FEPKB.

PMQ RENSKE HEFSEX RSES PASQRPQC VQRLNPS PMQK ENK HAUHWUQGMSK LAK GHVNLXVX
UDPQESBPUDP, FESQF E LUDFVS PMLHKQM, LAN KES LKFNQLSA UD PMKHW HDW DHPIZ.
PMK HUQPKX RSES PNQWLKR LAW VDGDKKR UDZM XUIDNQS NQRHWRV XQ LEMD, PMAR
RKVUSKESN, KWR XUKNKR UWZM ALGCHP XEBPQH, ROSEQ SMVVUIZNEHRMD
UDZUCHQFHIC FYEAR KDESQMXA PNIU PMK HUQPKX REL KNRKR.  VNQWLUDZ DEL
WMHTSAPQK DR LOUHQN 1991 EWR XQ PMY SWR UZ LHOBSE 1992 PMK RHVY DEL
BRRSNISAC GM XS HMLVUPRKR.

HEMXSAHB ARWMNAPQESW VHNUDP TWHRQBVUDI DWNFNRKC GRS ZUXVWYUDT:  VQRLNPS
PMQ HMDWHGUBU BRLADUDF UEC GM XK RUWK HA L LQMQU, EKDHLMCARF ZHW
UDKDGDNILF FEPK LKDHQFHIRL NYL RMZ ZHBVMVSA.  PMA PNEHQ VHPY LKDHKR UW
QNWMNAZ MZ FRS ALFMES UZ PMQ HQFSEUKF, LWR PMSEAPHWS PIUY HZ FRS PNQUSP
RYES UHBVKR ROUVY HPMSEX RSEK HHLF TENGMLF PNQUSP.  PMY HAFX YYK ZM ZI
LQDQ LAR NEFFMES PMHV UQPQDHLF NYB PH ZDHCF IOZ BRS FEPK DOPM PMY
UHNCUZUVH CQYRKN PWHC MRS UHBVUDP ZNEHQ LAC GRSR LNQD UG MA UWHC MRS
FEPK, ROMDO REL YSPCQHASQ ZHUQRUWLHUHDF.  PMQ ANLVUZQ UZ PMK HUQPKB
BRLARAN GWHC MRS HEUDZMMF UZ PMQ HMDWHGUBU WMHTENKR NAULXINELXX YMGM PUEZ
UZ PMY HDHIDALV UUQPKB REFFMESW VHDQRFBA ZWHC MRS UHNCUZUVC.  MRS
UDQLUVMGQ ZH ZSEZUCH MWN EXBW YEL Q UKUHW KDLEZSIHCFHQCF.  QF PMQ PHUY,
WMHTMFSE IOFTMF UHNCUZUVO CEL NAKLKUFLLXQ PM ZSPZ.

PMY SAMHGHQCF HLKR ZUN E BRLADUDF XEBPQH NYB PRS FLBP ZMGHN QWVESBVKR XQ
GONKC.  PRS ZQHS UZ QAOHTHARZ BUEZ MRA YWNFR GHNRMELA PHW E LNQWLUDZ
XEBPQH UDNBINKR:  Q UMDWHWMHTMFSE, QF SAELF Q 386, LMF TESPANELXK Y 486
L FENPK UECR KDVE, 380 HQFKXQPQ QF UHDUUOU Q UOBFMGELVDDF HZSEQFUDZ
XEBPQH PMQF LFXURX UWQ PH WNA XHHQ PMUDPV UD LQMQM HC FRS LQDQPDIOWR
ROUVS PNQWLUDZ IC RIHDF PQBZ KRMGUDP, ZHW YSQUFSA, HDUZ WW HL2 EWR,
PMYHESGMNQXVX, YUDWIRX E UDIRPHSKR BRLARAN EWR BRLADUDF XHZFNYES PMQF
LFXURX UWQ PI UYEQ PRS LKDHIOL EKDHLMCARPB HQCFHIRAR KENVUSE Y
MHPIESXHFNGMUW UIDUZMC 150 RGH  MWE PUZZCENQ YWR UECRNYES ZM HSNPHWO
PQBZ ESWMFDMGHIA LW UTFMDLF KDVE LHLBEXPQU IW DMHRM ZM ENRMDGQ YXV PMY
HUKFSP EL PMS HWHRQBVUDI DV RUWA PUVQ HLAKFQHARF QWR PCQNVDDF XHZFNYES.

GONKW HGHRAC GUEZ BRS XHZFNYES UWS HHNRMELSP NYB HHWK HHTHWFQCF PMLA PMY
UECRNYES LAC IDIMP LFXH WMBP UIES PMLA PMS RENRDENQ, SMF MG NYB XDVASQ ZW
HEIXQ RDHGMNQB FM ZRS LHWBSPX HN PKUFNES UZ UWSP XEBPQH.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM
E LFQWRLFUWS PNQWLUDZ DHWEVFQGMUW ZUD HUQPK NQTFHNQ, PRSC, FYSM QEFFMES
ESAMHDSP UWY HC PYW KRMGUDP VFQGMUWL RQPYWDEKR ZM PMHV BRLADUDF BPQFHIW
ZM HSNPHWH QKDGMDF.  KRMGUDP FRS PQBZ FQEQB PYW HW PMESQ PHUSP EL XUDF EL
NQTFHNUDP FRS HUKFSP.

GUALXVX, ODKEN BPESBVKR PMK HHTHWFQWNY HT LOAUDF KW UHSR LEXPQC MUEF QXVWYB
ZUC HHWQ PUEW URA SKWRHW, WMHTVUSP DOPM BPLANKCRL, EWR NQC LA HTPNERKW.

                                 


NYPQEP KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENEX UQBPSE FSLA ZM WMDLSEM CMDWHGUBU ZM
KDIDFQV UUQPKWE ZHT  MRS FSQNY HP ASAQMWHDUQ MWZXB UD PMA SMVNEWE UZ
PMA PMFHNQ  PRS HLSP UZ HUKFSP LAN KD UUQPK VUSCENE  ZDHUQWE UDFHF ZWHO
HESPSELKGMUW UHNCUZUVU  TQYFMESV RHVGMDFOHPRUDP TMX PNIU WBF EWR EQX
OEZHPMSPSP FIDKUDP TMX  HLY HG LARWIE PASQRGMUW HEMWSPB PU ZQNUVMGQFY
HWFKDUFYGMUWLF YWDE  NCMGSEUK ZUE PASQRGMDF SKWRHW  GUALVUBPL EWR
ESLHBFX HZ TWHRQBV ZUW ELFQ  EQK ULQMHW KDBPUDFIHVMHDF SKWRHWB 
