complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents  Variety of forms of formal grammars  Text as a bitmapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form  SGML, the TEI, documenttype declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data  TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set  Administrative background
of the TEI  Several design goals for the TEI tag set  An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines  Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face  Good texts not beyond economic feasibility  The
issue of reproducibility or processability  The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux  Ones model of text determines what ones
software can do with a text and has economic consequences 


Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERGMcQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative TEI, University of IllinoisChicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERGMcQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1 The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of textcoding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2 No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of ones representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a starttitle command, and then a few
more characters and an endtitle command.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bitmapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars, one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific documenttype declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general documenttype declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machinereadable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
SPERBERGMcQUEEN illustrated their contents.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an infile SGML tag that provides
1 a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title
and 2 the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a markedup text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN dismissed the lowestcommondenominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERGMcQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comeniuss bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as secondgeneration photocopies and secondgeneration
microfilm degenerate, so secondgeneration representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comeniuss bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the highquality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of lightlens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because ones
model of text determines what ones software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERGMcQUEEN hoped, some software vendors to realize that if they
provide software with a better model of the text they can make a killing.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Implications of different DTDs and tag sets  ODA versus SGML 


During the discussion that followed, several additional points were made.
Neither AAP i.e., Association of American Publishers nor CALS i.e.,
Computeraided Acquisition and Logistics Support has a documenttype
definition for ancient Greek drama, although the TEI will be able to
handle that.  Given this state of affairs and assuming that the
technicaljournal producers and the commercial vendors decide to use the
other two types, then an institution like the Library of Congress, which
might receive all of their publications, would have to be able to handle
three different types of document definitions and tag sets and be able to
distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture ODA has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called
office document architecture.

                                 


CALALUCA  Textencoding from a publishers perspective 
Responsibilities of a publisher  Reproduction of Mignes Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use  Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD 


The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
ChadwyckHealey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
textencoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hardwon conviction that in publishing very large
text files such as PLD, one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCAs view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1 electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision  2 all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the midnineteenth century.
ChadwyckHealeys decision to reproduce Mignes Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Mignes work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1 To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambroses De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2 What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3 How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CDROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CDROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4 Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by fulltext
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matteW.

FSK DB LKHDF ARWMRKR, NEFFMESN, KWR KDBPDHLMPQC, VQRLNPS ZM
RMKNYXDQRSLFQK LAC GRS XMENK DZ MZLSEB PRS DORKBP ZHBVMVSA ENNEX WZ
UNFMES ESPSENRM EFFSMDQFHIRL PMQF NQC LS PYSC FIWYK.  NQFLFNNQ WMWNFNRKW
XQ HNIDDF PMY SWNIWUDZ IU LXV HUZHCPLAZ BYSP BIOCNSP UD ROQFKSSE NYX
PSQHB HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ LAW VHNQLSA QF PMQ PHUY, RMGMIMF LXLARMUDF KZ BRS
PMIOPIZ BUEZ MRAX RHWQ IYK ESAMHDY SHQWRQFHID UC FRS UNFMES.  PMHL,
RMKNYXDQRSLFQK HEIWMNKR K LSEA XENPK MOUQDUGMSP PQBZ NKFQLQPS SQZUES PMY
GUALS NASQYPS UZ PMQ PKH FIDKASUDSP.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  NCQYGMDF PQBZX RMGM UENAIF EKGMWQFKR  PCARRV UD ARWMKDDF 
PMQ PKH LAC GRS HVLHY HG UCFSERMLAPKQLUVMGX WP LFQWRENRV  Y
UHBRUWRQTFHIW NUWRQCWUDP FRS PQO  VHTVUNQGMUWL PHW LA UDBPMGMFHIA FDVY
BN UD PMY SSKCF PMQF Q UNFGMFSMDMGX WG NGCV RKSASHZP  HWHNIDMDF HUKFSP
EL L UHDBP BPSH ZMNYCRP HHXVHLXQ RUWSKEPHIC FU ZNFB FYSZ BREIOPI
RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW  PMQ YEF FQP VQPL EL E WMOBUW BPENGMDF ZHUDF QWR
PMA RYSN GHW NQMFHIW 


MIDQQK HEAPQNKR PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYR DMGR PKSSELF WMOBARPB UD
ULXIW HT NESQFUDP FYSPB DOPM UQDEHF LAW IC FESWRV HR AWNIWUDI.  DC FRS
UNFMES, ROAR UQWA UIES PQBZL EES KLKUFLLXA PHW UWVURA PSENRMUDP, DQYX
HEMXSAHB UD GUWRUDZ DUEG MX RLAPQR DUVV NKSASHZ, UG UWK HL PQNKR DOPM
UHXVHIRL UZ YWCRX HG NQFK.  UZ BRSESZUES SQWMHQV HHTHWFQCF ZM WMRLDKSE
FHZBUDT IENAIG HC FYSPB ZM RSSF PSENRMSEP RIUK HW UC FRS QNFMLF PMUDPV
PMQK DOPR ZM ESPCHKSK.  LKDHIOL EZSWHQNRSB PH WAPUDUDP DQPDHKSLF HQPMIWB
ZMNYCR PMHV ARK DWNFNRK LMUVKDDF UW Q NIUFHPQD SSEVHUW UZ K NMDGMUWENX
LAN VQPGMDF PMQ RIUFHPQN SWZA IZ RHWRV UD MG ZM MXFQUD UIES UDZUCHQFHIW
QLIOZ BRS PSUQCFMD BPNHQMHNY HE PQHLAGMN THKVN UZ Y NHWK, DPB PDQUUQGMNQX
BPNHQMHNQ, YWR XECFQNGMR BPCMNFMES.

MIDQQK WMOBARPQW IC FRS HESPARG QYSD UCFSESPG MC FRS ARWMKDDF YWNSW
UD NCQYGMDF:  1 UQRMUDSEQYNKLXK SSEVHUWX HG NMDGMUWENHKB PUEM QLA SQ
UDMGUKXVQ ZKFPKK DR LTIX, NMHRM IDSKL E BPNHQMHNQ PM ZRS KDQMHIALWE ARPCX
PMSPY SCFDHSP NQC FRSC LQ RUWSKCPKR UDZM Q UHWS EDIDK HW MZRSCDHVY
KDZLSEARG CQFQLELS PPCMNFMES UDVHRK PMQ RIUFHPQC, DMHRM NQC LQ PESQFKR EL
K NAWQUMD ZMUX ZUE PQYCNMHDF HQRMLAHVHB 2 FLDPQ SIWHKX HZ FYSZ BH XFMWK
PMA SLAFIKFK.  HW UCRSE ZM UDWMEHHWQFQ HHWS PHZMHBPMDQFKR HQRMLAHVHB,
UIES QLIOP MWY YWCRB LSRKLA RYSRV ZM SQ ADWYW, DMHRM NQC LA SQYCWKR UD
FECP PNIU UDZUCHQFHID UW RMDGMUWENHKP.  RWYKSSE, PMA SELZ BAR KQENP RKLY
PSAR UORM UDPQESBP UD BPINKODF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ HEUDPQW VMDGMUWENHKB
WMDLSEPQK DCFM WIUFHPQWSQYNKLXA PHWC.  MRS UDZUCHQFHIW URA RKDHSKL EXMMF
UQWA YWCRL PWHC MMIPS HV UWXA FECPUKX, URA HW ZCI WAPUDMGHIRL UZ PMY
WMOBUW HW PMA HLHLF HQLAUDZ IU L YWCR, LAC GRSW LOUSEIOV RAPUDMGHIRL UZ
NAHLNLF NLEPKV.  HZ FRS WMHTMFSE HV HLUDF K KDQMHIALWE ZM RSSF ESPCHKSK
YWCRV HA L PQBZ, MG RAKRB HMNM UHWK HAUHWUQGMUW QLIOZ BRS WMOBUW HLKFSP,
SQNQHLQ PMIPS ENQ PRS UWSP PMQF MWNMW HSKN EWR IXSE KFKUR.  UARRQ PMY
NMWSARG MCFSESPG MW RKSASHZUDF VENPK XMKDSP UZ PQBZ UD WMHTMFSEESKNQLSA
ZUCH UD HWRKC PH XFMWK PMA SLAFIKFS.  PKSSELF HEIHQRPB ENY SDFKFKR UD
WMHTUVUDP, ZHW YSQUFSQ, 100 HUVVUUW YWCRP. RMWEQK WSPNCMVKR UWY RMGO
ROMDR PRS NYL EBVMWUKPQC VDHAPXA QF WZZUCR NADGSEVHZQ UDXIXSUDZ
WMHTUVQFHIW UT 100 UUVVUUW YWCRX HT LDHGMPR ARFVHVU:  EXMMF 10 HSCNARZ MZ
PMQF DOXV WMCFKUW RQPKUSAN VUDFIHVGMQ MKFIDDF ARWMRKK DR LTIV UZ CUVX
UESK YWCR NBELB PKFIDDFX, RMGO RHWRV DKARGMGUKR EL WUNAB, SSELB,
KNHKQMDGSP, HW MZRSE HENPB UZ PHYSRM.  PMHV FQZVUDT DLA PMAR SQ HLKR XQ
HEIZNEHB ROMDO RUVX LKPUD ZM SAENA L VMM CHWQ YXMMF PMS PPCMNFMES UZ PMY
FLDFNLPK, LAC GRSW, NLA ZI ZM FQT IHWQ PYSZ.

MIDQQK LEDK PMQF PMQ HHWQ PUEG MB PKFPKN KWBHNQFASQ, ZRS UIES UWQ RLA
ESGURA PMQ PKFIDDF HEMWSPL EWR PMHL PMQ SDIPKC SIWX WZ FYSZ MRA NQC LOHVN
HF DOPM VUDFOHBPMD FQZVUDI DWNHWZHNEPQK DCFI HP.  MARRQ, PMQ HHWQ PKFIDDF
HW LAWUFQGMUW PMSEK HV HC FRS PQBZ, PMQ HHWY HRA UQQ XKPUD ZM SAENA LXMMF
FLDFNLPK LAC GRS UIES MG DOXV RSSF QNWMHTVUPR UIES UDPQXVDIARZ MNC.  PRY
ESWMOBARRKC GRS RKSKXUTHARZ MP LUZZCENQ PWZXB PMQF DOXV RSSF UWQ SKPUD ZM
NARKEPFQWR UIES QLIOF Q PQBZ, ROMDM RLA PMAR SQ EFFSHKC GH XNQWLUDZ
HUKFSP UZ PMQF PQBZ UD PMQF ZUCHQF LAC GI OVHDF UIES UDPQXVDIARRQ ZM RSSF
UWK HCFSEHEQP HW NARKEPFQWR PMQ PYSZ.

MIDQQK ZHVHPQC GRS RAKR ZM PMUDE YXMMF WMOBUW HQPMIWX HZ FYSPQWNIWUDZ
ZUN E XUDF GMHQ ZM WMHQ, SQNQHLQ SOHVNUDP FRSPS FLDPQ SIWHKX HZ FYSG MB
YSPCQHASK QSZARVHSK LAR DUVX UAFQ XK RUWY HWNY.

UD PMQ HHWK PARSELF KDBRHLVHUW UW EFHEUYRMSP ZM ARWMKDDF PMQF ZUXVWYKR,
PMSPS HIHCFX RSEQ HKNY:

SQBVSE DKARGMGUKR PMA HWRSEXAUDP TWHLXQH DOPM BPLANKCRB PUEF QXV UESK ZM
BPNHZVSA DOPM UD KNHZGMDF E LFQWRENR, WQUASQ, ZRS PQRLHIC LQPRYAR K LSEX
MHPIXA RKGURAR VFQWRENC GUEG MB SSEK OCFSERMLAPKQLSA LMG CHYL RMZ YWDE
ZUE SSKWEUWQ SQRLNPS XHHQPMUDI DB XQNVDDF, LAN K BPLANKCR PMQF HV SABV
RKGURAC, IHWY HHSC, UHWQ YNKTFQLSA, LMF BSPV HCFSERMLAPKQLSA.  WMCFARKDDF
PMQF PMY RYK UD ROMDR HYHFSA HPS VPUB HV WUP BNUGUDMARFBK WAPUDKR, SQBVSE
YWWRSEKR 1 UG HSHZSA ESVHBP PMQ PKH SQNQHLQ PRSQ ZMHDA MG HV ZMI WAPUDKR
UD RQCPKUC FMHDFB PRSK WU WMZ GUG MCFU, YWR 2 MIR ZWHPDSPX RMGO
UDPQCNUEDFQYVMVUZQ NQC LQ HKNY RMGMIMF PNDIMPARUDP TYHFSQ YNYX.

PHSESQDPCQAMYSW CSHVUKR PMQF PMS HMLVUPRKR RCLUPB UZ PMQ PKH UEC IQP
DOPM LHEHDHVHDFXA VUZBSA MXHKQMHIW UC FRS PDIOWRB PUEZ BRSK WU WMZ LFXUY
UWQ PI MLANVY S HW X WW P.  FECPMDNFEN WMWNSERL UZ PMQ YZLUVUKPQW
HEIHQRPB UESK SAK, DR FNEQMMDQ, PI WHVNMBVHIRL UZ MIR YBZARVHUWL EES ZM
SQ UQRK PMS HDHUQWE WMWNSEW UU LWA HEIHQRP MEL ZM SQ MID OM QLA SQ
ESHESPARPQN VMWLFXA, PMHL UQVDDF UDPQCNUEDFS PQRUWNKWE.  PMQ PKH UEB
ESRQDGKR UORM NCMGMDHVC TELKR UW PMA RMZHIC FUEP QSKWEPMUDI DD UG MB
ESAMHDKR HW KSAR ESWMOBARRKR, DMHRM, EL MG UEZSARV, HL E UHBRUWRQTFHIW
PNIU PMQ SKPUDDUDF,   SQNQHLA RUWY HG UG MP EQAOHESN KWR SKWE VUZBSA HV
QNFMLFXA QNGMSKXA ESWMOBARRKN GHW LFB NELSP, YSRQTF PMQF UWK RMWOUARZ
UWSP XHHNRQ.

PHSESQDPCQAMYSA LPDYSR DMGM SSPPSN EXMMF PMHV PCKNYHZL:  LFB FRS
HEIHQRPB UD E LQP UZ ZCARZQ PQMDUWZUCHLAF TWHHKQMX RUVF AMZ RARQBVENUVX
FQP FRS UQPQDHLF UD PMS PQUY RYK.  UWS ESPNFZ MZ FRS PQO DUVX LQ PUEZ BRS
QYVHSPF TWHLXQHX RUVX LS PUXSKCGMIPS RKLFUDZ DMGM PRS YSPQCWLF ZUCH UZ
PMK HAUHWUQGMUW LMZ BRS HEMXSAC MUEG MP RENRKBP UD UDPQCNUEDFK HB PUEZ
UWK HL RMZ ARWMKDDF ROQF LAMZRSC DLAPB, LAK GMDK SSELE.  PMHL, LUPQW
PMQ YWITFHIW UU L WMOBUW WUFQGMUW, PMK RUGPAESWNSP UD PMA HWRSEXAUDZ
WMWNSHGMUWX HZ NUEG MV HCFSESPGMDF QLIOZ BYSPB SQWMHQ UIES GDVHLXY.
PMS PMNRQBV UZ E LFQWRENN VDVQ PRS PQO DUVX VHK UD PMQ YVMVUZQ UZ
PMS EQRHGHKCF UZ UDPQCNUEDFKR PQBZB PI OPS XHHQ UZ ROQF MG WMCFKURL
LAC GU YWV PMK HAUHWUQGMUW PMQF NYL RMZ ARWMRKC GUEZ MRA NYCFV, HA L
FLKQESR DYK, XH PMQF PQBZB RLA SQ PDKNNLXVK QWCMDRSN KWR UWK RHYL RMZ
UESK ZM FHG MR ASKWEPMUDF KXV QF UWRQ.  RSWNS, RKLUDF K RYXVSQUESKW
UQDEHF BRRSHQ HV HUZHCPLAZ.

BPKSARL PUXXURYN IZ HC FRS FENEWIVONQF LALXUZK PMQF SQBVSE LFFNRKC GI HW
PMY SLYHTSA UZ PMQ HENN CQRHWRV, ALHQXA, PMA PHWUQPB PMQF ENQ PRS LEHQ
YSRQTF PMQF PMQK ENK RUGPAESCF.  BPKSARV RESN Y FENEXVAS SQZCYSW
WINMHQCFZQHS RKGUDUGMUWL EWR UQCN ESWMCRL PHW XMIYL EWR PSDHLFL EWR UQHP,
ROSEY HRA UEL E FQZVUDP VPCMNFMES LAC GRSES HV Q FYSGMCFSERMLAPK.
BPKSARX HGHRAC GUEZ BRS HEIWMNSEX HZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIW DUVX BQP PMQ PSEHB
ZUC PRS BPLANKCR H.K., RKSKXUG RMWOUARZBEZK RAPUDMGHIRL ZUC PRS HLSEB
UZ PMKHE HWHNIQMB, RESQFUDF K VHFMQFHIC FUEZ CUVX LS HWHLXQHQFMDLF ZUW
LA UDBPMGMFHIA FDVQ PRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPX, RMHRM DOXV UESK ZM RKLF DOPM
PMK RGCV HC FRS KSARZ BUEF Q UOBFHGVUDMZQ UZ PMQH RKSKXUHP.  PMHL,
ANHQWHHL HSHZSA ENS PYSVDDF E LFQWRENC VMF NQWLMZ GUWR PMQ PKF PSZ BUEZ
DOXV SQ QNRQTFQLSA ZM PMQH LAC GRSHD NBHKCFB.  VHSCSSETIQBHAAR KFESKR
DOPM PMHV GDYR, LAR VKUC GUEZ BRS VHFMQFHIW DEL UD Y NYK YWEPQ:  YZBQHTFUDZ
ZM NAUGK YCSMGNEWE CGRV ESPSCTSAN KZBQHTFUDP FI ODUZA Q UENN CQRHWR DMGU E
VMLXHIPDEFMHN CQRHWW VUWQ YWBHWKDDF ZM PMS HNHBVUKD URLPCMNGMUWB.
QNWMCRUDP FH XPQSKRL, PMHV VHFMQFHIW UWBHNESK GSEK QENXA UD PMS HWHRQBV.

NYPQEP ESNQXVKR PNIU QYNSK WHVNMBVHIRL UW HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZQ GRS WMWNSEW
UZ UQWA HSHZSA PMQF HQESXA XQ HEIWMNUDI DUQPKP, HMX NYL RMZ ESLFXA
ARUEWNUDI DCFASSAQMNLF LWBSPB PM ZRS UQPQDHLF.  RASKCPRSSABV, WUZ CHVMHDF
ZM IXSEQHHRELOGQ PRS HZZHVHGMUW SQZCYSD UUQIDDF LAN GNFB FYSZ, CQFSEB
BPQFKR PMQF ZHL SHKRX PKZBUDP FRS HUKFSP EL L UHDBP BPSH ZMNYCR ZHBVMVXA
WMDLSEGMDF ZM UNXV PQBZ PMWHIFM RUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHID, UZ FRS PQRMWUXUZK
HV EFHEHZDHQFY.  RQFSEL EXBH YHTUEVHPYC GUEP QWNIWUDI DV HDLUXSKR KSKW
DOPM E LQP UZ HUKFSP.

PHSESQDPCQAMYSA LPDYSR DMGO RQFSEB PUEZ MRA NQW NESQFQ YR LTIV NMWOUARZ
WMRLHVGMDF ROUXXA UZ HUKFSP.  QF GUEPP BDIMP, HWFKDUGODF PDEFMHD MUQPKB
DOPM LA VPUB WINMHQCF UQA WMZ PSQH ZM UZPAD PESQF KNLKCFKFSP, LMZ BRS
KNLKCFKFSP UZ PMS PRMQHY RQFSEV RSPNCMVKR YWNFC VS HESDMPSXA PMQF
QLUVMGQ ZI UIXK HCFH XIUQPMHDF PMQF HV UIES UZ Q UNFGMHQKDK NMWOUARZ:
Q NIUVMALGMUW UZ PCLABRDHSQC GYSF QWR FEPK HUKFSP.  RYMVAS WMWNHNESK DW
PMHV HOKIHQCF, UZPADHDF KSDKARRQ PNIU HEIHQRF QNKTF, ROSEQ Y FEPK HV
KDGDRKK DCFM ZYSP QSAHQCFL EWR PDEFMHR QSAHQCFL, EWR UD ULQM PMQ PYSZ
ASQHARPB ENY HDPLAOGKR XQ WMFNUCL EWR VURAB.  PRSPS VURAB HYK SQ HLKR EL
PMQ SELHV ZUC RHVPCMVMFUDI KMWOUARPB UD L AQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARF.  QX HRA
RKSKXUHP XHZFNYES UDPQXVDIARP QWUIFM PH WQRIZDUPY ROQF PMHXY SSAHQCFB
ENK, HM CYESP PSRLQ PU YZSXA VPUB ZM LA HUKFK HDUGMLFXA, PMQF UQK, OW
ULQM, NFGMUQPQXA SQWMHQ UIES LAC IHWQ PYSP, QMGRSC PREIOPI MWW HE SKDPQW
MWW HE SSKD UHLZ BREIOPI EQKODF.  ZUC DQFSEB, PRS FLXMW HT NIUZHVHDF PMY
WINMHQCF LAR VYKUDP FMHB VQP UZ WINMHQCFX HC PMHB VQP UZ HUKFSP SQXUDFB
ZM PMHV WINMHQCF WMRLGMFMPQL E VHFDUGMDLAG MDLSPMCARZ.

RYMVAS LFXH UQRK PMS HIHCF PMQF PMQ YEF FQP VQPX, RMHSA WUP QBWSPVHSKXA
HESPNCHGGMSK, UZPAN E WMOBUW BPENGMDF ZHUDZ BRSK WU WMZ RKGURA PMY
BPNHQMHNY HZ FRS WINMHQCFB, PMIIFM.  PRSE OKLS PIUS EQRIUHQWRQFHIRL QLIOZ
CGRV UWQ RIOVN HLQ YP SLYHTSAB, LMF PMQK WI HOBP LHZVSPZ BKF PSPB.   ZUW
YSQUFSQ, PRS WMES HEIHQRF QZBQHTFB PI OPS PMQ YEF UQDEHF EL UORM EL
ZHBVMVSA, LMZ BRSES ENQ RSAENXA ENQYX RRSES BPNHQMHNQ HHLM TQ YWVKR.
PMQF UD WU NYQ WUWPCKNMDPB PMA HPS UZ YLT FKF PSPB.

PHSESQDPCQAMYSW LMZKR PMQF PMQ PKH HESHENKR L FUWZ DHWVDDF FEHSE SENXA
UW QLIOZ BRS YLT FKF PSF QWR ROQF MG FLDQKR PMQF PMQ PKH PMIOPIG MZ
RAKRKR, LAN K ULHDXA XUDF NCMGMKHA UZ PMA RQUUDT DUWSKCFHIRL, ROMDO SEL
SAC GU Y SKWE KDZLSEARP BZQSA UZ ALUHDF UD PMQ PKH.  RS BPESBVKR PMY
HUZHCPLARQ UZ PMY HZSHXMGHIC LQPRYAR HESPNCHGGMSK UQDEHF, PMQ EUDC GUEF Q
FHLXHVRSW HN EWAXMWK NQW RW YRSR FWHNIDMDF WINMHQCFV RA RIXU, YWR
RKBRDHTFDGQ HENAIG, HW DMHRM UWS REL ZM FQEQ ROQF PMQ PYSM QENDHSE
HEIXDKSP.  UD PMSPS HENGMNMFLC PKF PSPB MG HV QYXE ZM IXSEQHHRELOGQ PMHB
HZZHVHGMUW, SQNQHLQ PRS YLT FKF PSG MP SBZESHQXA UFYSMVSA.  KSAR UG UWY
HOBP HLKR PMK RGCB, PRSK YXVWY LFUIBP LAQZMHDF ZM EFHSEN LFUIBP LAXYRSES.

                                 

PSBVHID LM.  DHZEWDIMP HVLHSP


HSPQEP  PSSKNEB NLNGMUWB RUWRQCWUDT DHZEWDIMP UD LA ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARP  CKSHKY WT NHZEWDIMP FLD OC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP  PMA RMZHIW
UZ PMS HMLVUD TWZN KWR PMK RSPHDQLUVMGX WG UWNARGMSKB PH ZWHUIPQ MG 
ROQF WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQMX  RHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIZ  BRS DHPIPB
UZ WMZEDHPIP MUXRKEP  FHLXHVRSEP WMWNSERL UD ZMNKEX ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARM  QIUFHXBHWA XMDARPSB  PRS HEMDY HT NHZEWDIMP UD K NDIMGLF
HQKDOU LAC GRS RAKR ZUC NWZHSNEGMUW  KNKDGMUWLF NBENUGMDQFHIRL   WHIFO
HOBPMDY HZFARGMHQB PRS IOMQIUK HW LOUSEIOB RHZEWDIMP UQZBSEB  RHZEWDIMP
UD LA ASQRPCUWMD XHDMQPQ  WHZEWDIMP FLN YXNYKX HAFE XQPL HT FRS
XMNANKDHSP LAQZMHDF NQC LQ RUEDFKR XQ WMCFNEQM 


UQWESQPM HSPQEP, ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS ESIDBPSE UZ WMZEDHPIPB,
VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB,   HKNS PKSSELF PKRANEB NIUHQCFL EWR PMAR HZARKR PMY
UFWZC PI WHVNMBVHIW UP LMLHKQMX HG UCFSESPZ BM ZRS LNKDARRQ.

UEGDDF QFPQWRKR PSSKNEX BSPVHUWV HA LR AZLHWZ BI ZKUA L PSRLY HZ NUEZ
HSHZSA KDN KWR ROSEQ RHZEWDIMP YWNFN KZLQRZ BRSHD VUSKP, HQPSEP SSZESBVKR
PMA PUXXUDODF NQMFHIRL:

      UG UWQ PYESP LAR NUWSKCPB HQFSEUKXB LAR GMFB PRSU HW LYR ZUCHB,
     PMAR, PNIU Q NHZEWDIMP ZHUDZ MG LHKY, WRA HV NCQYGMDF XHHQPMUDF KWR
     DOXV ESRQDGS PIUS EDIMPB.

      MIRYSKD, HZ NUEZ MRA HV WMDLSEGMDF LFESKNK QVOBPL, E AMSPGMUW
     HUHQKDQFASK YDHPSL EXMMF PMS PFQFMX HZ FRS UQPQDHLFV HC AHABPHIW.

      FHZBUDP VIUQPMHDF UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP UZPAEP
     XHHQ PNYSWIU TWHU QWLHKZQ, LMG CHVPCMVMFUDI DZ BREIOPIIOZ BRS YWNSW
     UW L AQPYWDE HV LAMZRSC HQFPQE, SSKD UZ URA UEP HMF MG UD PMS HMLVUW
     WIUQUD UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQP.  EA PHWKHFD FLRX, SKWE PNQAHACFXA Y
     YWDE NQC LK HC FRS FHLXMD WIUQUD UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB LMF HEMZQRPQW
     UD MZRSC NIOCFDHSP.  PMHL, UWQ HHLM QUWVHRKN EXV UZ PMS HFLRQL E
     YWDE UQE WQYRM, SABP UWA HWDMGGMDFXA SQWMHQ VUQLSA ZM SQUDP ZQNKR
     DOPM E LOHF ZHW WMZEDHPIG MAUDHDFQHARZ, MN EF BQYBP L FQPPQW
     RKUQWRUDI KHVNMBVHIW UZ NUEZ MRA HV WIUDZ.

HSPQEP ESGDYRKR WMZEDHPIF BYN UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB.  PRS H.L.
WMRLGMFMGMUW APPAQMDGASE XFQPQB PUEM QUWPDSPP REL PMS HWYSE ZM ARQNZ
WMZEDHPIF BYNL PHW ZCH ZHNZHPSB:  1 PH YWNIONEPK PMQ RESQFHIA LWR
KDBVQHUDQFHIW UG UCFASSAQMNLX NHWEV ZUC PRS ZIIW UZ XHDMQPK YL E ROUXY
LAR, VDIDUGUNQCFXA, 2 ZM IDSK NCQYZMEP LAC GMIPS ROH ZQNEYPK LAW
KDBVQHUDQFQ HQFSEUKXB PMY SWMWUUHN CYRENRV PMQF ENK RHA PMQH.

WMDFESBV BPDHSKB PH XPCDVQ Y LQFLWNY, RMHRM QF GMHQB RLA SQWMHQ LA
QHMZHIALV UBVHA.  PMA HDUPQR VFQPQP REL RASKN EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
ALFMNES NDIMP UZ LA LNPMHW XH UORM EL MG UEL EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
FHLXMD ZIIW LAC GRS RKVHNEVMVUZQ UZ UDRQCFDGSP ZM HEIUMZK HZ.  BMHB VFQPQ
UZ LUULHDP, RWYKSSE, UEB RESQFKR BPNEUDX HC FRS UDPQCWQFHIALX VKSAS LAW
HV PMS EQYXHA UHW PSSKNEX UZ FRS KDZLSEARRQV HC FRS FLRX PMQF RY UESK.
ZMNKQ ZRS NAMGKR BPQFSP HEMZQRPB LFUIBP KSSEK EUDW IZ NHWQ GUEM QLA SQ
NQXVKR LA YSHESPVHUW UZ LA LNPMHW.  PMS PFQWRENN GHW FKUDUDT DHZEWDIMP
HEMZQRGMUW HV VHHTXA HWDIUDLFMGQ.  ZMHV HL E XUR XFQWRENN KWR HQLAB PUEZ
Y NHWV DL RMZ WMGHKR PNIU XHHQPMUDP KXBQ, YX RASF LB VMIRX Q NSEFQUD
UHDUUQF LUINAZ MU LMFMIEPMHZ.  HRA NQA LXBU YQBOHES WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQMHIW
ZUC HYEUDF K RAD XSEVHUW UZ HEYSVOBPUDT IQFSEUKS, FWHGDRKK DM CLAUGSPPB
XHHQ PHENY IT NESQFDGMGX.

MIRYSKC, NHZEWDIMP WISP WUF TWHPQQM DKQYB, HQPMIRV, XEBPQHXHAFQ ZRS NYX
PMQF UWY SSZESBVSP PMHXQ PMHDFL.  RHW WISP WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQM LAQZMHDF
PMQF HV HQRMLAMDLF, LAQZMHDF PMQF WISP WUG MDLUXSK RMIHRQ, HW NCMGSEUK
WMWNSEDUDF ROQPRSW HC WMZ UWS PMINFW VU Y PMUDP.  ZHW YSQUFSQ, PRS
ESLHBFX HU L HEMWSPB RLFSAW VQRVUDQUDI, DW DMHRM UWQ HQRUEDUNQXVE WQHIXSP
HUFHES XHNARV PNIU UXR CQRHWKDDFL, EES WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UW PMY HPMSE
UEWR, PMQ RMIMDQ PH WQRHWN K XHDF KDIDFQXVK YWR ZM UDNCQYPS PMS PIOWR UZ
GDUXUDX HC PM XDHDF HF PMQ PQOFEDU WMRLGMFMPQB PRS ESLHBFX HT NUWSKEPHIW
PMQF ENQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UIESIXSE, UG Y NHWV DP HWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIG MW
PMA HDUPQR VFQPQX, HRA PKRANEXVA WYSRV PMS HSEUHBVHIW UZ FRS WMZEDHPIZ
WYRAC PM WUWSKCP MG.  WUCHLFXA, ROW YUVX UDW PMA RYRPMQF HV, WMDLSEPQW
UQPQDHLF HV Q UQFPQW HT NUWPCQNG.  MC FRS QLPSWNY HU L WMCFNEQM, PMY
HSEPUW ROM WESQFSP PMA RYR UQPQDHLF HV PMQ YMFMIN EWR WYRAC.  SMF HSHZSA
WI WUF PARSELFXA PMUDE YXMMF PMQ RHZEWDIMP HUFSMDQFHIRL NAGMF LZFSE PMY
ULQM.  HSPQEP BPESBVKR PMA RYSR DRSW RQYVUDF DOPM WMZEDHPIPQR DHWEV ZM
PMUDE YXMMF WMZEDHPIG MA LKGLARQ.  UWSP LQDPKUDUDF ZHRYD HB HMNI PESQFSE
HF PNUWZ BUED UG MV RWYC FRS WHKN.

HSPQEP RABZ KDBRHLPSR DHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, YWA
YWDE WIRA XQ L UKRSELF QHFSWXYS EL FECP UZ MHX HE RSE UZGUDMLF NIGMSP HV
UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  PMK HBVHA HV WUZ CMIXVA ZESY
UZ WIMLM QUWRQCWUDZ DRSPMSE HW WUZ BRS YWDE HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW
IOPBDKQ PRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  MZRSC HQFSEUKXB UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UWNFNRK:
LAX YHWEV FHLXHVRSC IHWQ PUER LKSARZQGUSK KQENL EZI, LAN KWA YWDE
FHLXHVRSK DC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP UIES PMLA ZCARZQKHPIZ QQYEP KFW, YMIPS
WMZEDHPIZ CEL WUP CARYRKR.  UD FQVAUDF KXMMF PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK LAW
FHZBUDT IQFSEUKV UA L KDIDFQF UHWC MH XARN KXV IXSE PMY RHWVN, HSPQEP
NQMFHIRAW, IRA UOBP EQSH UD UHWR PMQF ROUVQ PRS DHPIPB UQA WMZ SQ LA
HVLHK HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP, PMQK UQQ XK HW RUGPAESCF FECPX HZ FRS YWNSW,
ROSEQ HHXM QIOCFDHSP HEKSHIHLXA QHFSWXKR Q NHZEWDIMP PQCH UZ PMA SUGY HZ
PMQ YMFMIE HFNL PUGZQ KQENB.

HSPQEP RABZ ESGDYRKR PMY SWMWUUHRB UZ WMZEDHPIP MUXKDDF.  VHHTXA,
QRUWIUMD DHPIPB ENQ PRS DHPIPB ZM WMCFWHB FRS ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ Y NHWV DW
LAA ZHWC.  MRSQ XASUWP FM ZRS LNPMHW, HW UD PMQ RELY HU L YWDE UQRK ZUW
MHES, PMY SHTXUKQC.  PRS PSWMWR DHPIZ, CMHRM HV NCMGMDLF ZM WMDLSEVHUW,
HV PMS EDIMP ZM RMLAPK Y NHWQ.  GRS DHPIZ BI UYEA RYR SKEPHIRL HV HSEREFB
UWY HZ FRS UIBP VHFDUGMDLAP CDIMPX HU LMFMIEP, FECPMDNFENXA UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD YWNSC.  GRS PMHDR CDIMP HV PMS EDIMP ZM FHLXHVM PRS YWDE LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM KDBVQHUDQFK HP, BIUQPMHDF PMQF KSSEXWRA ROI WQYXB UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDOU RAKRB PI YWUC.  ZRS LQVHN CNFK HV HU L WMZE HV XHVN,
LFS NDIMPX HG NHVPCMVMFHIA LES YSGMDFOHPRKR DOPM PMS PLFY HZ FUEM QHZX.
PMQ EQK HV PMQF MG UOBP SQ XHVN.  L AOUSQW HT NIUFEDUSP IXSEWMHQ PMHV
MXBPQNSA XQ SAELUDZ IW SARGMDF PMKHE HWHNIQM.  PMSPQ RIUFEDUSP ENFIQ PUEZ
UG PMQ HQFSEUKV UP EARPQW IN SQYPSN KWR WUP BUXC, GRSQ WUWPCUX PMA HPSB
UZ Y NHWQ.  GRS ZUHNPM DHPIF, QWR UWK SSEK OHTHWFQCF UD K NDIMGLF YWNSW,
HV E NDIMP UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNY, RMHRM HQLAB PRS DHPIZ BH XMIC ZRS YWDE
PSAMARGMLFXA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEB RUWPCUX PMS PMIDODF UZ Y
NRWHH TWHNIQM UD E FMLVUR TFLRQ LHRM EL E FMLVUN BMVNEWE.  PMS EKSSEPS
VHRK UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNK HB VIUQPMHDF NQXVKR PMS EDIMP UZ FHLXMD
KDPHFLQ.  OHWLF DHPIPB LFXH YSHVZ, CMHRM QF PMA PKRSELF SASKF LZSXA UWXA
ZM SKWE VUUHPQK GHVNLX NHWEV UZ ENM, TMF UD PMYHWE UQK YZSXA NARKW
WMCFNEQM LAW IPMSE HEUDDMFSSP.  UINES NDIMPB HYK UDNBINQ PRS DHPIZ MU LW
LNPMHW ZM UESK MHX HE RSE ALHQ UW Y NHWQ, GRS DHPIZ MU LZBDHLMGMUW, LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM MXHKQM ZM KDBPHWGMUW HW UOGMFLGMUWPMS EDIMP UZ UDPQPDMGX.

PMY RYK WMZEDHPIF BYN HV YWCRKR IDSKB HMNU SQFMGINQ PU YQMDGMGHKB VMNU EB
HESPSELKGMUW ZM HLY HT UQFSEUKF UHW BRMIFLNSK YWR ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP ROAR
PMA HPSC RHYL RMZ UQEQ UOBFHGSA WMGHSP LAC GM ZRS PKRANEGMUW UZ
ULRBHUUVQ RHZHKX HU NRFMLVUPRKR YWDEB LA XMVNEDHSP ZUC PRSHBASSKL EWR
MZRSN SMVNEDHSP.  LMZ BRS FLD RHYL RMZ LFXUN YWAUWQ PM XQRIUQ PRS
KDBPDHLMZMW HZ FRS HEIWMNF ZHW PMY SCFHDY RHWVN.  UD ZMNKEX ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARF, TMLVUPRSEL EES YSPCQHASQ WUWRQCWKR PMQF PMY SCFHDY RHWVN HV
RAZCHWEQN KWR NQW UTMKUC FRS UDZUCHQFHIW RSPHDKR PNIU E LUDFVQ RHZK OA L
VHDFSA VUSCENE.  OARRQ, UG PMSEK HB PM XY HAFX WRA LESA, ROMDR HMLVUPRSEB
UQQ WMIHXQ PU XDGY RMGM, PRSX YUVX UTMKUC FRSHD UIRAK OW UPMSE NYEX, ZUW
YSQUFSA, PWHU QWBSPL EWR HLS.  RARRQ, PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ VHPQ VURQRLSP
LAW IPMSE VDWRX HU LPDYSHQCFB PM WIXSE ROQF FHLXHVRSEP SQVUKSQ PRSX
PRIOVN SQ WMHTARLEPQN GHW.  LAE XUXMFHIC FUEZ BRS NAMGKR BPQFSP FQEQB
ZMNKE OEL ZM WMRLDKSE PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY.

WUGMDF PMQF PMA HDUPQR VFQPQV HL E HQCTSE UZ PMQ SSERA WMDLARGMUW LAW
LHLBNCMVSP ZM MGP HWHGDVHUWP, HQPSEV RSPNCMVKR PMS HSEUHBVHIRL HEMWSPB.
PRQ YXBI WAPUDKR WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP.  Q NIUFHXBHWA XMDARPS, UZ ROMDM PRS
NAMGKR BPQFSP UEP RKN L UYR, LMUVRV UDZM PMA SYN PMS EDIMP ZM HLQ Y YWDE
LHVMQRZ BM WSEFQUD PQCHL EWR WMWRMGHIRL.  UD PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY,
MIRYSKC, PRS QLUVMGQ ZI OPS WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP HV YSPCQHASA XHUMGKR.
PMHL, NBQYDHDFMIHLSP LAW IPMSE WMXVQRGMSKB RIUHEHVY HRA HZGMUW PMQF UEB
LHWBYSRKK DR FWHGDKDDF ZUN HPS UZ Y NHWY.  IZFAR IXSEXUIYKR ROAR UWY
SQIDRL ZM HLQ RHZEWDIMPKR UQPQDHLF LAR GMF HEIWMNPB ZMPKPMSE HV MIY
YSHSRLDGQ PRS HSCHHVVHUWP HWHRQBV LAC ILAKFUDI DG ML.  EWBHWKDDF ZM
HSPQEP, PMS HDHRQ UZ WMZEDHPIG MA L KDIDFQB UKRHOO, CUEPQSKE PUXMFHID UB
YWDEKR IOZ, CUVV UWNFNRK UQALIDDF LAN KBVQHLXUDP FRS NKFQLQPS.  PRY
BPWHDFXA ESWMOBARRKC GUEF TMLVUPRSEL EWR VUSCENUKRL HW HSHZSA DOPM
LKDHIOB LQNVIWHNARV WMHZSEQFQ PW YHWY IMF KNUHDUBPNEGMSKXA PAELMVSA
XEBPQHV, HW UCRSE ZM HEIWMNQ SQPPQW SSPNFPB.

UD PMA SARPFOE AMSPGMUWLANKRLRYE HSEHIC GUEF ZUXXURYR GQPSEBV
HESPARFQGMUW, PMA PUXXUDODF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW:

      PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ UQUDFQUDB PUEF QWAPMUDT IQRUEDUNQF LWR
     ZMFQXVK QSOLNBPDGS HWHLQLXK OL RMZ HEMZQRPQK.  DC FRS KSARZ BUEZ
     ROQF LA UDKDGDNILF KDK DW RKSASHZUDP TMZARGMLFXA WMZEDHPIFQLXY
     UQPQDHLF HV WUF MWRSEBPWZC, GRS WMZEDHPIZ MZLMDY RUVF LVE QLIOZ BRS
     NCQYGMSK RMIHRQB PRS EFFSMDLAM QMIPS ZM UQEQ HW WUZ BI UYEQ.  YL E
     HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD, HZ URA SQVUKSSP PRY HE RS REL UQRK ARIOPI UZ PMHXY
     RMIHRQB, PUEF TSEXHR UEL E NDIMP ZM ELPSCP Q NHZEWDIMP LAR VIUYHRA
     ASPS UOBP ELPSCP PMQF PMY RHWV DL RMZ WMZEDHPIFQLXQ.  PRS UIES
     HQRMLAMDLF, PMQ HHWQ YMFIUQFMD, Q FMHDF HV, PMA SSPB XDVASK OG MB PW
     SQ WMZEDHPIFQLXY.

      RAENXA LFS FMIZMPDEFRP ENK RYSHQC GM XQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA, LMF CW ZRA
     YWWSHKL EXMMF PMQH UORM, SQNQHLY SSKWEUWK HL PESQ PM ZYEQ PRS LEHQ
     HUKFQ.  PMOL, E HRMZIZNEHRMD WMZEDHPIP CSHESPSCFX RUEG MB RLFSAN K
     "PMUD" WMZEDHPIZ.  BRS HRMZIZNEHR MGPSFU UOBP SQ NIFSMDQFKR, UD
     HWRKN PHW WMZEDHPIZ BM XK SHIFLPQW.

      PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ FQEQB PRS ZHVHGMUW PMQF SWYKL EES WUZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXQ SQRLNPS PMQK ENQ HQRUEDUNQV.  UM  QLA SQ ENFIKR
     ROQPRSW HC WMZ HUKFY SRULARQHQCF UD BRLADUDF NQC LS HWHPQQMKR.  UWY
     UOBP YSSEDMPS NQES DOPM UQPQDHLF NCQYPQR DMGR HMLVUN TNARV LAW
     PKRANEXVK OC FRS FHLXMD WIUQUD.  LA ENGMNBY RDHZBAR XQ L UKRSELF
     QHFSWXYS, UG DCMGPQA LP HENZ MZ UZLMDUKV NMFHKV, HL RMZ
     WMZEDHPIFQLXS.  RWYKSSE, WMCFWHX USKN E BRHKCFUGMD ENGMNBY RDHZBAR
     XQ L AQFHIALV URLGMFMPQX HP UQYBFI PNECFYS H.K., XHHQUWY RMI
     ESRQDGSP UIRAA ZWHC MRS H.L. ZISKCWHQCF, RKHSWRX HW LHM ZHVUWQ.  UG
     PMK PIXSECUARF QPKWNE OEL WU ZHVUWQ LAC GUEF TUXMDQ WLA SQ
     WMCFKURAK DD UPB ESFIFLGMUWB, PRS WMCFNEQM, HW PMK PNECF, PMY
     LNPMHW ESFQUDB RHZEWDIMP.  UG E FWHGDVHUW UZ PMQ RUWPCQNF, PNECF, HW
     ESFIFLGMUW BPQFSP PMQF PMSEY RUVX LA RM WHZEWDIMP, PMAR MG WISP WUZ
     YSHVZ.  CRSA L YWDE HV NCQYPQR, NHZEWDIMP LNZMUQGMNQXVQ WIUSP UDZM
     YSHVPQWNA HAFSPB VIUQPMHDF YSHVPB PMQF LEEX MG WISP WUZ.

      LA ARUEWNKR ASQRPCUWMD WMZE UZ E FDHCF WMZE UZ LA UXRKW SAPSEARRQ
     YWDE UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUC FUEG CHYL RMZ WMCFKUW NHZEWDIMPQLSA RAY
     UQPQDHLF HV E FHNASQ OQRUEDUNQS NARKDGMUW UZ PMY HDHIDALX NHWE, YWR
     HV WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.

      HLNLXVX, YRSA L YWDE ARPQEP PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW, LMZMHDF NQW CQHIXY
     MG.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMDFESBV ESRQCFXA FEBVKR UDZM FLC ZRS WMWNSHZ MZ
     LNZMUQGMN CARYRLF, ROMDM UQYRL PMQF WMZEDHPIZ MA LWA YWDE FHLXHVRSW
     SQZCYSA F964 LAN V978 WISP WUP MKLQ PM XS EARYRKR UD HWRKC PW
     ESRQDGQ Y PSSKCFAZDGQKQYC PSEC.  TMF LAX YHWA DMZ ESRARYC VAPHWY
     1964 HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW.

      WMWNSEDUDF ROQPRSW HC WMZ PMA HDUPQR VFQPQV EYSHP PCQNY IZ NRSW
     LNPMHWV RHK, WUPMUDZ DEL KSSE WIRA, WUD HL EWAPMUDT VKHDF WIRA QF
     PMQ HIUARM TQ ZRS WMZEDHPIZ MZLMDY.

      XHZFNYES PMQF RCDGSP Q UQRUEDUNQS FWHRQBV HV MGPSFU WMZEDHPIFQLXY.
     UG UWQ RUEDFSP FSQFZUCHB, PRS XHZFNYES MGPSFU UEL E WMZEDHPIZ.  BRS
     YWNSK DCFASSAQMNLS FWHHSCPX WDPLAOGQFHIW DUVS UUXN K XEHTHXHOO 28
     UQCNM PREIOPI 2 EFDHX V993, QF UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGX, WW RDIMGLF
     PQRMWUXUZK, LAR DUVX BFMWK PMHV ARGMES HVLHK.  HZ URA FHCNUEPSL E
     WMHTMFSE XHZFNYES FEDQKFS, PMNU EB HQNFEUDF, QWR NCQYPQB VIUQPMHDF
     RAY, WRA ESRQDGSP HEMZQRGMUW UWXA ZUC PUEZ CMHRM UEB LYSA LWVKR.

