future, when many more texts are available for online searching, real
problems in finding what is wanted will develop, if one is faced with
millions of words of data.  It therefore becomes important to consider
putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1 machinereadable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms 2 large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computerreadable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computerreadable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of textencoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1 if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2 how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
ones source.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this tradeoff:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEIconformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solvedthose dealing with the external form of
the information but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a wellbehaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
documenttype definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a textinterchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard i.e., develop documenttype definitions for the users
of their products, creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, PRSK YXVWY LFUIBP LAQZMHDF ZM EFHSEN LFUIBP LAXYRSES.

                                 

PSBVHID LM.  DHZEWDIMP HVLHSP


HSPQEP  PSSKNEB NLNGMUWB RUWRQCWUDT DHZEWDIMP UD LA ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARP  CKSHKY WT NHZEWDIMP FLD OC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP  PMA RMZHIW
UZ PMS HMLVUD TWZN KWR PMK RSPHDQLUVMGX WG UWNARGMSKB PH ZWHUIPQ MG 
ROQF WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQMX  RHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIZ  BRS DHPIPB
UZ WMZEDHPIP MUXRKEP  FHLXHVRSEP WMWNSERL UD ZMNKEX ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARM  QIUFHXBHWA XMDARPSB  PRS HEMDY HT NHZEWDIMP UD K NDIMGLF
HQKDOU LAC GRS RAKR ZUC NWZHSNEGMUW  KNKDGMUWLF NBENUGMDQFHIRL   WHIFO
HOBPMDY HZFARGMHQB PRS IOMQIUK HW LOUSEIOB RHZEWDIMP UQZBSEB  RHZEWDIMP
UD LA ASQRPCUWMD XHDMQPQ  WHZEWDIMP FLN YXNYKX HAFE XQPL HT FRS
XMNANKDHSP LAQZMHDF NQC LQ RUEDFKR XQ WMCFNEQM 


UQWESQPM HSPQEP, ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS ESIDBPSE UZ WMZEDHPIPB,
VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB,   HKNS PKSSELF PKRANEB NIUHQCFL EWR PMAR HZARKR PMY
UFWZC PI WHVNMBVHIW UP LMLHKQMX HG UCFSESPZ BM ZRS LNKDARRQ.

UEGDDF QFPQWRKR PSSKNEX BSPVHUWV HA LR AZLHWZ BI ZKUA L PSRLY HZ NUEZ
HSHZSA KDN KWR ROSEQ RHZEWDIMP YWNFN KZLQRZ BRSHD VUSKP, HQPSEP SSZESBVKR
PMA PUXXUDODF NQMFHIRL:

      UG UWQ PYESP LAR NUWSKCPB HQFSEUKXB LAR GMFB PRSU HW LYR ZUCHB,
     PMAR, PNIU Q NHZEWDIMP ZHUDZ MG LHKY, WRA HV NCQYGMDF XHHQPMUDF KWR
     DOXV ESRQDGS PIUS EDIMPB.

      MIRYSKD, HZ NUEZ MRA HV WMDLSEGMDF LFESKNK QVOBPL, E AMSPGMUW
     HUHQKDQFASK YDHPSL EXMMF PMS PFQFMX HZ FRS UQPQDHLFV HC AHABPHIW.

      FHZBUDP VIUQPMHDF UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP UZPAEP
     XHHQ PNYSWIU TWHU QWLHKZQ, LMG CHVPCMVMFUDI DZ BREIOPIIOZ BRS YWNSW
     UW L AQPYWDE HV LAMZRSC HQFPQE, SSKD UZ URA UEP HMF MG UD PMS HMLVUW
     WIUQUD UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQP.  EA PHWKHFD FLRX, SKWE PNQAHACFXA Y
     YWDE NQC LK HC FRS FHLXMD WIUQUD UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB LMF HEMZQRPQW
     UD MZRSC NIOCFDHSP.  PMHL, UWQ HHLM QUWVHRKN EXV UZ PMS HFLRQL E
     YWDE UQE WQYRM, SABP UWA HWDMGGMDFXA SQWMHQ VUQLSA ZM SQUDP ZQNKR
     DOPM E LOHF ZHW WMZEDHPIG MAUDHDFQHARZ, MN EF BQYBP L FQPPQW
     RKUQWRUDI KHVNMBVHIW UZ NUEZ MRA HV WIUDZ.

HSPQEP ESGDYRKR WMZEDHPIF BYN UD PMA HDUPQR VFQPQB.  PRS H.L.
WMRLGMFMGMUW APPAQMDGASE XFQPQB PUEM QUWPDSPP REL PMS HWYSE ZM ARQNZ
WMZEDHPIF BYNL PHW ZCH ZHNZHPSB:  1 PH YWNIONEPK PMQ RESQFHIA LWR
KDBVQHUDQFHIW UG UCFASSAQMNLX NHWEV ZUC PRS ZIIW UZ XHDMQPK YL E ROUXY
LAR, VDIDUGUNQCFXA, 2 ZM IDSK NCQYZMEP LAC GMIPS ROH ZQNEYPK LAW
KDBVQHUDQFQ HQFSEUKXB PMY SWMWUUHN CYRENRV PMQF ENK RHA PMQH.

WMDFESBV BPDHSKB PH XPCDVQ Y LQFLWNY, RMHRM QF GMHQB RLA SQWMHQ LA
QHMZHIALV UBVHA.  PMA HDUPQR VFQPQP REL RASKN EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
ALFMNES NDIMP UZ LA LNPMHW XH UORM EL MG UEL EWBSHPQC GRS WUGMUW UZ PMY
FHLXMD ZIIW LAC GRS RKVHNEVMVUZQ UZ UDRQCFDGSP ZM HEIUMZK HZ.  BMHB VFQPQ
UZ LUULHDP, RWYKSSE, UEB RESQFKR BPNEUDX HC FRS UDPQCWQFHIALX VKSAS LAW
HV PMS EQYXHA UHW PSSKNEX UZ FRS KDZLSEARRQV HC FRS FLRX PMQF RY UESK.
ZMNKQ ZRS NAMGKR BPQFSP HEMZQRPB LFUIBP KSSEK EUDW IZ NHWQ GUEM QLA SQ
NQXVKR LA YSHESPVHUW UZ LA LNPMHW.  PMS PFQWRENN GHW FKUDUDT DHZEWDIMP
HEMZQRGMUW HV VHHTXA HWDIUDLFMGQ.  ZMHV HL E XUR XFQWRENN KWR HQLAB PUEZ
Y NHWV DL RMZ WMGHKR PNIU XHHQPMUDP KXBQ, YX RASF LB VMIRX Q NSEFQUD
UHDUUQF LUINAZ MU LMFMIEPMHZ.  HRA NQA LXBU YQBOHES WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQMHIW
ZUC HYEUDF K RAD XSEVHUW UZ HEYSVOBPUDT IQFSEUKS, FWHGDRKK DM CLAUGSPPB
XHHQ PHENY IT NESQFDGMGX.

MIRYSKC, NHZEWDIMP WISP WUF TWHPQQM DKQYB, HQPMIRV, XEBPQHXHAFQ ZRS NYX
PMQF UWY SSZESBVSP PMHXQ PMHDFL.  RHW WISP WMZEDHPIF TWHPQQM LAQZMHDF
PMQF HV HQRMLAMDLF, LAQZMHDF PMQF WISP WUG MDLUXSK RMIHRQ, HW NCMGSEUK
WMWNSEDUDF ROQPRSW HC WMZ UWS PMINFW VU Y PMUDP.  ZHW YSQUFSQ, PRS
ESLHBFX HU L HEMWSPB RLFSAW VQRVUDQUDI, DW DMHRM UWQ HQRUEDUNQXVE WQHIXSP
HUFHES XHNARV PNIU UXR CQRHWKDDFL, EES WUM QHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UW PMY HPMSE
UEWR, PMQ RMIMDQ PH WQRHWN K XHDF KDIDFQXVK YWR ZM UDNCQYPS PMS PIOWR UZ
GDUXUDX HC PM XDHDF HF PMQ PQOFEDU WMRLGMFMPQB PRS ESLHBFX HT NUWSKEPHIW
PMQF ENQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA.  UIESIXSE, UG Y NHWV DP HWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIG MW
PMA HDUPQR VFQPQX, HRA PKRANEXVA WYSRV PMS HSEUHBVHIW UZ FRS WMZEDHPIZ
WYRAC PM WUWSKCP MG.  WUCHLFXA, ROW YUVX UDW PMA RYRPMQF HV, WMDLSEPQW
UQPQDHLF HV Q UQFPQW HT NUWPCQNG.  MC FRS QLPSWNY HU L WMCFNEQM, PMY
HSEPUW ROM WESQFSP PMA RYR UQPQDHLF HV PMQ YMFMIN EWR WYRAC.  SMF HSHZSA
WI WUF PARSELFXA PMUDE YXMMF PMQ RHZEWDIMP HUFSMDQFHIRL NAGMF LZFSE PMY
ULQM.  HSPQEP BPESBVKR PMA RYSR DRSW RQYVUDF DOPM WMZEDHPIPQR DHWEV ZM
PMUDE YXMMF WMZEDHPIG MA LKGLARQ.  UWSP LQDPKUDUDF ZHRYD HB HMNI PESQFSE
HF PNUWZ BUED UG MV RWYC FRS WHKN.

HSPQEP RABZ KDBRHLPSR DHWEV WUF TWHPQQMKR XQ WMZEDHPIF, ZHW YSQUFSQ, YWA
YWDE WIRA XQ L UKRSELF QHFSWXYS EL FECP UZ MHX HE RSE UZGUDMLF NIGMSP HV
UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  PMK HBVHA HV WUZ CMIXVA ZESY
UZ WIMLM QUWRQCWUDZ DRSPMSE HW WUZ BRS YWDE HV UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUW
IOPBDKQ PRS NAMGKR BPQFSP.  MZRSC HQFSEUKXB UD PMS HMLVUN RIUKUD UWNFNRK:
LAX YHWEV FHLXHVRSC IHWQ PUER LKSARZQGUSK KQENL EZI, LAN KWA YWDE
FHLXHVRSK DC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP UIES PMLA ZCARZQKHPIZ QQYEP KFW, YMIPS
WMZEDHPIZ CEL WUP CARYRKR.  UD FQVAUDF KXMMF PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK LAW
FHZBUDT IQFSEUKV UA L KDIDFQF UHWC MH XARN KXV IXSE PMY RHWVN, HSPQEP
NQMFHIRAW, IRA UOBP EQSH UD UHWR PMQF ROUVQ PRS DHPIPB UQA WMZ SQ LA
HVLHK HC FRS NAMGKR BPQFSP, PMQK UQQ XK HW RUGPAESCF FECPX HZ FRS YWNSW,
ROSEQ HHXM QIOCFDHSP HEKSHIHLXA QHFSWXKR Q NHZEWDIMP PQCH UZ PMA SUGY HZ
PMQ YMFMIE HFNL PUGZQ KQENB.

HSPQEP RABZ ESGDYRKR PMY SWMWUUHRB UZ WMZEDHPIP MUXKDDF.  VHHTXA,
QRUWIUMD DHPIPB ENQ PRS DHPIPB ZM WMCFWHB FRS ESHEIWMNGMUW UZ Y NHWV DW
LAA ZHWC.  MRSQ XASUWP FM ZRS LNPMHW, HW UD PMQ RELY HU L YWDE UQRK ZUW
MHES, PMY SHTXUKQC.  PRS PSWMWR DHPIZ, CMHRM HV NCMGMDLF ZM WMDLSEVHUW,
HV PMS EDIMP ZM RMLAPK Y NHWQ.  GRS DHPIZ BI UYEA RYR SKEPHIRL HV HSEREFB
UWY HZ FRS UIBP VHFDUGMDLAP CDIMPX HU LMFMIEP, FECPMDNFENXA UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD YWNSC.  GRS PMHDR CDIMP HV PMS EDIMP ZM FHLXHVM PRS YWDE LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM KDBVQHUDQFK HP, BIUQPMHDF PMQF KSSEXWRA ROI WQYXB UD LA
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDOU RAKRB PI YWUC.  ZRS LQVHN CNFK HV HU L WMZE HV XHVN,
LFS NDIMPX HG NHVPCMVMFHIA LES YSGMDFOHPRKR DOPM PMS PLFY HZ FUEM QHZX.
PMQ EQK HV PMQF MG UOBP SQ XHVN.  L AOUSQW HT NIUFEDUSP IXSEWMHQ PMHV
MXBPQNSA XQ SAELUDZ IW SARGMDF PMKHE HWHNIQM.  PMSPQ RIUFEDUSP ENFIQ PUEZ
UG PMQ HQFSEUKV UP EARPQW IN SQYPSN KWR WUP BUXC, GRSQ WUWPCUX PMA HPSB
UZ Y NHWQ.  GRS ZUHNPM DHPIF, QWR UWK SSEK OHTHWFQCF UD K NDIMGLF YWNSW,
HV E NDIMP UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNY, RMHRM HQLAB PRS DHPIZ BH XMIC ZRS YWDE
PSAMARGMLFXA.  ZUE SLYHTSA, WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEB RUWPCUX PMS PMIDODF UZ Y
NRWHH TWHNIQM UD E FMLVUR TFLRQ LHRM EL E FMLVUN BMVNEWE.  PMS EKSSEPS
VHRK UZ FHLXMD HSNPHWUQWNK HB VIUQPMHDF NQXVKR PMS EDIMP UZ FHLXMD
KDPHFLQ.  OHWLF DHPIPB LFXH YSHVZ, CMHRM QF PMA PKRSELF SASKF LZSXA UWXA
ZM SKWE VUUHPQK GHVNLX NHWEV UZ ENM, TMF UD PMYHWE UQK YZSXA NARKW
WMCFNEQM LAW IPMSE HEUDDMFSSP.  UINES NDIMPB HYK UDNBINQ PRS DHPIZ MU LW
LNPMHW ZM UESK MHX HE RSE ALHQ UW Y NHWQ, GRS DHPIZ MU LZBDHLMGMUW, LAW
PMS EDIMP ZM MXHKQM ZM KDBPHWGMUW HW UOGMFLGMUWPMS EDIMP UZ UDPQPDMGX.

PMY RYK WMZEDHPIF BYN HV YWCRKR IDSKB HMNU SQFMGINQ PU YQMDGMGHKB VMNU EB
HESPSELKGMUW ZM HLY HT UQFSEUKF UHW BRMIFLNSK YWR ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP ROAR
PMA HPSC RHYL RMZ UQEQ UOBFHGSA WMGHSP LAC GM ZRS PKRANEGMUW UZ
ULRBHUUVQ RHZHKX HU NRFMLVUPRKR YWDEB LA XMVNEDHSP ZUC PRSHBASSKL EWR
MZRSN SMVNEDHSP.  LMZ BRS FLD RHYL RMZ LFXUN YWAUWQ PM XQRIUQ PRS
KDBPDHLMZMW HZ FRS HEIWMNF ZHW PMY SCFHDY RHWVN.  UD ZMNKEX ASQRPCUWMD
ARGDWHCUARF, TMLVUPRSEL EES YSPCQHASQ WUWRQCWKR PMQF PMY SCFHDY RHWVN HV
RAZCHWEQN KWR NQW UTMKUC FRS UDZUCHQFHIW RSPHDKR PNIU E LUDFVQ RHZK OA L
VHDFSA VUSCENE.  OARRQ, UG PMSEK HB PM XY HAFX WRA LESA, ROMDR HMLVUPRSEB
UQQ WMIHXQ PU XDGY RMGM, PRSX YUVX UTMKUC FRSHD UIRAK OW UPMSE NYEX, ZUW
