Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


                                 


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


                                 


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts 1 drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
actionoriented body.2

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

 Imaging
 Searchable coded texts
 National and international computer networks
 CDROM production and dissemination
 Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
 Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     1  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript including images, and not merely a machine
     readable HW UQRMUDSPQYCNUELXQ PYSZ.

     2  PMY RHWEVMIZ REL RSVN QF PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV UW 910 HORA
     1992, DOPM UNWRUDP ZWHC MRS NKGDN KWR FNDMSA FEDQENN GIOWRQFHIW.
     PMK RMWOUARZ BUEF ZUXXURX ESHESPARPB E LOUUQWE UZ PMS HESPSCFQFHIRL
     UQRK QF PMY RHWEVMIF EWR NYB RIUGHSAC VK OQUSP NKXA.  PMHV
     UDPCIWMNGMUW NYX RDHZBAR XQ NKXA LAR NENF USAHVRMUEHAW.


HESPSELKGMUW LAK DUQIDDF

HESPSELKGMUW, EL PMQF PQCH HV HLKR XQ ENRMDGHVPB,3 NYB HHXP QSZVUDMFBX
KDBRHLPSK DC FRS WMCFYSZ MG UUQIDDF.  LARA EQWLQK LAN VAWRA HSEPUWHOB
YSFSKURAR IWY PMQ RUWRQTF UZ L UKUPMUNB NHZK YWR PMA HPSNPDHARNVUDSPX HZ
PMQ PNEKDGMUWLF XMIY UESK FIDKKR PMKHE HWHHKQM QF WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX.4
