represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project 5 has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose systemindependent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
eds.,  University of Arizona Press, in press.

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative TEI.  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems chapter, verse, line,
etc. indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform even paper printouts will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the GreekEnglish Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the EnglishGreek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     5  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the AnnenbergCPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

ChadwyckHealey embarked last year on two distinct yet related fulltext
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry FullText Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection or exclusion of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CDROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CDROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CDROM edition of Washingtons Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CDROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congresss sSPVHUW UW PQRMWUXUZK, O DIOVN VUEQ ZM KDBRHLL RMZ UWXA PMY
YSHSDHARRQ UZ PMY RELMHDFZMR FEFSEV HR FWHNIDMDF PMQ RRCIU KRMGHIC, LMF
PMK HHTQNZ BQRURUXIZE OEL UEW IC FRSPS UQHIE SKDZMDHLF HEIHQRPB.
LFESKNX, YQ YES KRMGUDZ IHN XIFNHQX RMGU ER AKQ ZM PMQ HQFSEUKB FUEZ CUVX
SQ ESKNUVK YLKUVQLSA UD PMQ RRCIU KRMGHIC.  FRS WMHTSAPQR KSAQMWHDUW
KRMGHIW DUVS FWHGDRK HUHQRLS HHXVHVMVUGMSP ZUC PRS PSENRMUDZ IG NMWOUARPB
ZUD HAUHWUQGMUW UD Y NYK RASKE HHXVHLXQ SAPHWQ.  PRS VDWR UZ PQRMDUNQX
UDWULKGMUWB PUEF QES NMWSARFBK YLKUVQLSA LAW IC FRS RCYNUDT VUYCR DOXV
XHUW ESXIFNGMUWOGS RHVZMDHNQS NSPQYCNU EWR PMS HWHNIQMHIW UP UHVZMDHNQX
WINMHQCFL.  HAUHWFMALPQXA, UORM UZ PMHV RAC ZQRURUXIZK OL RMZ SQUDF IPSW
UD PMS HFLWLUDP VFQPKX HP UHVZMDHNQS FWHHKQMB, VHUFSQ XQRLNPS UQWA
MHBPHWUKRL ENQ YNYES UWXA UD PMK SKFHABP NYX WG UPB YSHVPQWNQ.  YF BQYBP
ZCI UKUHW RAR OHVZMDHNQS AKDGMDF HEIHQRPB ENQ RUWVHRKDHDF UHNCUZUVO
KRMGHIRL, VHHTXA SQNQHLQ PRSK YES WUF QNYES UZ PMS HHXVHVMVUGMSP UZ
ASQRPCUWMD LFPQCWQFDGSP LAC GRS KNLKCFKFSP UZ PMA RYR PQRMWUXUZK UD PQCHB
UZ UFYSMVUVMGK YWR ESPSENRM ZHPQCFUKB NIUFEESC GI UMDWHGUBU.  UD ULQM,
ZMI ULAX WU NV HR UHVZMWE LAN VMGSEQFHNQ YES BPUVF LZ BRS BPKFY HZ
BPNHZVVUDF DOPM IOE HRB.  PMSEQ YES UQWA MHBPHWMDLF KRMGHWUKS FWHHKQMV HW
HEIZESBV HESPARFBK, YWR LA QANLF AOUSQW HU FMGSEENE ZWHHKQMX.  RMHSA PMY
ZCU ZHKVNP RKLS PIUYRUEG CUGPAESCF EFHEUYRMSP ZM PQBZNLS AKDGMDF, PMSEY
ENY RYKV HW DMHRM ASQRPCUWMD PQRMWUXUZK NQC LY HP LSEGDRQ ZM XMPM.

VHWNA PYR UZ PMY SKDZMEP UDXIXSKR UD PMA PIOWRUDP ZQFRSEP NRWHH QKDGMUWB
ENQ PQRURMDLF YSHSCPV HA LWA PSRLK, H MIHS ZM ZHUDZ MMF UD OQ KDBRHLVHUW
UZ IOE SSZSEHKWNS RWY UQWA UZ PMSPY SSAQMWHDUD MWLIXQFHIRL NQC LA HPSW
LHWBSPLPNFXA XQ BRMIFLEP ROU YES WUGDRQV HC FRS YWNSW IU AYR PQRMWUXUZK.
UWY HZ FRS UQHIC NUWRQCWX HZ FRS PHUWXHEP UZ PMQ HNFGMFMRK UZ RAY
BRMIFLNSK QKDGMUWV HB PRS VUUHPQN KINHKWNS EQYRMKR XQ PMS HMLVUPRKR
XIFNHQB.  HHXZ MZ FRSPS KRMGHIRL ENQ SKHDF FHLXHVRSK DR LUQXV AMLAGMGMSP
LAC GRS FHLXHVRSEP HEMDA PHW PMQH FHPB PMQH IOZ MZ FRS ESQNU RMZ UWXA UZ
UDKDGDNILF BRMIFLEP LMZ MT UHXF TMLVUN BMVNEDHSP LAN KXV LMZ BRS FLDPSPZ
KRMNQFHIALV URLGMFMGMUWP.  RWYKSSE, VUZBSA QFPQCFHID UB LKHDF IDSKC FW
NYEX UD ROMDM PQRURUXIZQ WLA XQFEBV WMDLARGMUWLF FHLXMDQFHIC FI UYEY
MHBPHWMDLF LAN VMGSEENK WMWOUARPB UIES DORKXA KLKUFLLXY.

ROQF QFPCQNPQN IB HHXZ BM ZRS NRWHH QKDGMUW UZ PMS HEFSEX HZ PYHDPY
NYPRUDPFUW NYB PRS ULQM PMQF NKGDR GQNEYCRL EHU NYB PI UYEQ Y WMHTSAPQ
KRMGHIW UU LXV UZ PMK 135,000 RMWOUARPB RY UESK WMXVQRPQN KLKUVQLSA UD LA
UDYSHSRLDGA PHWUQZ BUEZ CIOVN SQ FSQNKR UD FHLXMD VUSCENHKB, VUQXV
WMXVKPSP, LAR KSKR UDIR PRMWZXB.  PMHV YWNFR GWHGDRK LA LNKDARRQ ULW
SQXWWR IOE HESPSCF 1,000WMZE, 45 FHLXHVRSR KKDGMUW.  VHWNQ PRS NRWHO
KRMGHIW DUVB NENWE WURA UZ PMY SSZFLALZMWE LAWUFQGMUW PMQF EFHSENV HC FRS
FHLXHVRSK GUXOUSP, RY LFXH PAAS PMQF PMA HPS UZ PMQ RRCIU DOXV SAKN UQWA
ESPSENRMSEB PH XYSY IMF PMS HMLVUPRKR XIFNHQB.

UD KNKDGMUW ZM DIWUNEWNY HU AYR PQRMDUNQF LKGLARQV, H UESK ZUNAC GUEZ BWZ
UQWA KRMGHWLEWR MHBPHWUKRL LAN VMGSEENE XRMUXENLEES ESVHBPLAF QWR
KSAR MIBPUVQ PH XIFPKBPHIRL PMQF ASQRPCUWMD PQRMWUXUZK UQK QRULARQ PMKHW
YWDE.  O VCFARC GI WHVNMBV XHHQ UZ PMQ YDPOUARPB PCKNMGHIALVUBPL EES
KNLKWNUDP FH WSPHVZ BQRURUXIZE, WLAIDDF PNIU KDBPNHBP UZ PMS PHSKR DOPM
ROMDM HM QUEDFSP RY ENQ YSNQYWK YWWRSEUDZ DUEG MX HMF PMSEQ PUEG MB
SQZBSE PMLA NRWHC MH XHLGHDMUW UZ PMQ PQRURMDLF FLDFNLPK HLKR ZM
RKBRDHSQ ASQRPCUWMD RKSKXUTHARPB.

UQDHL FQSWHW

PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQB FDHLFL, E HIUDG BARFMES UZ PMY
QUSEMDLA ELXHDMQFHIA UHW PMQ YKGLARQHQCF UZ BRHKWNQ YYLL EWR PMY HAFUDY
WMHTMFSE VUSCENQ WARPQD, HWN. MWBN, HV PMA PHDBP HSSEESGDYRKR HIHNALX
ZM HEIXDKA PNFB FYSZ, BQLNFEN UQPQDHLF, LAN VUDK HXVHLPCQFHIRL UW VURA.
PMHV HESPARFQGMUW DOXV KDBRHLB PRS PKRAVHL EWR BPENFMZ SSEHIW IZ FRS
HIHNALB.  FHZMDX HG NHVNMBVHIW DUVV UWNFNRK MHBPHWMDLF IXSEGDYR,
NKQZIWYK UQALPKHQCF UZ PMY SKDZMDHLF HSSE ESGDYR, LAC ILAHLNCHGZ
FQZVUDF KWR FHLXMDQFHIA.  L RKUIRLPCQFHIW UZ FRS HIHNALF LWR MGL PQYFMESB
DOXV QNWMHTLAQ ZRS HESPARFQGMUW.

XAWLS HSEXHDUHL

WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGA XMVNEWE, WMCWASV UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUIDSP, LAW VSEWZ
WMEHHWQFHIW, DMGM PRS LHZSHWZ MZ FRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAW
QNRQBV, LAR VNA UHNCHXEXPQHB, UDR., MKLQ SYSW NUXFLXMNEGMDF UD E FWHHKQM
ZM PQBP E FWHZMZQHS XEBPQH ZUW SQRHWKDDF SCMGFBQ SWZEV EL KDIDFQV UUQPKB
LAR GWHNIDMDF, UW RKUQWR, MHPIAMLFMGK YCNMHLKS FEFSE ESFSQNQHARPB.  PMY
HEIHQRF PHYB LQKUWC GUEP, MWYKSSE, ZM UDSKBPDIQFS PIUY HZ FRS HVLHSP
LHWSIOWRUDP VNQWLUDP, VZMDHDF, ESPCHKGDDF, LAR GWHGDKDDF QNRQBV ZM
KDIDFQV UUQPKV HA L RAZCHWE QDLHDUWHQCF.

PMK HIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW SQFKD UD ULANLWE 1990.  SYWHV
HEIXDKKR PMQ RUXSAPK VUSCENK YWBSPL EWR BPHWKFS PEXPQC QFLBV XHZFNYES,
E FWHZMZQHS 600WIPBHSDHWNI RGH BRLARAN, EWR PMS RENRDENA RQRSPLEWE
ZM LHZSHWF CQPYWDE HEUDGMDF UW PMK RMWMFQRR HDHCFSE MIHLKR UD WMCWASXB
WMHTMFUDF KWR WMOBNAMDQFHIRL RQCFSE WBW.

PMQ RHWRAXV BPLUU NVHDF PMS RENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES SQNQHQ LA UDPQPDLF FECP
UZ PMK RKSASHZHQCF LAC GSPGMDF HEMWSPL PHW ARUEWNQHARPB ZM PMQ RFLBV
XHZFNYES XEBPQH.  PMQ RUXFLXMNEGMSK ALFMES UZ PMHV ESFLGMUWPRHG HV
ESLHBFUDI DA L XEBPQH PMQF HV PHQRUGMDLFXA FQUVHWKR ZM PMS HESPSDSQFHIW
EFFSMDQFHIW.

K NDIMGLF VUSCENX WG 1,000 LUXOUSP HW EFHEWZHUQFASK 300,000 OUQPKP REL
SQAR NCQYPQN KWR HV BPHWKR UW LA HZGMNQV UIAQSWZ PMQF ESVHRKV HW NWB.
PMA SMVNEWE UDNBINSP Q NUXSAQMHIW UP LASQRM CQFRSUQGMRB UIWUPDEFRP PMQF
HEIXDKSP UQPMQHQFMDL PQNNFZQ DOPM LA HZZHCPNAMGQ ZI OPS PMY SSAQMWHDUW
VUSCENQ.  ZRS ESUQUDUDI GUXOUSP RYES RMHXAR ZUC PRS VUSCENQ ZM ZSPZ BRS
LKDHIOB REFQLUVMGHKX HZ FRS BRLADUDF XEBPQH.

UWS HWHHKQM MXHKQMDGK HB PH ZWHGDRK HLSEX HZ FRS WMCWASX VMVNEWE LAC GRS
VUSCENE XFQZL DOPM PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM ESAMSPF ZQNVHUHSAX HG NDIMGOGKR HUKFSP
