emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AMs emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORDs view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1 much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors 2
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials and 3 agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 


FLEISCHHAUER  Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials  Special challenge in conversion of textual materials 
Quality versus quantity  Do the several groups represented share common
interests? 


Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AMs endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, VMNU EB HMZHIR FMDFMES WMXVQRGMUWB, VIOWRESWMCRUDT DUXSAQMHIRL,
LAR GMDZMDHLF WMXVQRGMUWX HG LENHIHL XHCPP, SPHQRUKXVQ WUXSAQMHIRL UZ
HRMZIZNEHRV.  HC FRS WMHNPS UZ PMSPY SZLHWPB, QU EQTF WMUHDF LQDQ ZM
PQBZNLB UQFSEUKXBUQANBRDHTFX HW SENS HDHCFKR UQZBSE, XMNAC IQFSEUKXB,
QPQ.  MYSF THXKR PMK PESQFSPM QUWSKEPHIW NUEXVARPK UZ LFB.  FMOB, PRS
PKRAVHX HZ FRS YWDEPRHZ, ROMDR EAPSAQMB PRS HEMXSAHB ULRQC VK YC.  MRSPS
HEMXSAHB UDNBINS HOEVHNQS FWHLXQHL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, PMIPS UD PMA SMVNEWE
LAN KCNMHSK LMVHRABV RKLF DOPM WMXVQRGMUWB HKNA HZ HZ LNEIDSA LAR CENY
UQANBRDHTF MGQHB, LIOWR UQPQDHLFP, SPHQRUKXVQ ZRS WUZMDHIOBXQ XDHZBSA
XMNAC IQFSEUKXB UZ PMA SQFA RUDQPYSCFM RARFMWE.  PMSPQ YES HEQRHIHL
NMBFHNLF ENGMULQMP, RWYKSSE, EL RYXV EL UDPQESBPUDP VIOCNSP UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA, LWR BN RKVHESB PH WQPKUA LWR WMRLSESK PMQH.  QU RAKRB PW
UEWRSA PMUDPV DOPMIOG CQUKFUDP FRSI.  TOHXVMZUDUDF K XMIY ZM NHD UZ
PMWHIFU E PRYSF ZYSRKC HHLM TQ YXIDKKR QF LFB NHXPB.

SQXWWR HREXMDLF HEMXSAHB, HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM AMLFMGK YWHPS.  ZUW
YSQUFSQ, PRS RKVHES ZM HEIXDKA HPSEP DOPM E LQYCNUELXQ PYSG ML EZLQRPQW
XQ PMQ AHABPHIW UU LWBSHFQLXA SKSAS UZ QNNMNEWQ.  UWS RNARCKR HSCNARZ
QNNMNEWQ HV PCQHARWIHLXA YSHSRLDGY.  HC FRS MZRSE RLAC, GRS IOFTMF UZ
HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW UNC NQC LQ PESHQWRIOBXK OALWBHNQFY.
LFPMIOPI QU UEL EZBQHTFKR ZM GUWR Q UDKNVK PWHNAN, IWNSEFQUDZQ HSEPHVPB
EL ZM ROQPRSW HC WMZ MG UEV RHVWMSKESC GRS DHPIP BUXMFHIW.

AMSPGMUWX HT ANLVUZQ ENHXQ RUWRQCWUDI DUQPKL EX RASF.  USAHVRMUEHAW
