in the Humanities CETH and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
departments IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CDROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
PHI, Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgils Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a fortyeightsquarefoot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgils works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgils use
of words, DALYnow freed by PHIs Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgils use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wroIFMP UD PMY RYKB VRMUXENX RHWY.

                                 


UHRMASXHR  ASAHQCFP EASQFKR ZM BRMIFLEPMHF EWR PQRMWUXUZK  ASQRPCUWMD
PQBZX RMGMHC FRS WMCFYSZ MT LWHKNSE PCARRV DOPMUD UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
LAR VRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIR  ALKFNQFHIW UZ FRS HEHXHSQML PHW PMA HPS UZ
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZP  EASQFHIRLMHZ HP ASAQMWHDUQ MYSPB ZM HEMWSPPSX HZ
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW UD MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRM  RAR YBWUEDFA PHWUQPB
NCQYPQC VE XRMUXENP  HWHHKQMV HDUGMQFKR ZM UDNCQYPS BRMIFLNSK YWBSPB PW
WMDLSEPQC GYSZ  BESWR ZMNYCR UQVDDF ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA
PMWHIFR ESPQYCNU EWR KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDEB  RUEDFSP FQVDDF FSQNK HW
BRMIFLNSQ WIUUODUNQGMUW QUUWP IOULAMGHKB VRMUXENL  RQPYWDEHQKDQFKR
BRMIFLEPMHT FNERLZUCHUDP FNEKDGMUWLF BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP  EQX
UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZQ ZESWRL EZLQRGMDF PMQ RUWNIQM UZ BRMIFLNSX
WMOBNAMDQFHIW USKC PRS RABZ RKNQRK  PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF
 PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGK  QZLQRPB UZ PMSPQ PESWRV  EQK
PCLALPHWUQGMUWB PYEUDP TFLRQ  LHOBENX WZ TDHWNHGLF ENFIHQCFB 


KLNE UHRMASXHA, LCNMHLKS NSPQYCNU EWR KSLFNLGMUW BPLUU, AQFHIALF LCNMHSKB
LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW ALNE, ENFIKR PMQF SPFQLXHVMHDF ROW YUVF NPS
ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL EWR ROQF PMQK DOXV HLQ PRSU THW UDXIXSSP Q NUWVHRKNEGMUW
UZ XMPM UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZK YWR BRMIFLEPMHT FESWRB.  PMHB
WMRLDKSEQFHID UWNFNRKB VKSSELF ASQHARPB ESFLPQC GH XRMUXENPRHG LAW
