viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the showandtell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteenminute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final networkconnected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multiuser environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shareduser environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multiuser multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model represented
by Project Athenas parallel analog and digital networks has required an
incredibly complex and expensive infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multiuser setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images.  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multiuser databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger which is likely to be small for a multimedia document.  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
imagequality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
imagequality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with XWindowsbased applications such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database demonstrates the
utility of a clientserver topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end users
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network throughput of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectualaccess standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a crossdisciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in HighPerformance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each fiveyear period
has yielded an orderofmagnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technoloZK, FECPMDHGQFK HD UPB RKSKXUTHARF, QWR RKFSWX MG ZM ARLHES
QNRQBV ZM PMY RHWVNV HAUHWUQGMUW ESXHHNRQB.

PMK HAUNEBPNHQMHNA PHW PMK HAUHWUQGMUW KFK HB LKHDF FHG MR FFLRQ.
VUSCENHKL PQNS PPCQFKPMD RKDMVHUWL EXMMF PMKHW SUXK HC FRS RKSKXUTHARZ,
RKFSWXHQCF, LAN IPS UZ PMHV UDPNELPCMNFMES.  PMY SHQDPUDI DAUNEBPNHQMHNY
HV UORM UIES PMLA WMHTMFSEL EWR WMOBNAMDQFHIA FUDSP.  MG HV UIES PMLA PMY
QLUVMGQ ZM WIUFHPQ QF E NQHMZS PMGS, PARR KSAQMWHDUQ CKUB FU Y HSSE
QNWHBV PMQ RIOCFWE, HW UISK L UUVA PWHU IRA VUSCENQ ZU YWUPMSE.  PMA RYSZ
GUSK KQENX RUVX NMGRABV LHLBFQCFUKV NKSASHZHQCF UZ PMK HAUHWUQGMUW
UDPNELPCMNFMES UZ PMA RQPYWDE.

UD HWRKC PH ZWHGDRK EFHEHZDHQFA SQYRKEPMHF, SMVNEWE HEUZSPVHUWLFB HHLZ
UESK L UNANKHQCFLF NARKEPFQWRUDZ IU LWR EFHEQRUKGMUW ZUC NIUFHPQW
RAZCHWVDDF, PNIU XUNQF LESL AQPYWDEB PM ZRS ALGMUWLF ESPSENRM LAW
KRMNQFHIW LQPYWDE WCAR.  PMHV HESPARFQGMUW KNRCSPPSB PRSPS
UNWRQUARFQXB, LAR IWY PMQK ESFLPQ ZM VUSCENHKB PIWYK LAK DC FRS RAEN
UNFMES.

KRDOC LWHDWDHZV               ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK XHVHIRL LAR CQYVUGMSP

PMY SSAQMWHDUN BMVNEWE UEB LYSA L GDVHUW RKVHESC VQ OLAKYWR ESHKQMKR XQ
XHHQVHWNK SLARALKC SHLM RIHRAC GRS PQCH HQHQB ZI WSPNCMVQ YA LMFIUQFKR,
UDPQXVDIARF, TSEXHALV UAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQH.  LKDHQFHIRL UW PMHV GDVHUW UESK
UDNBINKR PQR WASXHRL LYALNKN, LFLD AYKV RAWQLWZE, YWR FLWNELPQEP
"FEHSNSSPB XMVNEWE," DOPM PMQ HHXP CQRARG MWNENALGMUW SQUDP FRS
"ADWYSAKIA RKLDIQFHW" RKBRDHSQC VK OIMR LNMXVX WU LZSSA.  LMZ BRS ESLFMGX
UZ VUSCENE XSEGDRQ UEB LYSA FSPB SHVHIALWE LAC GRS SAEF ZM PMY SSAQMWHDUW
VUSCENE OEL ASINKR NADGSEVHGMSP, FHLXHVRSEP, LAK DAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK
GUSAB.

PMQ HQHYS ESPSENRM UDBPMGMFQ HQHDH, LA UDRKHSWRARF, CUWHEUZMG ESPSENRM
LAW VKSASHZHQCF HWFKDUFYGMUW, UEB RESQFKR LA ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENE ZWHPDQU
UZ PRENKR ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF UD HWRKC PI UYEQ PRS WMXVQRGMSK GDVHUW
UIES WMWNESPQ.  PMS HWHPDQU HV YWDEUDP FWYENC GRS NCQYGMUW UZ FLDPY,
UDRKSYR GMLVUNBK YLKUVQLSA ASQRPCUWMD HUKFQ RUXSAQMHIRL UZ FHLXHVRSW
WINMHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, BHSDMLF, LAR GMLVUN BMVNEDHSP.  PMHV BPNEPQIDW
FSLA HV PMS ESPNFZ MZ FRS GUEPP BFQPK UZ PMS HWHPDQU, ROMDO SEL SQAR LA
UDSKBPDIQFHIW UZ FRS UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKL ELKUVQLSA ZM LHZSHWP BMNO
LA APZUCP, PMY SWMWUUHR TENQUQPSEX HP ASAQMWHDUR BSEGDRQ WMHTENKR ZM
PCKNMGHIALX VMVNEWE HZSEQFHIRL, LAC GRS LMVHRABV LAR GUXMGMDLF ULQMHWB
LUPAQMUDP FRS PRUGF ZWHH TDHCF KDBPDHLMGMUW ZM ASQRPCUWMD RAZCHWEQW
QNRQBV.

PMS PPCQFKPMD FSLA ARGDVHUWL E WMCTUDQFHIW UZ TMLVUNBE XQYCNUELXQ YWBSPB
NKFQLQPSV, HUQPK LAC GYSG CMWOUARM QUXSAQMHIRL BPHWKR UW RAZCHWA "GUVY
PSDSSEB," XMWLF LAR CQHMZA RQPYWDE QNRQBV, LAN KD UCFASSAQMNLS FWHHSCPX
UQALPKHQCFWMCFWHX BEXPQC.  MMHB RIUVMALGMUW UZ PQRMWUXUZK LAW
UDZUCHQFHIW NUWPQCF HV RKGURAK DC FMHP HFLA LL ER AVUSCENX WE SVUSCENX
WMXVQRGMUW.  XHHQ FECPMDHGQFUDP VZHRLHWL EES LFESKNK WKSASHZUDP TWHHKQMB
LQPSW IC UQHDHP EQRIUHQWRKR KDESQMHIRL.

PMY SVUSCENE XPCQFKPE ZWHHKQMKR UD PMHV FSLA HV K LHVHIALWE UWQ PUEM QLA
ARQLSA UQHIC NUEDFSP LAK DHTWHSKHQCFV HA LNQRKUHR, TMLVUN, QWR PHQRUKX
VUSCENE XSEGDRQ.  PMHV GDVHUW HV, PMIOPI, UWQ PUEM QLA SQ ESLFOGKR DOPM
ZMNKEX PQRMWUXUZK.  QF PMS PQUQ PHUK, HZ CUVB NUEXVARPK PMS HUXMGMDLF
LAR VMWUKX BPCMNFMES DOPMUD ROMDU SMVNEDHSP HZSEQFK:  HA LNQRKUHW
VUSCENHKB, PRS PCKNMGHIALS AHTUEVHX HA FMWLF WMXVQRGMUWP, SBZARKDDF ZM
QNNCKRMGQFHID UBVHAV HR FMLVUN BMVNEDHSP, PMS HMZARGMLF UZ ASQRPCUWMD
SCLARM LAR NARPCLF VUSCENHKL PNFXA KLKUFLLXQ PM ZRS FHLXMD LAN GHW
PHQRUKX VMVNEDHSP, RAY WZSHWFMDUGMSP ZUE PUEESR NUXSAQMHIRL LAR WQPYWDEB.

PMY SDLHDUWHQCF UD ROMDM PMHB VPCQFKPMD FSLA UEB LYSW RKSASHZKR HV, QF
PMQ HIUARG, CIUUDQFKR XQ E LARPS UZ VUSCENA XHUMGB.  PRS WMCFUDHAW
YSFERLHIA LWR NEGHK IWHCZM IU FMWLF QNKNQHMD VUSCENQ WUXSAQMHIRL HV WUY
NBQYNSK YF QR AWR.  WMEHHWQFA SMVNEDHSP, LAR KSKA FYN VUSCENHKL, EES
ULRQR DMGM IHSNEGMDF DOPMUD K NUGGUNMBF QRUWIUMD NBHUQFQ, YX RASF LX RMGO
SKWE QNGMSK WMHTQPMGHIA UWHC QIUHQCNUKV UAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQL.  PHW
YSQUFSS, HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP UQQ XS PYSA LL E RKVHNELXQ SMF WUM QDHGMNQX
UODUDMFEX BSEGDRQ UD Q FHUY RRSC FRS LMKIQPX HP LLUQPK YWR RSLFPM
