demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0 version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
nonGreeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
e.g., Herodotus and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed nonGreeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus 
Several features of Perseus 1.0  Several levels of customization
possible  Perseus used for general education  Perseus effects on
education  Contextual information in Perseus  Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus 


Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONASs presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus ability to crosssearch
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptionsin short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for notetaking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard a general required course that students must take in
certain areas.  Students were QLSA ZM HLS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF UORM UIES.

PMS HSEPSHL HEIHQRP MEL LA KSLFNLGMUW PQQU QF PMA HDUSKEPMGX WT UENAXLAW
PMQF UEB LYSW RMWOUARGMDF HSEPAHP SZLQRPB UW KRMNQFHIR.  FSEPSHL HV SKWE
ZHFHFLN, EWR LAQRWIFQS AGDRKWNK HWRMDQFSP PMQF MG HV UEGDDF LA APPAQM QF
FSQNSP MZRSC PUER UENLKCR, ZUE SLYHTSA, PQBP VHPQL EM TLFX BFQPQ
NADGSEVHZQ, RCHNQ WUXSAPK, LAR WOUSEIOB VUQXV FSQNSP ROSEY HZSHWFMDUGMSP
ZM HLK SELF QUINAPB UZ HEHUENK WQFQ UYK WUP QVOBP.  UWK RMWOUARPQR KZLQRZ
HV PMQF ENRMYQUXIZMDLF, LAPMWHZHXUIDNQF, LWR HRUVUXIZMDLF ESPSENRM HV
SQUDI KUWQ SQ ZRS LEHQ HSEPUW UDBPQYW IT LQ ZREYS KDZLSEARF TYHFSY.

PMQ RUWPQBZNLV UAUHWUQGMUW UD HSEPAHV HWNFNRKL EW USKDSHKR YBVYK, Y
ULHDXA VURAEN MHBPHWMDLF SPLEX WC FRS GUZFM RARFMWE T.Q. PMQF HEIXDKSP
VUDAV HCFM ZRS HEHUENQ OQFSEUKS A.P., ISEIWMZHL, PMMNKWDKSP, LAW
