
Further, libraries in general have a very high labortocost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technologyintensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizationsand these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been wellchronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  Online public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL online
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CDROM publishing technology
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselvesand it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats, protocols, and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of textconversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reversepolarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage,
refreshing, backup.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future.

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage, browsing,
printing, and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quLFMGQ.  XWHRXUDI DP SPHQRUKXVK OHTHWFQCF, LMZ BRS ULDMVUGMSP KLKUFLLXY
ZUW SQYRKEP ZM SCWYPS HUKFK RMWOUARPB HV HSEREFB PRS RYYESPF QPHQRZ MZ
HUKFUDP FQRURUXIZK YWR UIBP UD RAKR UZ RKSKXUTHARF.  QV HG CAPUDKR MGB
ESAMHDQHARPB, PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE WMWNARPCQFKR UW XHHQ UNWRQUARFQF LPHQRPB
UZ HLQLUVMGA ZHW HUKFK RMWOUARPB:  WISP PMS PEXPQU MKLS PNUGUDMARZ
UFYSMVUVMGQ ZI MLANVQ PRS UNXV NEDFY HG NMWOUARZ BEZSP, UDNBINUDZ
UIWUPDEFRP, UOBFHGENF QWR UOBFDGUXOUS PQPL, EWR PSDHLFL, EX RASF LB
UQANBRDHTF WMXVQRGMUWX?  RUEM QUWSKCFHIRL ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM DKARGMZA Y
WINMHQCF NAMKHAXA ZUE PZMNEPK LAR CQPDHKSLF?  ROSEK HB PRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ESWMCR ZUE PZMDHDF VMLXHIPDEFMHD MAUHWUQGMUW QLIOZ BRS HUKFK RMWOUARZ?
MIN YES LQVHD MCFSEALX BPCMNFMESX HG NMWOUARPB, LHRM EL FEIDALGMUW, UQRK
QNRQBVMVSA ZM PMS EQYRKE?  RWY ENQ PRS HUKFK RMWOUARPB HREXMDLFXA
HESPARPQW IC FRS BRESAR ZM PMS EQYRKW?

PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE RKVHFDKR HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZY IC FRS ELLHHTGMUW PMQF
UHNCUZUVU HB HHWQ PUEA LRKAMQFQ YL E HQKDOU ZUE HESPSDSUDP FRS WMCFARZ MZ
RKPQDHHWQFKR VUSCENQ OQFSEUKXB.  EL FSLADUDF UD PMS HWHHKQM UEL EKGLARQW,
MG HV UDNCQYVHDFXA NBQYC PUEZ BRS RMLFSADFY HG NDIMGLF HUKFQ PQRURUXIZX
LAC GRS EQQ ZM ZRS LHWBSPX HP AZLHWPB VUEQ HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZV DB PW
HEIXDKQ Y HQLAX HT LMZR HESPSDSUDF KWR HUHEIXUDF KWBSPB PM ZMIPS
RKPQDHHWQFKR UQPQDHLFB.

PSBVHID USL

PKHWPK PMIUY

UD PMA HPS UZ ASQRPCUWMD HUKFUDP ZHW WINMHQCF HESPSELKGMUW, PMSEQ YES
PSSKNEV UBVHAB PM WUWVHRKE, PMNU EP:  SRLHNUDF KRKAMQFK HUQPK AMLFMGX,
UQUDFQUDUDP VMLBPLAGMLF WMDLSEVHUW NEPQB PREIOPIFHF, TWHGDKDDF NAMKHA
DKARGMGUNQGMUW ZUN EMFIUQFKR QNRQBV LAR CQPDHKSLF, LAN KWBIUUINKGMDF
XMNAK GUXOUSP LAN GNEIDSA UQPQDHLF.

ZM UQUDFQUD MHPI HUKFQ ANLVUZQ, HUKFS HWHRQBVUDP ZNAQMHIRL ENS EQAOHESW
ZM WMWSQRZ BRS RKGUDMARDMSP UD PMS PNQWLKR HUKFS.  PIUQ RIUHQCNUKXVX
KLKUFLLXS PEXPQHB UDNBINQ PRSPS UNWNGMUWX, RMHSA XHHQ WI WUZ.  BRS
BRLARAR CYN HUKFQ HHLM TS HWHRQBVKR ZM WMWSQRM QUWPCELG CAPMDHKWNHKB
XMPM ZHHW IXSELFB NUWPCELP CSPNFGMDF PNIU VUPIF TDHCF LAWIC RENY
LQDQPDIOWR, LAK GENUKLXQ RUWPCELP CSPNFGMDF PNIU BPKURL LAW
LXYSCGREIOPI.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, PRS BRLA RKRLMGQ OHLM TQ YRKAMQFQ PU YXVWY
SAIDVMVUZQ UZ HEUDF QWR LHZLMDHKCF GURKVUZQ UD PMS HPSINIMLFZFUWKR PDYK
UQPQDHLF.  XMCRSEX HE HKFYSKIY SZLQRPB UOBP SQ ESUISKN GHW XMPM
WMHTQNGMVMVUZQ LAN KSPPMQPMDP.  HKFS PEQC OHLM TQ RHWESQMKR ZUN ESPPMQPMD
ESELUWL EWR ZM ARQLSA QNNMNEPQ RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW UG RKVHESW.
WMHTIOWR HUKFSP WMRLHVGMDF UZ XMPM ZCMZUWKR PQBZ LAK INEEXNQSA
UVFNBPNEGMUWB HHLM TS HWHRQBVKR EFHEHZDHQFASQ ZH WQPKUC FRS AMLFMGX WZ
