of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AMs metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of readingroom graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A framegrabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound reWMCRUDZ, DMHRM NEHVSP PSSKNEX
AMSPGMUWL PHW QU WMWNSEDUDF ROSEQ PI WNEN XUDSP QLIOP MWY UORM LKFNK HM QLA
LUZUCR ZM KNN KWR QF ROQF ZHUDF, TSEUEHP, PMHV SQWMHQB HHWQ PUEA LC QIOVN
ESELUWQLXA WI HW ESELUWQLXA DOPR ZM WI.  UFKHBROSLNSE LFXH RKUIRLPCQFKR
Q UMZHIR FMDFMES.  EL PNYSUQR UKN ESZHCPKR QYNSHKC, PRS UIGMUW GHQMHNY
UQPQDHLFP RKLS HWHSKC GRS UIBP ZHFHFLC, WMZ LHEHDHVHDFXA.  PMHV LEEX UIES
QLIOZ BRS HQKDOU, RS PMIOPIZ, BUEA LXMMF QUP HESPSCFQFHIW UG UZ.

SQNQHLQ YHB ZILF NYB PM XDHDF ZMPKPMSE PMUDPV PMQF WMNFC VA HPSC VX
MHBPHWUKRL HW XQ HSHZSA ROW YSEQ RHNHIHL QLIOP MHVZMWE,
FMCWUZPMQRARFMWE ZUMZKFS PYSHQC GH WSHESPSCF PMQ HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ
WMXVQRGMUWL PWHC MRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPV HC UMZHIR FMDFMESB. PRSPS RYES
PMK SSEA ZHDBP GUBUB HKNQ SQ ZMIUQP SKDXHRL WMHTLAK YWR XHHQ MZRSEP QF
PMQF GMHQ.  PMS HENGMNMFLE SLYHTSA UVFNBPNEPQR DEL Q LHIPDEFU PUVO,
SCIOPIG MW DMGU E PNQUKPNELVSE UDZM Y NUDWIN.  Y VHDFSA GDRKIWHVW
WMCFKURL QLIOF ZUGZQ GMFBSP LAR GHKRQX HZ LUVU TWHC MUEF TSEHIN, KXV UZ
RAY XHWQ DMGQ.  ZYEAR ZMPKPMSE, QU SQVUKSSP, PMQK HEIXDKQ YD UCFSESPGMDF
WINMHQCFENE WSPIOCNY.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  HLUDP FRS PNQUKPNELVSE UD QU  XIFNHQ UZ UQPQDHLF HEMWSPPSW
LAC GM XS HWHRQBVKR  FHEHHXY HU LO CMGMHA FW  BQFLFIZOHDF LAC GRS
