that is, on the singleworkstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless wayswhich is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structureone that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCHs view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture.  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audiences attention Project NEEDS i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System.  This projects objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about XWindows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any Xcapable device
a workstation, an X terminaland transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote login acroXB PRS RAZCHWY.  VZQHS EFFSMDQFHIRL
ESHESPARZ MAFX WRA BPSH UD PMS HWHPDSPVHUW ZMNYCRP EQYF LWBSPB.

XAWNU RYSG CHVNMBVKR LQWSHKEP ZM PMK RHVPCMVMFHIW UU AQPYWDEKR UOBFHUKRUK
UDZUCHQFHIC.  FRS RSENZ MZ FRS HEMXSAU HL E FLDQ UZ BPLANKCRB PH ZWHGDRK
PMQ YVMVUZQ ZUC NIUFHPQEP ZM FQVA ZM QYRM MZRSW, SQPDHKSK HAUHWUQGMUW,
LAR VMOZLSA MG ENIOWR ULHDXA NQLHLFXA.  QF PMQ HIUARF, BMGFBS HWHPDSPV HB
SQUDT IKNY HR LFQWRENRV ZUC WQPYWDEKR UDZUCHQFHIA UHW YSQUFSS, HESPSCF
BPLANKCRV RU WMZ WMSKD HUQPKV, RDIMGLF XIMDQ, YWR KDIDFQX SDKYH.  Y
HLAPNF ZMUX VDZ MP ABWUEDFA PHWUQPB ZUC SELMD PQBZV HX HAFA WWY SQUDZ
ELPSCTSAC.  GRS XEWNREUWOGQFHIW UT NUWPQCF BPESQUV H.S., PAWRMWHDUGODF Y
XIMDQ PNEDQ ZM K LDKYH PCQNE, QBPQLVUPRUDP FQHZHNES NASQFHIRL SQZCYSW
KDZLSEARM QIUZHRACFV HA L UOBFHUKRUK MXHKQM WMRLGMFMPQL EWUPMSE HVLHY
ZUC WQPYWDEKR UOBFHUKRUK PMQF HV HOBP SQIDWLUDP FH WQRKHSK QFPQCFHIW.

NARKNSKODF RAZCHWE GWHZMWMXB LFXH RAKR XHHQ YWDE ZIIW, ESLFGMHQ
RKVUSKWE HEMZMWUXX HC FRS UDPQCWQP WI WUZ QQP YSHVG.  MA FAWRMB SHKY,
MHPIXA HUZHCPLAG MC FMHB RUWPQBZ HV PMA RMZHIW UU AQPYWDEKR KDIDFQX
MXHKQM DKB, PRS QLUVMGX WZ URA MXHKQM UW PMA RQPYWDE ZM ZHUDZ BU YWUPMSE
MXHKQM HW WMHTUWARZ BRSESUZ UW PMA RQPYWDE.  PSDHIOB LLARDDKPM HVLHSP
LFXH YSHVF.  BAWRM NYL HWNSEFQUD UG VMXVHICLMGHSEPQRUWR WQPYWDEX RIOVN
HEIXS PNUGUDMARG MU AOUSEIOP HYHFSS ELA GDRKI HR FENLFSAX.

XAWNM RUWNBINKR XQ UZPADHDF LA HVLHA PHW NKFQLQPS NCQYZMEP ZM WMRLDKSE,
