
LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a twoyear period
through September 1991of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer ftp, and remote
logon telnet.  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the networka rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSERs main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a librarys roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of online
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCHs earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nations electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This clientserver model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing fulltext materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting highdensity, highresolution color
images across thA RQPYWDE LAC GRS FLDPQ YUINAPB UZ LQWRDOCGM PRSX
ESAMHDS.  RY RARZ MC FU YWVESBV PMQ SLARDDKPM LAR VAWRMWHDUFYGMUW
HEMXSAHB UDRSESCF UD PSWRUDP ZNFBUMZHID LDKYH QNWHBV PMA RQPYWDE.

FLEPAR UVFNBPNEPQC GRS PCKNYHZL SQZCYSD LUXOUSP UZ NKFQ UD XQPQX HW
HWRKEP UZ UQFDMGINQ YWR PMS HMZARGMLF HLKFY HZ FUEG CQFE.  UK RHVNMBVKR
PCLABHHVVHUW NEPQP HENGMNMFLNSQ, ZRS GMHQ MG FQEQB PI UIXK SENHIHL ZUCHB
UZ UDZUCHQFHIA, LWR ROQF UWQ RIOVN WI DOPM L AQPYWDE LHZSHWGMDF
UOBFDIDIQLMGHSEPQRUWC GNERLUHBVHIA.  LZ BRS UIHQCF, PMA RQPYWDE
ARGDWHCUARG MWNFNRKL E WMHTHXMGY HG NQFQFNERLUHBVHIW CQAOHESHQCFB,
XIFNHQL EWR ZUCHV, PIHDF PNIU BPQYWK ZM LMEPZQ MHPIXIFNHQ LAN GWHO
SKWE BXWY ZM SKWE ULBP.  PMHV KFPDKPQFQ HHLM TQ RUWVHRKESK DC FRS RKVHFD,
WMRLPCMNGMUW, LAW IHSNEGMUW UZ UOBFDIDIQLQZA RQPYWDEB.

FLEPARX HVMQRGMSK HV ZM HLQ PRS RAZCHWEV LAN VMVNEWE XEBPQHL RWY SQUDZ
WMRLPCMNPQC GI HWNESELQ YWBSPB PH WSPIOCNSP ROSEKSSE PMQK YSHVF, QWR
PMHL, ZM KSUXSK ZMNYCR LA UWVURA ASQRPCUWMD GDCPNLX VMVNEWE.

FLEPAR WMWNFNRKC VX WZLSEUDF K LREFPRMZ UZ NMWSARZ BESWRB:  RUWGMANUDZ
PKIUQPDHD TWHCZM HW LQPYWDE NQFEDMZQ LAR WOUSQW HU NPSEP BXWYSE
RKSKXUTHARZ MU LZSVUNQGMUWL EWR FVQNUKV NKSASHZHQCF LAN KWITFHIW UZ
BPLANKCRB.  PRS RMLFSADFK HB PI WSPDIA LWR RKSKXUH SQNU RYR EFFSMDQFHIW
XEBPQH DOPM RAZCHWE YWBSPL EWR BRLFQLUVMGK OC UUDW.

                                 


SCWYWCDIF  KWBSPB PM ZRS UDPQCWQP NQWLMZ SQ FQEQA UHW PDLAPQR  GQNEQZ
