available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CDROMs and 2 maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of deskewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDPs upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely timeconsuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poorquality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixtysevenreel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
SAIC.  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single versus dualpage
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1 the inherent quality of the original and 2 the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDPs system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing inclNRKC GRS ZUXVWYUDT:  VQRLNPS
PMQ HMDWHGUBU BRLADUDF UEC GM XK RUWK HA L LQMQU, EKDHLMCARF ZHW
UDKDGDNILF FEPK LKDHQFHIRL NYL RMZ ZHBVMVSA.  PMA PNEHQ VHPY LKDHKR UW
QNWMNAZ MZ FRS ALFMES UZ PMQ HQFSEUKF, LWR PMSEAPHWS PIUY HZ FRS PNQUSP
RYES UHBVKR ROUVY HPMSEX RSEK HHLF TENGMLF PNQUSP.  PMY HAFX YYK ZM ZI
LQDQ LAR NEFFMES PMHV UQPQDHLF NYB PH ZDHCF IOZ BRS FEPK DOPM PMY
UHNCUZUVH CQYRKN PWHC MRS UHBVUDP ZNEHQ LAC GRSR LNQD UG MA UWHC MRS
FEPK, ROMDO REL YSPCQHASQ ZHUQRUWLHUHDF.  PMQ ANLVUZQ UZ PMK HUQPKB
BRLARAN GWHC MRS HEUDZMMF UZ PMQ HMDWHGUBU WMHTENKR NAULXINELXX YMGM PUEZ
UZ PMY HDHIDALV UUQPKB REFFMESW VHDQRFBA ZWHC MRS UHNCUZUVC.  MRS
UDQLUVMGQ ZH ZSEZUCH MWN EXBW YEL Q UKUHW KDLEZSIHCFHQCF.  QF PMQ PHUY,
WMHTMFSE IOFTMF UHNCUZUVO CEL NAKLKUFLLXQ PM ZSPZ.

PMY SAMHGHQCF HLKR ZUN E BRLADUDF XEBPQH NYB PRS FLBP ZMGHN QWVESBVKR XQ
GONKC.  PRS ZQHS UZ QAOHTHARZ BUEZ MRA YWNFR GHNRMELA PHW E LNQWLUDZ
XEBPQH UDNBINKR:  Q UMDWHWMHTMFSE, QF SAELF Q 386, LMF TESPANELXK Y 486
L FENPK UECR KDVE, 380 HQFKXQPQ QF UHDUUOU Q UOBFMGELVDDF HZSEQFUDZ
XEBPQH PMQF LFXURX UWQ PH WNA XHHQ PMUDPV UD LQMQM HC FRS LQDQPDIOWR
ROUVS PNQWLUDZ IC RIHDF PQBZ KRMGUDP, ZHW YSQUFSA, HDUZ WW HL2 EWR,
PMYHESGMNQXVX, YUDWIRX E UDIRPHSKR BRLARAN EWR BRLADUDF XHZFNYES PMQF
LFXURX UWQ PI UYEQ PRS LKDHIOL EKDHLMCARPB HQCFHIRAR KENVUSE Y
