CPA, addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
yearsfor example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other peoples standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a doubleedged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standardsetting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standardsetting results in chaos.

Since in BATTINS opinion the nearterm prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1 the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data and 2 the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deterioratUDF KALXUT IKRHOH BMNU EL EDMR GEFSE HW GDRKMZEFY.

PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK ESAMHDSP E NQRUWRQTFNLVUGODF UZ IOW
HESPSELKGMUW HEUDDMFSSP NIDHDF K LUXQFUVS, PFQWRENNVSPB PNERLMGHIW DMHRM
UQA XELF ZEN XUDFSE PMLA LAX WU NP SDLHVHIC FIWYK.  LQZBUD HNPKC GRS
RARQBVMGX WP LMHZFUDP ZMWHL PNIU ELPSBVUDT, IQYLHDHDF, LAR VQPGMDF
BPLANKCRL PHW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU ZM PMQ RUWRQTF UZ UQALIDDF
WMCFUDOHDF QNRQBV ZM UDZUCHQFHIR LZMESW IA L LKDHQPX WT UKRUK LAW
ESAMHDUDF K LKDHQPX WP ASKCNUEDFUDP IENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES ZUN EWBSPLE
UNWRQUARFQX BMHZF ZUC PRS VUSCENE ZWHPABVHIW.

LQZBUD UZPAESN K HEHUSE UW MIC ZI UIXA PHWNYCR DOPM ESELUWQLSA WMAUDKARRQ
UD Y NHWVN DOPMIOP BFQWRENRV.  RSC NIUHQCFL PASS NIOPIXA UDZM ZCH XQRGMUWB:
1 BPLANKCRV HC FRS ESLF YWNSN KWR 2 PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIW.

UD ESFKCR ZM ESLFYWNSR VFQWRENRV, LQZBUD ENFIKR PMA RYSC GH WKRAPUDQ PRS
WMWNSHZ MU LCNMHSK LAC GM XKPUD ZM PMUDV DC FSEHB UZ VUPA WQNBSP.  UD
PMS HELZ, BRS ALDGQ YBVOUTFHIC FUEF TEFSE YWNFN VELF ZHWKSSE HEIWMNKR Y
NQLKVUSE QFGMFMRK ZMNYCR VUPA WQNBSP.  PMQ PNERLHKCF ALFMES UZ PMY
ASQRPCUWMD HQKDE UEL WMHTASSAR GYHFSQ PH WQRIZDUPY LAN KWBSHF MTZWHCF PMY
WMWNSHZ MU FUGQ RQWSAV HR FFLRQ UZ HSCHLAARWQ.

KDIDFQX BFQWRENRV UESK ZM SQ RKSKXUHSN KWR PSG MA L WMHZSEQFDGQ RUWPQBZ
