      Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

      Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

      Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

      Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

      Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid libraryspecific standards work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

      Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Additional comments on TIFF 


During the brief discussion period that followed BATTINs presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSIAIIM MS53, a bilevel image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DECs architecture and IBMs MODCAIOCA.

                                 


HOOTON  Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion



HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computerreadable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
tM HESHENK HF ZHW PMS EQRIZDUGMUW HEMWSPV HL EXBI HHTHWFQCF, RS LEDK,
SQNQHLS PMNR HESFENEGMUW RMLAPKP RWY ESWMFDMGHID UB SHKRYN, KX RASF LB
ULDMVUFQPQP EQRIZDUGMUW MGPSFU.

                                 


SAVE  WHSAX HZ TENGMDMFECFV HW NHWK  RQFL UXUC  ZRS BRLADUDF HEMWSPB 
PMK HUQPK UDPQNPQNS  ESPNFPB UZ YSHSDHHQCFV HDLUXGDDF PMA HPS UZ
ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQL EWR PCKNMGHIALS FEFSE WMGHSP  PQBPUDP FRS HVLHY HZ
PSESWRHGMGQ  WUWNBHLHIRL 


