whether or not particular topics appeared.  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard taskthe analogous
transformation.  It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows RUEZ BW
ESKN, LMF CKHPMSE WI PMQK HUZHPS E FARLFZQ.

SAVE WMWNFNRKC VQ WIUHQCFUDP FUEZ, MW URA UEWR, PMK HUQPK XEBPQH NYP SELX
ZM HLY.  HC FRS MZRSE RLAC, GRS PQBZ KDPHFLE XEXPQO, CMHRM ESHESPARPQW
ZCARZQ UQWAQYEP UZ YWDE UD HEIZNEOBUDF KWR ZHVUPRUDZ, DEL WUZ CUDDUDF,
SQNQHLQ PRS PQBZ NYL RMZ SQUDP DQYK, DHLP BQYCNRSC.  GRS UORM QYVHSE
XEBPQH HV MHPIXA WMHTQPMGDGQ YX RASF LP EQHENEYLXK QZLQRGMSK ZUC PRS
QNFMLF RMQHHVPB.

                                 


SENYQ  OHXM QUEXVARIDDF ELHSQM UZ YWDEUDZ IA LU  QBVOUTFHIRL FIDKUDZ
QUL EZSWHQNM  PSPGMDF KDZLSEARZ BEZSP UZ PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL  QUB
ESAMHDQHARF ZHW 99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNE  WQAOHESHQCFL PHW PQBZWMKDDF 
KNKDGMUWLF ULQMHWV HAUFNARDMDF QUL EZSWHQNM PM WIWUDP  DSPNFPB UZ QUB
YSHSDHARRQ DOPM ESEQKODF  MZRSE HWHLXQHV HW RQYVUDF DOPM PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL
 AMLFMGQ WUWPCUX PMQ HHXZ BHUQRUWLHUHDF ELHSQM UZ WMCFNEQMUDZ IMF
WMDLSEVHUW  XUDFPQCH IOFBWZA IWNSEFQUD 


ZM DHDQK QCDYK, ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW, QUSEMDLA HQUIWE, VUSCENX WZ
WMDFESBV, PMQ RUWBPLAG BENHKZQ UZ WMDLSEVHUW HEIHQRPB FQVDDF FSQNY
VHUOBFLAYHHLXA ESHESPARPQR GSEUEHP PMQ HHXM QUEXVARIDDF ELHSQM UZ YWDEUDZ
UW QU.  PMHL, PMQ RUEXVARPK NYL RMZ ZM GUWR E LUXMFHIA UHW PQBZ
WMDLSEVHUW LMF Q ZMUX VDZ MP LUXMFHIRL ZM EFFSQ ZU XRB LKDHKR
WMXVQRGMUWB PUEF CYSC GM XQ RUWSKCPKR.  SENYA XHUMGKR RSW SQHENEV ZM PMY
