up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poorcopy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spellcheck.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poorquality OCR e.g., 60percent accuracy
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Modifying an image before performing OCR  NALs costs per
page AMs costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries 
Elements comprising NATDPs costs per page  OCR and structured markup 
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed 


HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as formtype data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
ones imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of ones system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an inhouse service
bureau executed the first at a cost between 8 and 10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project underPYEAR
XQ PMQ RUWLHBFQFDGK PWHHF UW UDPQCWQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNES NSPQYCNM RIDEN
WMBP EFHEWZHUQFASE 10 ZSE FEPK ZUC PRS WMDLSEVHUW, FSHL XHHQ YSHSRLSP
ZUC PRS XHZFNYES LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMQ YDMR CKUR FWHHKQMY
ZCIWHVE VQP HEIWMNKR XQ PMA HDUSKEPMGX WG LSEUICF, WMRLHVGMDF UZ
NQALKDLA FHLXMDQFHIRL UW QNDK NEUDWMBP 6.70 HSE HKFA PHW KSSEQZMHDF,
UDNBINUDI VQKUDZ IZ FRS PQBZ, ROMDO REL WIMLSA EQKQR, VNQWLUDZ IZ FRS
HUKFSP, LAC VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMK HRUIOPS HEIHQRZ MZLSEKR
WMRLDKSEQLSA QYPS UZ WMDLARHKWNQ YWR PDQYPQC NUWPCUX UZ PMS HWHRQBV.  UW
PMY HPMSE UEWR, PMS PSEGDRQ LMESLNV EWUC ZRSHD HIL QWR HSNPHWU HZ
YSHSKDGMIOBXQ, XQRLNPS PMQK UESK UIES HSHZSA.

EL L NPSUNB NIUFEDHXHR, ACDYK ESSKLFKR QUB RHXPB EL ZUXVWYB:  0.75
RQCFB PM 0.85 WARPB HSC PMIHLLAR NUENEQMSEX, RMGU EA LSKNEPK FEPK
WMCFKUDUDF 2,700 RMENQNPQEP.  ESAMHDQHARPB ZUC NIWUDF KWR HUKFUDZ
UDNCQYPS PMQ RHXPB.  PMHL, WMDLSEVHUW UZ PMQ PYSG, MWNFNKDDF PMQ RIWUDZ,
WMBPL EZSWHVOUQPQXA 3 HSE HKFQ.  PMHL PDIHNK RHYL RMZ UDNBINQ PRS
