resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes or approximately 300,000 images has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the showandtell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteenminute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final networkconnected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide PMQ REFQLUVMGX WG LHKDODF HUKFSP KDESQMXA.  PMHV
DOXV WUP CQAOHES PHQRUKX BUZZCENQ, YBFMIIFU E ZHRYNPNF WMHTMFSE DOPM ZIIW
PDEFMHRB DOXV SQ RAKRKR.

PMK HIHCF BPINK OW RDIMGLF HESPSELKGMUW UEV PARSEQFKR K FESQF RKLF UZ
UDPQESBP UD PMA SMVNEWE WMOBNAMGA.  OAUHWFMALPQXA, HW HSEREFB
ZUCPNAQFASQ, ZMHP HWHHKQM PSDSSP ZM NEHVQ Y LKBP ANCTSE UZ MZRSD HBVHAB
LHWSIOWRUDP FRS HLY HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK ZUC PRS HESPSELKGMUW LAN IPS UZ
RKPQDHHWQFUDF VMVNEWE UQPQDHLFX, RMHRM LHLBQAHACF HEIHQRPB DOXV RAKR ZM
YSQUUDQ.  HMNO RHWE DQHKURL.

PSBVHID UOV

MINYCR SQBVSE                      RAZCHWVDDF UOBFHUKRUK NKFQLQPSB

ROQF WI RY UESK ZM WMRLDKSE UD LMUVKDDF LAW VHVPCMVMFUDI KQFQLELSP UZ
GDLHLF UQPQDHLFV HA L UOBFHOPSE SDLHDUWHQCF?  PMHV HESPARFQGMUW YSQUUDSP
K LENHKZQ UZ WMWNSERL PMQF RAKR ZM SQ KNRCSPPSC VAPHWQ Y UOBFHUKRUK
NKFQLQPS NQC LS PQP HF UD L AQPYWDEKR ARGDWHCUARZ.

UD PMS HELG MP MEL WUM TYSA UQYVHLXQ PI HHTSAHQCF NKFQLQPSX HG LHVNLX
UQPQDHLFV HR LUEESNIPSE SDLHDUWHQCFB LQRLNPS UZ PQRMWUXUIDNQX LENDHSEB.
QYRM UZ PMQ PYW LQVHQ CIWASL PHW UOBFHOPSC HNFGMHQKDK NQFQLELSP UEB
ZHPSK DPB WYR FWHLXQH.  PMQ YALXUT INFGMHQKDE LZMNEPK UIRKS NSHESPSCFKR
