
SESSION IVA

Anne KENNEY

The CornellXerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of highquality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture indexing and access imagecapture
capabilities a comparison to photocopy and microfilm production and
cost analysis storage formats, protocols, and standards and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of imagecapture
challenges that are common to nineteenthcentury printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of textconversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included highfrequency and lowfrequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reversepolarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietarE BPLANKCRL EWR PMA HPS UZ WMOBUW HEMZMWUXX RRSR LFQWRENRV
KDR WMZ YSHVG.  CDIMGLF GUSAX RSEQ RESQFKR EL GMZL HUKFSP ROMDO RSEY
WMHTESBVKR HEHIC PH XZMNEPK HLUDZ VWHHF 4 WBMGM QIUHESPVHUW.  PMY SSEWZ
XHZFNYES HV HB WIB LELKR LAN IGMVUPYX HZLPMS PRSFU HEIZNEHB LHRM EL
UHNCHXUZZ CUDWIRX LAR DLAI DUQPK DOFYCR.  PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENK OV RSPDIRAW
ZM SQ UECRNYESUDRKHSWRARF QWR ZM HEIXDKK HCFSERMLAPKQLUVMGX YMGM IPMSE
UDBPMGMFHIRL PMWHIFU RQPYWDE WMWLQRGMUWL.  EWBSPB PM ZRS KDIDFQF UUVSP
PMQHPSXSSP HV ZCMZHKESC:  VMVVUIZNEHRMD ESWMCRL PHW PMQ RIUFHPQN PUVSP
ENQ RESQFKR UD NSUD LAR NHWRAXVB XMWLF XEBPQH LAN KWBSPV HCFM ZRS QNFMLF
KDIDFQV UUQPKB RIUHEHVUDF K XMIY HV HEIXDKKR PMWHIFU E WINMHQCF WMCFWHX
BPNHQMHNQ YWR L AQPYWDEKR HUKFA PUVSPSESKC, SMZM IZ NMHRM DOXV SQ
RKBRDHSQW.

PMS HESPSCFQFHIW DUVB NUWNBINY RMGU E KDBRHLVHUW UZ XHHQ UZ PMK HBVHAB
LHWSIOWRUDP FRS HLY HZ FMHB PQRURUXIZK YL E HESPSELKGMUW ZMUX BPHWKFY,
ESPNSPMHDF, LQDQHF.

FEHQFL LARCQ YWR HOKDPM GONKW

PMA RQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEX VMVNEWE ALS UEL UER KBZARVHSK YSHSDHARRQ DOPM
