participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future.

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image priDPQEP, LAK DWNFNRKX HPMSE ESAMHVMGS RENRDENY
LAR VUZZCENQ, YX RASF LB VEXPQU HCFKPNEGMUW PSDSMDSP.  HEHZHXKR HZSEQFUDZ
WMBPV HWNFNRK UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENQ HKUCFARLARQ, LMG CU WMZ UDNBINY
SPGMUQPQL PHW PMA PQNUVMGHKB HLAKFQHARZ MZ FRS BPHWKFK RKSMDSP LAK DUQPK
PSDSSEB.

KYSA PSSAQMKR MGB SARWIE HENFCSE UD L UHWUQS FWHRQBV, FECPXA UNWRKR XQ
PMQ RIUUHBVHIA UHW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPL.  PUXXUDODF E NQAHABP ZUW
HEHZHXLF, PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE PSSAQMKR ZCI XARWIEP EL GUALVUBPB PW YHWY DMGO
KYSA BPLUZ FI ZARSEQFQ Y RKFQUVKR LALFEXHV UZ ESAMHDQHARPB ZUE HWHHKQM
HZAR XMIY.  QYRM SKWRHW HLKR PMS ESPNFPB UZ PMS EQAOHESHQCFL EALXAVHB PW
PKRANEPQ LAR VMLUHF Q ZUCHLF HEHZHXLF ZUC PRS ARGMES HEIHQRZ.  BMHB
WMHTQPMGDGS HWHRQBV WUZ MAFK QALLXKR PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE ZM PSSAQM MGB
HEHUENK XARWIE HENFCSE LMF QXBH WKSQYSAC IMNU EXMMF PMS PFQPQ UZ PMY
HUKFUDI DWRHLPCK, YXMMF PMK SENKODF, WMEHHWQFQ RIUUHMCARPB ZM PMQ HENEQPB
ZUD HUQIDDF PQRMWUXUZK, LAN KXMMF PMK SENKODF HWFKDUFYGMUWLF WKALUHRB
PMWHIFO RMHRM UQHIC NIUFEDUSP ENS ESPZHWRUDP FU YWR PSQEUDP FI WKSASHZ
PMSPQ HENEQPB.

HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZV DL PMWHLKR PHQRUGMDLFXA UW PMQ RUWSKEPHIW UG UUQPKB
PNIU UHNCUZUVC MI WDIMGLF ZUCH.  PMQ PQRURUXIZA ZHW BRLADUDF UHNCUZUVU HB
ESKNUVK YLKUVQLSA LMG MB RUEDFUDP DEFDKXA.  UD MGP HWHHKQM ESAMHDQHARPB,
PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE QHHRELOGKR PAQFHNSP UZ PMQ PQRURUXIZQ ZUEF QZLQRZ BRS
PQRMDUNQB ANLVUZQ UZ KDIDFQV UUQPK HEIWMNGMUW LAC GRS WMBPX HT NESQFUDZ
LAR VZMDHDF PMK HUQPK VUSCENX:  YUEF BKSASX HG NDIMGLF ESXHFNGMUW NQC LY
QNMHKSKR XQ BRLADUDF UHNCUZUVU?  MWY WISP LKDHQFHID UC FRS AMLFMGX WZ
