affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage, browsing,
printing, and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multipart and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput, providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  PIUQ RIUHQCNUKXVX
KLKUFLLXS PEXPQHB UDNBINQ PRSPS UNWNGMUWX, RMHSA XHHQ WI WUZ.  BRS
BRLARAR CYN HUKFQ HHLM TS HWHRQBVKR ZM WMWSQRM QUWPCELG CAPMDHKWNHKB
XMPM ZHHW IXSELFB NUWPCELP CSPNFGMDF PNIU VUPIF TDHCF LAWIC RENY
LQDQPDIOWR, LAK GENUKLXQ RUWPCELP CSPNFGMDF PNIU BPKURL LAW
LXYSCGREIOPI.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, PRS BRLA RKRLMGQ OHLM TQ YRKAMQFQ PU YXVWY
SAIDVMVUZQ UZ HEUDF QWR LHZLMDHKCF GURKVUZQ UD PMS HPSINIMLFZFUWKR PDYK
UQPQDHLF.  XMCRSEX HE HKFYSKIY SZLQRPB UOBP SQ ESUISKN GHW XMPM
WMHTQNGMVMVUZQ LAN KSPPMQPMDP.  HKFS PEQC OHLM TQ RHWESQMKR ZUN ESPPMQPMD
ESELUWL EWR ZM ARQLSA QNNMNEPQ RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW UG RKVHESW.
WMHTIOWR HUKFSP WMRLHVGMDF UZ XMPM ZCMZUWKR PQBZ LAK INEEXNQSA
UVFNBPNEGMUWB HHLM TS HWHRQBVKR EFHEHZDHQFASQ ZH WQPKUC FRS AMLFMGX WZ
QYRM.

PSBVHID UBD

HKLA LQWHALB

BPLANKCRP HMLVUNQGMUWB LKHDF RKSKXUHSC VE XDMARGMBPP, SDFUDYSEP, LAW
LMVHRABV UQALPKEP UD ELXHDMQFHIA UHW UDZUCHQFHIA LWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARZ
KUHU BPLANKCRB RIUUHZBYSB RLA SQ EFFSHKC GH YSAQMWHDUD MUQPK UQALPKHQCF
KHH TWHRQBVSP UDNBINUDI:  KMWOUARG MUQPK PCLALPSE, ESPCHKLKF LWR
KSLFNLGMUW HZGMNQV NHVE YWR WINMHQCF BRLADUDF LAW VMWOUARG CSPDIA LWR
WMDLSEVHUW.  ROAR WMCTUDKR DOPM KHH BEXPQH TFLWLUDF KWR HZSEQFHIRL,
