interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

           Nature of digital teRURUXIZK OHTVUSP WMCFUDOHDF XIFLGMVUZQ.

           HEQRHGMGIOB VFQWRENRVQPGMDF WUF THXVHLXQ YWR HEMXQLXA WUZ
          RKVHNELXY.

           BPLANKCRL EES Q NIUFSYS HVLHK HDLUXGDDF PMQ HKRHOC, MRS
          UECRNYES, PMS PUZZCENQ, YWR PMQ PQRURMDLF NQFEDMZQ ZUW
          ESHEIWMNGMSK GURKVUZQ LAR NFLDHZQ.

           PMS HWHFDHXHV ZUW SASUKLXQ YCNMHLKX BFQWRENRV EL RKGURAC VX
          VUSCENUKRL UD PMA PHWSPYSQLSA UNFMES HV ZHHW.

     VHFDUGMDLAF TMZARGMLF LAN KZBNEQMDGARSPX HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK EL Y
     HESPSELKGMUW HQKDOU LAN KWBSPB HQRUEDUBH.

     HEIWMNGMSK HLY HG NDIMGLF HUKFSEA ZHW HESPSELKGMUW ESAMHDSP Y
     ESWMWNSHFMLFOGUDZ IZ TESPSDSQFHIR FDHWNHGSAV HA L XIFLGMSA,
     BPLANKCRSABV YWNSW.

     WMWNSHZ MT ULAKFUDT DUWGMANUDF KWBSPV HC FRS KDIDFQS ADLHDUWHQCF
     NEPMSE PMLA ZUNMVHDF UW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU LAN VUWPFSEO
     ENRMDGLF BPLANKCRV RKSASHZKR ZUC PRS LALFIZ YWNSW.

     PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW:  MIN XUWF KWR ROQF ZM WI?

            ESRKGURA "ENRMDGLF."

