                      Down the RabbitHole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, and what is the use of a book,
thought Alice without pictures or conversation?

  So she was considering in her own mind as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid, whether
the pleasure of making a daisychain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!  when she thought
it over afteCDENRV, MG MWNMWSKR ZM RSC PUEP BRS IOPIZ BI MKLY
YWWRSEKR QF PMHV, LMF QZ BRS GMHQ MG LFX BYSHQC KOHPQ ALFMNEX
LMZ CRSC FRS NELVMG QNFMLFXA ZMIY Y NQFRM IOZ MG UPB NYHVMQUYZ
ZHDQQP, LAN VWZEQN KG MF, QWR PMAR MOWSHKW IA, LVURQ BPENPQC GW
RSN PYSF, ZHW MG UFELRSN KNCHXP RSE UHWR PMQF PRS RKN RASKW
SQZUES PSAR E NQLVMZ CMGR SMGRSN E NYHVMQUYFTMWEQZ, MN E NYMQM PW
FQEQ IOZ MG UF, QWR LMCWUDZ DMGM RHNHIVHZQ, PRS ELA QNWHBV PMY
GUASN KZFSE MG, LAN GHWFMALPQXA NYV HHLG MC FHUQ PH XYS MG ZHZ
WIDW L FENPK NELVMGMISA NARKC PRS RSKIY.

  UD LAMZRSC HIUARG CWYW DARF QVURQ LUPQD HF, CKSSE UWRQ
WMRLDKSEUDP IWY UD PMY RHWVN PRY REL ZM PKZ MMF KFKUW.

  PMS EQLVMPMUXY RARP BPCKUPIZ MA FDVQ Y FMWLAS ZUE PIUY RYK,
LAC GRSW RHGHSR VINRKAFK WWYR, LH XINRKAFQ ZUEF QVURQ UER WMZ Y
UIHQCF ZM PMUDE YXMMF BPHZGHDF RSEPAST LAPHWS PRS ZUNAR ISEPSFU
