so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself, she carried it out into the open air.  IF I
dont take this child away with me, thought Alice, theyre sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldnt it be murder to leave it
behind?  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply it had left off sneezing by this time.  Dont
grunt, said Alice thats not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turnup nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  But perhaps it was only sobbing, she thought, and looked
iDZM MGP SKQL EFKUD, ZM PSK HZ FRSES RYES LAQ ZQYEP.

  WU, PMSEY RSEA RM ZQYEP.  UG XWHNK PIHDF ZM FMCW UDZM E FDI,
OQ RKEN, LEDK LFMDS, PSEHIHLXA, UVS UKLA RMZMHDF UIES ZM WI
DOPM XWO.  UUDR WWY!  PMS HWZN SMGFBQ PMHDF XHLVKR KFKUW UW
PDNAPQK, DZ CEL HUZHBVMVSA ZM LEX YMHRM, LAC GRSX YARZ MA UHW
XHHQ ROUVK HR LUVARRQ.

  LFMDY REL HOBP SQIDWLUDP FM ZMHDA ZM RSEPASU, AWY, ROQF QU O
ZM WI DOPM PMHV NCQYFMES ROAR D IQP MG MIHQ? ROAR MG PDNAPQW
