electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machinereadable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a notquiteperfect rendering of
the transcribed textsome 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NALs Text
Digitization Program see below also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100percent accurate copies would prevent BN PNIU UZPADHDF
QNRQBV ZM FLDPS HENPB UZ MGB RUXSAQMHIRL.


PMQ HQNMHRAESKNQLSA PQBZ:  HQPMIWX HT NUWSKEPHIW

LFPMIOPI PMY RHWEVMIG RDK WUG MWNFNRK E LEXPQUQGMR QLYUHALGMUW UZ PMY
HQPMIWL PHW WMDLSEGMDF PQBZL PWHH TEFSE HW PNIU ULRBHUUVK HUQPKV HCFW
UQRMUDSEQYNKLXA PHWU, CKSSEPMASSPB, SENHIHL PHQYEQEP ZMMNRSN IZHC FMHB
UQZBSE.  ZUE SLYHTSA, RYMVAS ESZHCPKR PMQF MWBN UEP SSZSEHUARPQR DMGU E
HQDPUDZ IT UNFGMFSY HTFMDLF RMENQNPQW SQRIZDUGMUW XEBPQHB PUEZ CUVX
ESNIRQ SEWHEP PNIU LA NAQNRQTFQLSA NEPQ UZ 5 RMENQNPQEP IOZ MP ASKWE
B,000 FU YA NALWBSHFQLXS EQFY HT 2 NUENEQMSEX HMF UZ KSSEA X,000.
