highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of presentday computer networks.  For
example:  1 Network use is growing dramatically, but much netwoDE
PCLUGUW BUWVHBPX HZ TSEXHALB NIUUODUNQGMUW QHKUX.  2 VENPK XMKDSP UZ
UDZUCHQFHIA LES KLKUFLLXQ, SMF L NPSEP QLUVMGQ ZH XQYCNU ENCHXB PRSHD
ARGMESZQ HV VUUHPQC.  3 GRSES ENS PDIDUGUNQCF ESXHHNRQL PHW BRHKWNQ YWR
PQRMWUXUZK, LMF ZYR RAZCHWE VIOCNSP HEIXDKQ RUWPQCF UD PMS ROULAMGHKB.
4 UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ PYSPB ENQ RIUUIRFFLRQ, LMZ BRS NQFEVMVUZQ UZ PMY
XEBPQH ZM RKLF DOPM HUKFSP SAF QXURA MZRSC HKRUK ZUCHQFB XKFB LSRUDW.
K FVUHTPS UZ Q UNFGMHQKDL UMFHNA PHW RAZCHWEV, MIRYSKC, DEL HEIXDKKR XQ
UQDHL FQSWHD UR USE IXSEGDYR UZ PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQX
PCUKXB IHWBF, QWR PMS HWHRQBV UZ BRMIFLNSE ZMLVUPRUDZ IAFUDY.

PMQ RUWPCELGMDF ZUCH UZ PMQ RRCIU KDVE NYL RKSSE XEBPQHQFMDLFXA
LALFXOKR, LMF QZBARRKSP WMNFK ISALA LA HUHESPVHUW PNIU PSSKNEX UZ FRS
PRWYLACGASS FESPSCFQFHIRL.  PMS HSEPSHL LAN KHQDHNQC UQHHWK QLYHTSAB
