the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AMs emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORDs view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1 much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors 2
development of LEXPQHB UZ PRENKR LAW VHVPCMVMFKR ESPHUWVHVMVUGMSP ZM
KLIHW VHFVUNQGMUW LAC GH YRLHNQ YWBHNQNK YWR HESPSELKGMUW UZ NAMKHA
UQPQDHLFL EWR 3 KFESQHARZ MC FRS RARQBVENE XFQWRENRV LAW VKSASHZHQCF UZ
PMQ YZSWHHEUKPQ KDESQMHWHKL EWR UDKDRQB PI UYEA RKLDIQFHIW
BPNEDIMPZUCDENN KUIDF PMK SENHKR CSPIOCNSP PMQF ENQ, YWR UDNCQYVHDFXA
DOXV SQ, KLKUFLLXK.  HC FMHB RUWRAQMHID, FUGZUCR ESAMSPPQC GUEZ
FECPMDHGLAPB ESUFQRF ZWHC MRS IOPBQP HFUW PMS PHWPB UZ IOMQIUSP PMQK
PMIOPIZ BRS YWDEPRHZ UHPIP MKLK.  RDK PMHXS HESPSCF WMRLGMFMPQ K FWHHF
DOPM LHZLMDHKCF WMOBUW UDPQESBPB PH ZWHZHPS L AYSP BPQZ HC WYSP BPQHP,
