information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition OCR can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AMs efforts to provide a browsequality
or accessquality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browsequality item, or a
distributionandaccessquality item that may coexist in XHHQ XEBPQHB
DOPM E UDIRSC ENLVUZQ ENRMDGLF MGQH PMQF YWNFC VK HWNUWSKDUARZ BH XARW
PMWHIFM PRS RAZCHWQ VQRLNPS UZ MGB VOGA.  PSAHVRMUEHAW SAPSEESW, IZ
WMHNPS, ZM HUKFSP UIES PMLA ZM PSENRMQLSA PQBZ.

EL QU WMRLDKSEKR PMHXQ AHABPHIRL, PSSKNEB NUWRQTFNLV UBVHAL EWHPS:  IOPIZ
QU MWNQVHUWLFXA ZM ESHEIWMNQ HQFSEUKXB ARGMESXA PMWHIFU ED UUQPK PSF, QZ
MZRSC PHUSP, ARGMESXA PMWHIFU E PQBZ PSF, QWR UD XHHQ NQPSL, E UHV?
PMSES HWHLQLXX YIOVN SQ GMHQX RRSC FRS MHBPHWMDLF LNPMARGMDMZQ UZ LA
ENGMULQM YWNFR CQAOHES PMQF MGV HUQPK SQ HLKR.  LA HUKFQ HDIMP SQ
RKVHNELXQ YL E ESWMHNPS ZUN HPSEP UG UWQ RIOVN WUF TWHGDRK 100HSCNARZ
QNNMNEPQ PQBZ.  KFKUA, LO CUWRKESN, KL E HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD, HU L
