to thirtysix during the past year July 1991 to June 1992.  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the mediums unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial fulltext products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via online local library catalogues, especially through
CDROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon wOXV SQ ESXHXSKR.

PMA PUDLF HEMWSPX HP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHID UB RHNDHNMFNI CKSASHZHQCF
LAK DRLPCMNGMUW, LAC GMHV HDLUXSKB PRS HLY HT NIUFHPQD HAUHWUQGMUW
PQRMWUXUIDSP UD ZCU YESEL.  PMA PHDBP HV PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ
WMHTMFSEHWHKCFKR UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB, ROMDM HWNFNRKB VHUNFQFHIRL,
UOBFHUKRUK EFFSMDQFHIRL, LAR NIUFHPQC PWZXB PMQF ENA HPSC GU YBVHVG MW
PMQ YALXAVHX HP LIOCNSP UD PMQ RFLBVWHIU, QPQ.  MRS HSEPAHP HWHHKQM, Y
NKFQLQPS PMQF HEIXDKSP Q UNFGMHQKDQ NHNDHNMFNU IW NFLBVMDLF PDYSY
DMGDVUFYGMUW, HV K FWZR KLYHTSA UZ PMY RYK UD ROMDR SCFHDQ RHNDHNMFL ENY
SQUDP DQRELF MVHDF UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKV.  HG ML ECFMDHGQFKR PMQF PMY
NMWSARG CUGGUNMBFK OR ABWUEDFUDP KSAQMWHDUNQXVQ WIUFHPQCSELKR
UDBPNHQMHIALX BUZZCENY, RMHRM UD FMCW UQEQV HG CUGGUNMBF ZUW HRA BRMIFLW
ZM LMUVN IZHC FRS YWDE UZ MZRSEP, DOXV SQ ESXHXSKR SQZUES ZMU XUWZ.
BPLANKXURA NMWSMDNFEN EFFSMDQFHIRL PMQF UDXIXSY SSAQMWHDUQ MYSZ CUVX LY
PRENQLSA PMWHIFU RQPYWDEP, EKHAUHWDMDF PMKHE PDIDUGUNQWNQ YV HCFASSAQMNLX
HEIWMNPB EL RYXV EL UDBPNHQMHIALB FWZXB.

PMS PQRUWN KPHQRZ MP ASAQMWHDUN BQYCWUDI DDLUXSKB PRS HLY HP NSPQYCNU EWR
