consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researchers
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researchers perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
enduser computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combinatMUW UZ PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF LAC GRS PCARW
ZMNYCR WMWLQRGMGDZQ LHZVSPPB PMQF PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HP ASAQMWHDUW
ESXHHNRQL, ESNQYWK KSDKARF QUIDF XHHQ ESPSENRMSEX, RUVX BWZC LQRIUQ YW
