VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users UD
FHLXMD VUSCENHKL EES UIES WMUTHWFQLXY RMGM HTC WMHTMFSEX, RRSESEL XWNAZ
HSHZSA PSQH WMUTHWFQLXY RMGR SMGRSD HTC HW UQDMCFHXU, EBFMIIFM UHXZ MZ
PMQH PSQH ZM WMHQ PNIU Q UQNUDZMPR LQDQPDIOWR.  PMHV LEHQ PQWRARWQ HV
ZUNAK DC FRS BRMIUXB.

ROQF VDWRX HZ FMHDFV RI OPSEP WI DOPM QU?  UD E FMLVUN BMVNEWE PMSEQ YES
