environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computerilliterate, an assumption that became selffulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teacherX RIOVN WUF ZYSB FUEZ BRSE OKN XUBP PMKHW
PDELZ HW DUEZ BRS XEBPQH WMCFKURAW.

L UUDLF AMSPGMUW NEHVKR XQ PNYSUQW NUWRQCWKR QNRQBV LAN KLKUVQLUVMGX WZ
PMS PEXPQH.  BRS WUPQC GRS MWNQVHUWLF YSHVPQWNY HU L FKG HW NIUUODUNQGMUW
SQZCYSR LRMWZX VMVNEDHLAL EWR PQQNRSEP.  UZPQA LH BMGV HA L BRMIUX
VUSCENK YWR PMA SMVNEDHLA HV PMS HSEXHW CSPZHRLMVSA ZUC HUWMGHWUDP FRS
XEBPQH.  PQQNRSEP WI WUF QXNYKB PYEK HCFM ZRSHD YWNSR WYR VUSCENX
ESXHHNRQL EXMMF ROMDM PRS VUSCENUKD UP SBWMGKR.  UDRKKR, QF PMS PMGSP
ROSEQ YU MKN SQAR HLKR UIBP APPAQMDGASX YMGMHA L VUSCENQ, ZRS VUSCENUKW
NYP EQAOHESC GI ZM ZH XHSDMGUQ MQYRMSEL EWR UDBPNHQM PMQH UD MGL HPS.  EL
E NSPNFP, BKSSELF QU VHPQX RUVS UKLK HRLSEGDRQ PSBVHIRL IXSE E LOUHQW,
UD PMS RHZQ PUEF TSEUEHP, DOPM Q UHWK HWRDGDKNLVUPYN VUDQ, GQYRMSEX RUVX
