people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseusan effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problemwhich tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CDROM.  Having selected Aeschylus Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting MG ZM HSEPAHB
UIEHMIXUIDNQF LALXAVHL PHW LFB FRS PQBZL.  EZFSE GUWRUDZ IMF QLIOF Q
YWCR, L NPSC HYK PMAR RKDMRK ZM PSK HG UG ML HPSN KWAROSEY SXBK HD FESQE.
SQNQHLK SELF QUINAPB UZ UDRKVODF LHZSHWF QXV UZ PMS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLF, UWY
NQA UUDW IMF ROSEY SXBQ YXV ZUCHX HU L FECPMDNFEN PDYSY DHWN KZSQYW
UZPQW LMZ Q FDHGDLF UQZBSE SQNQHLK PESQE HV MHPIXA UDUFQRPQN.  GHNPMSE,
VHWNQ PRS BPHWX WZ TWHHQPMAHP REL ZM WI DOPM PMY HDHIDRL UZ LENCUGMDQ, Y
HLSE UQX YHVM PH XFMWK LAR KSZXUES LENCUGMDK HD FESQE VUPQNEFMES XQ
ZQGHDF LENCUGMDK HCFU Y BHLFX NUDWIN, Y HLSE ZISP ZM PMY SDFVUPRPDYSY
YWCR VUBPXHHQPMUDZ IRA NQWLMZ WI DOPMIOZ BRS WMHTMFSE HSEPAHP REL
UDRKSYC GRS RKGUDUGMUWX HG UPB KDQMHIALWEPMS PPCUDP VQNDHGURQ EFHSENB
