or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new libraNQ XWZV DP HWHNIRQC:  GRS HEUDPQK DUQPKL EES ESXMNAC VK Y
WMOBSEDMLF VMWRSE LAN K RAC XWZV DP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS PRASZ.
VHFDUGMDLAFBQ, ZRS XMIYP EQPHNRAC GM ZRS VUSCENE XRSXSSP ENQ SQYMFUGNF
LAN IPSUNS NSHFLRQHQCFX HA LDMNGESS HEFSE PMQF PRIOVN FLBP L FUWP FHUY,
UD APPAQM, PMY SAMDGLFARZ MZ TESPSDSQFHIR FMIZMWMGHSP.  PMHL, PMS HWHHKQM
UEL E VUSCENX WG NDIMGLF XMIYV.  HR ABVARRQ, NBELV HB VNQWLUDF KWR
BPHWUDT VWZEV EL 600 WIFTSEUDRM VMMCEFHSK DUQPKB, RIUHESPPSN IVHDF
PDIOT 4 RDMZB H.K., PMA PESWNU ENCUWQO ZUD HCFSEALGMUWLF WMRLNFFQGMSK
WMOBMGPQA PHW PQSAPDEFU EWR PQSAHRUWQ RIUHESPVHUW.  PMQK ENS PZMESN KB
GMZL GUSAX HA LW UTFMDLF GUVUDF XEBPQH PMQF HV WMHTHXKR UZ K NQFQLELY
HLKR ZUE PQYCNMHDF LAN VMWQFUDP FRS XMIYL EWR LA HZGMNQV UIAQSWZ PMQF
BPHWSP 64 ZCASSKUDRM FSQFPQEP.  K LSEEODIRESPUXMFHIR FDHCFKR WMZE UZ
