printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the nABZ KQEN
RKSKXUGHDF LA EFFSMDQFHIC FUEF QXVWYP HYHFSQ YZ CHWEVFQGMUWB PM XWHRXY
PMQ SWZEV.  PMHL, NBELV HV RKSASHZUDF K SCWYVHDF ZMUX, UW PMQ YBVOUTFHIW
PMQF HLSEV RU WMZ NYCF ZM ESKN LA ARGMES XMIY PNIU Y NHWEVFQGMUW, LMZ
YWNFR GESPAC PM XQ YLXQ PU XWZQ GREIOPI LAW VQRDKK HZ FRSX YIOVN VUEQ ZM
UESK E FDHCFKR WMZE UZ MG.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  ES ESPCHKLKX BUZZCENK  "RDIMGLF GUSA WMZEDHPIP"  BNQWLUDZ
NEPQ NIDHDF HEIWMNGMUW  LNZMPSTIARFQGMUW  NCMGSEUK QHFSWXKR UD
PSSAQMUDT VWZEV ZUE PNQWLUDT  DIUHESPVHUW LAW VQRIUHESPVHUW UZ HUKFSP 
