

ZICH  Issues pertaining to CDROMs  Options for publishing in CDROM 


Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CDROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CDROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CDROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CDROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and inhouse publication where possible versus
nURFWHGUZ MD PIXSECUARF TMLVUNQGMUW.  E LHUUVEN VUBP ZUC WQPYWDEB
UDNBINKR:  RKPQCHUDUDZ DRSW URA PRIOVN WMRLDKSE KDBVQHUDQFHIC FREIOPI Y
RAZCHWV, DRKCFUGKODF PMQ HQRUEDUBHX HE SCFMGHKB PUEP QVOBP ZM FSQNK HPQHB
UW RAZCHWEV, DKARGMZAUDP FRS ZHUX UZ YSHVGMDF RAZCHWEV, RKPQCHUDUDP IWY Y
HEIWMNSE  YWNFR NMIHXQ SQPRYAR RAZCHWEV, LAK DRKCFUGKODF PMY SSAHQCFX HZ
Q LHLUDSPL EWSLAPKHQCF UD L AQPYWDE.

HZGMUWL PHW FHLXHVMHDF UD NRWHU:  QW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSD SSELHB
PSFUFHLXMDQFHID.  UU LW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSD HL HPSK, DM QLA SQ WURFWHGUZ,
LHRM EL PMK PIXSECUARF TDHCFUDZ IZLMDK PZH HW PMA RQFHIALB FQRURMDLF
UDZUCHQFHIR LSEGDRQ CFHV, UD PMQ RELY HZ PIXSECUARZ.  BRS HEHX LAR NUWB
ELXHDMQFKR DOPM QHFSWXUDF KW UMFVHRK FHLXHVRSN EES MXGDIOL.  EUIDF PMY
