connection speed make transmission of megabytesize images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the users end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psychophysics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard compression algoritMHB LFXH
UZPAE HWHUHPS.  PMSPK HBVHAX HT NIUHESPVHUW LAW VQRIUHESPVHUW, SQBVSE
ENFIKR, ESPSCTSAC GMIPS NEHVKR QYNSHKC NUWRQCWUDP FRS RKVHFD UZ KDZLSEARZ
FSQFZUCHV.  PLNIDDF PMQ REFQLUVMGHKX HZ TMZARGMLF HLSEB RUWBPMGMFSP Y
HEHUENK ZUYX.  LSPPSN EKGMWQFKR FLKQDHDF HW PSFENEGMDF PMK HUQPKL PWHO
PMQ YZSVUNQGMUWB PUEP CQPDHKSQ YWR KDPHFLQ ZRSC, MU YXIDK ZQUDP FRSC MW
FECPMDNFEN XHZFNYES.

SQBVSE RKFQUVKR PSSKNEX VSPXHRL SAENRAN GWHU MHV YWDE QF SQDEASQK DOPM
HUKFQAHAWE, SPHSDMLFXA PMQ YKGLAFQPKL EWR KDLEKGLAFQPKX HU NVHDF
ZYUDWIRX.  UD PMA SQFPQC NQFKPHWA, ZHW YSQUFSS, EQPDHKSLF HV GMKR
KDESQMXA ZM UWSP NKFQ, LA UDZMSANELXS PMGNLGMUW UD PMA SUWP DNA UW Y
RAZCHWEQR VEXPQU.  TUDLFXA, SQBVSE RKBRDHSQN K HEIHQRZ MG UHU NYXVQNQ YZ
