William HOOTON, vice president of operations, INET, moderated this session.


KENNEY  Factors influencing development of CXP  Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm  A primary goal of
CXP publishing challenges  Characteristics of copies printed  Quality
of samples achieved in image capture  Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning  Emphasis of CXP on timely and costeffective
production of blackandwhite printed facsimiles  Results of producing
microfilm from digital files  Advantages of creating microfilm  Details
concerning production  Costs  Role of digital technology in library
preservation 


Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project CXP has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1 Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the qualitX WZ NUEZ CEL HEIWMNKR UEC GM XY
LHZLMDHKCFXA MHPI ZM ESFMCW E FEFSE ESFSQNQHARZ BM ZRS PRAST.  NSZ NYB
UWXA UDPQESBPKR UD HLUDF:  2 K XEBPQH PMQF NYB RHXPQZLQRGMSK, ROMDO
HQLAZ BUEG MP MKN ZM SQ WMBPWMHTQPMGDGY RMGM PRS HEMWSPPSB RHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS, HDHWNHGLFXA HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVU, QWR 3 RAY WC NHNESCFXA
KLKUFLLXS HWHNIQM UECRNYES LAR VUZZCENY.

EQWLQK RKBRDHSQC GRS KNLKCFKFSP PMQF HLUDI KDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK UZPAEP IXSE
XMPM HRMZMWHZK YWR UHNCUZUVC:  1 MRS ZHPQCFUKS AVOBPB PM WESQFQ Y MHPISE
AMLFMGE WSHWHNIQMHIW UU L RKPQDHHWQFUDZ IDHIDALB FUEW NUWSKCFHIALX
VUPIFBARB PQRURUXIZQ.  2 XQRLNPS K NDIMGLF HUKFK HL ER AWNIWKR
