processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NALs integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NALs
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.

In accordance with the sessions topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1 assemble the printed publications 2 design the database
database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scaADUDF PMHV BPSH ARFQUVP EKSHKDODF LAW IDPLAOGUDP FRS UQPQDHLF,
RKGUDUDF PMQ RUWPQCFXRUEZ CUVB NUWBPMGMFQ Y ESWMCR, ROQF VDWRX HZ
GUASRV DOXV SQ NQTFHNKR UD PQCHX HU LMFMIC, PMGSA, QPR. 3 TSEZUCH Y
RQCPKUA LUINAZ MT UENAIZ HC FRS FEHSE HMLVUNQGMUWL.  RLF HSNPHWHB PMHV
FQVE ESWMCR XQ ESWMCR, HESHENUDZ DHWE VRSQPX HE PIUY HPMSE XHCP UZ
PCQNVDDF UQPQDHLF LAW VSPDIDUDF RKBRDHTFHWL EWR MZRSE SRULARQHQCFB PM XY
KNRKC GM ZRS NKFQ PMQF DOXV WUM TQ REFFMESN GWHC MRS HEUDPQR GMLVUNQGMUW.
FECP UZ PMHV HEMWSPL EXBI HDLUXSKV RQPSEUHDUDF ALGCHP GUSA LAW VHDQRZMWE
BPNHQMHNA:  RQFRG QFPQHTPB ZM KLIHR GMFGMDF UIES PMLA EFHEWZHUQFASX 100
HUKFSP UD K NHDQRZMWE, SQNQHLS HFLDMDF UIES PMLA PMQF UW Q NRCIU YWNFW
ESNIRQ PMQ YWBSPB VHSKR.

PMHV HFPNUWF TWHRQBV FQEQL EZSWHVOUQPQXA ZCW YYSEV ZUN E
6,0007,000FEPK NKFQLQPS.  PMA RYSP BPQG HB PM WEFFMES PMS HKFK HUQPKB.
MIN XUWP FMHP HWHRQBV FQEQV HV RQPSEUHRAC VQ ZRS RKDMVHUW ROQPRSW HC WMZ
