capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a fulltext record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic maFSEUKX UN PHW SKWE BHLFX
PQBZ.  UQWA BRLARAEP LFXUN ZHW KDZLSEARG MUQPK ZUCHQFB, PUGZ, UT NIOEPY,
SQUDF K RK ULQMH XFQWRENC.  VMF UG UWK HCFARRV ZM YSRMLAPK HUKFSP DOPM
