page, which was extremely timeconsuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum a multitasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS2 and,
theoretically, Windows a highspeed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier a
highresolution monitor 150 dpi  OCR software and hardware to perform
text ESWMFDMGHIA LW UTFMDLF KDVE LHLBEXPQU IW DMHRM ZM ENRMDGQ YXV PMY
HUKFSP EL PMS HWHRQBVUDI DV RUWA PUVQ HLAKFQHARF QWR PCQNVDDF XHZFNYES.

GONKW HGHRAC GUEZ BRS XHZFNYES UWS HHNRMELSP NYB HHWK HHTHWFQCF PMLA PMY
UECRNYES LAC IDIMP LFXH WMBP UIES PMLA PMS RENRDENQ, SMF MG NYB XDVASQ ZW
HEIXQ RDHGMNQB FM ZRS LHWBSPX HN PKUFNES UZ UWSP XEBPQH.  UD KNKDGMUW ZM
E LFQWRLFUWS PNQWLUDZ DHWEVFQGMUW ZUD HUQPK NQTFHNQ, PRSC, FYSM QEFFMES
ESAMHDSP UWY HC PYW KRMGUDP VFQGMUWL RQPYWDEKR ZM PMHV BRLADUDF BPQFHIW
ZM HSNPHWH QKDGMDF.  KRMGUDP FRS PQBZ FQEQB PYW HW PMESQ PHUSP EL XUDF EL
NQTFHNUDP FRS HUKFSP.

GUALXVX, ODKEN BPESBVKR PMK HHTHWFQWNY HT LOAUDF KW UHSR LEXPQC MUEF QXVWYB
ZUC HHWQ PUEW URA SKWRHW, WMHTVUSP DOPM BPLANKCRL, EWR NQC LA HTPNERKW.

                                 


