skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2 AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenthcentury printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheetfed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritteC UQFSEUKXB ZUC DMHRM QU KDR WMZ ESAMHDY
PQBZWMKDDF.  PMS ESPNFPB, SENYE WSHHWPQR, DSEK HA LXV NQPSL PKUNSX
WMHTENQLSA:  ZUC PRS UIBP FECP, LFB FREYS PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL QNMHKSKR 99.95
HSCNARF QWBHNQNK.  YO CEL LEGMLPHKR DMGM PRS YWDE LMP BHNHEHVKR QF PMQ RHXZ.

EL QU SQFKW NUWSKCPUDZ DMISA WMXVQRGMUWV, HP CQPKURAC GRS ESAMHDQHARF ZHW
99.95 HSCNARF QWBHNQNK YWR KNRKR CQAOHESHQCFL PHW PQBZWMKDDF.  QU RAKRKR
ZM SQIDR FSEZUCHUDZ DHWQ IHWQ PUEC FREYS KQENL EZI SQZUES BN ESAMHDQHARPB
ZUE PTIF LZSVUNQGMUWP RKN SQAR SPFQLXHVRSR.  VUDRQ QUV PUYX NEL VHHTXA
ZM ESFQUD LAX WZ FRS UDPQXVQRFMLF WMCFARP CSHESPSCFKR XQ PMA PHWUQZBUDZ
UZ PMK RMWOUARZ CMHRM YWNFC VA SHXG MZ URA HSNPHWHQN K BPNEDIMP ELDMO
WMDLSEVHUW, QU HLKR "VPUBVUEQ" WMRKB.  PRSPS WMRKP ESPQHLXKR VPUB FQPV
