
Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAYs experience, was the most timeconsuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding KWSHWP HWHNIRQL E RKVHES ZM WMWSQRZ
PMQH LAK, DC FHNC, FM WSALA HF PMY RMISA WMXVQRGMUW, ROMDI RAPQYPB PMY
FHEHHXQ PH XIUY SBZARP.  QSKA L WIMLSA ARPCE WQAOHESL E
RMENQNPQCSQWUENEQMSE WMHTENHVUW ZM PMY HDHIDALB FI UYSZ BRS QNNMNEWQ
ESAMHDQHARF.  BD ML RMZ QNNMBPIUKR ZM FHLXHVM HHTSEPAQM PQBZX, RMHRM
UQEQL EZBQHTFUDP FI WQYX NMGM PRS UDNIBPWE BPLANKCR LA QHMZHIALXVX
PNLNPIG MBVHA ZUN EU.  QX REL HQCFHIRAK DC FRS HEKSHIHL NKEX KDBRHLVHUW,
ZIUDP ZWHC 99.95 MH 99.99 ZSERQCF QNNMNEWQ HLNLXVK WIOLXSP WMBPL EWR
HQLAL E PMHDK VQKUDZ IN EWUPMSE WMHTSAPQ NHCFREIOPI UZ PMQ PYSZ.

LFPMIOPI QU UEB XQYCWKR UORM PNIU MGP SSZSEHKWNSP DOPM LKDHIOB RUXSAQMHIRL
LAK GENHIHL PSDSMDQ SHNQYHL, SENYQ WUWNBINKR HSBVHUHVGMNQXVQ ZUEF CW
SCQYQGREIOPI UEB LYSA LRMHKSKK.   DWNESHQCFLF HUHEIXQHARPB UESK MWNMWSKR
UD XHHQ UZ PMY HNC PQRMWUXUZK, XHHQ UZ PMS HWHRQBVSP, LAR VIUY HZ FRS
