situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Modifying an image before performing OCR  NALs costs per
page AMs costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries 
Elements comprising NATDPs costs per page  OCR and structured markup 
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed 


HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as formtype data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or HVHDF ASQRPCUWMD HQLAL EES YWCPO
WMRLDKSEUDP.  IWZZMA LXBU WMZKR PMQF WMDLSEVHUW HLNLXVQ OYESP HW SCQYEV
UWSP HUKFUDP VEXPQU.  HG MP SBZESHQXA HUZHCPLAP, QBZESHQXA WMBPXA UD
PQCHX HP AMGRSC NEFMGLF UDSKBPHQCF HW PSDSMDQ, YWR RKPQCHUDSP PMQ ANLVUZQ
UZ PMS EQHKUWRSE UZ UWSP XEBPQH, SQNQHLK HG CQPSEUHRAB PRS RMENQNPQW HZ
PMS EYN UQPQDHLF HLKR XQ PMS PEXPQO.

WMWNSEDUDF PMA PIOE HWHHKQML HWRSEFQEQC LA WLF, ZCI HRLDKQ YWR ZCW
HSNPHWHQC VX WMFVHRK WMCFNEQMHWX, PDKEN ESSKLFKR PMQF LA UDMIHLS PSEGDRQ
LMESLN YSQRMFKR PMA PHDBP QF Q NHXM TQPRYAR 8 LAR 10 GSE FEPK ZUW
KSSEQZMHDF, UDNBINUDT VOHVNUDZ IZ FRS NKFQLQPS.  PMS HWHHKQM NARKCPYEAR
XQ PMQ RUWLHBFQFDGK PWHHF UW UDPQCWQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNES NSPQYCNM RIDEN
