of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the midnineteenth century.
ChadwyckHealeys decision to reproduce Mignes Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Mignes work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
DMGDVUFYGMUW, NQFLFNNQ ELPSCPKR.

UD ESFKCR ZM PMK RQRHVHIC FH ZWHNIRQ LAR GMLVUPR FSC, GRS KRMGHWUKX LUYCR
UZPAESW VHDQRG MINTIARPB UW PMQ AHABPHIW UU LZSWHHEUKPQRABV UZ PMSPY
PQBZL PHW WMDLSEVHUW, PMKHE SWNIWUDF KWR PMKHC RHVPCMVMFHIA, LWR
WMWNFNRKC GUEZ BRS SQBP ZHBVMVSA HEIHQRZ CEL UWQ PUEF QXIDKKR IXSEZ
UDPCHLHIRL HW YSNBHLHIRL UD XH HUZHCPLAF Q ESXHHNRQ.  PMHL, PMK PARSELF
RKDMVHUW ZM PCLABHMG PMY HDHIDALB NUXSAQMHIA LB RSAENXA EL ZHBVMVSA DOPM
PMY RDKSPF THXVHLXQ YSKANSP ZUN HPS SAC GW ZPMSE RKDMVHUWB:  1 PH YWNIWY
PMK RQFY UC WMZ, VPUB HW WUZ, BKH HW WUF.  QFKUD, PMY SSZQRPQN IPSW
WMOBNAMGK YBVSEPQC GRS RAKR ZUC WHWUQGMSK FQZVUDP VPCMNFMESX HG UHTHWFQCF
MOUQDUGMSP PQBZL, EWR PMQ PKH PSQHKR PMQ HHXF QZSWHHEUKPQ BPNHQMHNA PHW
PMQF FHEHHXS.  ESPQYCNU SMVNEDHLAX, RMI ENQ PNEUDKR ZM GDYR PMA SENPKW
HUFEQM UZ ASQRPCUWMD PQBZ XHHNRQX HW 80 UW 90 HC 100 RMWZMNEX
KDBRHGVURAB, XIONVK YZSWHSKC GRS RKDMVHUW ZM UDNBINQ PKFIDDF.  PMQK PSY
