is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In todays electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulBHWA XMDARPS, UZ ROMDM PRS
NAMGKR BPQFSP UEP RKN L UYR, LMUVRV UDZM PMA SYN PMS EDIMP ZM HLQ Y YWDE
LHVMQRZ BM WSEFQUD PQCHL EWR WMWRMGHIRL.  UD PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY,
MIRYSKC, PRS QLUVMGQ ZI OPS WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP HV YSPCQHASA XHUMGKR.
PMHL, NBQYDHDFMIHLSP LAW IPMSE WMXVQRGMSKB RIUHEHVY HRA HZGMUW PMQF UEB
LHWBYSRKK DR FWHGDKDDF ZUN HPS UZ Y NHWY.  IZFAR IXSEXUIYKR ROAR UWY
SQIDRL ZM HLQ RHZEWDIMPKR UQPQDHLF LAR GMF HEIWMNPB ZMPKPMSE HV MIY
