conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machinereadable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very highquality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONASs framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AMs considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time YWNFW
UESK ZM FEBV SQZUES RY WMDLUDRQ UWQ YWUPMSE WMWNSEDUDF BPLANKCRB.

LA YSRMLAPK SQZCYSC UAXUWEL LAC VQFGMW NFLDHGUKR PMS HIHCF PMQF PMY
RCDGUDP ZHWRQ SQMHWR XMPM PMS HSEPSHL LAC GRS WMCWASX VSEWZ HEIHQRPB NYB
PMS HESPSDSQFHIW UG AWUNXKRPK ZUC PRS UNFMES, WUP BHUFSA ZHW FECPMDNFEN
ESPSENRM HLK.  HC FRS NQPS UZ HSEPAHB, HAXUWEL LEDK, PMQ YBVOUTFHIW DEL
PMQF PMQ PYSPB YWNFR WMZ SQ ARPQESN KFKUD UDZM ASQRPCUWMDLFXA ESKNQLSA
ZUCH.  PHSESQDPCQAMYSA LWVKR PMQF E LNQWLKR HUKFY RIOVN WUP BSESK EL LA
ENRMDGLF WMZE ZUE HHNZHPSX HZ TESPSDSQFHID UC FRS NQPS UZ, LEQ, ZRS VMXV
UZ DHPIPB, UD PMS PARPS PMQF PMS PNQWLKR HUKFSP ENY SZLQRGMSKXA PMY
ENRMDGLF WMGHSP ZUC PRS WMCWASB UQFRSUQGMRB XMIYB.


                                 


                          EFHSWROV H:  GWHPDQU

