The Perseus Project 5 has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose systemindependent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the ElAQMWHDUN QPK," UD QNRQBVUDF KCFMKOHZQ:
PMQ RIUFHPQDHFYGMUW UZ NBELVHNQV NQFQLELSP, H. VUXIUUW LAC G. YWCPRSW
KRL.,  HDUSKEPMGX WU LDHOWAL HESPV, HR FESBV.

