various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
ultimately printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for thHV RKSKXUTHARZ CEL HEIXDKKR XQ LHC UMDWHXEBPQHX RMGO
LHZSHWF ZWHC MRS WMOBHVVHUW UW HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB.

NIDHDF PMS PMINYWRPQXV PSBVHIW UZ FRS YWDEPRHZ UW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZL, E
HEMZMZEZK SHKR XFQGMUW DOXV SQ RKUIRLPCQFKR.  UD KNKDGMUW, K NHVFSYK UZ
HWDIUDLF VUSCENQ XWZEV PMQF UESK SQAR KDIDGMPYR DUVX LQ YLKUVQLSA ZUW
ESGDYR DOPM ELXHDMQFKR HEUDPQR NHZHKL PHW WMHTENHVUW.  PMA PUGPQARUHANPQ
IXSEGDYR UZ PMS HWHHKQM DOXV UDNBINQ Y BXDKS HESPSCFQFHIC FUEZ
WMRLGMFMPQL E "ZMHN" UZ PMS HESPSDSQFHIW RDIMGOGUDP TWHRQBV.

PMA PUDLF RAZCHWQDUWRAQMKR SKEPHIW UZ FRS GDYRUDP VFQGMUW DOXV HEIXDKY
VUSCENA OPSEP DOPM LAMZRSC HQRUEDUBH ZUN EWBSPVHDF PMK RDIMGLF VUSCENX,
LAR DUVF LXBH ZWHGDRK PMQ REFQLUVMGX WG LHKDODF HUKFSP KDESQMXA.  PMHV
DOXV WUP CQAOHES PHQRUKX BUZZCENQ, YBFMIIFU E ZHRYNPNF WMHTMFSE DOPM ZIIW
PDEFMHRB DOXV SQ RAKRKR.

