converted text  Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks  Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars  Networkmediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices  Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade  The trend toward enduser computing
 The trend toward greater connectivity  Effects of these trends  Key
transformations taking place  Summary of principal arguments 


Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration NARA, argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1 the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship 2 the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community and 3
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers working context i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc., along with their fields primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the online environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1 an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
longterm conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panels overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1 identify sources, 2 communicate
with their colleagues, 3 interpret and analyze data, 4 disseminate
their research findings, and 5 prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional wordofmouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using Email and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  Email exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of Email has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processingeither manual or computationalof large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performeR XQ WMHTMFSEL.  PHW YSQUFSQ, RIUFHPQEP
NQW NIOCF.  PMQK NQW NIOCF SCHLR PPCIYSP HLKR UD E NQHSCLACG FEUDGMDF HW
HSNPHWH CKPESBVHIA LALXAVHL PHW NARKEPFQWRUDT DLNPS LAR KZLQRM.  TQ OQYRL
UZ KNLKWNKR PQRMWUXUIDSP, WMHTMFSEB RLA ESWMFDOGS HQFPQCWL, EALXAPY PQBZ,
LAC IIWAS WMWNSHPB.  UNCPRSCHHWQ, RIUFHPQEP NQW NIUFSQPQ PRSPS HEMWSPPSB
ULBPSE DOPM UIES XHHNRQL EWR DOPM PDQYPQE HESDMVHUW PMLA BRMIFLEP ROW
UOBP ESXA UW UQANLF UDPQEHESFQGMUW UZ NKFQ.  LMG MP LRMUXENL EES ZM HLY
WMHTMFSEL PHW PMSPS HWHRQBVSP, XHHNRQ UQPQDHLFB HHLM TK HA L ZUCH
QUARQLSA ZM WMHTMFSEELVHBPKR LALFEXHV.  ZUC PMHP EQYXHC ULAE XRMUXENB,
UWRQ PMQK UESK DKARGMGUKR PMS PIOCNSP PMQF ENQ EQK ZM PMKHW SSPQYCNU, EES
WMDLSEGMDF PMQH ZM UQRMUDSEQYNKLXA PHWC.  MMOL, E ESHESPARFQGMSK YSQUFSY
UZ PMA ROUSEIOB PYSFMLF WMDLSEVHUW HEIHQRPB HWFKDUPYC VE XRMUXENL EWHNAW
PMY RHWVN UD ESRQCF KQENB PH XHFZHCP WMHTMFQFHIALB FYSF QALXAVHV HB PRS
FBP, FRS PMSPLNNHB XUDFIYQ PDYQNQQ.  PMHP HWHHKQM HV RKXIPQC GW
WMDLSEGMDF PMY SBZLAF QWNHKCF PQBZX HT NFLBVMDLF PDYSRQ.  KRMGHWL RMZY:
QNWMCRUDP FM ZRS FBF DYRBXQPPQW HT UYK B992, FVF NYV HA NPS UD PMHDZQZCW
KDZLSEARM QIOCFDHSP.  PMHV GUFIES HFNKPQB HMDRSXBUWP HESGDIOB RIOCF XQ UWY.

PMS PRMUXENP HSEZUCHUDP FRSPS WMDLSEVHUWP RKLQ SYSA LVEKR ZM ESWMFDOGY
PMQF PMY SSAQMWHDUR BIOCNSP PMQK ENQ RUWSKCPUDP ZHW UWA HPS ZHBVSPB SLFHA
ZUW HPMSE ESPSENRM FHEHHXSP EL RYXV.  EL E NSPNFG, CHNUDP FRS FEBP PAY
KQENP, ROULAMGHKB VRMUXENP RKLK HDUGMQFKR L AOUSQW HZ TWHHKQMB PW
UDNCQYPS BRMIFLNSK YWBSPB PM WUWSKCPKR PQBZ.  XH, ZUE SLYHTSA, PMQ PYSZ
ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK PQU, KXMMF ROMDM UHWK HB VKUN VQFSE UD PMS HWHPDQU,
NYP SBPQLVUPRKR EL LA APZUCP XQ BRMIFLEP ZM RKPQCHUDS PFQWRENR KSAHQCFB
LAC IQPMIRV ZUE SWNIWUDT IQNMHRAESKNQLSA PQBZ ZUE SSAQMWHDUR QBWUEDFY.
UD E LQRUWR KZLHWZ BU ZQNUVMGQFQ PRS PRENUDZ IT NUWSKCPKR PQBZ, BRMIFLEP
UESK NCQYPQN K RAD ORLGMFMGMUW, PMQ RARPQN PHW ASQRPCUWMD PQBZV HC FRS
MOUQDUGMSP RQPM.  PMQ RARPQE SBPHUQFSP PMQF PMSEQ YES 8,000 PSDHSP UZ
XHHNRQ PQBZV HC FRS MOUQDUGMSP PMQF UESK SQAR WMDLSEPQC GW
UQRMUDSEQYNKLXA PHWO CHWVNDORK.  RQPM HV NARKCPYEUDF KD UCFSEALGMUWLF
PSENRM ZUC NUWSKCPKR PQBZ UD PMS ROULAMGHKB, RIUGHVUDF MG UDZM LA
ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENK, YWR HESHENUDT VMVVUIZNEHRMD RKBRDHTFHIRL UZ PMY
XHHNRQL PHW PMS ESPQYCNU SMVNEDHSP UDZUCHQFHIW LQPYWDEP EVUW
