extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive online working context for humanities scholars that
includes online availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive online working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this online transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the online transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
NREN represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and highlevel educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called networkmediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1 enduser computing
and 2 connectivity.

Enduser computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the online transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward enduser computing is significanZ BM WUWVHRKNEGMUW UZ
PMS HWHPHQRPB ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB SQNQHLK HM CQYRL PMQF ESPSENRMSEL EES
SQWMUHDF UIES KNSHF QG CIHDF PMKHW HDW WMHTMFQFHIRL LAC, GMOB, HHWY
WMHTQPARG MC FRS HLY HP ASAQMWHDUQ CKRUK.  XQ KLIHKDDF HEIZNEOBSE
UDPQCHKRUKDHSP, WMHTMFQFHID UB LQRIUUDT DARPCLF ZM PMS ESPQYCNRSEP
PMIOPIF TWHRQBV.  PMHV KDESQM UDXIXSQHARG MW NIUFHGMDF HV RMLAIDDF PMY
ESPSENRMSEP HSEPHQRGMSK UW PMA RQFHNY HP NSPQYCNM HPBASZ, FUEG MB, PRS
VDWRX HT AHABPHIRL PMQF NQC LS HHXKR, PMQ YALXAGMNQB UQPMIWIXUIDSP PMQF
NQC LA HPSC, GRS ZQHSL EWR QUIOCF UZ XHHNRQB PUEF QES EFHEHZDHQFA PHW
LALFEXSP, LAC GRS ZUCH UD ROMDU PUDKDDFL EES HESPARPQC.  GRS PCARC GWYENW
ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF HQLAB PUEG, MWNESELUDFVK, QSAQMWHDUQ CKRUK LAW
WMHTMFQFHIA LES SQUDI DAUHLKR UDZM LFS FWHRQBVSP UZ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEPMHG, HRLGHDHDF ESUQDEQLSA PCLALPHWUQGMUWV HR LRMUXENXA
WMOBNAMDQFHIW.

PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR PDQYPQC NUWRAQMDGMGE XIFPKBPB PUEP CSPQYCNRSEP ENA HVHDF
WMHTMFQFHID UWNESELUDFVK OW LQPYWDE ARGDWHCUARPB.  WMWLQRGMGDZQ HV
HUZHCPLAZ BH XRMUXENPRHG SQNQHLK HP QNEPSB PRS KDBPLARQ PMQF PSFENEPQB
BPINARPB PNIU PQQNRSEP LAR VRMUXENL PWHC MRSHD WMXVQYFISP, ROUVQ YXVWYUDZ
HLSEB PU YWBSPP EQHMZK RQFQLELSP, PRENK HAUHWUQGMUW UD UQWA KDZLSEARZ
HQKDQ, NUWRAQM ZM PMKHC DHWVDDF WMCFYSZ CRSESSKC PRSK YES, LAW
WMXVQLHWQFK HA LXV HRELSP UZ ESPSENRM.

PMQ RIUVMALGMUW UZ PMQ PESWR ZMNYCR ARNIPSC NIUFHGMDF LAC GRS PCARW
ZMNYCR WMWLQRGMGDZQ LHZVSPPB PMQF PMS PRMUXENXA HLY HP ASAQMWHDUW
ESXHHNRQL, ESNQYWK KSDKARF QUIDF XHHQ ESPSENRMSEX, RUVX BWZC LQRIUQ YW
SPFQLXHVRSN GQYFMES UZ BRMIFLEPMHT.  FRS APPAQMX HZ FRSPS PCARRV, LFUWZ
DOPM UWZIUDT DUEDFSP UD BRMIFLNSE ZNEQMMDSP, ZHUDZ BU Y UNFMES UD ROMDO
MOUQDUGMSP ESPSENRMSEX RUVF NPS WMHTMFQFHIA LWR ASQRPCUWMD WMOBNAMDQFHIW
ZM RSSF PMQH ZUCHNFQFK HRKEL, QNRQBV XHHNRQP, HSEZUCH ESPSENRM,
WMXVQLHWQFY RMGM RUXSAKFHAB, VYSE GYSW SKSHKR, ZMLVUPR LAW VHVPSUHALPQ
ESLHBFL, EWR ARFKPK UD UQWA MZRSE HWHPABVHIALF LWR KRMNQFHIALF LQMDGMGHKB.

UD LHOBENQ, OMDRSXBUW QHHRELOGKR ZUHN ZHUDPB:  1 E FHWGMUW UZ MOUQDUGMSP
BRMIFLEP LFESKNQ WUWVHRKE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB PMS HESPAWSKR ZUCHQF ZUW
LALFEXHV LAW VHVPSUHALGMUW.  2 BRMIFLEP ENA HVHDF PMSPY SSAQMWHDUW
PQBZV, HW NUWHOWNGMUW DOPM MZRSE SSAQMWHDUN CSPIOCNSP, UD LFB FRS
HEMWSPPSX HP LRMUXENXA WMOBNAMDQFHIC.  3 FRS MOUQDUGMSP BRMIFLEP
YWDEUDT DUWPQBZ HV UD PMS HWHRQBV UZ RMLAIDDF PNIU HEUDZ BQRURUXIZQ ZW
ASQRPCUWMD PQRMWUXUZK, UD UQWA NYEX UHWSHWUDP FNERLZUCHQFHIRL PMQF UESK
MWNMWSKR HW ENY HWBHNDHDF DOPMUD PMS PDMARGMGUW BIUUODUZQ.  4 PMSPY
RMLAPKL EES MWNMWSUDI DW NUWHOWNGMUW DOPM PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ L AYR
