involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in fortyfour locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural oneroom librariesin one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out BH ZYHFSY RMI WI WUP MKLQ PRS LEHQ ESXHHNRQL ELKUVQLSA ZM
PMHXY RMI VUSK UD Q UQPWHZHVUFQA LESY UE RKLQ YWBSPB PU Y UQHIN SMVNEWE.
UWS EHNLF VUSCENE WSHHWPB PMQF HODUHW MHPI BRMIUX BPINARPB UD FLDPY
ANCTSEB RQUK HW URA LUPQCWWZC FI OPS QU ZUE SCFSEFQUDHQCF.  L AOUSQW HZ
FHLXMD VUSCENHKP ESHHWPQK IESQF UDPQESBP QUUWP THXMQENR NUXSAQMHWV HC FRS
RKPCIHM QUXSAQMHIW, DMHRM NYP SBVARGMLFXA Q NUXSAQMHIW UG UUQPKL HPSW IW
ZHBPNQCRL EWHNAC GRS FMCW UZ PMQ RARFMWE.  PCKUC LNUPL ENS PHUUVENXA
UDPQESBPKR SQNQHLQ PUEZ CEL Q FHUY HZ PESQF UDPQESBP UD NEUVWHKNUDZ.
HSHZSA, MG NYL PIOWR, ESFLPQ ZM PMUDPV PMQF PMQK ADWY UZ GUEPPMLAN.  GHW
YSQUFSK, HC LMZR EHNLF FHLXMD VUSCENHKX RRSES QU NYB HKNQ YLKUVQLSA,
MXPSDSSEP ESHHWPQC GUEZ BRS UXRKE HYHFSY RMGR HSEXHALS NQHQHSCLARQX HZ
PMQ PHNW UZ FRS RQCFHNX YSEK PNEGDFQGMDF ZM PMK RQPWHMG WMXVQRGMUW.
PMSPY SLYHTSAB VSESKC GI OWRSEBRHWQ HMDRSXBUWX HLBSELKGMUW ES PMY
UDPQPDQFHIW UP ASAQMWHDUQ MWZXB LAK DRKELPMQF HSHZSA SAENC LSPZ CRSW
PMQ HQFSEUKS NASQFSP ZM XHHQPMUDP FRSK EWUY.

SKWBUK UQRK PMA PUDLF ZHUDZ BUEG MC ULAQ WELSP QU PSDSSP EL Y
FHLXMDESFLGMUWB PWZF UHW PMS HMLVUN BMVNEDHSP PMQF ENQ PSPGMDF MG.  UD
UWQ RELQ, YU HB LKHDF HLKR EL K LSRMDSA ZM PSNMES KNKDGMUWLF UNWRUDP ZHW
PMA SMVNEWE.  UD LAMZRSC NELQ, YU MEL PSDSKR EL LA UDPHHDQFHIC FM ZRS
BPLUZ UU L UQHIN SMWLF FHLXMD VUSCENK OC FRS XHMFM PM ZMHDA QLIOZ CYKB PW
UQEQ MGX HDW WMXVQRGMUW UZ HRMZIZNEHRB HHWQ YWBSPVHLXQ PM ZRS FHLXMD.

                                  


PNYSUQA  LU QWR ENRMDGLF ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HA L BRMIUX ARGDWHCUARZ 
AMSPGMUWB RUWRQCWUDT DUWPQBZ  AMSPGMUWB RUWRQCWUDP FRS ASQRPCUWMD ZUCHQF
MGPSFU  WMHTMFSE LAVOQPK  YWBSPL EWR KLKUFLVMVUZQ UZ PMS PEXPQO 
UECRNYES  BPESDFPMV PKURAC GREIOPI PMA HPS UZ ENRMDGLF ESXHHNRQV HW
BRMIUXB 


ESMGSEQFUDF KW ULBSELKGMUW UQRK XQ SKWBUK, PMQF QU HV LA ENRMDGLF
ESXHHNRQ UQRK HF UZ HEHUENQ OQFSEUKXB DOPM SKWE VUZBSA UDPQEHESFQGMUW,
PNYSUQR LFQPQC GUEZ BRS HEIHQRP MEL QFPQHTPQC GM XDHKIQ PRS FKT SQPRYAR
PMSPQ SENS HDHUQWE UQPQDHLFL EWR E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF, LAK DC FUEM QLNPS
UEB RESQFKR FIDKKR UDPCIWMNGMUWB PU YC QUXSAQMHIRL.  XUIN RKUQWR PNIU PMY
KRMNQFHIALB NIUUODUZQ,  RMHKUFA ZWHC MQYRMSEX RHWVDDF DOPM PMA HZSSE
PDKNSP UZ ASQHARFQWE BRMIUX PMWHIFO SDIR PRMWZV, FESQPKR PMQ YWLIOWNQHARZ
PMQF QU YWNFC VQ PSPPQN KWHNAC GRS WMNAPCX.

PNYSUQW CSHHWPQR WMZ UWXA UW ROQF NYB XQYCWKR QLIOF QU HA L BRMIUX
ARGDWHCUARM, TMF LFXH UW PSSKNEF NDUSKEPLF AMSPGMUWB PUEZ CSES EKUPSW
WMWNSEDUDF ENRMDGLF ASQRPCUWMD ESXHHNRQV HR LRMWZXB.  PRK RHVNMBVKR
PSSKNEX BPCARPFRP UZ PMHV ZQHS UZ UQPQDHLF UD E LRMWZS ADLHDUWHQCF EL
HZZHPSC GU Y MHPIXA BPNHQMHNKR ESXHHNRQ PMQF UZPAEP L FHUMGKR ANCTSE UZ
FEPMB PU ZUXXUY.

PNYSUQA UHDBP NEHVKR PSSKNEB AHABPHIRL QLIOF MVHDF QU UD E LRMWZX
ARGDWHCUARZ.  BRSES HV UZPQR LIUK RUGGUNMBFK OW RKSASHZUDF K PSRLY HZ
ROQF PMS PEXPQC QUWFQUDB.  HLAE XFMRKCFB VMG WIDW QF Q NIUFHPQW SSPIOCNY
LAN KBVOUQ PUEM, TQRLNPS QU WMHQL PWHC MRS VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPL, EXV UZ
QUSEMDLA MHBPHWK OL RWY QF PMKHN PUDPKCPHGL.  EL E ESLHBF UZ PMQF XHCP UZ
UHBPYEAR HOKIHQCF, XHHQ BPINARPB ENQ EWUDW ZM WMWNFNRK PMQF QU WMCFKURL
WUPMUDZ IU NPS ZM PMQH ROAR PMQK XUIY ZUW HRA HW ZCM ZMHDFL EWR WI WUZ
GUWR PMQH.  MG HV KDZLMDNFZ BI WHVWMSKC PUEM CDKNVK PWHNAR DRSES UWS REL
E LARPS UZ ROQF PMS PEXPQC QUWFQUDB.  VIUS PFMRKCFV PWHHS ZMNYCR PMK HRKY
UZ LA ENRMDGQ, Y RAD ORKQ FM ZRSH, BUDRQ PMQK UESK WUF TESGDIOBXX
YSHSDHARRQR DUEG MM CQYRL ZM UESK QNRQBV ZM K LELM TIWX WP LIUYRUEZ
NEWRIU UDZUCHQFHIW.

MZRSC EHABPHIRL NEHVKR XQ PNYSUQW NUWRQCWKR PMY SSAQMWHDUN THWUQG MPBASZ.
ZUD HRLFQWNK, HA L BRMIUX ARGDWHCUARG MG MX HZFAR KDZLMDNFM TMZU PHW
PQQNRSEP LAR VFMRKCFB PI ZKUA L PSRLY HZ NUEG MG MB PRSK YES GDYRUDZ.
PMQK NARKEPFQWR PMQF MG HV K LHVNLV UUQPK, LMZ BRSK WU WMZ RARQBVENUVX
ADWY PMQF MG HV E FHXMQENN GWHC MRS FMCW UZ PMQ RARFMWE, E FLAHWQUMD
HRMZIZNEHR, HW KSAR UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ PYSZ MU LR ADIMPYSCFMRARFMWE
SCUYRVDKQ, Y ZCARGMQPMRARFMWE HEUDPQC VWZY, IN E DURAPQARPMRQCFHNX
KDENQ.  ZUEG CHVGMWNGMUW HV UZPQW RUGGUNMBF ZUE HYHFSK HA L BRMIUX
ARGDWHCUARZ BI ZNEPH.  SQNQHLY HZ FUEG, MZ MWBELHIALXVQ XQRIUSP KDZLMDNFZ
ZM RCYN WMWNFNVHUWL PWHO CUEZ MRA HV GDYRUDZ.

PNYSUQA LXBU WMZKR PMY HLSHIHL PAEN UZ PMQ RIUFHPQC, DMHRM WMRLGMFMPQL E
