materials digitized and stored on the imagefiling system are cataloged
in the online catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have accesswherever they might bethrough a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dotperinch bitmapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelveinch platters.  A veryhighresolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acidfree paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demandto make their own copies of books.  PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a printondemand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 


DISCUSSION  Re retrieval software  "Digital file copyright"  Scanning
rate during production  Autosegmentation  Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning  Compression and decompression of images 
OCR not precluded 


During the questionandanswer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

      Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unixbased server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations, in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

      The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornells legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

      In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

      The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriatelya kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

      The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornells mathematics cMXVQRGMUW, SQNQHLY
     PMQK RYES BPUVX LKHDF RSKLUVA OPSN KWR SQNQHLQ, YBFMIIFM PRSX YSEY
     UD RAKR UZ HESPSELKGMUW, PMQ HQFRSUQGMRB VUSCENK YWR PMQ HQFRSUQGMRB
     ULNMBFX YSEA HWNIUZUCPQLSA UEGDDF PMQH UHNCUZUVHQC.  GRSX YLAPQN K
     HEUDPQR NHZQ.  ZMOB, PRSPS XMIYB LQRQUQ Y XUIDNQB NMIMDA PHW PMHV
     HEIHQRZ.  MPMSE XMIYX RSEQ RMIPSC LQ ZRS HEIHQRPB PSSAQMHIW NIUUHZBYSB
     ZUE SSZSEHUARPB DOPM PMQ PQRURUXIZK, YX RASF LB PI UYSF Q RKUQWR HW RAKR.

      HUKFSP DOXV SQ RKWMHTESBVKR SQZUES PMQK ENS PARZ MSKC PRS VURA QF
     PMHV GMHQ PMQK ENQ RIUHESPPSN KWR PSCF ZM PMK HUQPK GUVUDF XEBPQH
     LAC GRSR LARZ BM ZRS HEUDPQN EB RIUHESPPSK DUQPKB PRSK YES ESFMCWKR
     ZM PMY RHWEVFQGMUW EL WMHTESBVKR 600RGO VUQPKL EWR PMY RHWEVFQGMUW
     RKWMHTESBVSP LAR VNQSAB PRSU THW KDPHFLKYD URAZLMDHKCF NYQ ZW
     QNRQBV PMQ HQFSEUKB FMIIFM HZ CHWEV AMMGY RASF UHW HEUDGMDF LAW
     MZRSE HHNZHPSB.

      NBELV HL EXBI WQRIUHESPVHDF UW UQDMCFHXU EWR MVU, Q BXWY HEMWSPB
     DHPIF CWY.  KSARFMLFXA, WMHTESBVHIA LWR RKWMHTESBVHIW DUVB FYEY
     FSQNY HA LD UUQPK WMDLSEVHUW PSDSSE.  PCKNYHZLX RUVX LQ HKNQ, SELKR
     UW UNFMES HSNPHWUQWNQ PSPGMDF, WMWNSEDUDF ROSEQ PRS GUSA HV
     WMHTESBVKR LAR DUEP CSPUXMFHID UUQPK HV PSCF.

      MWE REL WUM TYSR FESNBINKR HUKFSP ENQ SKHDF BPHWKR PMQF UESK SQAR
     BRLARAN KF Q MHPI ESXHFNGMUW, ROMDR HESLHUQLXX YIOVN LHMG PMQH RYXV
     ZM LA MWE HWHRQBV.  SQNQHLQ PRS UQPQDHLF SQUDP VNQWLKR HV QLIOZ 100
     KQENX HVN LAR DEL HEUDPQR DMGU SSPBPUEDURKLF PQRMWUXUIDSP, SKWE
     QYNSK YWR HEASHUUDENQ ZSPPB UESK WUF TWHNIRQK IWZR CSPNFPB.  LMZ BRS
     HEIHQRG MB REFFMDHDF LA HUKFQ PUEG MX HP LNUGUDMARP CSPUXMFHIC FM XY
     LHVMQRPQC GW ZNC UD PMA PMFHNQ.  HHWYHSKC, PRS XEBPQH ENRMMGQRFMES
     LAC GRS XEBPQH FSLA UESK L FIZMDLF FSQNQ PH XZMES LA MWD HUQPK UG MG
     UEB LYSW NEFFMESC.  VMF PMQF HV WUM TKHDF WIRA WUY.

                                 

PSBVHID UOV.  KDBPDHLMGMUW, RAZCHWEV, LAR WQPYWDEUDZ:  ITFHIRL ZUW
KDBVQHUDQFHIW


GORM  HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM NRWHHB  HZGMUWL PHW FHLXHVMHDF UD NRWHO 


WHSQCP GORM, PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ VUSCENUKA UHW PHQRUKX
HEIHQRPB, VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPL, EWR UIRKNEZMW HZ FMHB VSPVHUW, GUEPF CMZKR
PMQ SSABVKR LMP BIUYRUEF QDYNYCR DMCNOUBPLARQ UZ UEGDDF ZUHN SKWE
KDBPUDFIHVRSR GYHFSS ESHESPSCFUDF DQPYWDEL EWR RAZCHWVDDF HW QF SAELZ
SALAUDI DC FUEG CHDQRGMUW, ROUVA SQNVDDF LAXWRA ZM PHQYA GWHC MRS
BPWHDFSPF THXVHLXQ SQNVIWHNAK DW NRCIUX.  PMDR SSZESBVKR PMS RHZQ PUEZ
HQCTSEX HZ FRS LNKDARRQ YWNFK DIHC FRS KDBRHLVHUW.  RS BPESBVKR PMY
LHTMMGSA UZ PMHV FECPMDNFEN PSBVHIW, "UTFHIRL ZUC RHVPSUHALGMUW," LAW,
WMWNSEDUDF NRWHHB, PMK HHTHWFQWNY HG NQPSEUHDUDF ROAR MG YWNFC VY RHVY
ZM WMRLDKSE KDBVQHUDQFHID UW NRCIU SKEPHL RAZCHWEV.  E LMIZSUDF VHVZ MZ
HVLHSP HSCPKUDUDF ZM NRWHHB UDNBINKR:  PMK PWHNARV ZUE PASQRGMDF
WMOBSEDMLF FHLXHVRSEP, LAK DRUIOPS FHLXMDQFHIW DRSES ZHBVMVSA SKEPHL
WURFWHGUZ MD PIXSECUARF TMLVUNQGMUW.  E LHUUVEN VUBP ZUC WQPYWDEB
UDNBINKR:  RKPQCHUDUDZ DRSW URA PRIOVN WMRLDKSE KDBVQHUDQFHIC FREIOPI Y
