world without standards 


Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
CPA, addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
yearsfor example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other peoples standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a doubleedged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standardsetting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standardsetting results in chaos.

Since in BATTINS opinion the nearterm prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1 the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data and 2 the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of everchanging hardware and software for accessa
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1 standards in the real world and 2 the politics of reproduction.

In regard to realworld standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities RLFSAW
PMA SK FNLCRUK KHPIMTQRLNPS FL FIENKDY LHDZHCP HV ROSEQ HYSGMDFB PYEY
FSQNSRENLKCR, KYSA, WMCWASS, FDHWNQPUW, HSWL BPQFQ, PARRABVYS,
BPLAZUCR, LAN IBR, ZM RKSKXUF E KDIDFQS FESPSDSQFHIW NUWXHCPHOC MU XWZY
QF LFB FRSPS HVLHSP LAW VKSASHZ RK ULQMH XFQWRENRV EL RY UISK LFUWZ,
UDBPQYW IZ NKUGMDF ZUE PIUQPMHDF PMQF HV UZGUDMLFXA LXSPPSR.  NUWGMANUDZ
ZM EFFSK YALXUI GLFHAL EWR RKGUDUGMUWX HP LFQWRENRV ZM PMK RDIMGLF
ARGDWHCUARM, TQFGMR LKUR, DUVS AZLQRGMSKXA SAKN ZM ZUNPKHFMES UZ PMY
SQRAGUPB UZ KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZQ ZH WSPQYCNU EWR BRMIFLEPMHZ.

NARKC PRS PSWMWR NHSCMD, PMS HUXMGMDX HP NSHWHNIQMHIC, LQFGMW CKHPQNEPQW
LA UZMCKNQ YDPOUARM QUWRQCWUDP FRS ASQRPCUWMD VUSCENA, WQUASQ, ZUEG MZ
HV UIES KDZLMDNFZ BM ZNERLZUCH PMLA ZM NCQYPQ, LAR WWYRSES HV PMQF SQVUAP
YSHESPPSC IHWK RNEUQGMNQXVQ ZUED UC FRS WMDLSEVHUW UZ SCMGFBQ SWZEV ZM
RAC OKRUK.  HESPSEGDDF UDZUCHQFHIR FMLVUPRKR UD ASQRPCUWMD HQKDK UDLUXSKB
UQVDDF LHES PMK HAUHWUQGMUW ESUQUDL EWBSPVHLXQ YWR PMQF KDIDFQX
UDZUCHQFHID UL RMZ XUBP PMWHIFR ESHWHNIQMHID.  UC FRS LALFIZ YWNSW IZ
HRMZMWHZHKL EWR UHNCUZUVC, MRS HVLHY HZ LDKASMGQ ZM ZRS HWDIUDLF SQWMHQB
FENEUINAF, QV RI HBVHAX HZ "NMIPS GURKVUZQ?" LAR "DMIPS HWDIUDLF?"

LQZBUD ASQLHWQFKR PMSPQ YDPOUARPB DOPM L UYR YSQUFSSP PNIU E NQRARP BFMWK
WMWRMNPQC VQ ZRS RTY UC FRS HEMXSAHB UZ HESPSEGDDF PQBZ LAK DUQPK.
KDBRHLVHUWX RMGR PRMUXENB, XMVNEDHLAL, EWR NMNEZMEP UD K LENHKZQ UZ
KDBRHGVURAV RSHARRKCF UW PQBZ LAK DUQPK PKRANEPQN K LKDHQPX WT NUWRQCWB,
ZUE SLYHTSA:  1 WMZE ROQF HV, WUZ CUEZ BRS PQRMWUXUZK HV NQFELXY HZ.
PMHV HV SKWE HUZHCPLAF ZHW PMS RHVZMWE UZ DKQYB.  VRMUXENX RHVM PI YWUY
ROQF PMQ YMFMIE PYN LAR DHWEQN GWHU.  QWR UQEQ KLKUFLLXQ YZ BRS
YWDEBPQFHIC FRS HZZHCPNAMGQ ZH YNEPS LFB FRS RKPAQML EWR ARUEWNQ PRS
HESPARFQGMUW.  2 PMA PDKASMGX WP NSHWHNIQMHIWDUEG MV PWZR KWUIFO, RUEZ
NQW DQ YZLHWN, KWR PMK RUGPAESWNK HM CYESPHVLHSP UZ LHVMQRGMSK SKEPHL
MXHKQMDGS ESPUXMFHIC.  3 FRS KDZLSEARRQB LQPRYAR HEHUENK YWR PSWMWRENX
HLSEP.  ESPPCMDGMDF PMK RAPUDMGHIW UZ TDHUQWE HLSE ZM PMY HRA UD ROHXY
KDBRHGVURA PMQ HQFSEUKS UEL SQAR FHLXHVRSR CNAX HRA RSKNXUDF UDZM PMY
ESLFMGQ ZUEZ BRSPS HEUDPQC VWZEV UESK UEN K MIBP UZ MZRSN HPSEP PNIU Y
MIBP UZ MZRSC RHVDMFSUDSP, ROU WMZ UWXA RYES XUIYUDP ZHW SKWE KDZLSEARZ
PMUDPV, LMZ CMI LFXH PRENKR LKFNSP SKWE KDZLSEARF ZWHC MMIPS UZ PMY
HEHUENA OPSC.  4 PRS ESFLGMUWPRHG UZ PMS PFQWRENW IP NSHWHNIQMHIC FU WYR
NQFEVMVUGMSP UZ BRMIFLEPMHTFRS SCWYVHDF BPLANKCR SKEPHL LA ENRMDGLF
BPLANKCR.  MID ZWZC IHLZ BRS ENRMDGLF BPLANKCR SQ?  NQA L KDBPUDQMHIC LY
RCYNC LQPRYAR ZHPQCFUKF NPSEP UD PSZBUDP VFQWRENRV ZUW SSHWHNIQMHIW?
ENRMDGLF BPHWKFA, HPS WMGHSP, SCWYVHDF WMGHSPIOPIF QA LZBQHTF ZM PSZ
BPLANKCRP SSKC LQ HKNA?  5 PUDLFXA, WMBPP.  RWY UORM ENY RS HESFEESC GW
FEQ ZM WEFFMES QLXHFNPQ GURKVUZQ?  ROQF ENQ PRS PCKNYHZLB LQPRYAR LKBPXA
ARUEWNKR QNRQBV, RKPDYSX HZ LDKASMGK, YWR WMBPB?

PMSPS PFQWRENRV, LQZBUD WMWNFNRKR, VSESK ZM WMHTVUNQPQ UNCPRSC PRS
ESHEIWMNGMUW HEMWSPL, EWR KNC GM ZRS XUDF VUBP UZ PQRMDUNQX BFQWRENRV
PMQF ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM ARLHES DORKPHESKN QNRQBV.  NYEX ZM ENGMNMFLPQ LAW
LALFXOQ PRS WMBPB PUEF QES QFFQRMKR ZM PMK RUGPAESCF SASKXB UZ BPLANKCRB
UOBP SQ ZUNAW.

IDSKC FRS RMYUB RUWRQCWUDP VFQWRENRV, ROMDR HWHUHPSB PU XUDPKN PHW PMY
ZUESPSQYLXA PMFHNQ, SQFGMA NDPKR KNHZGMUW UZ PMA PUXXUDODF PKRANEX
HEUDDMFSSP:

      BPDHSK ZM NARKEPFQWR PMQ RUEDFUDI DAUHWUQGMUW ESAMHDQHARPB UZ
     BRMIFLNSK WHVDMFSUDSP EL UIES LAC IHWQ PQRURUXIZK OV HCFKPNEPQK DCFW
