one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comeniuss bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERGMcQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as secondgeneration photocopies and secondgeneration
microfilm degenerate, so secondgeneration representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comeniuss bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the highquality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of lightlens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The PKH WMHQL PWHC MRS ESPSENRM WMOBNAMGX, YRSES MGL PHDBP LFSAIDLARQ
VUSP, LMG MG ML RMZ HOBP LA QNKNQHMD YSSEDMPS.  MG UEP EASKSLARQ ULW
SQXWWR PMHXY RMI PHARN KXV UZ PMKHC PHUS PFMWKUDP FYSM, TQRLNPS UWSP
UIRKX UZ FYSG CQPSEUHRAX RUEZ MRAB VUZZCENQ RLA WI DOPM Q FYSF.  PWZW
UIRKXB SAKN ZM ZIIW XHZFNYES.  LQC IIWASB XQYC GM XKN XHZFNYES.  PMQF UEB
QRUWIUMD WMRLQAHAWNSP, LAK DG MB PRSPS QRUWIUMD WMRLQAHAWNSP PMQF UESK
SAC GRS AHWHHSLA WMOBNAMGQ ZI MASH PHFZHCP PMQ PKH, LAC GUEZ CUVX VQYW,
PHSESQDPCQAMYSR UHZKR, XHHQ XHZFNYES SKWRHWB PH WQYVUPY PMQF UG PMQK
HEIXDKS PUZZCENY RMGU E SQZBSE UIRKX UZ FRS PQBZ PMQK NQC UYEQ Y VDXVUDZ.

                                 


KDBRHLVHUW  HUFSMDQFHIRL UZ KDZLSEARG CGCL EWR FQP VQPX  HNK SKEPHL VPUB 


NIDHDF PMK RHVNMBVHIC FUEF ZUXXURYR, VKSSELF KNKDGMUWLF ZHUDPB RYES UQRK.
RAMGRSN EEF H.K., ELXHDMQFHIW UU LHQDHNQR FMLVUPRSEL RHW NQXB H.K.,
WMHTMFSEKURKN KQBOHVHGMUW LAN VIZHVGMRB LHZSHWP MEL K NMWOUARZBEZY
RKGUDUGMUW ZUN EWNHKCF PDYSV KNEUQ, LFPMIOPI PMQ PKH DOXV SQ QLSA ZM
UEWRSA PMQF.  IDSKC FMHB VFQPQ UZ LUULHDL EWR ELLHUHDF PMQF PMY
PQRMDUNQVUIOCWLF HEIWMNSEL EWR PMQ RIUHQCNUKX SARWIEP RKDMRK ZM HLQ PRS
MZRSC PYW ZQHSB, PRSA LD URLGMFMGMUW VUEQ PMA SMVNEWE UZ WMDFESBV, ROMDO
UHPIP CQRKHSK LFX UZ FRSHD FHLXMDQFHIRL, YWNFR IKLQ PM XQ YLXQ PI MLANVY
PMESK RUGPAESCF ZQHSX HG NMWOUARG CAPUDMGHIRL LAC GKF PSPB LAC VQ YLXQ PW
KDBPUDFIHVU EUIDF PMQH.

UZGURQ WINMHQCF ENRMMGQRFMES IWE UEL XHHQ KNLKCFKFSP PMQF UFWY PNIU MGB
GMPIF ZMWHL UW UZGURQ WINMHQCFL EWR NBQYC RHDQRGMUWL PHW HUFSQHARFQGMUW.
UORM UZ PMY HNK BPLANKCR HV QYVHSE ZM ESKN LAR NSAENSE QF GUEPP CQYKDDF
PMLA PMS PTIX BFQWRENR, DMHRM HV YSPCQHASK ZARSELF.  ROQF PMQF HQLAV HB
PMQF UG UWY RLAPB ZM HLK PNEHRMDV HC FUGU LWR IWY, URA HV BPMNQ, VQRLNPS
IWK NAPUDSP PDEFMHRB ZUCHQFX RMHSA GMZL WISP WUZ, CRSESEL VPUB LEEX PMY
YWNSK DL RMZ NYMGUDP ZHW PMHV YWDE PDIOT FM WESQFQ YWUPMSE PDEFMHRB ZUCHQF.
ROQF HV RAKRKR HV LA QLUVMGQ ZI OPS ROQFKSSE PDEFMHRB ZUCHQF UWY RLAPB.

PMQ PKH HEIXDKSP E LMWEQZ BUEF QXVWYX HRA ZM WMWLQRZ BRS VPUB WINMHQCF ZM
PMK PNEHRMDB.  PRS WUFQGMUW PMQF PMK PNEHRMDL EES UD HV NBQYNSK Y RMIHRQ
PMQF UWA RYSRV ZM UQEQ LQPSW IR USE HW MHP SDLHDUWHQCF, LAC GUEG MX HRA
KNLKCFKFS.  PTIV UB XSPB HKPLFIULAUKNQV UA LZBQHTFUDP FI WAPUDA PHWUQPB
ZUN EXV VDWRX HG UAUHWUQGMUW, PMIOPI UIES HQFKXUUQDUQNLF UD QFPQHTGMDF ZM
WMSKN EXV XHCPX HG NMWOUARPB.  PMY HPMSE KNLKCFKFK HB PUEZ BRS UIRKX UZ
PQBZ ESHESPARPQC VE XTIV UB VHUFSK YW UCRSE UZ UQFDMGINS EMDRSN EWR UIES
UFYSMVSA PMLA PMQ HIWAS UZ PQBZ UZPAESC VX WNK.  XMPM UZPAE RHKNECNMHNQX
BPNHQMHNSP, LMP BTIS NQRIZDUPYB PUEZ BRS MHSEENRMMDLF UIRKX UZ FRS PQBZ
PMQF UWK HB XWZVDDF QF UQA WMZ UESK SQAR UD PMQ HUDRV UZ PMK RSPDIRAEP,
ROSEQYX HNK WISP WUZ.

IWK UL RMZ ESLFXA KUUHDF ZUC PRS VDWR UZ WINMHQCF PMQF PMQ PKH NYCFB PW
ARWMHTELB.  PRS PQM DLA UEWRSA PMQ EUDW IT UQFSEUKX UNK UEL, EX RASF LL E
