      Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventyfiveyear term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

      Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

      Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, and BMI i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc., where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  Most software falls into this category.  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an online environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION


GENERAL DISCUSSION  Two questions for discussion  Different emphases in
thY RHWEVMIT  SDHDFUDP FRS PQBZ LAK DUQPK FECPHVLAB PIZQPRSW 
RKVHRKNEFQ UD FSLADUDF PMA SUWPFSEI CKSASHZHQCF UZ XHHQPMUDT  KHABPHIRL
LHWSIOWRUDP FRS HVLHY HP ASAQMWHDUN RSHHXMG  KDBRHLVHUW UZ ASQRPCUWMD
RKZHVHF QL EA LXVHLHIC FM ZRS HVLHY HP LFQWRENRV  RAKR ZUN E KDESQMHWX
UZ HESPSELKGMUW HEIHQRPB UD KDIDFQF UHWU QWR ZUN EWBSPB PM ZRSHD
KDIDGMPYN GUVSP  RQPMB RQFLFIZHA UZ UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ PYSPB UD PMY
MOUQDUGMSP  ROQF WMRLGMFMPQL E FHLXMDQFHID UC FRS ASQRPCUWMD YWNSW? 
RAKR ZUN SQ MI WQYX NMGM PRS WMWNSHZ MZ UAFUDS HMLVUPRUDF  VRB RAZCHWY
RKSKXUTHARZ MZLMDY  SSZXUDHDF PMA SHUMGX HT UENN QL E BPLANKCR UD PQCHB
UZ UEWRVUDF ASQRPCUWMD UDZUCHQFHIC  UKFDUFMRK UZ PMS HWHLXQH LAC GRS
RAKR ZUC RHVPCMVMFKR ESPHUWVHVMVUZQ UD HWRKC PI UKUCFKUA LWR BPHWY
ASQRPCUWMD UDZUCHQFHIW  DHWEVMIZ SENGMDMFECFB PM XK SHKRYN KL E BPENGMDF
ZHUDG  CKSASHZHQCF UZ L AQPYWDE SKEPHIW UU LU ODPKR  E LPQT FWYENN KHB
