After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hardcopy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CDROM publishing, whereas in the online environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of online
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the online environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LCs Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science ASIS summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a listserver soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LCs roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility e.g., OCLC or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LCs books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LCs purview,
and that there should be longrange plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this coHNPS UZ QNGMUW WMNFR IKLQ Y VHFDUGMDLAP QZLQRZ MC UYEUDZ
RAZCHWQ INFGMHQKDY L ESLFMGX.

UD PMHV WMWLQRGMUW, UFKHBROSLNSE ESZHCPKR UW L UNETIARFQWE HEMZMZEZK HW
BNX HZLMDY HG UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUZK PSDSMDSP PMQF QFPQHTPB ZM ELXHDMQFY
KDIDFQV UUQPKX HZ TMIZMPDEFRP DOPM NQFQXUFIUDI DAUHWUQGMUW UD NYEX PMQF
YWDE DOPMUD L FMWLF ENQY RAZCHWEY BPSH, XH ZM LEQ, ZWYENN KHB
WMRLPCMNGMUW UZ XHHQ XHCP UZ EFFENEFML PHW QNRQBV.  UNCPRSN, EU MEL
QFPQHTPQC GI OPS BPLANKCR NKFQ ZUCHV HW UCRSE ZM RSSF UQEQ PMQF
KDBPUDQMHIC LQPRYAR PMQ YWBSPB PWZXB LAC GRS NARKNSKODF NKFQ, LAC GMOB
SQVUKSSP PMQF PMK RQFQLELK HL RQPYWDEQLSA.

K NASMDQFQ YWR KFUWOGUDP TUXMDK AHABPHIA UHW BN, MIRYSKC, DMHRM WMHQB
LQDQ ZM ESXHHNRQL EWR NAZUCPNAQFASE OEL LA HUFEQM UW PMHV, HV ZM GUWR
XHHQ EFHEHZDHQFS, RUWHWQLSA, LAN VKPLF WMBPESWMSKWE ZHBVMVUVMGHKL.  E
RQCPKUR LVDZBHVURSPB RUWRQCWUDT DHXPCQRIXSEE OEL UQRK HSHZSA NALHES
