autosegmentation, windowing, and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
ENQ RESQFKR UD NSUD LAR NHWRAXVB XMWLF XEBPQH LAN KWBSPV HCFM ZRS QNFMLF
KDIDFQV UUQPKB RIUHEHVUDF K XMIY HV HEIXDKKR PMWHIFU E WINMHQCF WMCFWHX
BPNHQMHNQ YWR L AQPYWDEKR HUKFA PUVSPSESKC, SMZM IZ NMHRM DOXV SQ
RKBRDHSQW.

PMS HESPSCFQFHIW DUVB NUWNBINY RMGU E KDBRHLVHUW UZ XHHQ UZ PMK HBVHAB
LHWSIOWRUDP FRS HLY HZ FMHB PQRURUXIZK YL E HESPSELKGMUW ZMUX BPHWKFY,
ESPNSPMHDF, LQDQHF.

FEHQFL LARCQ YWR HOKDPM GONKW

PMA RQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEX VMVNEWE ALS UEL UER KBZARVHSK YSHSDHARRQ DOPM
NEBPSE BRLADUDF UZ HEUDPQC IQFSEUKXB.  VHWNQ 1987, PRS VUSCENE OEL
FECPMDHGQFKR UD PMA RQFHIALF LPDMDNFFMNEB FYSG CDIMGOGUDP TWHHKQM ALGCZ
Q NWZHSNEGMSK APZUCP SQZCYSW LLF LAN GHWZQGUSK FLWR PDLAF MDUSKEPMGX
VUSCENHKL.  EW USKDSHKY WZ FRS HEIHQRZ CUVX LS HESPSCFKR, IDGDDF MGB
MHBPHWK YWR ALXB BPNEPQZK ZUC PRS UNFMES.

LA UDRKTFI RHVNMBVHIW UU AQFRG DOXV ZUXVWY, UDNBINUDF K RKBRDHTFHIW UZ
