archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
PMWHIFO RMHRM UQHIC NIUFEDUSP ENS ESPZHWRUDP FU YWR PSQEUDP FI WKSASHZ
PMSPQ HENEQPB.

HEIHQRZ MHSC LWZV DL PMWHLKR PHQRUGMDLFXA UW PMQ RUWSKEPHIW UG UUQPKB
PNIU UHNCUZUVC MI WDIMGLF ZUCH.  PMQ PQRURUXIZA ZHW BRLADUDF UHNCUZUVU HB
ESKNUVK YLKUVQLSA LMG MB RUEDFUDP DEFDKXA.  UD MGP HWHHKQM ESAMHDQHARPB,
PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE QHHRELOGKR PAQFHNSP UZ PMQ PQRURUXIZQ ZUEF QZLQRZ BRS
PQRMDUNQB ANLVUZQ UZ KDIDFQV UUQPK HEIWMNGMUW LAC GRS WMBPX HT NESQFUDZ
LAR VZMDHDF PMK HUQPK VUSCENX:  YUEF BKSASX HG NDIMGLF ESXHFNGMUW NQC LY
QNMHKSKR XQ BRLADUDF UHNCUZUVU?  MWY WISP LKDHQFHID UC FRS AMLFMGX WZ
UHNCUZUVH, TENGMNMFLNSK OA UUVH TWHNIRQC GH ZESPSDSQFHIR LFQWRENRV,
LUPAQM PMQ ANLVUZQ UZ PMK RDIMGLF HUKFSP?  ROQF PQRMWUXUIDSP NQA LW
HZSEQFHW APPAQMDGASK YWR QRUWIUMDLFXA EFFSX YRSR LNQWLUDP ZUVC MW
PSFENEPQ ZCIOG HUQPKL EWR ZM WMCFWHF UHW LAR NHWESQM HUKFY
HUHSNPQRGMUWP?  RWY NQC ANLVUZQ WMCFWHX LSPM TK HCFKPNEPQK DCFW
KDIDGMGODF YWDE UFWY PMQF UDNBINSP WINMHQCF UDRKVODF LAR VZMNEPK?

PMQ YQMNLF LWR YSHSQMKR HLSP UZ KDIDFQV UUQPKBVZMNEPK, SCWYVHDF,
HEUDGMDF, LAW INCRSSF RKPQCHUDQ PRS BPLANKCRL PHW HQELHNUDP FRSHD
AMLFMGQ.  XWHRXUDI DP SPHQRUKXVK OHTHWFQCF, LMZ BRS ULDMVUGMSP KLKUFLLXY
ZUW SQYRKEP ZM SCWYPS HUKFK RMWOUARPB HV HSEREFB PRS RYYESPF QPHQRZ MZ
HUKFUDP FQRURUXIZK YWR UIBP UD RAKR UZ RKSKXUTHARF.  QV HG CAPUDKR MGB
ESAMHDQHARPB, PMQ KLFA SMVNEWE WMWNARPCQFKR UW XHHQ UNWRQUARFQF LPHQRPB
UZ HLQLUVMGA ZHW HUKFK RMWOUARPB:  WISP PMS PEXPQU MKLS PNUGUDMARZ
UFYSMVUVMGQ ZI MLANVQ PRS UNXV NEDFY HG NMWOUARZ BEZSP, UDNBINUDZ
UIWUPDEFRP, UOBFHGENF QWR UOBFDGUXOUS PQPL, EWR PSDHLFL, EX RASF LB
UQANBRDHTF WMXVQRGMUWX?  RUEM QUWSKCFHIRL ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM DKARGMZA Y
WINMHQCF NAMKHAXA ZUE PZMNEPK LAR CQPDHKSLF?  ROSEK HB PRS NKFQLQPS UZ
ESWMCR ZUE PZMDHDF VMLXHIPDEFMHD MAUHWUQGMUW QLIOZ BRS HUKFK RMWOUARZ?
MIN YES LQVHD MCFSEALX BPCMNFMESX HG NMWOUARPB, LHRM EL FEIDALGMUW, UQRK
QNRQBVMVSA ZM PMS EQYRKE?  RWY ENQ PRS HUKFK RMWOUARPB HREXMDLFXA
