
The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput, providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material.  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information aWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARZ
KUHU BPLANKCRB RIUUHZBYSB RLA SQ EFFSHKC GH YSAQMWHDUD MUQPK UQALPKHQCF
KHH TWHRQBVSP UDNBINUDI:  KMWOUARG MUQPK PCLALPSE, ESPCHKLKF LWR
KSLFNLGMUW HZGMNQV NHVE YWR WINMHQCF BRLADUDF LAW VMWOUARG CSPDIA LWR
WMDLSEVHUW.  ROAR WMCTUDKR DOPM KHH BEXPQH TFLWLUDF KWR HZSEQFHIRL,
BPLANKCRB RLA ELVHBP UD PKRANEGMDF HUKFK RQFQLELSP PMQF ENY
UDPQCNUEDFQYLXQ YUIDF K LENHKZQ UZ XEBPQHB.  PRS EFFSMDQFHIRL UZ
KDZLSEARF QZSWHQNRSL PHW HUKFQPKFIDDF, UDRKVODF, WMHTESBVHIA, LWR
PCLALPSE UZPQW NLNPS NARQCPKUCFQ WUWRQCWUDP KHU XEBPQH WMHTQFMVUVMGX,
NQVUSCQFHIR, FSEZUCHLARQ, LAN IZRENR NIUFEGMVMVUZQ, NAGMX BFQWRENW
HUFSQHARFQGMUW FENEHQPQEP ENY SBPQLVUPRKR.  PMQ YOVH BFQWRENRV PMQF ENY
SQUDI KKSASHZKR ZUC PRSPS EFFSMDQFHIRL NQC LA HPSC GI WQRESELQ PRS
NARQCPKUCFE, XMNRQBVUNXVK OCFKPNEPQ HUKFUDP TWHRQBVSP, LAR GWHUIPQ "HZAR
XEBPQHL."  EOVU HL EA LWBESKDPQN KHQDHNQW LQFHIALX BFQWRENRV UDBPMGMFY
LAVH BPLANKCRV RKSASHZSE DOPM UIES PMLA ZCARZQ WMOBMGPQSP WMHTDHPSW IZ
300 XIFNCFYSEP ESHESPARGMDF HLSEB, SARWIEP, LAC ILANUQNFMESEP.  PMY
BPLANKCRP HMLVUNQGMUWB PUEF QES RKSKXUHSK DC FRSPS WMOBMGPQSP UESK
ALGMUWLF QNRQTFLARQ LAR GWHGDRK PMQ SELHV ZUD HCFSEALGMUWLF UECHUWOGQFHIW
UD PMK RKSASHZHQCF UZ RAD OCFSEALGMUWLF HWFKDUFYGMUW ZUE PFQWRENKDFYGMUW
HVH XFQWRENRV.

PMHV HESPARFQGMUW RKBRDHSQB PRS RKSKXUTHARZ MU LOVHB KHH BFQWRENRV LAN K
RAR YZLHWF QF QOVU, Q NKFQLQPS UW BPLANKCRP HWHHKQMV HA L DORK PNQUYRHWY
UZ HUKFUDI DWRHLPCHKV HWNFNKDDF NQTFHNS, EQRHWKDDF, HEMWSPVHDF,
NIFSMDQFHIW, RHVPCMVMFHIW, RHVFSYK, KSLFNLGMUW, LAR GESPSDSQFHIC.  FRS
KUHU HUKFSEK WQFQLELY RUVB NIXSE HUKFUDP VFQWRENRV SQUDI KKSASHZKR XQ
UQWA HWFKDUFYGMUWV HC ULAK WUGPAESCF WMNAPCHKV.  HZ CUVB NUWFQUD
BPLANKCRP HMLVUNQGMUWV RQFSP, HWDIUDP, EASQFKR ALGMUWLF LAW
UDPQCWQFHIALS FWHHKQMB, VFQFMV, EQK YWCRL, EWR QLBPNEQMB.  PRS LAVH HUKFY
