as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival."

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

            Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 6

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.  Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category 2.  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     6  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research Bellcore, the American
     Chemical Society ACS, the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS, and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems, SpringerVerlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers.  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals, supplemented with the gNEHRMDL PWHC MRS FEHSE HMLVUNQGMUW.  PMY
UDRKVODF UZ PMQ YCPMDSAL PWHC QRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB WINMHQCFV HL ELKUVQLSA
UD XMPM HUKFQ YWR PQBZ ZUCHQF, LAR VKSSELF KDZLSEARG MCFSEULRQB RLA SQ
HLKR.  IOD PUYXB ENQ 1 PU YBVSPB PRS APPAQMDGARSPL EWR QNRQTFQLUVMGX WZ
ASQRPCUWMD QNRQBV ZM HEHUENK OIOCWLFL EB RIUFEESR DMGR HEFSE, LAC 2 GW
DKARGMZA PMQ HHXG CSPHDQLSA UNWNGMUWX HZ FRS HLSE UDPQNPQNQ PU YW
ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH UZ HIHNALXB, UDNBINUDI DR FENGMNMFLN E WMHTENHVUW UZ
FEPKHUKFK RHVFSYK DOPM ELDMD KHVFSYK UDPQNPQNSP.  QYNSK QSZSEHUARPB DOPM
RMQHHVPCE XFMRKCFX HA L LKDHQPX WZ FELEV LHZVSPZ BUEP BQYCNMHDF FQVEL EES
WMHTSAPQC IMNU PELPQC DMGU EWA ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH PMLA DOPM FEHSC, SMF
PMQF ZUW SQYKDDF LFX SSEVHUWX HZ FRS ENGMNBSP ENS EIOPIXA QAOHLKSACF.

FEHQFL LARCQ YWR HOKDPM GONKW

PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW HV ULC HHWY SSZARVHSK LAC GHUQRUWLHUHDF PMLA HUKFY
NQTFHNQ YXURA.  ALXB YSHSDHARRQ DOPM HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW UNC
DOXV SQ ESFLPQN KWR WMHTENKR DOPM PMY SSZSEHKWNY HP UKLUDP FYSP CQEQKKR.
ROQF ULQMHWL EZLQRZ MNC QNNMNEWQ?  MIN YWBHNQFK RHYL PNFB FYSP MKLQ PM XY
UD HWRKC PM XA HPSUNS?  UWY WI KDZLSEARF MPSEP ESQNZ BI HHTSEPAQM PQBZ?
PMSPQ YES AMSPGMUWB PUEZ CUVX LY SSZXUESN.  GHW UQWA, E LSEGDRQ LMESLN
UQQ XQ Y SQZBSE XHFNGMUW PMLA HSNPHWUHDF PMY RHWV DRUIOPS PMHV DOXV LFXH
SQ KDBRHLPSW.

PSBVHID LO

UQWESQPM HSPQEP

WMZEDHPIF BYN HEMZQRPB NCQYGMSK YWDEP.  HWHPQQMHID FNECFKR XQ PMA SYN ZM
LNPMHWL EWR KDBVQHUDQFHWX HZ NHWEV UDNBINSP PMS EDIMP ZM WI HW LNPMHWOGY
PMA PUXXUDODF:  ESHEIWMNQ PRS YWDE, HESHENK RSEDGQFDGY RHWEV, KDBPDHLMPQ
PMY RHWQ GM ZRS FHLXMD, LAR GMLVUNBE ZSEZUCH HW KDPHFLQ ZRS YWDE.  UD
KNKDGMUW, WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX HP LIOWR ESWMCRUDPV LAR NIUFHPQE HWHPDQUP RKLY
PMS EDIMP ZM WMCFWHS NARFQX UZ FRSHD YWDEB.  PRSPS DHPIPB ENA RMZ
NAVUUHPQC GRSES ENQ Y ANCTSE UZ YSRQTFHIRL LAN VHUMGQFHIRL.

LA ASQRPCUWMD ARGDWHCUARF TFLRQB VPCKURL UW PMQ RHZEWDIMP XEBPQH.
WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX RLAZ BM WUWPCUX HLSP UZ PMKHC DHWE YWR SQ FEDK ZUN EWA
HLQ PRS FHLXMD NYCFB EOHDQ LAR KELK YWBSPL EF BMGFBY HC WM WHXZ.  BRS
UQDEQPFSQNK HX RHWVDDF UD PMHV ENQY.  WMCFNEQMV, POHRKVURAX HR ASAQMWHDUW
HLQ, YWR WMXVQRGMSK VURQRLUDF KES UD HLQ YWR SQUDP DAPUDKR.

HVLHSP WMWNSEDUDF PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM RMLAPK YWDEX RMGMIMF RKPQQMHIA LES UIES
KDZLMDNFZ BI WQYX NMGM.  EHABPHIRL WMWNSEDUDF PMK HCFKPDHZQ UZ PMY RHWY
LAC GRS BPQFHL UZ PMQ RUEDFKR SKEPHIA NWRSE PMQ RHZEWDIMP FLN YES ZM SQ
KNRCSPPSC.  GRSPS ENS HMLVUR TUXMDK OBVHAX RMHRM ESAMHDK HAUHWHQW
KDLFIZHA.


                                 


                EFHSWROV OVD:  KHDQRZMWE UZ FECPMDHGLAPB


HESPARPQEP:

     FEHQFL K.M. LARCY
