US: United States

USSR: Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (Soviet Union); used for information
dated before 25 December 1991

YAR: Yemen Arab Republic [Yemen (Sanaa) or North Yemen]; used for information
dated before 22 May 1990 or CY91

Administrative divisions: The numbers, designatory terms, and first-order
administrative divisions are generally those approved by the US Board on
Geographic Names (BGN). Changes that have been reported but not yet acted on
by BGN are noted.

Area: Total area is the sum of all land and water areas delimited by
international boundaries and/or coastlines. Land area is the aggregate of
all surfaces delimited by international boundaries and/or coastlines,
excluding inland water bodies (lakes, reservoirs, rivers). Comparative areas
are based on total area equivalents. Most entities are compared with the
entire US or one of the 50 states. The smaller entities are compared with
Washington, DC (178 km2, 69 miles2) or the Mall in Washington, DC (0.59 km2,
0.23 miles2, 146 acres).

Birth rate: The average annual number of births during a year per 1,000
population at midyear; also known as crude birth rate.

Dates of information: In general, information available as of 1 January 1992
was used in the preparation of this edition. Population figures are estimates
for 1 July 1992, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1992 through
mid-1993. Major political events have been updated through 30 June 1992.
Military age figures are for 1992.

Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000
population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.

Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations with
176 nations (the US has not yet established full diplomatic relations with
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia). The US has diplomatic
relations with 167 of the 178 UN members - the exceptions are Angola, Bhutan,
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Slovenia,
and Vietnam. In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 9 nations
that are not in the UN - Andorra, Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, San Marino,
Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vatican City.

Disputes: This category includes a wide variety of situations that range from
traditional bilateral boundary disputes to unilateral claims of one sort or
another. Every international land boundary dispute in the ``Guide to Interna-
tional Boundaries,'' a map published by the Department of State, is included.
References to other situations may also be included that are border or
frontier relevant, such as maritime disputes, geopolitical questions, or
irredentist issues. However, inclusion does not necessarily constitute
official acceptance or recognition by the US Government.

Economic aid: This entry refers to bilateral commitments of official develop-
ment assistance (ODA), which is defined as government grants that are
administered with the promotion of economic development and welfare of LDCs
as their main objective and are concessional in character and contain a
grant element of at least 25%, and other official flows (OOF) or transactions
by the official sector whose main objective is other than development
motivated or whose grant element is below the 25% threshold for ODA. OOF
transactions include official export credits (such as Eximbank credits),
official equity and portfolio investment, and debt reorganization by the
official sector that does not meet concessional terms. Aid is considered to
have been committed when agreements are initialed by the parties involved and
constitute a formal declaration of intent.

Entities: Some of the nations, dependent areas, areas of special sovereignty,
and governments included in this publication are not independent, and others
are not officially recognized by the US Government. ``Nation'' refers to a
people politically organized into a sovereign state with a definite territory.
``Dependent'' area refers to a broad category of political entities that are
associated in some way with a nation. Names used for page headings are usually
the short-form names as approved by the US Board on Geographic Names. The
long-form name is included in the ``Government'' section, and an entry of
``none'' indicates a long-form name does not exist. In some instances, no
short-form name exists - then the long-form name must serve for all usages.
There are 264 entities in The World Factbook that may be categorized as
follows:

NATIONS

177 UN members (excluding Yugoslavia)

11 nations that are not members of the UN - Andorra, Georgia, Kiribati,
Macedonia, Monaco, Nauru, Serbia and Montenegro, Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu,
Vatican City (Holy See)

OTHER

1 Taiwan

DEPENDENT AREAS

6 Australia - Ashmore and Cartier Islands, Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, Coral Sea Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Norfolk Island

2 Denmark - Faroe Islands, Greenland

16 France - Bassas da India, Clipperton Island, Europa Island, French Guiana,
French Polynesia, French Southern and Antarctic Lands, Glorioso Islands,
Guadeloupe, Juan de Nova Island, Martinique, Mayotte, New Caledonia, Reunion,
Saint Pierre and Miquelon, Tromelin Island, Wallis and Futuna

2 Netherlands - Aruba, Netherlands Antilles

3 New Zealand - Cook Islands, Niue, Tokelau

3 Norway - Bouvet Island, Jan Mayen, Svalbard

1 Portugal - Macau

16 United Kingdom - Anguilla, Bermuda, British Indian Ocean Territory, British
Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Falkland Islands, Gibraltar, Guernsey,
Hong Kong, Isle of Man, Jersey, Montserrat, Pitcairn Islands, Saint Helena,
South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands

15 United States - American Samoa, Baker Island, Guam, Howland Island, Jarvis
Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Islands, Navassa Island, Northern
Mariana Islands, Palmyra Atoll, Puerto Rico, Trust Territory of the Pacific
Islands (Palau), Virgin Islands, Wake Island

MISCELLANEOUS

6 Antarctica, Gaza Strip, Paracel Islands, Spratly Islands, West Bank, Western
Sahara

OTHER ENTITIES

4 oceans - Arctic Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocedt>" "t8|x|8 Z8dt>

d tl"V=

xh` plptV

>lpd$ 4`d )J |l4d">$d>p =ld? >lp "d8lR>|Nd p`d xlJ" ?ld8tVVd= |>=dFd>=d>p
`l$dVt>=? lx =lF`Jp`tp?)t>t" d|?Bd|" 4"t>?Bd|" t>=  d>=t |> JlJp` 8x"|8t?

|"l?? =l$d?p|8 F"l=J8p 8|x"=$ 4`d 4tVJd lx tVV Rll=? t>= ?d"4|8d? F"l=J8d=
=l$d?p|8tVVt?

|"l?? >tp|l>tV F"l=J8p 8|F"=$ 4`d 4tVJd lx tVV Rll=? t>= ?d"4|8d? F"l=J8d=
=l$d?p|8tVVt FVJ? |>8l$d dt">d= tN"lt=" $|>J? |>8l$d dt">d= Nt xl"d|R>d"?
x"l$ =l$d?p|8 F"l=J8p|l>?

|F"B|x" $dp`l=lVlRt$ B> p`d FFR8l>l$t)) ?d8p|l>" |F"B|x" =lVVt" d?p|$tpd? xl"
p`d ZRdx 8lJ>p"|d?" p`d xl"$d" Jl4|dp "dFJNV|8?" t>= p`d Rt?p RJ"lFdt>
8lJ>p"|d? t"d =d"|4d= x"l$ FJ"8`t?|>R Fl)d" Ft"|pt 8"""= 8tV8JVtp|l>? "tp`d"
p`t> x"l$ 8l>4d"?|l>? tp lxx|8|tV 8J""d>8t d 8`t>Rd "tpd?? 4`d """ $dp`l=
>l"$tVVt |>4lV4d? p`d J?d lx |>pd">tp|l>tV =lVVt" F"|8d )d|R`p?" )`|8` t"d
tFFV|d= pl p`d ZJt>p|p|d? lx Rll=? t>= ?d"4|8d? F"l=J8d= |> t R|4d> d8l>l$t?
B> t==|p|l> pl p`d Vt8B lx "dV|tNVd =tpt x"l$ p`d $thl"|pt lx 8lJ>p"|d?" p`d
?ptp|?p|8|t> xt8d? t $thl" =|xx|8JVpt |> ?Fd8|xt|>R" |=d>p|xt|>R" t>= tVVl)|>R
xl" p`d ZJtV|pt lx Rll=? t>= ?d"4|8d?? 4`d =|4|?|l> lx t """ |F"B|x" d?p|$tpd
|> =lVVt"? Nt p`d 8l""d?Fl>=|>R d?p|$tpd |> p`d Vl8tV 8J""d>8t R|4d? p`d """
8l>4d"?|l> "tpd? Z>d p`lJ?t>= =lVVt"? )|VV NJt p`d ?t$d $t"Bdp Nt?Bdp lx Rll=?
|> p`d )J t? l>d p`lJ?t>= =lVVt"? d 8l>4d"pd= pl p`d Vl8tV 8J""d>8t tp p`d """
8l>4d"?|l> "tpd d )|VV NJt |> p`d lp`d" 8lJ>p"t? |F"B|x" d?p|$tpd? xl" p`d
>xd?" l> p`d lp`d" `t>=" t"d Nt?d= l> p`d 8l>4d"?|l> lx |F"B|x" d?p|$tpd? |>
Vl8tV 8J""d>8|d? pl =lVVt"? tp p`d lxx|8|tV 8J""d>8t d 8`t>Rd "tpd?? Z>d
8tJp|l>$ p`d F"lFl"p|l> lx" ?tt" =dxd>?d d Fd>=|pJ"d? t? t Fd"8d>p lx |F"B|x"
|> Vl8tV 8J""d>8t t88lJ>p? $tt =|xxd" ?JN?pt>p|tVVt x"l$ p`d F"lFl"p|l> )`d>
|F"B|x" t88lJ>p? t"d d F"d??d= |> """ pd"$?" t?" xl" d t$FVd" )`d> t> lN?d"4d"
d?p|$tpd? p`d =lVVt" Vd4dV lx pJ??|t> l" VtFt>d?d $|V|pt"t d Fd>=|pJ"d?>
?|$|Vt" F"lNVd$? d |?p )`d> 8l$Fl>d>p? t"d d F"d??d= |> =lVVt"? J>=d" 8J""d>8t
d 8`t>Rd "tpd F"l8d=J"d?? `|>tVVt" t? t8t=d$|8 "d?dt"8` $l4d? xl")t"= l> p`d
""" $dp`l=" )d `lFd pl 8l>4d"p tVV |F"B|x" d?p|$tpd? pl p`|? $dp`l= |> xJpJ"d
d=|p|l>? lx 4`d tl"V= `t8pNllB?

|"l)p` "tpd 8FlFJVtp|l>=$ 4`d t>>JtV Fd"8d>p 8`t>Rd |> p`d FlFJVtp|l>"
"d?JVp|>R x"l$ t ?J"FVJ? 8l" =dx|8|p= lx N|"p`? l4d" =dtp`? t>= p`d NtVt>8d
lx $|R"t>p? d>pd"|>R t>= Vdt4|>R t 8lJ>p"t? 4`d "tpd $tt Nd Fl?|p|4d l"
>dRtp|4d?

BVV|8|p ="JR?$ 4`d"d t"d x|4d 8tpdRl"|d? lx |VV|8|p ="JR? d >t"8lp|8?"
?p|$JVt>p?" =dF"d??t>p? 8?d=tp|4d?=" `tVVJ8|>lRd>?" t>= 8t>>tN|?? 4`d?d
8tpdRl"|d? |>8VJ=d $t>t ="JR? VdRtVVt F"l=J8d= t>= F"d?8"|Nd= Nt =l8pl"? t
