structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being develVlFd= xl" p`d?d tFFV|8tp|l>? 8t> Nd J?d= pl =d8"dt?d p`d
J>8d"pt|>pt" ?J88d??xJVVt |>pdR"tpd |$tR|>R F"l8d??d?" t>= F"l$lpd  lFd>
?t?pd$??   8BBl |? t> t88"d=|pd= 8$d"|8t> Ftp|l>tV Jpt>=t"=? B>?p|pJpd
88FJB= ?pt>=t"=? =d4dVlFd" )|p` $l"d p`t> p)d>pt 8l$$|ppdd? 8l$F"|?d= lx
R>> 4lVJ>pdd"? "dF"d?d>p|>R J?d"?" 4d>=l"?" t>= $t>Jxt8pJ"d"??  4`d
?pt>=t"=? FJNV|8tp|l>? p`tp t"d =d4dVlFd= |> p`d?d 8l$$|ppdd? `t4d
>tp|l>tV t88dFpt>8d t>= F"l4|=d p`d Nt?|? xl" |>pd">tp|l>tV `t"$l>|Ntp|l>
|> p`d =d4dVlF$d>p lx >d) B>pd">tp|l>tV Z"Rt>|Ntp|l> xl" Jpt>=t"=|Ntp|l>
8BJZ= ?pt>=t"=??

4`|? F"d?d>ptp|l> =d?8"|Nd? p`d =d4dVlF$d>p lx 8BBl)? RBl ?pt>=t"=? t>= t
>d) dxxl"p tp 8BBl" t =tptNt?d l> ?pt>=t"=? F"lhd8p? |> t )|=d x"t$d)l"B
lx |$tR|>R |>=J?p"|d? |>8VJ=|>R 8tFpJ"d" "d8l"=|>R" F"l8d??|>R"
=JFV|8tp|l>" =|?p"|NJp|l>" =|?FVtt" d4tVJtp|l>" t>= F"d?d"4tp|l>?  4`d
8BBl B$tRd"t xtptNt?d )|VV 8l4d" |$tR|>R ?pt>=t"=? Nd|>R =d4dVlFd= Nt
$t>t l"Rt>|Ntp|l>? |> $t>t =|xxd"d>p 8lJ>p"|d??  Bp )|VV 8l>pt|>
?pt>=t"=? FJNV|8tp|l>?) =tpd?" l"|R|>?" "dVtpd= >tp|l>tV t>=
|>pd">tp|l>tV F"lhd8p?" ?ptpJ?" Bdt )l"=?" t>= tN?p"t8p??  4`d 8FJB B$tRd
4d8`>lVlRt Jpt>=t"=? =lt"= "dZJd?pd= p`tp ?J8` t =tptNt?d Nd d?ptNV|?`d="
t? =|= p`d BJZBB>pd">tp|l>tV RVd8p"lpd8`>|8tV dl$$|??|l> Vl|>p 4t?B `l"8d
l> B$tRd"t?  8BBl )|VV ptBd l> p`d Vdt=d"?`|F "lVd xl" p`d =tptNt?d t>=
8ll"=|>tpd |p? =d4dVlF$d>p )|p` ?d4d"tV ?pt>=t"=? =d4dVlFd"??

"tp"|8|t =844BF

     d`t"t8pd"|?p|8? lx ?pt>=t"=? xl" =|R|ptV |$tRd"t$

          N FtpJ"d lx =|R|ptV pd8`>lVlRt |$FV|d? 8l>p|>J|>R 4lVtp|V|pt?

          N ""d8|F|plJ? ?pt>=t"=d?dpp|>R >lp Fl??|NVd t>= F"lNtNVt >lp
          =d?|"tNVd?

          N Jpt>=t"=? t"d t 8l$FVd  |??Jd |>4lV4|>R p`d $d=|J$" p`d
          `t"=)t"d" p`d ?lxp)t"d" t>= p`d pd8`>|8tV 8tFt8|pt xl"
          "dF"l=J8p|4d x|=dV|pt t>= 8Vt"|pt?

          N 4`d F"lR>l?|? xl" "dV|tNVd t"8`|4tV ?pt>=t"=? 8t? =dx|>d= Nt
          V|N"t"|t>?= |> p`d xl"d?ddtNVd xJpJ"d |? Fll"?

     J|R>|x|8t>p Flpd>p|tV t>= tpp"t8p|4d>d?? lx =|R|ptV pd8`>lVlRt t? t
     F"d?d"4tp|l> $d=|J$ t>= t88d?? $d8`t>|?$
