ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthat>=
N|p lx $J?`"ll$" t>= "t|?d= `d"?dVx pl tNlJp p)l xddp `|R`$  d4d>
p`d> ?`d )tVBd= JF pl)t"=? |p "tp`d" p|$|=Vt" ?tt|>R pl `d"?dVx
FJJFFl?d |p ?`lJV= Nd "t4|>R $t= txpd" tVVZ  B tV$l?p )|?` B)=
Rl>d pl ?dd p`d htppd" |>?pdt=Z)



                           dh8"4Rp  BB

                         8 lt= 4dtd"t"pt


  4`d"d )t? t ptNVd ?dp lJp J>=d" t p"dd |> x"l>p lx p`d `lJ?d"
t>= p`d lt"8` ht"d t>= p`d htppd" )d"d `t4|>R pdt tp |p$  t
xl"$lJ?d )t? ?|pp|>R Ndp)dd> p`d$" xt?p t?VddF" t>= p`d lp`d" p)l
)d"d J?|>R |p t? t 8J?`|l>" "d?p|>R p`d|" dVNl)? l> |p" t>= p`d
ptVB|>R l4d" |p? `dt=?  F d"t J>8l$xl"ptNVd xl" p`d xl"$lJ?d")
p`lJR`p 8V|8d> Fl>Vt" t? |p)? t?VddF" B ?JFFl?d |p =ld?>)p $|>=?)

  4`d ptNVd )t? t Vt"Rd l>d" NJp p`d p`"dd )d"d tVV 8"l)=d=
plRdp`d" tp l>d 8l">d" lx |p$  FFl "ll$Z  Fl "ll$Z) p`dt 8"|d=