spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard= t? ?`d 8lJV=" t>= ?ll> xlJ>= `d"?dVx ?txd |> t
p`|8B )ll=?

  F4`d x|"?p p`|>R B)4d Rlp pl =l") ?t|= 8V|8d pl `d"?dVx" t? ?`d
)t>=d"d= tNlJp |> p`d )ll=" F|? pl R"l) pl $t "|R`p ?|Nd tRt|>>
t>= p`d ?d8l>= p`|>R |? pl x|>= $t )tt |>pl p`tp Vl4dVt Rt"=d>?
B p`|>B p`tp )|VV Nd p`d Nd?p FVt>?)

  Bp ?lJ>=d= t> d 8dVVd>p FVt>" >l =lJNp" t>= 4d"t >dtpVt t>=
?|$FVt t""t>Rd=> p`d l>Vt =|xx|8JVpt )t?" p`tp ?`d `t= >lp p`d
?$tVVd?p |=dt `l) pl ?dp tNlJp |p> t>= )`|Vd ?`d )t? Fdd"|>R
tNlJp t> |lJ?Vt t$l>R p`d p"dd?" t V|ppVd ?`t"F Nt"B hJ?p l4d"
`d" `dt= $t=d `d" VllB JF |> t R"dtp `J""t?

  8> d>l"$lJ? FJFFt )t? VllB|>R =l)> tp `d" )|p` Vt"Rd "lJ>=
dtd?" t>= xddNVt ?p"dp8`|>R lJp l>d Ft)" p"t|>R pl plJ8` `d"?
F"ll" V|ppVd p`|>RZ) ?t|= 8V|8d" |> t 8lt |>R pl>d" t>= ?`d p"|d=
`t"= pl )`|?pVd pl |p> NJp ?`d )t? pd""|NVt x"|R`pd>d= tVV p`d
p|$d tp p`d p`lJR`p p`tp |p $|R`p Nd `J>R"t" |> )`|8` 8t?d |p
)lJV= Nd 4d"t V|BdVt pl dtp `d" JF |> ?F|pd lx tVV `d" 8lt |>R?

  ht"=Vt B>l)|>R )`tp ?`d =|=" ?`d F|8Bd= JF t V|ppVd N|p lx
?p|8B" t>= `dV= |p lJp pl p`d FJFFt> )`d"dJFl> p`d FJFFt hJ$Fd=
|>pl p`d t|" lxx tVV |p? xddp tp l>8d" )|p` t tdVF lx =dV|R`p"
t>= "J?`d= tp p`d ?p|8B" t>= $t=d NdV|d4d pl )l""t |p> p`d> 8V|8d
=l=Rd= Nd`|>= t R"dtp p`|?pVd" pl BddF `d"?dVx x"l$ Nd|>R "J>
l4d"> t>= p`d $l$d>p ?`d tFFdt"d= l> p`d lp`d" ?|=d" p`d FJFFt
$t=d t>lp`d" "J?` tp p`d ?p|8B" t>= pJ$NVd= `dt= l4d" `ddV? |>
|p? `J""t pl Rdp `lV= lx |p> p`d> 8V|8d" p`|>B|>R |p )t? 4d"t
V|Bd `t4|>R t Rt$d lx FVtt )|p` t 8t"pd`l"?d" t>= d Fd8p|>R d4d"t
$l$d>p pl Nd p"t$FVd= J>=d" |p? xddp" "t> "lJ>= p`d p`|?pVd
tRt|>> p`d> p`d FJFFt NdRt> t ?d"|d? lx ?`l"p 8`t"Rd? tp p`d
?p|8B" "J>>|>R t 4d"t V|ppVd )tt xl")t"=? dt8` p|$d t>= t Vl>R
)tt Nt8B" t>= Nt"B|>R `lt"?dVt tVV p`d )`|Vd" p|VV tp Vt?p |p ?tp
=l)> t Rll= )tt lxx" Ft>p|>R" )|p` |p? pl>RJd `t>R|>R lJp lx |p?
$lJp`" t>= |p? R"dtp dtd? `tVx ?`Jp?

  4`|? ?dd$d= pl 8V|8d t Rll= lFFl"pJ>|pt xl" $tB|>R `d" d?8tFd>
?l ?`d ?dp lxx tp l>8d" t>= "t> p|VV ?`d )t? ZJ|pd p|"d= t>= lJp
lx N"dtp`" t>= p|VV p`d FJFFt)? Nt"B ?lJ>=d= ZJ|pd xt|>p |> p`d
=|?pt>8d?

  F8>= tdp )`tp t =dt" V|ppVd FJFFt |p )t?Z) ?t|= 8V|8d" t? ?`d
Vdt>p tRt|>?p t NJppd"8JF pl "d?p `d"?dVx" t>= xt>>d= `d"?dVx
)|p` l>d lx p`d Vdt4d?$  FB ?`lJV= `t4d V|Bd= pdt8`|>R |p p"|8B?
4d"t $J8`" |xdd|x B)= l>Vt Ndd> p`d "|R`p ?|Nd pl =l |pZ  Z`
=dt"Z  B)= >dt"Vt xl"Rlppd> p`tp B)4d Rlp pl R"l) JF tRt|>Z  >dp
$d ?dddd`l) BJ |p pl Nd $t>tRd=p  B ?JFFl?d B lJR`p pl dtp l"
="|>B ?l$dp`|>R l" lp`d"> NJp p`d R"dtp ZJd?p|l> |?" )`tpp)

  4`d R"dtp ZJd?p|l> 8d"pt|>Vt )t?" )`tpp  8V|8d VllBd= tVV "lJ>=
`d" tp p`d xVl)d"? t>= p`d NVt=d? lx R"t??" NJp ?`d =|= >lp ?d
