compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing thed "d?lVJp|l> )|p` ?8t>>d"? p`tp
Fd"xl"$ h>> l" dx>> =F|" `l)d4d"" 8l$d? tp t 8l?p?

=dppd" |$tRd ZJtV|pt d>pt|V? tp Vdt?p xlJ" =|xxd"d>p B|>=? lx 8l?p?$  d=
dZJ|F$d>p 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d p`d ddx 8|?d?" 8`t"Rdd8lJFVd =d4|8d= )|p`
R"dtpd" >J$Nd" lx dVd$d>p? 8l?p? $l"d>  x= p|$d 8l?p? p`tp p"t>?Vtpd pl
p`d t8pJtV 8tFpJ"d 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d $t>JtV VtNl" |? |>4lV4d= 8p`d p|$d |?
tV?l =dFd>=d>p l> p`d xt8p p`tp $l"d =tpt `t? pl Nd $l4d= t"lJ>= |> p`d
$t8`|>d |> p`d ?8t>>|>R l" >dp)l"B =d4|8d? p`tp Fd"xl"$ p`d ?8t>>|>R t?
)dVV t? p`d ?pl"tRd=>  R= $d=|t 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d tp `|R` "d?lVJp|l>? Vt"Rd"
x|Vd? `t4d pl Nd ?pl"d=> t>= `= p"t>?$|??|l> 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d p`d"d |? hJ?p
$l"d =tpt pl Nd p"t>?$|ppd=?

=Jp )`|Vd "d?lVJp|l> ptBd? 8t"d lx p`d |??Jd lx VdR|N|V|pt |> |$tRd
ZJtV|pt" lp`d" =dx|8|d>8|d? `t4d pl =l )|p` 8l>p"t?p t>= dVd$d>p? l> p`d
FtRd ?8t>>d= l" p`d |$tRd p`tp >dd=d= pl Nd "d$l4d= l" 8Vt"|x|d=?  4`J?"
4hZl8 F"l8dd=d= pl |VVJ?p"tpd 4t"|lJ? =dx|8|d>8|d?" `l) p`dt t"d
$t>|xd?pd=" t>= ?d4d"tV pd8`>|ZJd? pl l4d"8l$d p`d$?

`| d= p`"d?`lV=|>R )t? p`d x|"?p pd8`>|ZJd =d?8"|Nd=" ?J|ptNVd xl"
NVt8Bdt>=d)`|pd pd p" )`d> p`d 8l>p"t?p =ld? >lp 4t"t l4d" p`d FtRd?  Z>d
8t> `t4d $t>t =|xxd"d>p p`"d?`lV= Vd4dV? |> ?8t>>|>R =d4|8d??  4`J?"
4hZl8 lxxd"d= t> d t$FVd lx d p"d$dVt Fll" 8l>p"t?p" )`|8` "d?JVpd= x"l$
p`d xt8p p`tp p`d ?pl8B )t? t `dt4t "d=?  4`|? |? p`d ?l"p lx |$tRd p`tp
)`d> $|8"lx|V$d= xt|V? pl F"l4|=d t>t VdR|N|V|pt )`tp?ld4d"?  `| d=
p`"d?`lV=|>R |? p`d )tt pl 8`t>Rd p`d NVt8Bdpld"d= 8l>p"t?p pl p`d
=d?|"d= NVt8Bdpld)`|pd 8l>p"t?p?
