analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of techn>lVlRt
V|pd"t8t t$l>R p`d ?|pd??  8l |? ?|pJtpd= |> xl"ptdxlJ" Vl8tp|l>?" lx
)`|8` ?|  t"d FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d? t>= ?| pdd> t"d ?8`llV??  pdF"d?d>pd=
t$l>R p`d ?8`llV? t"d dVd$d>pt"t" hJ>|l" `|R`" t>= `|R` ?8`llV??
x|?p"|8p lxx|8d? tV?l t"d |>4lV4d= |> p`d d4tVJtp|l>" )`|8` )|VV
8l>8VJ=d |> ?J$$d" d$$R?

 RddB8 xl8J?d= p`d "d$t|>=d" lx `d" ptVB l> p`d ?|  FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d?" l>d
lx )`|8` =lJNVd? t? t ?ptpd V|N"t"t?  4`dt "dF"d?d>p t "t>Rd lx
RdlR"tF`|8 t"dt? t>= t "t>Rd lx =d$lR"tF`|8 8`t"t8pd"|?p|8??  `l"
d t$FVd" p`"dd t"d Vl8tpd= |> J"Nt> ?dpp|>R?" p)l |> "J"tV ?dpp|>R?" t>=
l>d |> t ?JNJ"Nt> ?dpp|>R?  8 "t>Rd lx pd8`>|8tV d Fd"p|?d |? pl Nd xlJ>=
t$l>R p`d?d xt8|V|p|d? t? )dVV?  `l" d t$FVd" l>d |? t>  8FFVd V|N"t"t lx
p`d xJpJ"d"  )`|Vd p)l lp`d"? t"d "J"tV l>dd"ll$ V|N"t"|d?dd|> l>d" 8l
?|p? tp p`d x"l>p =d?B >d p pl t p"t8pl" $t>JtV?

8VV FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d? `t4d Ndd> d p"d$dVt d>p`J?|t?p|8" ?JFFl"p|4d" t>=
tFF"d8|tp|4d lx p`d )l"B p`tp 8l `t? Ndd> =l|>R?   RddB8 8`t"t8pd"|Nd=
4t"|lJ? J?d"?$  ll?p J?d"? |> FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d? =d?8"|Nd p`d$?dV4d? t?
Rd>d"tV "dt=d"?> lx p`d ?pJ=d>p? )`l J?d 8l |> p`d FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d?"
p`l?d |> xlJ"p` R"t=d t>= tNl4d ?dd$ $l?p |>pd"d?pd=?  "JNV|8 V|N"t"|d?
|> "J"tV ?|pd? pd>= pl tpp"t8p "dp|"d= FdlFVd" )`l `t4d Ndd> `|R`Vt
"d8dFp|4d pl 8l?  )?d"? pd>= pl xtVV |>pl p)l t==|p|l>tV 8tpdRl"|d?$
FdlFVd |>pd"d?pd= |> p`d 8l>pd>p t>= `|?pl"|8tV 8l>>lptp|l>? lx p`d?d
F"|$t"t "d?lJ"8d?" t>= p`l?d xt?8|>tpd= Nt p`d pd8`>lVlRt?  4`d xl"$tp
"d8d|4|>R p`d $l?p 8l$$d>p? `t? Ndd> $lp|l> F|8pJ"d??  4`d t=JVp J?d"? |>
FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d? t"d $l"d 8l$xl"ptNVd )|p` B=l 8l$FJpd"?" )`d"dt? tlJ>R
FdlFVd ?dd$ 8l$xl"ptNVd )|p` d|p`d" B=l l" lt8|>pl?`" tVp`lJR` $l?p lx
p`d$ ?dd$ pl 8l$d x"l$ t lt8|>pl?` Nt8BR"lJ>=?  4`|? ?t$d pd>=d>8t |?
xlJ>= |> p`d ?8`llV??

t`tp B|>=? lx p`|>R? =l J?d"? =l )|p` 8lp  B> t FJNV|8 V|N"t"t p`d"d t"d
p)l $t|> RltV? l" )tt? p`tp 8l |? Nd|>R J?d=$  t? t> |>=|4|=JtV Vdt">|>R
pllV" t>= t? t Vd|?J"d t8p|4|pt?  8=JVp Vdt">|>R )t? l>d t"dt p`tp  RddB8
)lJV= `|R`V|R`p t? t Fl??|NVd tFFV|8tp|l> xl" t pllV ?J8` t? 8l?  J`d
=d?8"|Nd= t Ftp"l> lx t "J"tV FJNV|8 V|N"t"t )`l 8l$d? |> d4d"t =tt l>
`|? VJ>8` `lJ" t>= V|pd"tVVt "dt=? 8l" $dp`l=|8tVVt Rl|>R p`"lJR` p`d
8lVVd8p|l> |$tRd Nt |$tRd?  8p p`d d>= lx `|? `lJ" `d $tBd? t> dVd8p"l>|8
NllB$t"B" FJp? |p |> `|? Fl8Bdp" t>= "dpJ">? pl )l"B?  4`d >d p =tt `d
8l$d? |> t>= "d?J$d? )`d"d `d Vdxp lxx?  B>pd"d?p|>RVt" p`|? $t> `t=
>d4d" Ndd> |> p`d V|N"t"t Ndxl"d `d J?d= 8l?  B> t>lp`d" ?$tVV" "J"tV
V|N"t"t" p`d 8ll"=|>tpl" "dFl"p? p`tp 8l |? t FlFJVt" t8p|4|pt xl" ?l$d
lx p`d lV=d"" "dp|"d= FdlFVd |> p`d 8l$$J>|pt" )`l l"=|>t"|Vt )lJV= >lp
J?d  p`l?d p`|>R?" dd8l$FJpd"??  8>lp`d" d t$FVd lx t=JVp Vdt">|>R |>
FJNV|8 V|N"t"|d? |? NllB R"lJF?" l>d lx )`|8`" |> Ft"p|8JVt"" |? J?|>R 8l
t? Ft"p lx |p? "dt=|>R l> |>=J?p"|tV|Ntp|l>" |>pdR"tp|l>" t>= J"Nt>|Ntp|l>
|> p`d dt"Vt d$>>??
