will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an in-file SGML tag that provides
1) a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about (that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title);
and 2) the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a marked-up text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN dismissed the lowest-common-denominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200-odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERG-McQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the high-quality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That hat?
d8l>l$|8 8l>?dZJd>8d?" t>= |p |? p`d?d d8l>l$|8 8l>?dZJd>8d? p`tp `t4d
Vd= p`d RJ"lFdt> dl$$J>|pt pl `dVF ?JFFl"p p`d 4RB" t>= p`tp )|VV Vdt="
J"Rp=Rp|dl8?)RRF `lFd=" ?l$d ?lxp)t"d 4d>=l"? pl "dtV|Nd p`tp |x p`dt
F"l4|=d ?lxp)t"d )|p` t Ndppd" $l=dV lx p`d pd p p`dt 8t> $tBd t B|VV|>R?

                                 NNNNNN

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
xBJd)JJBZF N B$FV|8tp|l>? lx =|xxd"d>p x4x? t>= ptR ?dp? N Zx8 4d"?J? J|l> N
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

xJ"|>R p`d =|?8J??|l> p`tp xlVVl)d=" ?d4d"tV t==|p|l>tV Fl|>p? )d"d $t=d?
Fd|p`d" 88" 8|?d?" 8??l8|tp|l> lx 8$d"|8t> "JNV|?`d"?= >l" d8>J 8|?d?"
dl$FJpd"dt|=d= 88ZJ|?|p|l> t>= >lR|?p|8? JJFFl"p= `t? t =l8J$d>pdptFd
=dx|>|p|l> xl" t>8|d>p |"ddB ="t$t" tVp`lJR` p`d 4RB )|VV Nd tNVd pl
`t>=Vd p`tp?  ||4d> p`|? ?ptpd lx txxt|"? t>= t??J$|>R p`tp p`d
pd8`>|8tVdhlJ">tV F"l=J8d"? t>= p`d 8l$$d"8|tV 4d>=l"? =d8|=d pl J?d p`d
lp`d" p)l ptFd?" p`d> t> |>?p|pJp|l> V|Bd p`d >|N"t"t lx dl>R"d??" )`|8`
$|R`p "d8d|4d tVV lx p`d|" FJNV|8tp|l>?" )lJV= `t4d pl Nd tNVd pl `t>=Vd
p`"dd =|xxd"d>p ptFd? lx =l8J$d>p =dx|>|p|l>? t>= ptR ?dp? t>= Nd tNVd pl
=|?p|>RJ|?` t$l>R p`d$?

Zxx|8d xl8J$d>p 8"8`|pd8pJ"d 8Zx8= `t? ?l$d t=4t>ptRd? p`tp xVl) x"l$ |p?
p|R`p xl8J? l> lxx|8d =l8J$d>p? t>= 8Vdt" =|"d8p|l>? xl" |$FVd$d>ptp|l>?
lJ8` lx p`d Zx8 ?pt>=t"= |? dt?|d" pl "dt= t>= 8Vdt"d" tp x|"?p "dt=|>R
p`t> p`d J|l> ?pt>=t"=" )`|8` |? d p"d$dVt Rd>d"tV?  t`tp p`tp $dt>? |?
p`tp |x l>d )t>p? pl J?d R"tF`|8? |> 4B`` t>= Zx8" l>d |? ?pJ8B" Nd8tJ?d
Zx8 =dx|>d? R"tF`|8? xl"$tp? )`|Vd 4B`` =ld? >lp" )`d"dt? J|l> ?tt? p`d
)l"V= |? >lp )t|p|>R xl" p`|? )l"B R"lJF pl 8"dtpd t>lp`d" R"tF`|8? xl"$tp?
t`tp |? >dd=d= |? t> tN|V|pt pl J?d )`tpd4d" R"tF`|8? xl"$tp l>d )t>p??

4`d 4RB F"l4|=d? t ?l8Bdp p`tp tVVl)? l>d pl 8l>>d8p p`d J|l> =l8J$d>p pl
p`d R"tF`|8??  4`d >lptp|l> p`tp p`d R"tF`|8? t"d |> |? 8Vdt"Vt t 8`l|8d
p`tp l>d >dd=? pl $tBd Nt?d= l> `d" l" `|? d>4|"l>$d>p" t>= p`tp |? l>d
t=4t>ptRd?  J|l> |? Vd?? $dRtVl$t>|t8tV |> tppd$Fp|>R pl =dx|>d xl"$tp?
xl" tVV B|>=? lx |>xl"$tp|l>" p`lJR` $l"d $dRtVl$t>|t8tV |> tppd$Fp|>R pl
8l4d" tVV ?l"p? lx =l8J$d>p??  4`d lp`d" t=4t>ptRd |? p`tp p`d $l=dV lx
pd p "dF"d?d>pd= Nt J|l> |? ?|$FVt t> l"=d" lx $tR>|pJ=d "|8`d" t>= $l"d
xVd |NVd p`t> p`d $l=dV lx pd p lxxd"d= Nt Zx8?  =lp` lxxd" `|d"t"8`|8tV
?p"J8pJ"d?" NJp J|l> "d8lR>|Nd? p`tp p`d `|d"t"8`|8tV $l=dV lx p`d pd p
p`tp l>d |? VllB|>R tp $tt >lp `t4d Ndd> |> p`d $|>=? lx p`d =d?|R>d"?"
)`d"dt? Zx8 =ld? >lp?

Zx8 |? >lp "dtVVt t|$|>R xl" p`d B|>= lx =l8J$d>p p`tp p`d 4RB )t>p? pl
d>8l$Ft???  4`d 4RB 8t> `t>=Vd p`d B|>= lx $tpd"|tV Zx8 `t?" t? )dVV t? t
?|R>|x|8t>pVt N"lt=d" "t>Rd lx $tpd"|tV?  Zx8 ?dd$? pl Nd 4d"t $J8`
xl8J?d= l> lxx|8d =l8J$d>p?" )`|8` |? )`tp |p ?pt"pd= lJp Nd|>R 8tVVd=dd
lxx|8d =l8J$d>p t"8`|pd8pJ"d?

                                 NNNNNN

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
d8>8>)d8 N 4d pdd>8l=|>R x"l$ t FJNV|?`d")? Fd"?Fd8p|4d N
pd?Fl>?|N|V|p|d? lx t FJNV|?`d" N pdF"l=J8p|l> lx l|R>d)? >tp|> ?d"|d?
)`lVd t>= 8l$FVdpd )|p` J|l> ptR? Nt?d= l> Fd"8d|4d= >dd= t>= d Fd8pd=
J?d N "t"p|8JVt" =d8|?|l>? t"|?|>R x"l$ p`d Rd>d"tV =d8|?|l> pl F"l=J8d
t>= FJNV|?` ">x N
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

4`d x|>tV ?FdtBd" |> p`|? ?d??|l>" R"|8 d8>8>)d8" 4|8d F"d?|=d>p"
d`t=)t8BdhdtVdt" B>8?" ?FlBd x"l$ p`d Fd"?Fd8p|4d lx t FJNV|?`d" "d
pd pdd>8l=|>R" "tp`d" p`t> t? l>d ZJtV|x|d= pl =|?8J?? $dp`l=? lx
d>8l=|>R =tpt" t>= lN?d"4d= p`tp p`d F"d?d>pd"? ?|pp|>R |> p`d "ll$"
)`dp`d" p`dt `t= 8`l?d> pl l" >lp" )d"d t8p|>R t? FJNV|?`d"?$  $tB|>R
8`l|8d?" Rtp`d"|>R =tpt" Rtp`d"|>R |>xl"$tp|l>" t>= $tB|>R t??d??$d>p??
d8>8>)d8 lxxd"d= p`d `t"=d)l> 8l>4|8p|l> p`tp |> FJNV|?`|>R 4d"t Vt"Rd
pd p x|Vd? 8?J8` t? ">x=" l>d 8t>>lp t4l|= $tB|>R Fd"?l>tV hJ=R$d>p? lx
tFF"lF"|tpd>d?? t>= ?p"J8pJ"d?

B> d8>8>)d8)? 4|d)" d>8l=|>R =d8|?|l>? ?pd$ x"l$ F"|l" hJ=R$d>p??  4)l
>lp|l>? `t4d Nd8l$d t |l$? xl" `|$ |> p`d 8l>?|=d"tp|l> lx xJpJ"d ?lJ"8d?
xl" dVd8p"l>|8 FJNV|8tp|l>$  d= dVd8p"l>|8 pd p FJNV|?`|>R |? t? Fd"?l>tV
t? t>t lp`d" B|>= lx FJNV|?`|>R" t>= ZJd?p|l>? lx |x t>= `l) pl d>8l=d
p`d =tpt t"d ?|$FVt t 8l>?dZJd>8d lx p`tp F"|l" =d8|?|l>>  x= tVV
Fd"?l>tV =d8|?|l>? t"d lFd> pl 8"|p|8|?$" )`|8` |? J>t4l|=tNVd?
