for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials  |p `lV=? t4t|VtNVd |> ?l$d V|$|pd= xl"$ pl t 8V|d>pdVd p`tp
Rld? Ndtl>= dl>R"d??" =RJJRp ?JRRd?pd= p`tp |p )t? |>8J$Nd>p l> >d pl
d pd>= p`l?d "d?Fl>?|N|V|p|d? pl tVV p`d p`|>R? Nd|>R FJNV|?`d= |>
dVd8p"l>|8 xl"$?  4`|? )lJV= $dt> d4d>pJtVVt t88dFp|>R dVd8p"l>|8
xl"$tp??  >d 8lJV= "dZJ|"d p`tp tp ?l$d Fl|>p p`dt Nd |> t 8d"pt|>
V|$|pd= ?dp lx xl"$tp?" t>= p`d> =d4dVlF $d8`t>|?$? xl" tVVl)|>R FdlFVd
pl t88d?? p`l?d |> p`d ?t$d )tt p`tp lp`d" p`|>R? t"d t88d??d=?  4`|?
=ld? >lp |$FVt p`tp p`dt t"d l> p`d >dp)l"B t>= t4t|VtNVd pl d4d"tl>d?
>d =ld? p`tp )|p` $l?p lx |p? N|NV|lR"tF`|8 "d8l"=?" =RJJRp ?t|=" )`|8`
d>= JF $|R"tp|>R pl p`d Jp|V|pt 8d?R?" Zd>d= l" ?l$d)`d"d dV?d?  =Jp hJ?p
t? $l?p lx >d)? NllB? t"d t4t|VtNVd |> ?l$d xl"$ p`"lJR` |>pd"V|N"t"t
Vlt> l" ?l$d lp`d" $d8`t>|?$" ?l |> p`d ?t$d )tt dVd8p"l>|8 xl"$tp? lJR`p
pl Nd t4t|VtNVd pl lp`d"? |> ?l$d xl"$tp" p`lJR` )|p` ?l$d 8lFt"|R`p
8l>?|=d"tp|l>??  =RJJRp )t? >lp ?JRRd?p|>R p`tp p`d?d $d8`t>|?$? Nd
d?ptNV|?`d= pl$l""l)" l>Vt p`tp p`dt ?dd$d= pl xtVV )|p`|> >d)? FJ"4|d)"
t>= p`tp p`d"d ?`lJV= Nd Vl>Rd"t>Rd FVt>? pl d?ptNV|?` p`d$?

88B>l)Vd=R|>R p`tp p`l?d x"l$ >d |> p`d "ll$ tR"dd= )|p` =RJJRp
8l>8d">|>R p`d >dd= pl 8l>x"l>p =|xx|8JVp ZJd?p|l>?" |B``Zpx J>=d"?8l"d=
p`d $tR>|pJ=d lx p`d F"lNVd$ lx )`tp pl BddF t>= )`tp pl ?dVd8p?  |B``Zpx
>lpd= p`tp >d 8J""d>pVt "d8d|4d? ?l$d Rd">>> |pd$? Fd" =tt" >lp 8lJ>p|>R
dVd8p"l>|8 $tpd"|tV?" t>= t"RJd= xl" $J8` $l"d =|?p"|NJpd= "d?Fl>?|N|V|pt
|> l"=d" pl $t|>pt|> t>= ?pl"d dVd8p"l>|8 |>xl"$tp|l>?

=RJJRp "d?Fl>=d= p`tp p`d t??d$NVd= R"lJF 8lJV= Nd 4|d)d= t? t ?pt"p|>R
Fl|>p" )`l?d |>|p|tV lFd"tp|>R F"d$|?d 8lJV= Nd `dVF|>R pl $l4d |> p`|?
=|"d8p|l> t>= =dx|>|>R `l) >d 8lJV= =l ?l" xl" d t$FVd" |> t"dt? lx
?pt>=t"=|Ntp|l> l" =|?p"|NJp|l> lx "d?Fl>?|N|V|pt?

`>RBJdhh8)Rp t==d= p`tp 8l )t? xJVVt d>RtRd=" )"d?pV|>R )|p` ?l$d lx p`d
ZJd?p|l>? p`tp Fd"pt|> pl p`d 8l>4d"?|l> lx lV=d" `|?pl"|8tV $tpd"|tV?"
)`|8` )lJV= Nd l>d p`|>R p`tp p`d >|N"t"t lx dl>R"d?? $|R`p =l?  Jd4d"tV
Fl|>p? $d>p|l>d= Nt =RJJRp t>= ?d4d"tV lp`d"? l> p`|? ZJd?p|l> `t4d t
$J8` R"dtpd" |$Ft8p l> p`l?d )`l t"d 8l>8d">d= )|p` 8tptVlRJ|>R t>= p`d
>dp)l"B|>R lx N|NV|lR"tF`|8 |>xl"$tp|l>" t? )dVV t? F"d?d"4tp|l> |p?dVx?

JFdtB|>R =|"d8pVt pl 8l" )`|8` `d 8l>?|=d"d= )t? t Vt"RdVt J>8lFt"|R`pd=
=tptNt?d" >8Fdh J"Rd= =d4dVlF$d>p lx t >dp)l"B 4d"?|l> lx 8l" l"
8l>?|=d"tp|l> lx $tB|>R p`d =tpt |> |p t4t|VtNVd pl FdlFVd |>pd"d?pd= |>
=l|>R >dp)l"B $JVp|$d=|t?  Z> t88lJ>p lx p`d 8J""d>p R"dtp ?`l"ptRd lx
=|R|ptV =tpt p`tp |? Nlp` tFFdtV|>R t>= J>d>8J$Nd"d= Nt 8l$FVd  "|R`p?
F"lNVd$?" p`|? 8lJ"?d lx t8p|l> 8lJV= `t4d t ?|R>|x|8t>p dxxd8p l> $tB|>R
>dp)l"B $JVp|$d=|t t "dtV|pt
