compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchat>Rd
     xl"$tp xl" B>pd">dp =|?p"|NJp|l> lx $l>l8`"l$d N|pd$tFFd= |$tRd?"
     )`|8` >8Fdh ?t|= `d NdV|d4d= )lJV= Nd J?d= t? t =d xt8pl ?pt>=t"=?

     N `>RBJdhh8)Rp)? |$F"d??|l> x"l$ `dt"|>R p`d?d "dFl"p? t>= p`|>B|>R
     tNlJp 8l)? d Fd"|d>8d )t? p`tp p`d"d |? 8l>?|=d"tNVd xVJ  8l>8d">|>R
     t4t|VtNVd `t"=)t"d t>= ?lxp)t"d ?lVJp|l>??  hZZ4ZF tR"dd= t>=
     8l$$d>pd= tp p`d ?t$d p|$d l> =Bx8p)? ?ptpd$d>p p`tp p`d dZJ|F$d>p
     d$FVltd= txxd8p? p`d "d?JVp? F"l=J8d=?  Z>d 8t>>lp ="t) t 8l$FVdpd
     8l>8VJ?|l> Nt ?tt|>R |p |? =|xx|8JVp l" |$Fl??|NVd pl Fd"xl"$ Zdp
     x"l$ ?8t>>|>R $|8"lx|V$" xl" d t$FVd" )|p` p`tp =d4|8d"  p`tp ?dp lx
     Ft"t$dpd"?" t>= ?t?pd$ "dZJ|"d$d>p?" Nd8tJ?d >J$d"lJ? lp`d" FdlFVd
     t"d t88l$FV|?`|>R hJ?p p`tp" J?|>R lp`d" 8l$Fl>d>p?" Fd"`tF??
     hZZ4ZF lF|>d= p`tp Nlp` p`d `t"=)t"d t>= p`d ?lxp)t"d )d"d `|R`Vt
     |$Fl"pt>p?  ll?p lx p`d F"lNVd$? =|?8J??d= pl=tt `t4d Ndd> ?lV4d= |>
     >J$d"lJ? =|xxd"d>p )tt? Nt lp`d" FdlFVd?  4`lJR` |p |? Rll= pl Nd
     8lR>|Nt>p lx 4t"|lJ? d Fd"|d>8d?" p`|? |? >lp pl ?tt p`tp |p )|VV
     tV)tt? Nd p`J??

     N 8p F8>" p`d p`"lJR`dFJp "tpd lx p`d ?8t>>|>R F"l8d?? xl" FtFd""
     FtRd Nt FtRd" Fd"xl"$|>R Zdp" "t>Rd? x"l$ R>> pl h>> FtRd? Fd" =tt>
     >lp Fd"xl"$|>R Zdp |? 8l>?|=d"tNVt xt?pd"" tVp`lJR` `l) $J8` xt?pd"
     |? >lp B>l)>?  4`|? |? xl" ?8t>>|>R x"l$ NlJ>= NllB?" )`|8` |? $J8`
     ?Vl)d"?

     N t84RpJ 8l$$d>pd= l> )|>=l) $t>tRd$d>p ZJd?p|l>?$  xRd F"lFl?d= t>
     Ndt|>=l)? ?lVJp|l> )`|8` )t? F"lNVd$tp|8tV xl" p)l "dt?l>??  Z>d )t?
     "Z=)? "dZJ|"d$d>p pl Nd tNVd pl $t>|FJVtpd |$tRd? l> p`d )l"B?ptp|l>
     t>= N"|>R p`d$ =l)> pl p`d )l"B?ptp|l> |p?dVx t>= p`d lp`d" )t?
     >dp)l"B J?tRd?

                                 NNNNNN

RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
4hZl8 N BVVJ?p"tp|l> lx =dx|8|d>8|d? |> ?8t>>|>R t>= ?pl"tRd F"l8d?? N
B$tRd ZJtV|pt |> p`|? F"l8d?? N x|xxd"d>p 8l?p? d>pt|Vd= Nt Ndppd" |$tRd
ZJtV|pt N 4d8`>|ZJd? xl" l4d"8l$|>R 4t"|lJ? =ddx|8|d>8|d?$  x| d=
p`"d?`lV=|>R" =t>t$|8 p`"d?`lV=|>R" =|p`d"|>R" |$tRd $d"Rd N "tRd d=Rd
dxxd8p? N
RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRR

|dl"Rd 4hZl8" 8`|dx" dl$$J>|8tp|l>? R>R|>dd"|>R ="t>8`" Ftp|l>tV >|N"t"t
lx ld=|8|>d 8F>l=" |VVJ?p"tpd= ?d4d"tV lx p`d =dx|8|d>8|d? =|?8J??d= Nt
p`d F"d4|lJ? ?FdtBd"??  hd |>p"l=J8d= p`d plF|8 lx ?Fd8|tV F"lNVd$? Nt
>lp|>R p`d t=4t>ptRd? lx dVd8p"l>|8 |$tR|>R?  `l" d t$FVd" |p |? "dRd>d"tNVd
Nd8tJ?d |p |? t 8l=d= x|Vd" t>= "dtVdp|$d ZJtV|pt 8l>p"lV |? Fl??|NVd )|p`
dVd8p"l>|8 8tFpJ"d" )`d"dt? |> F`lplR"tF`|8 8tFpJ"d |p |? >lp?

Z>d lx p`d =|xx|8JVp|d? =|?8J??d= |> p`d ?8t>>|>R t>= ?pl"tRd F"l8d?? )t?
|$tRd ZJtV|pt )`|8`" )|p`lJp NdVtNl"|>R p`d lN4|lJ?" $dt>? =|xxd"d>p
p`|>R? xl" $tF?" $d=|8tV Nd"tt?" l" N"lt=8t?p pdVd4|?|l>?  B> p`d 8t?d lx
=l8J$d>p?" 4hZl8 ?t|=" |$tRd ZJtV|pt Nl|V? =l)> pl VdR|N|V|pt lx p`d
pd pJtV Ft"p?" t>= x|=dV|pt |> p`d 8t?d lx R"tt l" 8lVl" F`lpl F"|>pdptFd
$tpd"|tV?  >dR|N|V|pt Nl|V? =l)> pl ?8t> =d>?|pt" p`d ?pt>=t"= |> $l?p
8t?d? Nd|>R R>> =F|?  B>8"dt?|>R p`d "d?lVJp|l> )|p` ?8t>>d"? p`tp
Fd"xl"$ h>> l" dx>> =F|" `l)d4d"" 8l$d? tp t 8l?p?

=dppd" |$tRd ZJtV|pt d>pt|V? tp Vdt?p xlJ" =|xxd"d>p B|>=? lx 8l?p?$  d=
dZJ|F$d>p 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d p`d ddx 8|?d?" 8`t"Rdd8lJFVd =d4|8d= )|p`
R"dtpd" >J$Nd" lx dVd$d>p? 8l?p? $l"d>  x= p|$d 8l?p? p`tp p"t>?Vtpd pl
p`d t8pJtV 8tFpJ"d 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d $t>JtV VtNl" |? |>4lV4d= 8p`d p|$d |?
tV?l =dFd>=d>p l> p`d xt8p p`tp $l"d =tpt `t? pl Nd $l4d= t"lJ>= |> p`d
$t8`|>d |> p`d ?8t>>|>R l" >dp)l"B =d4|8d? p`tp Fd"xl"$ p`d ?8t>>|>R t?
)dVV t? p`d ?pl"tRd=>  R= $d=|t 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d tp `|R` "d?lVJp|l>? Vt"Rd"
x|Vd? `t4d pl Nd ?pl"d=> t>= `= p"t>?$|??|l> 8l?p?" Nd8tJ?d p`d"d |? hJ?p
$l"d =tpt pl Nd p"t>?$|ppd=?

=Jp )`|Vd "d?lVJp|l> ptBd? 8t"d lx p`d |??Jd lx VdR|N|V|pt |> |$tRd
ZJtV|pt" lp`d" =dx|8|d>8|d? `t4d pl =l )|p` 8l>p"t?p t>= dVd$d>p? l> p`d
FtRd ?8t>>d= l" p`d |$tRd p`tp >dd=d= pl Nd "d$l4d= l" 8Vt"|x|d=?  4`J?"
4hZl8 F"l8dd=d= pl |VVJ?p"tpd 4t"|lJ? =dx|8|d>8|d?" `l) p`dt t"d
$t>|xd?pd=" t>= ?d4d"tV pd8`>|ZJd? pl l4d"8l$d p`d$?

`| d= p`"d?`lV=|>R )t? p`d x|"?p pd8`>|ZJd =d?8"|Nd=" ?J|ptNVd xl"
NVt8Bdt>=d)`|pd pd p" )`d> p`d 8l>p"t?p =ld? >lp 4t"t l4d" p`d FtRd?  Z>d
8t> `t4d $t>t =|xxd"d>p p`"d?`lV= Vd4dV? |> ?8t>>|>R =d4|8d??  4`J?"
4hZl8 lxxd"d= t> d t$FVd lx d p"d$dVt Fll" 8l>p"t?p" )`|8` "d?JVpd= x"l$
p`d xt8p p`tp p`d ?pl8B )t? t `dt4t "d=?  4`|? |? p`d ?l"p lx |$tRd p`tp
)`d> $|8"lx|V$d= xt|V? pl F"l4|=d t>t VdR|N|V|pt )`tp?ld4d"?  `| d=
p`"d?`lV=|>R |? p`d )tt pl 8`t>Rd p`d NVt8Bdpld"d= 8l>p"t?p pl p`d
=d?|"d= NVt8Bdpld)`|pd 8l>p"t?p?
