
Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to thinkB tNlJp |p" t>=
p`d> ?t|=" FBp )t? t p"dt8Vdd)dVV?)

  F4`d"d)? >l ?J8` p`|>RZ)  8V|8d )t? NdR|>>|>R 4d"t t>R"|Vt" NJp
p`d htppd" t>= p`d lt"8` ht"d )d>p FJ`Z ?`Z) t>= p`d xl"$lJ?d
?JVB|Vt "d$t"Bd=" FBx tlJ 8t>)p Nd 8|4|V" tlJ)= Ndppd" x|>|?` p`d
?pl"t xl" tlJ"?dVx?)

  FFl" FVdt?d Rl l>Z) 8V|8d ?t|= 4d"t `J$NVt> FB )l>)p |>pd""JFp
tRt|>?  B =t"d ?tt p`d"d $tt Nd ZFR?)

  FZ>d" |>=dd=Z) ?t|= p`d xl"$lJ?d |>=|R>t>pVt?  hl)d4d"" `d
8l>?d>pd= pl Rl l>?  F8>= ?l p`d?d p`"dd V|ppVd ?|?pd"?ddp`dt
)d"d Vdt">|>R pl ="t)" tlJ B>l)dd)

  Ft`tp =|= p`dt ="t)p) ?t|= 8V|8d" ZJ|pd xl"Rdpp|>R `d" F"l$|?d?

  F4"dt8Vd") ?t|= p`d xl"$lJ?d" )|p`lJp 8l>?|=d"|>R tp tVV p`|?
p|$d?

  FB )t>p t 8Vdt> 8JF") |>pd""JFpd= p`d htppd"$  FVdp)? tVV $l4d
l>d FVt8d l>?)

  hd $l4d= l> t? `d ?FlBd" t>= p`d xl"$lJ?d xlVVl)d= `|$$  p`d
lt"8` ht"d $l4d= |>pl p`d xl"$lJ?d)? FVt8d" t>= 8V|8d "tp`d"
J>)|VV|>RVt pllB p`d FVt8d lx p`d lt"8` ht"d?  4`d htppd" )t? p`d
l>Vt l>d )`l Rlp t>t t=4t>ptRd x"l$ p`d 8`t>Rd$  t>= 8V|8d )t? t
Rll= =dtV )l"?d lxx p`t> Ndxl"d" t? p`d lt"8` ht"d `t= hJ?p JF?dp
p`d $|VBdhJR |>pl `|? FVtpd?

  8V|8d =|= >lp )|?` pl lxxd>= p`d xl"$lJ?d tRt|>" ?l ?`d NdRt>
4d"t 8tJp|lJ?Vt$  F=Jp B =l>)p J>=d"?pt>=?  t`d"d =|= p`dt ="t)
p`d p"dt8Vd x"l$p)
