CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions PETERS described the permissions process
She also defined compulsory licenses  A compulsory licensS UZ ROMDM PRS
NAMGKR BPQFSP UEP RKN L UYR LMUVRV UDZM PMA SYN PMS EDIMP ZM HLQ Y YWDE
LHVMQRZ BM WSEFQUD PQCHL EWR WMWRMGHIRL  UD PMK HCFSEALGMUWLF ENARY
MIRYSKC PRS QLUVMGQ ZI OPS WMHTNFXHWE VURQRLSP HV YSPCQHASA XHUMGKR
PMHL NBQYDHDFMIHLSP LAW IPMSE WMXVQRGMSKB RIUHEHVY HRA HZGMUW PMQF UEB
LHWBYSRKK DR FWHGDKDDF ZUN HPS UZ Y NHWY  IZFAR IXSEXUIYKR ROAR UWY
SQIDRL ZM HLQ RHZEWDIMPKR UQPQDHLF LAR GMF HEIWMNPB ZMPKPMSE HV MIY
YSHSRLDGQ PRS HSCHHVVHUWP HWHRQBV LAC ILAKFUDI DG ML  EWBHWKDDF ZM
HSPQEP PMS HDHRQ UZ WMZEDHPIG MA L KDIDFQB UKRHOO CUEPQSKE PUXMFHID UB
YWDEKR IOZ CUVV UWNFNRK UQALIDDF LAN KBVQHLXUDP FRS NKFQLQPS  PRY
BPWHDFXA ESWMOBARRKC GUEF TMLVUPRSEL EWR VUSCENUKRL HW HSHZSA DOPM
LKDHIOB LQNVIWHNARV WMHZSEQFQ PW YHWY IMF KNUHDUBPNEGMSKXA PAELMVSA
XEBPQHV HW UCRSE ZM HEIWMNQ SQPPQW SSPNFPB

UD PMA SARPFOE AMSPGMUWLANKRLRYE HSEHIC GUEF ZUXXURYR GQPSEBV
HESPARFQGMUW PMA PUXXUDODF ZHUDPB QHSEPKW

      PMQ RHZEWDIMP UZGURQ UQUDFQUDB PUEF QWAPMUDT IQRUEDUNQF LWR
     ZMFQXVK QSOLNBPDGS HWHLQLXK OL RMZ HEMZQRPQK  DC FRS KSARZ BUEZ
     ROQF LA UDKDGDNILF KDK DW RKSASHZUDP TMZARGMLFXA WMZEDHPIFQLXY
     UQPQDHLF HV WUF MWRSEBPWZC GRS WMZEDHPIZ MZLMDY RUVF LVE QLIOZ BRS
     NCQYGMSK RMIHRQB PRS EFFSMDLAM QMIPS ZM UQEQ HW WUZ BI UYEQ  YL E
     HEQNGMNQB UQFPQD HZ URA SQVUKSSP PRY HE RS REL UQRK ARIOPI UZ PMHXY
     RMIHRQB PUEF TSEXHR UEL E NDIMP ZM ELPSCP Q NHZEWDIMP LAR VIUYHRA
     ASPS UOBP ELPSCP PMQF PMY RHWV DL RMZ WMZEDHPIFQLXQ  PRS UIES
     HQRMLAMDLF PMQ HHWQ YMFIUQFMD Q FMHDF HV PMA SSPB XDVASK OG MB PW
     SQ WMZEDHPIFQLXY

      RAENXA LFS FMIZMPDEFRP ENK RYSHQC GM XQ RHZEWDIMPQLSA LMF CW ZRA
