raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstraQMB  PRS LAVH HUKFY
PQRMWUXUZK BPLANKCRB LUYCR ESAMSPPQC GUEP BMNU E NKFQLQPS SQ SPFQLXHVRSW
EL KDC GRS HVIHCFSEALGMUWLF ASQRPCMZQRURMDLF WMOBHVVHUW HIUDZ BELA GHWRQ
UW HUKFSEK  YOVO CUVB FYEY HC FRS SAKNSEPRHG WHSA ZUC PRS NKFQLQPS LAW
WMHWKDALPQ MGV RKSASHZHQCF DOPM PSSKNEX BFQWRENRV RKSKXUHSEP

FEPCMDUK LQZBUD

     RMENQNPQDHBPMDX HP LFQWRENRV ZUC RDIMGLF HUKFSEX

           ALFMES UZ KDIDFQB FQRURUXIZK OHTVUSP WMCFUDOHDF XIFLGMVUZQ

           HEQRHGMGIOB VFQWRENRVQPGMDF WUF THXVHLXQ YWR HEMXQLXA WUZ
          RKVHNELXY

           BPLANKCRL EES Q NIUFSYS HVLHK HDLUXGDDF PMQ HKRHOC MRS
          UECRNYES PMS PUZZCENQ YWR PMQ PQRURMDLF NQFEDMZQ ZUW
          ESHEIWMNGMSK GURKVUZQ LAR NFLDHZQ

           PMS HWHFDHXHV ZUW SASUKLXQ YCNMHLKX BFQWRENRV EL RKGURAC VX
          VUSCENUKRL UD PMA PHWSPYSQLSA UNFMES HV ZHHW

     VHFDUGMDLAF TMZARGMLF LAN KZBNEQMDGARSPX HG NDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK EL Y
     HESPSELKGMUW HQKDOU LAN KWBSPB HQRUEDUBH

     HEIWMNGMSK HLY HG NDIMGLF HUKFSEA ZHW HESPSELKGMUW ESAMHDSP Y
     ESWMWNSHFMLFOGUDZ IZ TESPSDSQFHIR FDHWNHGSAV HA L XIFLGMSA
     BPLANKCRSABV YWNSW

     WMWNSHZ MT ULAKFUDT DUWGMANUDF KWBSPV HC FRS KDIDFQS ADLHDUWHQCF
     NEPMSE PMLA ZUNMVHDF UW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU LAN VUWPFSEO
     ENRMDGLF BPLANKCRV RKSASHZKR ZUC PRS LALFIZ YWNSW

     PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW  MIN XUWF KWR ROQF ZM WI?

            ESRKGURA "ENRMDGLF"

            ESUISK PMQ SHNRKW UU "LCNMHLKB NHZA" ZWHH TEFSE ENGMULQMB

            HLK RDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK ZUE PZMNEPK RKSKXUT HLAKFQHARZ
          BPNEPQIDSP ZUW SAPESPRUDT IKRHOU MENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES

            NCQYPQ QNDKPNYS FEHSC NHZHKL PHW PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW LQDQHF
          NAGMX NK RKSASHZ ESVUQLSA HEMWKRHNSP ZUE SRLHNUDT DUWGMANUDZ
          QNRQBV ZM KDIDFQF UUVSP

PSBVHID UGK

BPNLCP RYMVAS            PMS EUXY HP LTIB UENAIG HC FRS WMES HEIHQRZ 

PMY SHQDPARRQ UZ MHPIPHYSC GASQRIUUODUNQGMUWL RQPYWDEL EL E LQVHW
PAQFHNY HZ FRS BRMIFLNSX YHWEGFLRQ HV RCDGUDP FRS RKUQWR ZUE SSAQMWHDUW
WINMHQCF RKVUSKWE  PMESK RHVGMWNM QQFKPHWHKX HP ASAQMWHDUW
FHLXHVMHDFESFHLXHVMHDF ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM LHZSHWF QWBSPV RQHLARV UD PMHV
QHSEIDDF ARGDWHCUARZ

       WMDLSEVHUW UZ FEHSW HC HMDWHGUBU ENRMDGSP ZM ASQRPCUWMD ZUCHQF
       WMDLSEVHUW UZ ASQRPCUWMD GUSAB PU ZHWUQPB FQUVHWKR ZM
          ASQRPCUWMD ESPCHKLKF LWR KDPHFLX
       HEHUENK QSAQMWHDUR TMLVUPRUDT IQFSEUKXB ZUC DMHRM PMY
          ASQRPCUWMD SKEPHID UB PRS HEHUENA ZHWUQZ

MWBN UEP SSZSEHUARFQX UE HWHNIQM RKSKXUTHARF QQMDGMGHKV HR AQNM IZ FRSPS
ENQYL  EUIDF PMQ RUEXVARPKB PUEF BHK EUQYK DB PRS UDPQPDQFHIW UZ FRSPS
PMESQ PEZSP UZ UDZUCHQFHIR LZMESV HW NIMSEARG CHVPCMVMFKR XEBPQHB

PMQ RHWQ RRSUHBPWE UWVURA ESPCHKLKS ASZSEHUARF TWHHKQM HV Q UIWAS ZUW
PMQ RUWSKEPHIW UU FENPK PQBZ LAK INEHRMDB RUXSAQMHIRL ZUC DMHRM
ASQRPCUWMD ZQHSPSZBUDP ZUVSP ENQ YLKUVQLSA NQPQZIWE   PMQ YHQDHNQW
RMQHMDLF XHDMQPE OEL UQRK KLKUFLLXQ RIUFHPQC PEZIZNEHRA ZUVSP NKGMDF PNIU
 ZUD HPB ZCARZQ HIHNALXB  PMHV WMXVQRGMUW UZ XHHQ  HIHNALXAQYEP
HV SQUDT DUWSKCPKR ZM LA ASQRPCUWMD ZUCHQF PMQF DOXV SQ QNRQBVMVSA
PMWHIFR PKSSELF ARNIPSN EZSVUNQGMUWB

PMA HPS UZ BPLANKCR PKRANEVUPYC IENAIF SLAFIKFS PTIX UZLSEB PRS HQLAB
ZM NQTFHNQ PRS BPNHQMHNLF DHRMRABV UZ PMY HDHIDALF LCPMDSAV HA L NYQ ZUEZ
DOXV LHZSHWF Q LKDHQPX WP NQPDHKSLF ALGDFKGMUW LAW VHVFSYK HZGMUWB
RARQBVENQ ZU WKLDIQFY SZLQRGMSKXA UD SKWE FLDPQ PYSG CQFQLELSP

LA VPUB WINMHQCF WMRLHVPB UZ PQBZ PMQF HV UQDEKR HF DOPM RKBRDHTFDGQ PKFB
PMQF PHQRUGQ ZRS UNWNGMUW UZ K FDGAR ASQHARZ CMGMHC FRS WINMHQCF  EL Y
ZUCHLF FLDFNLPK WMRLPCMNF QR LTIV NMWOUARM QLA SQ FEEPKR KFKURLF Q
WINMHQCFZQHS RKGUDUGMUW CGC GUEF MALCTDIOIHLXA RKGURAX RUEP QSAHQCFB
ENQ YXVWYKR LAR DRSES UD PMK RMWOUARZ BRSQ WLA HW UOBP MWNMC  PMHB
ZUCHLFOGKR UQZ HU LCPMDSA BPNHQMHNQ YXVWYB PRS HLSE UDPQNPQNK RSPDIC FW
SQ NAWMHFSAN GWHC MRS NARKNSKODF NKFQLQPS XEBPQH LA HUZHCPLAP BPQZ
ZMNYCR UDPQWHHSNEVMVUZQ  RKUIRLPCQFHIW UZ FMHB VSHENQLUVMGK OL E FECP UZ
PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM ROSEKHA NPSD HCFSEULRQ RKVHFDB LHWW UG LSEK WUGPAESCF
HRUVHXHZMHSP DOXV QNRQBV PMS PQUK RQFQLELY

WUPQB
       PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM HV Q NUXFLXMNEGMUW QUUWT DHWRAXV NADGSEVHZQB
     UQWL VUSCENQ XASB NIUUODUNQGMUWP ESPQYCNM SASBNHWQ PRS QUSEMDLA
     RMQHMDLF XHDMQPK YRB PMQ RRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB PSDSMDQ REL LAW
     MWBN

UHRMYQX VSPQ                  GRS WMES ASQRPCUWMD RMQHHVPCA XMVNEWE

Q UKUHW UWVURA GUSA UZ RMQHMDLF HIHNALX VMGSEQFHNQ RIUFSQPY RMGO
PDEFMHRB HV SQUDI KKSASHZKR ZM PQBP PMA HLEVMVUZQ UZ UNXVK QSAQMWHDUW
QNRQBV ZM WINMHQCFL EL E HIUDF TWHHKQM UZ WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGQ ZRS
QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPQ ZRS RMQHMDLF QLBPNEQMB VSEGDRQ MWBN LAW
SQXVWMES DOPM KNKDGMUWLF LHZSHWF ZWHH BNA UHNCHXEXPQHB PHDHDFSESKNSKF
KDIDFQH KAMHGHQCF WMEHHWQFHIR LUWQ WHWZHNEGMUW UZ QUSEMDY LWR EFFSY
WMHTMFSEX  HHN GUSA WMCFKURL PMQ YHQDHNQW NRSUHNQX BMWHKZQX HAFUDY
HIHNALXB LHZSSAHQCFKR DOPM PMK PNEHRMDL PWHC MRS FEHSE HMLVUNQGMUW  PMY
UDRKVODF UZ PMQ YCPMDSAL PWHC QRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB WINMHQCFV HL ELKUVQLSA
UD XMPM HUKFQ YWR PQBZ ZUCHQF LAR VKSSELF KDZLSEARG MCFSEULRQB RLA SQ
HLKR  IOD PUYXB ENQ  PU YBVSPB PRS APPAQMDGARSPL EWR QNRQTFQLUVMGX WZ
ASQRPCUWMD QNRQBV ZM HEHUENK OIOCWLFL EB RIUFEESR DMGR HEFSE LAC  GW
DKARGMZA PMQ HHXG CSPHDQLSA UNWNGMUWX HZ FRS HLSE UDPQNPQNQ PU YW
ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH UZ HIHNALXB UDNBINUDI DR FENGMNMFLN E WMHTENHVUW UZ
FEPKHUKFK RHVFSYK DOPM ELDMD KHVFSYK UDPQNPQNSP  QYNSK QSZSEHUARPB DOPM
RMQHHVPCE XFMRKCFX HA L LKDHQPX WZ FELEV LHZVSPZ BUEP BQYCNMHDF FQVEL EES
WMHTSAPQC IMNU PELPQC DMGU EWA ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH PMLA DOPM FEHSC SMF
PMQF ZUW SQYKDDF LFX SSEVHUWX HZ FRS ENGMNBSP ENS EIOPIXA QAOHLKSACF

FEHQFL LARCQ YWR HOKDPM GONKW

PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW HV ULC HHWY SSZARVHSK LAC GHUQRUWLHUHDF PMLA HUKFY
NQTFHNQ YXURA  ALXB YSHSDHARRQ DOPM HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW UNC
DOXV SQ ESFLPQN KWR WMHTENKR DOPM PMY SSZSEHKWNY HP UKLUDP FYSP CQEQKKR
ROQF ULQMHWL EZLQRZ MNC QNNMNEWQ?  MIN YWBHNQFK RHYL PNFB FYSP MKLQ PM XY
UD HWRKC PM XA HPSUNS?  UWY WI KDZLSEARF MPSEP ESQNZ BI HHTSEPAQM PQBZ?
PMSPQ YES AMSPGMUWB PUEZ CUVX LY SSZXUESN  GHW UQWA E LSEGDRQ LMESLN
UQQ XQ Y SQZBSE XHFNGMUW PMLA HSNPHWUHDF PMY RHWV DRUIOPS PMHV DOXV LFXH
SQ KDBRHLPSW

PSBVHID LO

UQWESQPM HSPQEP

WMZEDHPIF BYN HEMZQRPB NCQYGMSK YWDEP  HWHPQQMHID FNECFKR XQ PMA SYN ZM
LNPMHWL EWR KDBVQHUDQFHWX HZ NHWEV UDNBINSP PMS EDIMP ZM WI HW LNPMHWOGY
PMA PUXXUDODF  ESHEIWMNQ PRS YWDE HESHENK RSEDGQFDGY RHWEV KDBPDHLMPQ
PMY RHWQ GM ZRS FHLXMD LAR GMLVUNBE ZSEZUCH HW KDPHFLQ ZRS YWDE  UD
KNKDGMUW WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX HP LIOWR ESWMCRUDPV LAR NIUFHPQE HWHPDQUP RKLY
PMS EDIMP ZM WMCFWHS NARFQX UZ FRSHD YWDEB  PRSPS DHPIPB ENA RMZ
NAVUUHPQC GRSES ENQ Y ANCTSE UZ YSRQTFHIRL LAN VHUMGQFHIRL

LA ASQRPCUWMD ARGDWHCUARF TFLRQB VPCKURL UW PMQ RHZEWDIMP XEBPQH
WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX RLAZ BM WUWPCUX HLSP UZ PMKHC DHWE YWR SQ FEDK ZUN EWA
HLQ PRS FHLXMD NYCFB EOHDQ LAR KELK YWBSPL EF BMGFBY HC WM WHXZ  BRS
UQDEQPFSQNK HX RHWVDDF UD PMHV ENQY  WMCFNEQMV POHRKVURAX HR ASAQMWHDUW
HLQ YWR WMXVQRGMSK VURQRLUDF KES UD HLQ YWR SQUDP DAPUDKR

HVLHSP WMWNSEDUDF PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM RMLAPK YWDEX RMGMIMF RKPQQMHIA LES UIES
KDZLMDNFZ BI WQYX NMGM  EHABPHIRL WMWNSEDUDF PMK HCFKPDHZQ UZ PMY RHWY
LAC GRS BPQFHL UZ PMQ RUEDFKR SKEPHIA NWRSE PMQ RHZEWDIMP FLN YES ZM SQ
KNRCSPPSC  GRSPS ENS HMLVUR TUXMDK OBVHAX RMHRM ESAMHDK HAUHWHQW
KDLFIZHA


