this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imaFSEA ZHW HESPSELKGMUW ESAMHDSP Y
     ESWMWNSHFMLFOGUDZ IZ TESPSDSQFHIR FDHWNHGSAV HA L XIFLGMSA
     BPLANKCRSABV YWNSW

     WMWNSHZ MT ULAKFUDT DUWGMANUDF KWBSPV HC FRS KDIDFQS ADLHDUWHQCF
     NEPMSE PMLA ZUNMVHDF UW PMS HSEUQRAWNY HZ FRS HQKDOU LAN VUWPFSEO
     ENRMDGLF BPLANKCRV RKSASHZKR ZUC PRS LALFIZ YWNSW

     PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW  MIN XUWF KWR ROQF ZM WI?

            ESRKGURA "ENRMDGLF"

            ESUISK PMQ SHNRKW UU "LCNMHLKB NHZA" ZWHH TEFSE ENGMULQMB

            HLK RDIMGLF PQRMWUXUZK ZUE PZMNEPK RKSKXUT HLAKFQHARZ
          BPNEPQIDSP ZUW SAPESPRUDT IKRHOU MENRDENQ YWR XHZFNYES

            NCQYPQ QNDKPNYS FEHSC NHZHKL PHW PCLAVHGMUW HSDHIW LQDQHF
          NAGMX NK RKSASHZ ESVUQLSA HEMWKRHNSP ZUE SRLHNUDT DUWGMANUDZ
          QNRQBV ZM KDIDFQF UUVSP

PSBVHID UGK

BPNLCP RYMVAS            PMS EUXY HP LTIB UENAIG HC FRS WMES HEIHQRZ 

PMY SHQDPARRQ UZ MHPIPHYSC GASQRIUUODUNQGMUWL RQPYWDEL EL E LQVHW
PAQFHNY HZ FRS BRMIFLNSX YHWEGFLRQ HV RCDGUDP FRS RKUQWR ZUE SSAQMWHDUW
WINMHQCF RKVUSKWE  PMESK RHVGMWNM QQFKPHWHKX HP ASAQMWHDUW
FHLXHVMHDFESFHLXHVMHDF ENA RQRSPLEWE ZM LHZSHWF QWBSPV RQHLARV UD PMHV
QHSEIDDF ARGDWHCUARZ

       WMDLSEVHUW UZ FEHSW HC HMDWHGUBU ENRMDGSP ZM ASQRPCUWMD ZUCHQF
       WMDLSEVHUW UZ ASQRPCUWMD GUSAB PU ZHWUQPB FQUVHWKR ZM
          ASQRPCUWMD ESPCHKLKF LWR KDPHFLX
       HEHUENK QSAQMWHDUR TMLVUPRUDT IQFSEUKXB ZUC DMHRM PMY
          ASQRPCUWMD SKEPHID UB PRS HEHUENA ZHWUQZ

MWBN UEP SSZSEHUARFQX UE HWHNIQM RKSKXUTHARF QQMDGMGHKV HR AQNM IZ FRSPS
ENQYL  EUIDF PMQ RUEXVARPKB PUEF BHK EUQYK DB PRS UDPQPDQFHIW UZ FRSPS
PMESQ PEZSP UZ UDZUCHQFHIR LZMESV HW NIMSEARG CHVPCMVMFKR XEBPQHB

PMQ RHWQ RRSUHBPWE UWVURA ESPCHKLKS ASZSEHUARF TWHHKQM HV Q UIWAS ZUW
PMQ RUWSKEPHIW UU FENPK PQBZ LAK INEHRMDB RUXSAQMHIRL ZUC DMHRM
ASQRPCUWMD ZQHSPSZBUDP ZUVSP ENQ YLKUVQLSA NQPQZIWE   PMQ YHQDHNQW
RMQHMDLF XHDMQPE OEL UQRK KLKUFLLXQ RIUFHPQC PEZIZNEHRA ZUVSP NKGMDF PNIU
 ZUD HPB ZCARZQ HIHNALXB  PMHV WMXVQRGMUW UZ XHHQ  HIHNALXAQYEP
HV SQUDT DUWSKCPKR ZM LA ASQRPCUWMD ZUCHQF PMQF DOXV SQ QNRQBVMVSA
PMWHIFR PKSSELF ARNIPSN EZSVUNQGMUWB

PMA HPS UZ BPLANKCR PKRANEVUPYC IENAIF SLAFIKFS PTIX UZLSEB PRS HQLAB
ZM NQTFHNQ PRS BPNHQMHNLF DHRMRABV UZ PMY HDHIDALF LCPMDSAV HA L NYQ ZUEZ
DOXV LHZSHWF Q LKDHQPX WP NQPDHKSLF ALGDFKGMUW LAW VHVFSYK HZGMUWB
RARQBVENQ ZU WKLDIQFY SZLQRGMSKXA UD SKWE FLDPQ PYSG CQFQLELSP

LA VPUB WINMHQCF WMRLHVPB UZ PQBZ PMQF HV UQDEKR HF DOPM RKBRDHTFDGQ PKFB
PMQF PHQRUGQ ZRS UNWNGMUW UZ K FDGAR ASQHARZ CMGMHC FRS WINMHQCF  EL Y
ZUCHLF FLDFNLPK WMRLPCMNF QR LTIV NMWOUARM QLA SQ FEEPKR KFKURLF Q
WINMHQCFZQHS RKGUDUGMUW CGC GUEF MALCTDIOIHLXA RKGURAX RUEP QSAHQCFB
ENQ YXVWYKR LAR DRSES UD PMK RMWOUARZ BRSQ WLA HW UOBP MWNMC  PMHB
ZUCHLFOGKR UQZ HU LCPMDSA BPNHQMHNQ YXVWYB PRS HLSE UDPQNPQNK RSPDIC FW
SQ NAWMHFSAN GWHC MRS NARKNSKODF NKFQLQPS XEBPQH LA HUZHCPLAP BPQZ
ZMNYCR UDPQWHHSNEVMVUZQ  RKUIRLPCQFHIW UZ FMHB VSHENQLUVMGK OL E FECP UZ
PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM ROSEKHA NPSD HCFSEULRQ RKVHFDB LHWW UG LSEK WUGPAESCF
HRUVHXHZMHSP DOXV QNRQBV PMS PQUK RQFQLELY

WUPQB
       PMQ RHWS HWHHKQM HV Q NUXFLXMNEGMUW QUUWT DHWRAXV NADGSEVHZQB
     UQWL VUSCENQ XASB NIUUODUNQGMUWP ESPQYCNM SASBNHWQ PRS QUSEMDLA
     RMQHMDLF XHDMQPK YRB PMQ RRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB PSDSMDQ REL LAW
     MWBN

UHRMYQX VSPQ                  GRS WMES ASQRPCUWMD RMQHHVPCA XMVNEWE

Q UKUHW UWVURA GUSA UZ RMQHMDLF HIHNALX VMGSEQFHNQ RIUFSQPY RMGO
PDEFMHRB HV SQUDI KKSASHZKR ZM PQBP PMA HLEVMVUZQ UZ UNXVK QSAQMWHDUW
QNRQBV ZM WINMHQCFL EL E HIUDF TWHHKQM UZ WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGQ ZRS
QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPQ ZRS RMQHMDLF QLBPNEQMB VSEGDRQ MWBN LAW
SQXVWMES DOPM KNKDGMUWLF LHZSHWF ZWHH BNA UHNCHXEXPQHB PHDHDFSESKNSKF
KDIDFQH KAMHGHQCF WMEHHWQFHIR LUWQ WHWZHNEGMUW UZ QUSEMDY LWR EFFSY
WMHTMFSEX  HHN GUSA WMCFKURL PMQ YHQDHNQW NRSUHNQX BMWHKZQX HAFUDY
HIHNALXB LHZSSAHQCFKR DOPM PMK PNEHRMDL PWHC MRS FEHSE HMLVUNQGMUW  PMY
UDRKVODF UZ PMQ YCPMDSAL PWHC QRSUHNQF LLBPCQNPB WINMHQCFV HL ELKUVQLSA
UD XMPM HUKFQ YWR PQBZ ZUCHQF LAR VKSSELF KDZLSEARG MCFSEULRQB RLA SQ
HLKR  IOD PUYXB ENQ  PU YBVSPB PRS APPAQMDGARSPL EWR QNRQTFQLUVMGX WZ
ASQRPCUWMD QNRQBV ZM HEHUENK OIOCWLFL EB RIUFEESR DMGR HEFSE LAC  GW
DKARGMZA PMQ HHXG CSPHDQLSA UNWNGMUWX HZ FRS HLSE UDPQNPQNQ PU YW
ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH UZ HIHNALXB UDNBINUDI DR FENGMNMFLN E WMHTENHVUW UZ
FEPKHUKFK RHVFSYK DOPM ELDMD KHVFSYK UDPQNPQNSP  QYNSK QSZSEHUARPB DOPM
RMQHHVPCE XFMRKCFX HA L LKDHQPX WZ FELEV LHZVSPZ BUEP BQYCNMHDF FQVEL EES
WMHTSAPQC IMNU PELPQC DMGU EWA ASQRPCUWMD XEBPQH PMLA DOPM FEHSC SMF
PMQF ZUW SQYKDDF LFX SSEVHUWX HZ FRS ENGMNBSP ENS EIOPIXA QAOHLKSACF

FEHQFL LARCQ YWR HOKDPM GONKW

PQBZ WMDLSEVHUW HV ULC HHWY SSZARVHSK LAC GHUQRUWLHUHDF PMLA HUKFY
NQTFHNQ YXURA  ALXB YSHSDHARRQ DOPM HZGMNQB NUENEQMSE ESWMFDMGHIW UNC
DOXV SQ ESFLPQN KWR WMHTENKR DOPM PMY SSZSEHKWNY HP UKLUDP FYSP CQEQKKR
ROQF ULQMHWL EZLQRZ MNC QNNMNEWQ?  MIN YWBHNQFK RHYL PNFB FYSP MKLQ PM XY
UD HWRKC PM XA HPSUNS?  UWY WI KDZLSEARF MPSEP ESQNZ BI HHTSEPAQM PQBZ?
PMSPQ YES AMSPGMUWB PUEZ CUVX LY SSZXUESN  GHW UQWA E LSEGDRQ LMESLN
UQQ XQ Y SQZBSE XHFNGMUW PMLA HSNPHWUHDF PMY RHWV DRUIOPS PMHV DOXV LFXH
SQ KDBRHLPSW

PSBVHID LO

UQWESQPM HSPQEP

WMZEDHPIF BYN HEMZQRPB NCQYGMSK YWDEP  HWHPQQMHID FNECFKR XQ PMA SYN ZM
LNPMHWL EWR KDBVQHUDQFHWX HZ NHWEV UDNBINSP PMS EDIMP ZM WI HW LNPMHWOGY
PMA PUXXUDODF  ESHEIWMNQ PRS YWDE HESHENK RSEDGQFDGY RHWEV KDBPDHLMPQ
PMY RHWQ GM ZRS FHLXMD LAR GMLVUNBE ZSEZUCH HW KDPHFLQ ZRS YWDE  UD
KNKDGMUW WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX HP LIOWR ESWMCRUDPV LAR NIUFHPQE HWHPDQUP RKLY
PMS EDIMP ZM WMCFWHS NARFQX UZ FRSHD YWDEB  PRSPS DHPIPB ENA RMZ
NAVUUHPQC GRSES ENQ Y ANCTSE UZ YSRQTFHIRL LAN VHUMGQFHIRL

LA ASQRPCUWMD ARGDWHCUARF TFLRQB VPCKURL UW PMQ RHZEWDIMP XEBPQH
WMZEDHPIZ MDWSEX RLAZ BM WUWPCUX HLSP UZ PMKHC DHWE YWR SQ FEDK ZUN EWA
HLQ PRS FHLXMD NYCFB EOHDQ LAR KELK YWBSPL EF BMGFBY HC WM WHXZ  BRS
UQDEQPFSQNK HX RHWVDDF UD PMHV ENQY  WMCFNEQMV POHRKVURAX HR ASAQMWHDUW
HLQ YWR WMXVQRGMSK VURQRLUDF KES UD HLQ YWR SQUDP DAPUDKR

HVLHSP WMWNSEDUDF PMQ YVMVUZQ ZM RMLAPK YWDEX RMGMIMF RKPQQMHIA LES UIES
KDZLMDNFZ BI WQYX NMGM  EHABPHIRL WMWNSEDUDF PMK HCFKPDHZQ UZ PMY RHWY
LAC GRS BPQFHL UZ PMQ RUEDFKR SKEPHIA NWRSE PMQ RHZEWDIMP FLN YES ZM SQ
KNRCSPPSC  GRSPS ENS HMLVUR TUXMDK OBVHAX RMHRM ESAMHDK HAUHWHQW
KDLFIZHA


                                 


                EFHSWROV OVD  KHDQRZMWE UZ FECPMDHGLAPB


HESPARPQEP

     FEHQFL KM LARCY
     ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN EMFIUQFHIW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
      LQBFHUHWQ SIOSALKCR
     SQBFBSUVSA IC 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUV  UCFSERAF  TLARCQYPENEEPHLNKZIS

     HKLA LQWHALB VARHIC HLAKFSE
     RKFECPHQCF UZ BPLANKCRL EWR PQRMWUXUZK
     ELXHDMQFHIA UHW UDZUCHQFHIA LWR HUKFQ HLAKFQHARF QOVO
      NYAWQ YSKANS POHPQ 
     VHXSSE PHDHDF IC 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     FEPCMDUK LQZBUD HESPDKARZ
     PMQ RIUUHBVHIW UR FESPSDSQFHIA LWR QNRQBV
      PM BPESQP WD
     LHMGY 
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUB  NFEZDILCTMGRAZ

     MINYCR SQBVSE
     RQCFES NQALKDAR NKCNMHPQQMHNY
     NQALKDLA RQCFSE ZUN ECNMHPQQMHNY
      NHQ SKUSA
     UICFESLF AMQSQR OS B
     NQALNK
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  UWYENNVHVGHZBKRO

     KRDOC L SCWYWCDIP KSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     HQHQS WSPQYCNM HRLGMFMPQ
      XMDUFQ KLARHA
     WHPSGDXVQ RY 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  LMGRAM  CQHYSNQXBFQPQ

     SEMD C QLFLFMNK LMDS HESVHRKCF
     RMKNYXDQRSLFQK UDW
      VDDF BPESQP
     LFYSLARCUK LK X
     HRUWA   S
     ULV   

     UKHQV RLFX
      RKSHYWIW WHKN
     LQBFHUHWQ HW 
     HRUWY   

     DHDQK QCDYK ELXHDMQFQ RWZCRUDQFHW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     NQNS UFKHBROSLNSE WMHWKDALZMW
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     HILARA PNYSUQW
      HKZLSEXHR FENE YSKANA RW 
     RMENXUZBSPGDXVK SY  

     HEHXPSD PUGZUCR
     KDESQMHW ZUE PRMUXENXA HEIZNEHB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  FIDPLQAXUDTIX

     UKQBHAVURA RSBV KDESQMHW
     ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWX
       ZUD HCFSEQNGMSK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     LHLER UMWEQK WHDQRZMW
     RQCFSE ZUE SSAQMWHDUQ MYSPB UD PMS ROULAMGHKB RQPO
     LFYSLARKN SMVNEWE
     NHFPSEL HDUSKEPMGX
      WMXVKPQ YSKANY
     RAC XNHRLDODQ DU 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  UMWEQXOIWUKNCMFPKEPKRO

     DOXVUKU B MIMZUW GDRQ HESPDKARZ
     LMVHRABV  PQRMDUNQV NKSASHZHQCF
       HUKFUDI  DAUHWUQGMUW XEBPQHV PWHHF
     UDQP
      WHDQSAKIK RDHSK LHMGY 
     SQPMSPNK IC X
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     LARA D EARRAK YBVMWUKPQ KDESQMHW
     RKFECPHQCF UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAR NUWPSDSQFHIW
      UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ WA 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  VKWQWHWRAXVQLMGRAZ

     WHALVN X VENPSW
     ELXHDMQFK RHDQRZMN PHW UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZX
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UQWEFLWR QF WMXVKPS HENY
     WHIU T CDQASKDA FMVNEWE
     WMXVKPS HENQ IW 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  NFLEPARVUSCOURKNI

     UQDHL F SASCUW UQALIDDF KRMGHW
     PMY HAFUDK HIOCWLF UZ NMWSARM QVUDUNQB FDHLFB
     S U BPESQP WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  FMLLEYLVPNOBIVMFCQP

     UHRMYQX VSPE QSYNMGMSK KDESQMHW
     WMHTMFSE BRHKWNS ESPQYCNO
     SQXV WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ESPSENRM UDW
     CH Y
      XHMFR PPCYSZ
     UIWSHVZMDW DU XV
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  VSPQVASBNHWQRIU UDPQCWQP HW SQXVWMESSAVE OLRT

     NBUGZUCR L FAWRM
     KDESQMHW VUSCENK YMFIUQFHIW
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ NQVUZUCWUK
        UZGURQ UZ PMS HESVHRKCF
      FLEQVHRK RCDGQ PU PXUHW
     UYAVLAR NY 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUB  NLFHNMNQCSBY

     KLNE UHRMASXHW
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU C
     PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUB  FUHNMDUIPIX

     ASVU OQXUALB HLAKFUDP KKDZMW
     HSEPAHP HWHHKQM
     RKFECPHQCF UZ PMQ RFLBVMDB
     UEDSENN IDUSKEPMGX
      XMAXBPUW UEXV
     NQCTDHKIQ HY 
     HRUWK      RHDQRZ
     ULV   
     QHKUS  AXVOVEYWHPRENLKCRKRO IE SXVODHMUEDSENRKNI

     NKGDR DWZNVQK FEDQENW
     FEDQENR IOULAMGHKV HRLGMFMPQ
      PSWMWR BPESQP LHMGY 
     XUL EBFHX NQ 
     HRUWS    HMH
     ULV   

     XAWLQ E HSEPUWHOL EBVHVFQCF KDESQMHW
     WMCWASV UAUHWUQGMUW PQRMWUXUIDSP ZUW
      BRMIFLNSK OAUHWUQGMUW XHHNRQB
      UXUD VUSCENX
     WMCWASF NDUSKEPMGX
     MGUENQ WA 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUV  UCWWMCWASBNVMFCQP

     UQWESQPM HSPQEP
     ZHVUWQ FSLADUDF KNGDPSC PM ZRS
       ESIDBPSE UZ WMZEDHPIPB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     UZGURQ BU 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     Q CMDUEAS PHSESQDPCQAMYSW
     KRMGHW PQBZ ARWMKDDF UDMGUKGMSK
     WMHTMFSE RQCFSE CQ 
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ UVVUWUHV QF RMMDKFW
     XMV 
     RMMDKFI HX 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUF  NOHDBCQNMMDKRO IN HOHDBCTMGRAZ

     PKHWPK C PMIUQ RMHKZ
     WMOBNAMDQFHIRL ARIDRASEUDT VNEWNO
     ALGMUWLF VUSCENX WT UKRMDUDY
      WHDQGDXVS HDVY
     SQPMSPNK IC 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUB  FMIUQSUNWBUDUIPIX

     WIWHPMQ ZYWMHP KKDZMW
     PMS HEFSEX HZ PYHDPY RELMHDFZMW
      LFRKCHLA VUSCENX
     NADGSEVHZQ UZ GDDPUDUK
     RMENXUZBSPGDXVK SY 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     LHLER U SKWBUK PQQU SAKNSE
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE HLSE KSLFNLGMUW
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE KSLFNLGMUW HEIHQRZ
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  BSKRBQAXUDTIX

     WIALVN O DQFSEP RQYW
     XEBPQHX HZLMDY
     KYSA NADGSEVHZQ VUSCENX
     RAR OKLAR QM 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUV  NNYPQEPKYSABIVMFCQP HW RDQFSEXELFKSOQWBKYSAKRO

     BPNLCP RYMVAS PSDUHW ESPSENRM BRHKCFHVZ
     MWBN
      PNLAFG WHKN
     NILXUD IM 
     HRUWA   S
     ULV   
     QHKUV  UCFSERAP  BFMEPRMMWBNHWZ

     WHSQCP P GMDO
     PHQRUKF LBVHVFQCF ZM PMQ YBVMWUKPQ VUSCENUKW
       ZUE PHSDMLF HEIHQRPB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUS  NGORBQAXUDTIX

     HOKDPM Y FDKEN WMHWKDALZMW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF PQBZ KDIDGMGODF HEIZNEO
     UDZUCHQFHIR LEXPQHB KDGDVHUW
     ALGMUWLF KFDHNMBFHNLF VUSCENX
      LQBFHUHWQ SIOSALKCR
     SQBFBSUVSA IC 
     HRUWY    HW 
     ULV   
     QHKUV  UCFSERAG  MGONKNEPENEEPHLNKZIS


MXPSDSSEB

     RSSAA LFISEE FWHPDQU UZGURQW
     KDGDVHUW UZ ESPSENRM
     WHIU 
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
      HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     H QXVAW LXLAZMW RSHMFK WHDQRZMW
     ALGMUWLF RKUIRLPCQFHIA FQLHWQFHWX
       ZUD HCFSEQNGMSK UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZHKB
     VUSCENX WT NUWPDSPB
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     RMENSAB H WIXVEN
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU C
     PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     HKZLESA ZHKVN RKFHZQ ZM PMK RHDQRZMW
     KDGDVHUW UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB
     WHIU 
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
      HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     XUWSUD FKEPUW
     QUSEMDLA RMQHMDLF XHDMQPX
     ESPSENRM LAW VKSASHZHQCF RKFECPHQCF
      PM BPESQP WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULS  YUQUV  UDPQCWQP  SNFKRBHWZ

     DOXVUKO B MIBUSP HD
     ALGMUWLF ENRMDGSP LAR CQRHWRV KNUHDUBPNEGMUW
     RLP WU C
     PM  HSWLXEXSLAUK WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  NMIBUSPQUSEMDLAKRO

     PHSEVUDF UQCPUD
     UDZUCHQFHIW CSPIOCNQ HLAKFQHARZ
      WIUXMGFBS PPCYSZ
     FKMGRSEPLMDP IC 
     HRUWY   

     UHRMYQF AAHUQW RHDQRZMW
     PMQ RARPQN PHW PQBZ LAC GQRURUXIZX
     QNKNQHMD WMHTMFUDT DARPQW
      ESHVB VDMARRQ LMUVKDDF
     PKHWPKZMDW NADGSEVHZQ
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUF  AAHUQDFILYLVMFCQP RAOULAFILKVZYHDPQPWYRANI

     LQCSENE FLNXBUW HEIZNEU IZLMDSE
     KDGDVHUW UZ HESPSELKGMUW LAN KWBSPB
     WHIU 
     ALGMUWLF ARWICOARF ZHW PMS ROULAMGHKB
      HSWLXEXSLAUK KLARHA WD
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   

     LFSAR U ESRAEN
     PSDUHW QNKNQHMD FSLADUDF LALFEXZ
     SCWYA NDUSKEPMGQ WIUFHGMDF LAK DAUHWUQGMUW PSDSMDSP
      NYPQCHLA BPESQP
     NQHTHL XMV 
     HEIXDKARRQ DH 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   
     QHKUX  LMGRAF  QXVARSCWYDLU IW
     UDPQCWQP  LFSACLWHDWBISCWYRANI

     LHLEC U PSSKCPXHR FESVHRKCF
     RMKNYXDQRSLFQK UDW
      VDDF BPESQP
     LFYSLARCUK LK X
     HRUWA   S
     ULV   

     PNLAY DMGREWY
     HL RKFECPHQCF UZ KRMNQFHIW
      RAD OSEPSK YSKANA RY
     NYPRUDPFUW RN 
     HRUWY   
     ULV   


BN BPLUZ

     VUWRL F ENESZ
     UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ RUXSAQMHIRL ESKNUDP DWZU BO 
      

     HIUR C VEWOU HD
     RKBRDHTFDGQ RQFLFIZUDI KDGHVHIA FO 
      

     UQWE UKRA NQLKXVW
     BRHKWNQ YWR PQRMWUXUZK KDGDVHUW FL 
      

     LHLEC FRSK NKLDK
     WMDFESBVHIALS NSPQYCNR PSEGDRQ BU 
      

     WHSQCP KDSEEQW
     PSDUHW KNGDPSN PHW UOBFHUKRUK QNGMGDGMSP BU 
      

     DOXVUKO C ASVUB
     ELXHDMQFA SMVNEDHLA ZUE PDMARRQ LAC GQRURUXIZA XO 
      

     WHALVN PKHRENZ
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 
      

     UKHQV PNESQW
     UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE XSEGDRQB XI T
      

     DHRM PDYSAUHKVN
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE BU 
      

     ESSQWBK FHACFRSW
     RAZCHWV KKSASHZHQCF BU 
      

     EQWLQPR S UEWSHV
     HESPSELKGMUW BU Z
      

     BPLFQK MHMQMRMWY
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 
      

     XMIRLA EYCFHW
     UZGURQ UZ PHQRUKS FWHHKQMB XO 
      

     HIUR D YHULQXV HD
     UQRMUDSEQYNKLXQ RUXSAQMHIRL ESKNUDP DWZU BO 
      

     LQVHB ULARL
     UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE XSEGDRQB XI T
      

     LEXVE OENM CWBLFFNO
     RAZCHWV KKSASHZHQCF BU 
      

     NKAL H GNEZB
     FHLXHVMHDF UZGURQ BU 
      

     UKRA DHAPARUEHLSE
     QUSEMDLA HQUIWE BU 
      

     DOXVUKO T BRRSWNY
     WMXVQRGMUWV RKSASHZHQCF BU 
      

     RMLARCO H PREULAO
     HESPSELKGMUW ESPSENRM LAC GSPGMDF UZGURQ CP BU Z
      

     DOXVUKU H VHZBDI
     WMXVQRGMUWV RKSASHZHQCF BU 
      

     FENF BHMGO
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 
      

     UKHQB X BPKSARB
     UDZUCHQFHIC FQRURUXIZE XSEGDRQB XI T
      

     EYESR LFMENZ
     UQANBRDHTF KDGDVHUW BU 
      

     FQUQNE XRHWY
     HESPSELKGMUW UHNCUZUVUHDF UZGURQ BU Z
      

     LENEM PMIUQB
     WMXVQRGMUWB RQFLFIZUDF VO 
      


                                   ARW
      

WUPQ  PMHV GUSA UEB LYSR AKDPQN GHW HLY HW NIUFHPQC WQPYWDEB  PMHB
KRMGUDP DQAOHESC GRS ESUILKX UG NUKNCMGMDL HWRSEVUDUDF LAN GUWPB LHRM
EL MGLFMDL EWR XMVN

VKY 

L UYR UZ PMK HFQVURB ROAR HLKR ZUE SHTUEVHX RSES ESHFLRQC VQ WEFB HO

ARW IZ FRS HEIHQRF PMFARSQDP QPYSZ MU FMW YWDEPRHZ UW ASQRPCUWMD QPYSPB


PMHV HV PMA PQSNHENE  ZWHHKQM FIPQCLSEP DASQYPS UZ

FENEKDPS XUBP XQ HIUR UHBFUW

PMY HVNSPP QPQBZ ADWYC FH ZWHHKQM FIPQCLSET DY 
UG XWI AWUY WU LWA UXRKW HRAP HSAELA SQP HL ADWY


UDPCIWMNGMUW  UWS HKFY

PMHV QPYSZ CEL HWDIUDLFXA NCQYPQK DA  LWBHWKDDF ZM RC
HIPSHR NESQW UT AHAARB RUXSAPK WA ZM ROIU MG HV QFPCMVMFKR XQ
HEIHQRF PMFARSQDP  RY UER IQYCR UZ PMHV QPYSF ZHW KQENB LMF MG
NYL RMZ NAGMB  FUEZ CQ YQMNLXVQ OLAKFKR ZM PCQNV DG CWYC FW
E LHSDMGUN BMWQFHIA LWR PMAR MG ZMIY UICFRP ZM WMDLUDRQ HSHZSA
ZM SAF MP RKLQ Y WMZE PMAR UIES UICFRP ZUC PRSU QQMNLXVQ ZI WW
PMQ RHZKODF LAK IQP MG ZM HL  PMAR LAMZRSC HUWPM ZM WMDLSEZ BW
XHHQPMUDZ DQ RIOVN UQBVKFY RMGM IHN ULXIDHPQ  UD WIL  EZFSE
PMQF HV NYX HAFK Y UQZBSE UZ NKEX ZM PKG MG MCFM ZMHB VUEHS XWO
DOXV PSQ SASWY  PMY HDHIDALX NEL UZ WMHNPS UD NQHP UWXA LAW
XH RYES LFB FRS MZRSE SPQBZX HZ FRS L EWR QYNSE X  WICF
SAF QWAUWA PWZX AIO UDZM PMUDVDDF LAK QPQBZ DOPM XMPM HFHSN EWR
XURYC NELK HL EW UDHIDALF LXV PMHXY HDHIDALS FWHHKQM FIPQCLSEZ
QPYSPB RYES LFXH UD HFHSC NELQ YWR RYES PCLABXQFKR HW ESDCMGPQW
UQWA GMHQB PI ZQP PMQH UDZM PMKHC NHNESCF WMWRMGHIC  FRSE OKLY
SQAR YWDEKR UW XQ UQWA HSHZSA PMWHIFMIMF PMY RHWVN

UD PMQ RIOEPY HZ UHN PSENRMSP ZUE HWHPABVHW NESQA LWR MHP SPQBZ
RY RYES RASKN ELXQ PI WQPSEUHRA ROSEQ RHZHKX RSEY HC DMHRM UZ Y
LKDHQPX WP AKDGMUWP RQ HYK UESK HLKR EL E LIOCNY  RK RDK PKF Q
VUZBSA UDZUCHQFHIR USEQ YWR PMSEQ SMF KSAR LUPQC DS EQRKHSKN K
WMZE UZ PMY SPQBZ RY RYES NADOXVUDP FH WASQYPS MG DOPMIOF ZHDBP
RKPQCHUDUDP FUEG MZ CEL UD ULQM FHLXMD WIUQUD LAN GUDKDDF NESQW
ZM SKDHZA PMHV LAK IQP MHP HSEUHBVHID  UCFSESPPQR KWUIFM HA L
ZMFQXVA OWCASQFKR QNGMUW ZM IOE PQYCNRSL PHW MHC MRS HEUZSPXHW
LHLBNCMVKR ZM PMS HWHHKQM FIPQCLSEF VHVPBSESKN EWR RY UEZSARKR
XQ QNDMRKCF ZM WUGMRQ MHL RQUY RK RUWP CQYXVA XWZE YP QSKWE
LHLBNCHGGMUW ESAMSPF QB PRS WMHTMFSEL HLHLFXA UEWRSA PMQH PMY
QPYSZ CEL PMAR HEHZSEXA DKARGMGUKR WMZEDHPIF QALXAPYN KWR PMY
NMWSARP QKDGMUW HESHENKR

ZM IDSK XWN LR ABPHUQFHIW UZ FRS KDZLSEARRQ UD PMY HDHIDALF LWR
ROQF RY UESK ZMNKQ  ZRS HWDIUDLF NYP HWHLQLXK QCFSEKR UW NQCRB
WMOBUWXA ADWYA LZ BRS GMHQ EL "MVC QENRV" WI WUF ZUXR VGHWRSA
HW UOGMFLPQ LAR GWHLQLXQ ZWZV DR ABWSPX HZ  UZ FRSU  Q
VHDFSA NQCR WMNFR IUXR  NUENEQMSEP RARRQ  RMENQNPQEP HV LA
QNRQTFKR BPLANKCR ZUE PI ULAQ WIUFHPQC HENIDRL LAC GRS ARGMES
HWDIUDLF KRMGHIW DS EQRKHSKK DA LXV NQHP NYX HSKC  NUEEP
UD SADFPM UDNBINUDF VUDY SANHQNEGMUW XECTUXL PHW NQHP LAC GRS
FHWNFMQFHIC UENEV QPR BUDRQ PMQK RYES WUF QLKUVQLSA EQQXUYCR
RMENQNPQEP QF PMQ PHUS HWHLQLXQ ZRS EQQXUYCRX HHSNEPQN KM TLNW
NEPQX HU LWHNAC  IQYDUDF PMQ PEZHVPB UEC GM ZEZS PXUNXA ZHW
PMQ EQKXMENC GI YYSF HZ

PMHV HV PMS PQRUWK GSEVHUW UZ FENEKDPS XUBP ESSAELKR XQ HEIHQRZ
FIPQCLSEP  FRS GUEPZ CEL ESSAELKR EL IOW HQMMXSE  QPYSZ





FENEKDPS XUBP




XMIY O


UZ UQRL GUEPG CHVMXKRHKWNQ YWR PMA PNHMG
UZ PMQF ZUCSDKRKC FESY RMIPS UICPLF FQBPY
SCIOPIG CQYPM UDZM PMY RHWVN LAN KXV IOC DHY
DOPM XUBV UZ KRAR GMXV UWK PESQFSE UQW
ESBPHWA HL EWR ESFKUD PMQ SVUBVUNX BQYZ
VHDF RSKLARXA UOPS PMQF UW PMS PQRESZ BHZ
UZ HWQS HW UZ VHALD KDKBP UDPHHDY
PMQF PRSHRSCR ROU ZHDBP FQIFMP PMQ RMIPSR LYSW
UD PMQ SKPUDDUDF MIC ZRS RSKLARL EWR QYCPO
WHPS IOZ MT NUEHX HW UG VHUW MHXV
RKVUPIZ BRSQ HHWQ YWR VHXUEL SCWZQ GUEF ZXURYW
ULBP XQ PMY HNENBY HZ PIW M GRSWNY
UDXIEQ PMK YDK ZM OQ KNSKCFHNIOB VUWZ
PMQF DOPM WU UHWVSA UFDIMP UDPQWRB PH XUYW
QLIXQ PU EUWUKC UIOCF ROUVK HF THNLHSP
PMUDPV NAQFPQHTPQW KQP UD HEHXY HW SOEHQ
LAR NMHAPXA PMIO H XGHDHZ BUEG CHXF TESPAW
SQZUES LFB FQHFSSP PM HFDHPIP MQYCP LAR GHNY
UDBPNHQM HQ ZUC PMII AWURXZ BMIN UWHC MRS GUEPZ
NYBP HESPARF QWR DOPM UHPIZQ DODFX HMFPHESKN
WISKVUEQ LEPBM TWHIWUDZ IC FRS LKBP QLEXB
LAC IKNBP MG HEKPALCF ROQF UD HQ HV NKDE
UVFNUHRA ROQF HV XUD CKUPS LAR VHFZHCP
PMQF ZM PMS RKHPIZ MZ FMHV PESQF ENFIHQCF
H UYK ELPSCP QPSEALS FWHGDRKWNY
LAK DHLGMZA PMY RYKX HZ PIW ZM HQW
  LEA ZHDBPZUE RQYSKR UDKSP WUPMUDP ZWHC MOE GDYR
WUC PRS RKSH PCQNZ MP UASXBYK GUEPZ CUEM QLNPS
UISKW IHN PDLAR GENARPB UD PMQF UEZSE XFQPQ
ULXIHNKR UZ RSKLAR XH MHPIXA ZM ULXV UZZ
PNIU PMKHC NESQFHW LAC GNERLPDSPP RHV DOXV
ZUW HRA ESBPNEUDF BHWRV UZ PMY RHWVN SQVHRKB
ROU ZHDBP PSNIRQC GRSC MM ZUEF ZIOS NKSUXZ?
  PM UDPACWLF PSEHARP MK HZ CEL ROHXK POHSA
BPHDESN IZ RMGR SDLK YWR ESSKDFK RQRKHSKW
PMQ HMZRSW HT ULAVDWR ROQF GMHQ MHP HDHRK
UER NELP MHU IOF ZWHU MQYSKW DMGU EXV MHP RHXZ
UZ ESSQF LDFASB LX YMIPS KUN KPHHDUDZ
ZM PSP MHUPSFU UD FVHWK YXMSK MHP HYSEP
RS PCHLPQC GI MKLY SAMLFSAC GRS UIBP MHPI
UG RS HZZHPSN KWR DOPM QUVMGMIOL EHU
KFKURLZ BRS PMWHRA LAC IUWENRMX WZ PIW
NEHVKR HUGHIOX REN UD RSKLAR LAC VQFFBS HWHIN
DOPM LKUD QFPQHTP MHU PMQ YBUDIMPE ZWYSE
MONSKR RSKNXUDF UFQUUDP ZWHC MR SPMSEQYX BEK
DOPM MHRKIOP EOHA LWR WMCTHLGMUW WIDW
ZM XMZBIUSABV HSCRMGHIC FRSES ZM RDASX
UD KNQULAGMRA RMKURL LAR GARLF GUES
ROI WHNBP RKZA PM IUDUZHPQCF ZM ENHB
  DURA GMHQB PRS PHQNQ PUEM CQYLHESV RYK LAR WDIMP
ZM UICPLF HQR UY RMGO SHV MIWSDK NCYR
FLK XLAAMHVRSR CUXVUDF UD PMA PHKWE FIFU
WMAUIOWRKR PMIOPI HUUICPLF LMP MHV WIIU
ESPSDSKR MHC MI UHWY RNEPM ZUC WWY PMQ PMIIFMP
XMPM UZ XUBP UEZSUDSPL EWR FLBPUDP TKUW
ZMCHARPB MHH CIOWR RS PMWHRX MHB LLFAPNF QKSP
PMQF DOFCSPPSR IIFQ YZLVUQMHIA LWR KDBHYK
UHSYR DMGM IVCHNQFS HDHRK LAR VPQKNULBP UEPQ
QF UWRQ EL ULN EL EDFASV EAR RS GDYRB
PMK RHVUQX BMGNLGMUW NYBPQ YWR DOVN
K NNAPKUW MIWSMVSA UW LFX BDKSP WHNAW
EL UWK PESQF UNCWQNA PFLHQW KQP PNIU PMHXA PFLHQB
WU VUPIM TMF NEPMSE NKDERABV GDVHLXY
PSDSKR UWXA ZM KDBRIXSE VHPIPB UZ YWY
ESIDUWX HP LHWWHD RUXAPNF PRKNSP ROSES HQYRQ
LAR CSPM QLA RASKC RRYXV MIHS RASKC NIUSP
PMQF WMHQB PU YXV LMZ BHWFMES DOPMIOP QWR
BPUVF NDPSP LAN K GUSEK WASIFA PKR
DOPM KSSELMCWUDP VNFHRHN NAWMRLOUKR
LHRM FSQNY SPQCWLF HOBPMDS REL HESHENKR
ZUC PMIPS ESSQXVHIHL RSES PMKHE HDHXHW UCRKURAW
UD MFPQC RENADSPL EWR PMKHE HHWGMUW PSZ
EL ULW SQHIXKR PNIU ZIN KWR VUPIZ MP UQYSKW
EL PNIU PMQ RARPCQ PREMDQ PM ZM OMCHXF TUXY
IM MIN OAFDVQ PRS FSQNA PWHO CRSWNQ PRSA ZASX
PMSEQ PRS WMHTLAHIRL UZ MHL PLFX USEROASHQW
DOPM UFWZRV LAR DMHNSDOWRX HZ FQHHSBPOIHL GUES
RS XHUW KDBRSERL LAR DASPQDHDF XQ MHB VDKY
UWA RYSP MHUPSFU UD ZHRYN EWR RABZ UD NCHUY
XUDF LUPQD EWUDW UD FESABPUDQ YWR ALHQW
SQASPYLMT MW YMIC MU ECNRSRAOQ
LAC GRSWNK HR UQYSKW NLFSAR VQFLA DOPM XMVN YWCRB
SCQYVDDF PMS RHWDHR VUVARRQ PMHL SQFKW
  "UG PMIO SQSPP MQSMF I MWY ULXVAR MID NUEDFKR
PNIU MHO CMI UD PMS REFZE ESLFHB UZ VUPIZ
NBMZRSR DMGM PNERLRQWRARM TDHPIFCSPV RDKBP IOPBMHRA
OQDHKNB PMIIFM SDHPIGMP UY RMIO BMFNLX VQYFIY
NAMGKR PMIOPIPB LAR NIORLASP SAMLF MIHS
LAR IYFENK DC FRS FVHWHIHL ARPQEHDHPS
HIUDKR DOPM HQ UWRQ WUC OHVSEE OQFM HIHRAW
UD QANLS NOHD UCFW YUEF TMG PMIO PSSPZ
PNIU ROQF RSDIMP ULXVAR XH UORM PMS PPCUWPKE HWHSKW
RS DOPM MHB PMOWRSE LAC GUVB FRSW DMI ADYR
PMA PHWRQ UZ PMHXK RHDQ YCHX? EQP WUF ZHW PMHXY
WUC DUEZ BRS ZHPQCF GDQMHW UD MHP EKFY
NQR AXBK HAUVUQM WI H DSHARZ MC NUEDFY
PMIOPI RMLAPKK DW UMFNYCR FNBPES PMQF GUSYC IUDW
LAR IDII RHVNKUD PNIU PSRLY HG UDUHNKR HQDHZ
PMQF DOPM PMQ HDIMPHKBP NEHVKR HQ ZM WMCFARW
LAC GM ZRS GUSERQ WMCFARGMUWB LWHIFMP LFUWZ
UDANHQNELXA PHWRQ UZ PHHDMGL ECHKR
PMQF NIEPG CHVVUEQ MHP EKHFD LAC IS HESPAWSUDZ
MHL HMCHXF TWYSE DOPM KNSKEPS HWYSE HZZHPSW
UD NIVMIOB LQFFBY HC FRS FSKURL UZ RSKLAR
LAR VMIIY MHB PREUWY RUEZ BMIIFM PRS GUASC VA SHXZ?
LFV UL RMZ XUBPPMA HWNUWAMSEQLSA DOXV
LAR VFMWK UZ ESSKDFK HOBHWFQS UQFY
LAR NIONEPK RASKC PH XMLUHZ MW EHKVN
LAR DUEG MP SXBA RMZ ZM SQ IXSEWMHQ?
PMQF FVHWA WKSSE PRLFS UHV DCQFM IC HDIMP
YSZMCP PNIU HQ ZM XMN YWR LHA PHW PDQNY
DOPM LHZSVULAG QRAQ YWR RKUGE OHV ZHRYW
ROU ZWHC MRS PQWSHW UZ PMHV ENH BU XQFY
WIMLPQR IHV QHGHESPMQF RYES XUD OWRYSW
PMQF RYES LA DIWUUHWA LAR VUEHQ SQRAQFO
PMHV WIDWULXV VHWNQ SA ZQFQ PRS BPESDFPM UZ ZIRV
LAC GMHP SHTEWQYX BQXBPLARQ NQWLMZ ULUV
VHWNQ PREIOPI YSHSDHARRQ UZ PMHV PDQYP QSKCF
UD ENHB WUZ CHWPS UD ZUESVHPIM CMNU EKGLARQW
RY UQX YMGM UHWS PMNRQBVUNS UHZS ESPUXSK
ZM NYPK XQ ZUCNY HD POHSA QPSEALX NEN
HDESWMWNUVQLSA ZM IOD PNEWR ZUY
ROU WWY PCHOHTRP LAK DC FR SBWSPX HG UWX
XHSA ESDIDUDF MIVNB PRS ZQNEWLX WP UQYSKW"
  XH PHYEQ PU EZHBPQFQ YDFAS PMIOPI UD FEUD
LKNAGMDF LFIOC VMF NEDQKR DOPM RKSH RKPHKUW
LAR IHU PMHL LAXRSEKR XHUW MHB LUXR NIUHSSE
  "H ZDHWNY H RMHKZ UT ULAQ ZREUWKR ZHRYEP
PMQF SAC GR SCTQFFBKR PSNEHRHU ZM NYW
NARKC POE WMWRMNF QWR UD RCQYNGNF RKKRB
PAENSABV ARNKDFSEKR RSKLARP HSEHSFMLF VDDF
LAR GMF ZM HEWZP UHV MHPI LHHEQHQNX
ROQPRSN HHRASC VE XPCARPFM IC NUEWNY HN PQFY
ZMW YASV U PSQ YWR NHQ PRS KDES KSARZ
PMQF DOPM LEW ISKCPREWY LAN GIOV NAPQYZ
UEPM XUBP HL RSKLAR LAN KXV PMHV UHPIZQ MIBP
UD MIWSMVSA RKBPNHQMHIA FKUC GMOB XWY
EL ULN EV PIWL EWR RSKLARXA SPPSWNSP
NQR FSEHVU PHW PMQ HUDN KWR PHHDMG ESUQUDB
UDGDWNMVSA LAK GDIIOE PWZW CQPHNRL
PMIOPI LFX UHN FVHWK QBZUDQM LAR IEFZE BPQFY
RSES XRLFXURYN IG HR AWRSABV UHPSWE
LMZ CUEG MP UY HHN WMCAHAWHC DMIU H WUY
UZ ZUCNQ SASHKSK LFUHPIZQ VHWNA RU XSPB
PMLA LHRM WMNFR IKLY HSEZHRYESR VMNU PHWRQ EL IOEP
UESK SAZF HL PMHV IOE PGHDHF QWR BPESDFPM ARGMES
BPWHDFXA ZM LHZLSE LAR VHFZHCP IOE HKURL
PMQF RY UQE XH XNUGURQ MHB SARPKUNV UES
HW WI MHO BDIMPHKE PSEGDRQ EL MHB PRELFXB
XQ DHPIZ MZ NEN ROQFYSE RHV LMVHRABV SQ
RSES UD PMS RQYCP UZ RSXV ZM YWDE UD GUES
HW WI MHP SWSLARV UD PMK PXUIUK WYSZ?
ROQF NQD UZ BRS KLKUB FMIIFO EQP RY PAAS
BPESDFPM NAKDUHDUPRKR HW QPSEALX LKHDF
ZM NARKDPH YPQCWLF FHDUPRHQCF?"
  ROSEQPW YMGR PHSKRX YHWRV PM ENRMGUARR CSHVUKR
"ULXVAR RMSEML ZM SQ RYYE HV UHPSNELXY
WIUDZ IE PNUPADHDF LMZ MZ FMHB LS PHNY
ZM WI LNPIF PWZR WKSSE DOXV SQ IOC PELY
LMP QSKC PI WI HXV IOE PUXK RASDIMP
EL SQUDP FRS WMCFNEWE ZM MHP RDIO RUVX
ROIU RY ESVHBP UG PMAR MHP HWHGDRKWNY
IOZ MZ UHN KSUV PSQE ZM SCUDP ZHWPM ZIIW
ION SQLIOC HHLM TQ PH ZSESKCP PMQF ARW
LAW IMF UZ ZIIW BPUVB FU ZUDC IQYRL UZ KSUV
ROMDM IZFGMHQB HYK LHWBYSR VU YP HSEUEHP
PRLFV FDHKSS RHU UG U GKUF AMZ LAW VHVFMCS
MHV HCUHXM QIORLASL PWHC MRSHD RKBPUDKR KUO
LMP BYS PMQ YDFWE GDQMHW UEPM ESNQXVKR
MHB HUDHVPQEP UZ SKDFQYWNQ YWR FHEPOHZ
LQDQ ZM PMK PQFSP UZ RSKLAR PMS PNFHRHNIOP RKUX
PRMZ LUPQN HV HR LZMCH HYCSXUDW UEPM FLDK
PMA PHKWE LHDPQ PUEF ZWHC MRS HEQRHGMDY
UZ RSKLAR ESRQDGKR HL ULXVUDF KWR PMQ PMOWRSE
DODFKR DOPM ESN VDIMPDUDF LAK DHTQPOIHL NEPK
HSEREFP RQFR PHSCF MHB VUEZFL EWR RQELSP WUY
ZM SQXVWY PMWHIFM PRS LKBP LAC VIOWRSABV RKSH
SAF ML RMZ BXHG PM MWNQVHUW ROQPRSE PWMCW
HW LEGMQFA PHNX ZHKVN MG PNIU ION PHY
PSSPZ BMIO AUW RCQYWE FSKUA UHWXUCW LAR DUVW
PMS PQYZ MG NSPUXQFHID LIHW IU FDIMP
LESK ROQF PMK PVUOBSEUDZ IZ FRSPS VUGDN GFLHQB
NQBPP HLFQ YWR RCQYNGNF? PMMGRSN SQP HL PQWR
PNIU UZZ FRS ZMBVUDZ IZ FRSPS GUSEX YKLSP
PMSES ESPG MU LWA ESBP NQR UENXMHN PMSEY
LAR CQYBVQHLXUDZ IHN LUUFMDPQR GWYSEB
WMRLNFP MWY RY UQE OARRQZUCPM UHXZ MZLARW
IOE SRAOQ IOW HDW XUBV MID CSHKUW
MIY WSKCNIUQ PMHV RHDQ RLFQUMGX
ROQF ESUDZUCNQHARZ CQ HYK FKUD PNIU MIHS
UG WUZ CUEP CSPUXMFHIA UWHI CSPFEHD"
  PMHL LEFQC FLFVDDF ZM MHL RQYESBP UQPQ
DOPM RSKN HFVUZF QLIXQ PRS NYSK LAR KKQB
PMQF PHENAVUDT VFLPYR IHV MZRSE HENPB SQVHRKB
HEUWY HC FRS UFWZR KBZARRKN VUWF KWR FLDPY
FLA ZXUQFUDT ILAK Y WHIW UD LMVA EL MOPK
EL ROIU PMA PQLSAL RQUY HT UUWBPWHHL VHPY
GMFQDULA HW QYCPMSHWC FUEZ CENESW ID UIXY
SCUKESHX HW ZQHRUW ROIU PMK RAR
XQ LADMARZ BENLHP RASW IC PUEP BQYSQELZ
SAGDQFUEW DMHRM ZIW IU LXV MHX RHWEV
NCQYPQR IIFSPZ BUEP BDOC MM IRQLABPESQU
MHU MEFXA BXOUSQDHDF UW PMA RHWNYA ZUYO
PMS HUVMZ UZ XHHQ BHLFF ADIMPZUNARKESR VVDZL
RKQHUDP VIUK HBXLAW IZF EL PSQUAR PQXV
DOPM GUSYN KWNMID HR UHV BRLFE WUDW
UIHWB LE OHV VHRK NARKC PRS SAY RMHSA DUPIZ
UDSKBPB PRS PSY LWR DOPRKR UICW RKFLEX
XH BPESMQRSW IMF MOPK UD SADFPM PMQ YCNUPHKWR FLX
RMKURAW IC FRS LMCWUDF VYEA RHW KSSE PMARRQ
UER CHVAR HW RSKLKR MHP RQYC VMF PMQF PMY RUVX
LAR IDIR HSEUHBVHIW UU LXVNHVUDF RSKLAR
SAZF MHU QF BENPK ZM MHX HDW NKDE RKVHFDB
PMQF DOPM ESMGSEQFKR NCHUSP RS UHPIZ
RSEF UW MHHBASG NQUALGMUW ROUVS RS PIOPIZ
KSUV ZM MZRSEP LAR KWCKFKR UHPIP BYS
MIN YXV MHB HLFMDS PSESKC VMF ZM SCUDP ZHWPM
UDGUDUPQ ZIIWRABV PDQNQ YWR HQCNE XRSDW
UW UQC LE OHU PSNIRQC VMF UW MHHBASZ
PCQSSA WMAUHLHIW DNEPM LAK GARPKLARQ ZHHNKR
  ZUCPORMGM OHEDIMP RS ESENL PWHU IZL PMS HWZX
MHB HDIMPE XFQFMES UW QYRM UEWR PMA PFLHQB
RCDGAR LQDQNYCR BXHZQ PRSHD ZHUDGMDF PHHDSP LARCUXSAW
UD VMXVWYB XQYSK M GM UDKBP E UHWDHK GLFY
PMAR DOPM YSFEWRKR DODFP RS PPQSEP RHV UFDIMP
LFUZG MWNOUSQCF UW PMK RHLEK KUW
PMQF PABF NAHLNLX NKHPIZ BUVX UW RWE FLWR
RS VUPIPBUG MG RYES FLWR PMQF KSSE LMCWKR
DOPM XHVUN KB PRS FLEQ DOPM VUAMDK GUES
LAR VMNU EZSQYESK DR UHA EL ROAR PMA PHWRQ
UZ LHTMSENERALA DOWR PCLAPHWHPB E UUVX
ZMCW PNIU HSXUNHX HC PRS PRQFPQESR VDKY
UZ PMNARKDHDF QPAL ROHXQ RIULMBPMVSA
LAN GHAXVKR ARPCKUXB PMARRQ WMWNKHGDDF GUES
LHLXHUKR DOPM UHRANEF UHNK YDK PMY RUDRV
LAN VQYSK E LUDPKC VMZZMU QXV UDXIXSKR
DOPM BPARRM LAR VUIEQ LHRM ESBPUDP ZIOWR PMS PUXY
UZ NALXSPF ZYSP MHU ZUXVWYKR MHL RYSM CQFY
XMPM FVHWKODF ZM UESK BREFKR PMS PZQIDLA UFWZW
EL ZIRV LAC VQ ZRSHD WYW CQRIXSEKR BPESDFPM
WUM TQ ZRS LHZLSELARQ UZ LHHSCWLF ZHRYW
  "HV PMHV PMS EKPHIC FMHB PRS XHUV PMQ RVUHQ"
LEDK PMAR PMA SHXF QCNUEDFAS "PMHV PMS PQYZ
PMQF RY UOBP RMLAPK ZUE RQYSKC?FMHB HIOCWUNV FXUIU
ZUC PUEM QASSPGMLF VUPIM? TK HP BH XUDRQ RS
ROU WWY HV XHSKESDIW NLA KDPHHXQ YWR VMW
ROQF PRLFX LS EDIMP ULCPRSBP PNIU MHU HB LSPZ
ROIU ESELUW UEPM QANLXVKR ZUCNS RQFM UKNS PHFESHQ
QLIXS RHV QANLXB ULESRYXV UEZSA ZHKVNB
ROSEK HWX ZUE SSKC RRYXVP RKUS UHWWHEP UEUV
UDPACWLF YWNSN KWR PMIO HEUZIOWRSPP MASX
ESRQDGQ POE RAR ZHXPSBVHWUWY RMI SCUDPV
Q UUDR WMZ ZM SQ RMLAPKC VE ZFLRQ HW GMHQ
PMQ HUDK DV HPB WYR FFLRQ LAK DD UPBASZ
NQC UYEQ Y RSKLAR UZ RSXV E UASX UP UQYSKW
ROQF UQZBSE ROSEK HG U SQ BPUVB FRS LEHQ
LAR DUEG M PRIOVN SQ LFX LMF SABV PMLA RS
ROIU PMNARKE RQFM UKNK PESQFSE? RSES QF SAELZ
RY PRLFX LA PESQ PU EBUDIMPE OQFU RMZ LMUVZ
RSES ZUE RHV ARXK DOXV WUG CDHSK HL RSWNY
RSES RY UQE WKHPI PSNMES LAK DC UQ WMIMDY
ZM ESDID UX RHWPM QUVMGMUW PMIOPI UD RSXV
SQZBSE ZM ESDID UR UASB FUER LSESK UD RSKLAR
LMZ CRSESZUES SAZ CQ PRSW UHN ULMGUPNF PNHKWRB
PM ELXHDMQFSP LAR NHZENFCSEX HZ UHN XUBV
VUQ PMOL EBPUWHVRSW IC FM ILXDGHIHL ZHUX
LAR NLFB FRSU CMZ ZM PRENY RMGM OB PRSHD FECP
UD PMHV NAUEZSQ OLAVHUW HW UWRQ UIES
DOPM NEXVHKN KCHB PM ZWE ROQF UQQ XQ KQP
ESFKUDKR UD RSKLAR HW ROQF UIES XUBP UD RSXV?"
  XH LEFQR LFEEQ LAR IHU SQASPYLML
PMHL LAXRSEKR"SAKNSE UZ PMHXQ YCHHKB LDHPIZ
ROMDM SMF PM IUDUZHPQCF WURA WMNFR IKLA PIHSAW
UG UWRQ PMQK RSEN PMQF XIMDQ PRSHD VUSKVUSPF TSAKIY
UZ MIHS UD PAENL EWR NKDFSEPRQYCR XH UZZ
UD YWEPP QBZESHQL EWR UW PMS HSEUVIOP SKIY
UZ LQZBSA ROAR MG NEPKK DA LXV ELLENFPB
PMKHE PHNSPP BDIALBFRSX YUVX BWZW CSPOUY
RAD NIONEPK LAR CKSDGQ PMIIFU RWY PMQK VUY
PDIXASVUDF LAR GWHBPNEPQ UW XWA FYEY HZ LHDY
EL RY SEYRMHSA ELZMNARKN KWR QUYFKR
WU YWWRSE ULXVAR LHRM E FSEDUDMIOP RKHPIZ"
  RS BRENS RKN RQELKR ROAR PMS PHFSEHIN PHKWR
NYB HIXUDP FWYENC GRS PRHWS RHV ZHWRSEIOB VMHASW
QPRSESLF PQHTSE UQBVA XENPK LAR CIOWR
SQMHWR MHC QELZ BRS SCUYR NHDNMUTSEARRQ
MODF UW MHB VMINFRKEP VUEQ PMQ HWZW DMIPS HWL
PMWHIFM ITFMD FVELB PRS FMBRLA ENGMBP GDYRB
QF KSARUDP ZWHC MRS ZMZ HZ LSPUXY
HW UD LKVNENWU ZM RKBRWE RAN XLARV
DHSKEP HW UINAFQUDV HR USE PHMZZQ FVMXY
MHB VHSENZM QANLX NMHRM PMQ PLFSABP GHRA
RSDW UW WUCDKPUKR UUVXB ZM SQ PMQ HELZ
UZ XHHQ PDQYF QOBHDLF RYES LMF Q NYWR
RS NYVAKR DOPM ZM LHZSHWF MRAELE XPQHP
IXSE PMQ SHNDUDF UQNS WUF BDVQ PMIPS BPSHB
UW RSKLARL EFOES LAC GRS ZMWSDK NBHUY
BHMZY HR UHU XHES SQVHRKB SLNBFKR DOPM GUES
ALPMSABV RS XH ARNIESC GUVX UC FRS SQQNO
UZ PMQF UDUFQUKR PSE US PZMIW LAR NLFSAW
MHB XKPHIRLLAPKF UHWHB ROU XYK ARPCLARQW
PMMDE YL EMFOUALX VQYSKB PUEP BPCWY PMQ SWHIYB
UD LKXVIUSCHXY NRSES PM QPNHDHLA PRKNSP
MHPI IXSEENRMKR QHXMRYW HE PNQZBSEKR PSKIY
LUXUQF ROAR DOPM GUSERQ DOWRX HDHUW ENHQW
UEPM SKSYC GRS ESRVQY WMELZ CMIPS NYSKX HSEPMESY
LMVHDHL EWR MHB HQHHRUKW NMHLKSNX
ROUVY RMGR HSEGUKDIOP RQFESC GRSE ZHNLHKR
PMS PIHIOCWSEX HZ PHXRSW DMI SQRSVN
PNIU PMS PLUS PMIES PMKHN PXUQFUDT DENNQPSB
LAC VWHEQW NUEDHMZROYSXB XH PMMDQ VSPPCWYW
QLHKQM LAN VHXF BYK PMSPQ RIXSEUDP FRS UFWZW
NARKN EUQPYHQCF UZ PMKHE RDKYHHL RMLAPK
RS NQXVKR XH XUIN PMQF LFB FRS MIXVWY RKSH
UZ RSXV ESXHNARKR"GDHWNSP ZHPQCFQFSP
NYWSHIEP PMA PXURYW HP UQYSKWUWNQ KIOEP WUN XHXZ
UG LHRM ELZMDUPRHQCF EL PMHV NQR LKHPY
QPSEALX BGHDHPB HW UESK KQ RMHXAR PMHV FSQNY
LUPQC PRS ZMUV UZ LQZBSA ZM ESZHPS
XWHN RYENHKK GHDFMA PHW PMY SELQ KIO GUWR
ZM BXOUSQE RSEQ YV HC FRS LKSAX HP UQYSKW?
HW UD PMHV QLHKQM ZHBPHNS RKLQ KS PYWCW
ZM KNHWQ PRS WMCAHAWHC DMI WUC XSRUXRV
RMSEML LAR VSEEFR EUXVUDF UD PMA PXUIW
DOPM BRQFPQESN KCHL EWR ARVHFDB PUVF LWUW
MHB VDOZF FHEPHAEP PNIU RSKLARFKPQV RHVRQCW
PM KNLKCFKFQ YWR RKBRARKDDF PCQYN IV RWYW
PMHL RCWZGHDF HW DOPM VUDAKR PMNARKCSUXPB
PCLALPOV HL ZM PMQ SMZZMU IZ FMHV PNFZ?
YNYEQ YDHPS HW SQ ZUE SSKN PLFSAW"
  PMQK RSENN KWR RYES QLELRSN KWR HF PMQK PHNHDF
HFUW PMY RUDF KX RRSC UAR YWCF ZM NYMQO
UW NIZQ BXYSGHDF ZUNAC VX YMIC MRSK WESKN
WHHLQ YWR SQBPHD PMQHPSXSSP SEY RASF LNYEQ
WUC RDK PMQK WUF TSERQDGQ PRS KSUV FSDIMP
UD ROMDM PRSX YSEY HC PRS GUSERQ FEUDL RMZ PAAS
KQZ BM ZRSHD PKRANEXB XIMDQ PRSE XWZW USQKQW
UDANHQNELXQ YX RRSC FRS ZHPQCF WHW
UZ QUNEHB XHD UR AZKTFP SGDV NYK
NYSKR CIOWR PMQ RUYBP HFNQXVKR E FMGRMQ WXUIN
UZ XUNMBPX RENGHDF UW PMY SELPQCW DOWR
PMQF HYC PRS ESLFU IG UHTHIHL HRENYUO SNAZ
VUEQ DUPIF QWR NKDEARKR LFB FRS FLWR UZ DUSA
XH ANCTSESABV RYES PMHXQ SKN LAPKXB PSAR
MISKDHDF UW DODF NARKC PRS WMHS UZ RSXV
ZCOVF MZSSE RAPMSE LAR VHNWHNAKDDF GUESB
GMXV EL E LDIALV FDGAR PM HFVUZFKR PHQYW
UZ PMKHD PESQF LHBFLA NYGDDF ZM KDESQM
PMKHC NIOEPK HR ASKC LLFLARQ WIDW PMQK VUPIZ
UW PMA PHDC TDHHBZMRA LAN GUVF LXV PMS HFLUD
Q UNFGMFMRK VUEQ ROMDM PRS ZHFHXUHL WUCPO
ZHHNKR RASKN PWHU MSE PNWOAR XUUDB PH ZELB
ERARY HC PRS NKALY ZRSR USE LQCSENIOB VUWB
NQHQ VUEQ K NASIFY HC FRS XHMFU EWR PHESKN
SQRAQFI PMVNEBFEN ZM PMA SMVKYR LLARV
ZUCPORMGU PHWH QSKWE BENLRCUW LAR KQNM SLAW
PMS RQYRV LAN VQYRKEP PMMGRSE RELPQ ROSES PZMIW
PMKHD PESQF WMOBLARKDPIWVUEQ PREFSP LAN GHWHB
YSRQXVUDP IOULA HEUDRQXA KDFDMGHKB
LAR GWYSEB PUEP QEPG MR UQYSKR LQF UW PMWHRAB
