  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering

V%oVl% G@ou| li(% |"G|GM

  85 |"iY |iS% Y"% "GJ fou_J "%r <G5 i_|o G |iJ5 li||l% rooS <i|"
G |G@l% i_ |"% <i_Jo<, G_J o_ i| (GY Y"% "GJ "oV%Jl G fG_ G_J |<o
or |"r%% VGirY of |i_5 <"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Yu  Y"% |oo( uV |"% fG_ G_J
G VGir of |"% Mlo2%Y, G_J <GY PuY| Moi_M |o l%G2% |"% rooS, <"%_
"%r %5% f%ll uVo_ G li||l% @o||l% |"G| Y|ooJ _%Gr |"% loo(i_MS
MlGYYA  _"%r% <GY _o lG@%l |"iY |iS% <i|" |"% <orJY  Dlc"% M~,M
@u| _%2%r|"%l%YY Y"% u_cor(%J i| G_J Vu| i| |o "%r liVYA   c (_o<
SiM~_@c"G i_|%r%Y|i_M iY Yur% |o "GVV%_,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf,
 <"%_%2%r c %G| or Jri_( G_5|"i_M2 Yo cMll PuY| Y%% <"G| |"iY
@o||l% Jo%YA  c Jo "oV% i|Mll SG(% S% Mro< lGrM% GMGi_, for
r%Gll5 cMS [ui|% |ir%J of @%i_M Yuc" G |i_5 li||l% |"i_MGM

  c| JiJ Yo i_J%%J, G_J Suc" Yoo_%r |"G_ Y"% "GJ %xV%c|%J
