                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the%
Y5Y|%S |o J%Gl <i|" iSGM%Y (l%| Glo_% o|"%r S%JiG forSG|Yl lGMY @%"i_JA
A MliSVY% of G Sul|iS%JiG fu|ur% for _%|<or(Y, "o<%2%r, <GY Vro2iJ%J @5
MGriG f~8li" i_ "%r o2%r2i%< of |"% i_li_% Jour_Gl of }urr%_| }li_icGl
_riGlY (iJ}}_l, G_J |"% Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 Vu@liY"i_M o_Sli_%A

_"% co_|rGY|i_M forS of |"% }DSliM JiY( <GY _%2%r Y5Y|%SG|icGll5
G_Gl5,%J, @u| G||%_J%%Y coulJ Ml%G_ G_ iSVr%YYio_ froS Y%2%rGl of |"%
Y"o<SG_JS|%ll Vr%Y%_|G|io_YA  _"% P%rY%uY G_J AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 %xGSVl%Y
J%So_Y|rG|%J r%c%_|l5 Vu@liY"%J JiY(Y, <"il% |"% J%YcriV|io_Y of |"%
c8Y}oS 2%rYio_ of |"% PGV%rY of G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ G_J }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5MY
PG|roloMiG fG|i_G DG|G@GY% (PfDl |olJ of JiY(Y |o coS%A  AccorJi_M |o
~ric }AfAfo}A, PfDMY Vri_ciVGl focuY "GY @%%_ o_ co_2%r|i_M JGc[u%YSPGul
MiM_%MY J%fi_i|i2% coll%c|io_ of fG|i_ |%x|Y |o SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forSA
Al|"ouM" %2%r5o_% coulJ Y"Gr% |"% _%|<or( GJ2ocG|%YM %_|"uYiGYS for G_
o_Sli_% fu|ur%, |"% VoYYi@ili|5 of rolli_M uV o_%MY Yl%%2%Y for G Y%YYio_
<i|" G }DSliM co_|Gi_i_M @o|" |%x|uGl SG|%riGlY G_J G Vo<%rful r%|ri%2Gl
%_Mi_% SGJ% |"% JiY( Y%%S G_ GVV%Gli_M 2%YY%l i_J%%JA  _"% o2%rGll
JiYcuYYio_ YuMM%Y|%J |"G| |"% |rG_Yi|io_ froS }DSliM |o o_Sli_% _%|<or(%J
Gcc%YY SG5 Vro2% fGr Ylo<%r G_J Sor% Jifficul| |"G_ "GY @%%_ G_|iciVG|%JA


[@i Al~ _@~ oS~lS A"D [@A_ Di _@~Y Di8

Al|"ouM" co_c%r_%J <i|" |"% |%c"_icGli|i%Y of VroJuc|io_, |"% [or(Y"oV
_%2%r loY| YiM"| of |"% VurVoY%Y G_J uY%Y of %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_Y of
|%x|uGl SG|%riGlYA  AY _o|%J G@o2%, |"oY% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ iSGMi_M JiYcuYY%J
|"% Vro@l%SG|icGl SG||%r of JiMi|Gl Vr%Y%r2G|io_, <"il% |"% _~c VroVo_%_|Y
J%Ycri@%J "o< SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x|Y cG_ @% uY%J i_ r%Y%Grc"A  _"iY lG||%r
|oVic r%c%i2%J |"orouM" |r%G|S%_| i_ |"% VGV%r r%GJ @5 A2rG Mc}@~fSi"A
S"% VlGc%J |"% V"%_oS%_o_ of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y <i|"i_ |"% co_|%x| of
@roGJ%r |r%_JY i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 G_J Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A

ASo_M o|"%r |"i_MY, Mc}@~fSi" J%Ycri@%J o_Sli_% co_f%r%_c%Y |"G|
r%Vr%Y%_| G 2iMorouY G_J iSVor|G_| i_|%ll%c|uGl foruS for c%r|Gi_
JiYciVli_%YA  c_|%r_%| _o< cGrri%Y Sor% |"G_ ADD co_f%r%_c%Y, <i|" G@ou|
8D V%rc%_| of |"%Y% J%2o|%J |o |oVicY i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J |"
