Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to  Jo |"G| iY _o| for|"coSi_M" (f~S%, V%r li||%rGYlA


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                               Pli}~~Dc"GS


[~f}iM~

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Gc  ilD P iriMi_ of [or(Y"oV i_ curr%_| fi@rGriG_MY J%Yir% |o SG(% f}MY
coll%c|io_Y Sor% <iJ%l5 G2GilG@l% P D%YiJ%rG|G GriYi_M froS |"% VroYV%c|
of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Af|%r <%lcoSi_M VGr|iciVG_|Y o_ @%"Glf of |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 (AMl, G_J |"% "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@, ProYY%r
Gc  ilD, Jir%c|or for Yc"olGrl5 VroMrGSY, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, locG|%J
|"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV o_ ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ G co_2%rYG|io_ "% "GJ
"GJ co_YiJ%rG@l5 Sor% |"G_ G 5%Gr GMo <i|" }Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%r_i_M
YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y fGc%J @5 AMA  i_ |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| _uS%rouY o|"%r
V%oVl% <%r% GY(i_M |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y, |"% J%ciYio_ <GY SGJ% |o @ri_M
|oM%|"%r GY SG_5 of |"%Y% V%oVl% GY VoYYi@l% |o GY( |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y
|oM%|"%rA  c_ G J%%V%r Y%_Y%, Gc  ilD YGiJ, |"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV
lG5 i_ |"% J%Yir% of |"% curr%_| fi@rGriG_ of }o_Mr%YY, JGS%Y @A
8illi_M|o_, |o SG(% |"% coll%c|io_Y of |"% fi@rGr5, %YV%ciGll5 |"oY%
off%ri_M u_i[u% or u_uYuGl |%Y|iSo_5 o_ GYV%c|Y of |"% AS%ricG_
%xV%ri%_c%, G2GilG@l% |o G Suc" <iJ%r circl% of uY%rY |"G_ |"oY% f%<
V%oVl% <"o cG_ coS% |o [GY"i_M|o_ |o uY% |"%SA  _"iY S%G_| |"G| |"%
%SV"GYiY of AM, froS |"% ou|Y%|, "GY @%%_ o_ Grc"i2Gl coll%c|io_Y of |"%
@GYic SG|%riGl, G_J o_ SG(i_M |"%Y% coll%c|io_Y |"%SY%l2%Y G2GilG@l%,
rG|"%r |"G_ Y%l%c|%J or "%G2il5 %Ji|%J VroJuc|YA

 roS AMMY %SV"GYiY follo<%J |"% [u%Y|io_Y <i|" <"ic" |"% [or(Y"oV @%MG_u
<"o <ill uY% |"%Y% SG|%riGlY, G_J i_ <"G| forS <ill |"%5 <iY" |o uY%
|"%SA  8u| G_ %2%_ lGrM%r iYYu% J%Y%r2i_M S%_|io_, i_ Gc  ilDMY 2i%<, <GY
|"% V"%_oS%_Gl Mro<|" i_ c_|%r_%| co__%c|i2i|5A  @% %xVr%YY%J |"% "oV%
|"G| |"% VroYV%c| of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY |"G_ %2%r @%for% <oulJ
l%GJ |ou  ul Suc" Sor% cooV%rG|i2% G_J Su|uGll5 YuVVor|i2% %_J%G2orY2 2l
J%2%loVS%_| of Y5Y|%SY of Y"Gr%J G_J JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|i%Y |o
G2oiJ JuVlicG|io_ G_J |o %_Yur% GccurGc5 G_J Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of u_i[u%
SG|%riGlY2 G_J <l GMr%%S%_| o_ |"% _%c%YYGr5 Y|G_JGrJY G_J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% GVVroVriG|% Jir%c|ori%Y G_J i_Jic%Y |o SG(% _G2iMG|io_
Y|rGiM"|for<GrJ GSo_M |"% 2Gri%J r%Yourc%Y |"G| Gr%, G_J i_cr%GYi_Ml5
<ill @%, G2GilG@l%A  c_ |"iY co__%c|io_, Gc  ilD r%[u%Y|%J |"G|
VGr|iciVG_|Y r%fl%c| froS |"% ou|Y%| uVo_ |"% Yor|Y of ou|coS%Y |"%5
|"ouM"| |"% [or(Y"oV SiM"| "G2%A  DiJ |"oY% Vr%Y%_| co_Y|i|u|% G MrouV
<i|" Yuffici%_| coSSo_ i_|%r%Y|Y |o VroVoY% G _%x| Y|%V or _%x| Y|%VY,
G_J if Yo, <"G| SiM"| |"oY% @%8  _"%5 <oulJ r%|ur_ |o |"%Y% [u%Y|io_Y |"%
follo<i_M Gf|%r_oo_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 f~cS}@@Ao~l P }or% of [or(Y"oV co_c%r_Y Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_ of
SG|%riGlY P SV%ciGl c"Gll%_M% i_ co_2%rYio_ of |%x|uGl SG|%riGlY P
(uGli|5 2%rYuY [uG_|i|5 P Do |"% Y%2%rGl MrouVY r%Vr%Y%_|%J Y"Gr% coSSo_
i_|%r%Y|Y8 P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

}Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l, coorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
%SV"GYi,%J |"G| "% <oulJ G||%SV| |o r%Vr%Y%_| |"% V%oVl% <"o V%rforS YoS%
of |"% <or( of co_2%r|i_M or Vr%VGri_M  SG|%riGlY G_J |"G| |"% cor% of
|"% [or(Y"oV "GJ |o Jo <i|" Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_A   f~cS}@@Ao~l
|"%_ Jr%< G JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% lo_M |%rS, <"%_ SG_5 |"i_MY <oulJ @%
G2GilG@l% G_J co__%c|%J i_ |"% <G5Y |"G| Gc  ilD J%Ycri@%J, G_J |"% Y"or|
|%rS, i_ <"ic" AM _o| o_l5 "GY <r%Y|l%J <i|" |"% iYYu% of <"G| iY |"%
@%Y| courY% |o VurYu% @u| GlYo "GY fGc%J G 2Gri%|5 of |%c"_icGl
c"Gll%_M%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l r%SGr(%J AMMY %_J%G2orY |o J%Gl <i|" G <iJ% rG_M% of li@rGr5
forSG|Y, Yuc" GY So|io_ Vic|ur% coll%c|io_Y, You_JSr%corJi_M coll%c|io_Y
