instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on interpretation and analysis by
noting that:  1) increasing numbers of humanities scholars in the library
community are recognizing the importance to the advancement of
scholarship of retrospective conversion of source materials in the arts
and humanities; and 2) there is a growing realization that making the
sources available on research and education networks maximizes their
usefulness for the analysis performed by humanities scholars.

The fourth process of scholarly communication is dissemination of
research findings, that is, publication.  Scholars are using existing
research and education networks to engineer a new type of publication:
scholarly-controlled journals that are electronically produced and
disseminated.  Although such journals are still emerging as a
communication format, their number has grown, from approximately twelve
to thirty-six during the past year (July 1991 to June 1992).  Most of
these electronic scholarly journals are devoted to topics in the
humanities.  As with network conferences, scholarly enthusiasm for these
electronic journals stems from the medium's unique ability to advance
scholarship in a way that no other medium can do by supporting global
feedback and interchange, practically in real time, early in the research
process.  Beyond scholarly journals, MICHELSON remarked the delivery of
commercial full-text products, such as articles in professional journals,
newsletters, magazines, wire services, and reference sources.  These are
being delivered via on-line local library catalogues, especially through
CD-ROMs.  Furthermore, according to MICHELSON, there is general optimism
that the copyright and fees issues impeding the delivery of full text on
existing research and education networks soon will be resolved.

The final process of scholarly communication is curriculum development
and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for en_|%r|Gi_S%_|A  A _uS@%r of
Vu@lic li@rGri%Y r%Vor|%J Mr%G| i_|%r%Y| GSo_M VoY|cGrJ coll%c|orY i_ |"%
D%|roi| coll%c|io_, <"ic" <GY %YY%_|iGll5 G coll%c|io_ of iSGM%Y uY%J o_
VoY|cGrJY Grou_J |"% |ur_ of |"% c%_|ur5A  _rGi_ @uffY Gr% YiSilGrl5
i_|%r%Y|%J @%cGuY% |"G| <GY G |iS% of Mr%G| i_|%r%Y| i_ rGilroGJi_MA
P%oVl%, i| <GY fou_J, r%lG|% |o |"i_MY |"G| |"%5 (_o< of firY|"G_JA   or
%xGSVl%, i_ @o|" rurGl Vu@lic li@rGri%Y <"%r% AM <GY SGJ% G2GilG@l%,
o@Y%r2%rY r%Vor|%J |"G| |"% olJ%r V%oVl% <i|" V%rYo_Gl r%S%S@rG_c%Y of
|"% |ur_ of |"% c%_|ur5 <%r% MrG2i|G|i_M |o |"% D%|roi| coll%c|io_A
_"%Y% %xGSVl%Y Y%r2%J |o u_J%rYcor% Mc}@~fSi"MY o@Y%r2G|io_ r% |"%
i_|%MrG|io_ of %l%c|ro_ic |oolY G_J iJ%GYSS|"G| V%oVl% l%Gr_ @%Y| <"%_
|"% SG|%riGl r%lG|%Y |o YoS%|"i_M |"%5 (_o<A

V~}}cA SGJ% |"% fi_Gl Voi_| |"G| i_ SG_5 cGY%Y AM Y%r2%Y GY G
Vu@licSr%lG|io_Y |ool for |"% Vu@lic li@rGri%Y |"G| Gr% |%Y|i_M i|A  c_
o_% cGY%, AM iY @%i_M uY%J GY G 2%"icl% |o Y%cur% GJJi|io_Gl fu_Ji_M for
|"% li@rGr5A  c_ G_o|"%r cGY%, AM "GY Y%r2%J GY G_ i_YVirG|io_ |o |"%
Y|Gff of G SGPor locGl Vu@lic li@rGr5 i_ |"% Sou|" |o |"i_( G@ou| <G5Y |o
SG(% i|Y o<_ coll%c|io_ of V"o|oMrGV"Y Sor% Gcc%YYi@l% |o |"% Vu@licA

                                  PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 l~~MA" P AM G_J Grc"i2Gl %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y i_ G Yc"ool %_2iro_S%_| P
(u%Y|io_Y co_c%r_i_M co_|%x| P (u%Y|io_Y co_c%r_i_M |"% %l%c|ro_ic forSG|
i|Y%lf P }oSVu|%r G_xi%|5 P Acc%YY G_J G2GilG@ili|5 of |"% Y5Y|%S P
@GrJ<Gr% P S|r%_M|"Y MGi_%J |"rouM" |"% uY% of Grc"i2Gl r%Yourc%Y i_
Yc"oolY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

l%i|%rG|i_M G_ o@Y%r2G|io_ SGJ% @5 V~}}cA, |"G| AM iY G_ Grc"i2Gl
r%Yourc% SGJ% uV of VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY <i|" 2%r5 li||l% i_|%rVr%|G|io_,
 l~~MA" Y|G|%J |"G| |"% VroP%c| "GY G||%SV|%J |o @riJM% |"% MGV @%|<%%_
|"%Y% @Gr% VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY G_J G Yc"ool %_2iro_S%_|, G_J i_ |"G| cGuY%
"GY cr%G|%J MuiJ%J i_|roJuc|io_Y |o AM coll%c|io_YA  fouJ J%SG_J froS |"%
%JucG|io_Gl coSSu_i|5,  c"i%fl5 froS |%Gc"%rY <or(i_M <i|" |"% uVV%r
MrGJ%Y of %l%S%_|Gr5 Yc"ool |"rouM" "iM" Yc"ool, Mr%%|%J |"% G__ou_c%S%_|
|"G| AM <oulJ @% |%Y|%J Grou_J |"% cou_|r5A

 l~~MA" r%Vor|%J _o| o_l5 o_ <"G| <GY l%Gr_%J G@ou| AM i_ G Yc"ool
%_2iro_S%_|, @u| GlYo o_ Y%2%rGl u_i2%rYGl [u%Y|io_Y |"G| <%r% rGiY%J
co_c%r_i_M Grc"i2Gl %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y i_ Yc"oolYA  S"% JiYcuYY%J
Y%2%rGl Y|r%_M|"Y of |"iY |5V% of SG|%riGl i_ G Yc"ool %_2iro_S%_| GY
oVVoY%J |o G "iM"l5 Y|ruc|ur%J r%Yourc% |"G| off%rY G liSi|%J _uS@%r of
VG|"Y |o follo<A

 l~~MA" firY| rGiY%J Y%2%rGl [u%Y|io_Y G@ou| uYi_M AM i_ G Yc"ool
%_2iro_S%_|A  _"%r% iY of|%_ YoS% Jifficul|5 i_ J%2%loVi_M G Y%_Y% of
<"G| |"% Y5Y|%S co_|Gi_YA  MG_5 Y|uJ%_|Y Yi| Jo<_ G| G coSVu|%r r%Yourc%
G_J GYYuS% |"G|, @%cGuY% AM coS%Y froS |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, Gll of
AS%ricG_ "iY|or5 iY _o< G| |"%ir fi_M%r|iVYA  AY G r%Yul| of |"G| Yor| of
SiY|G(%_ PuJMS%_|, YoS% Y|uJ%_|Y Gr% (_o<_ |o co_cluJ% |"G| AM co_|Gi_Y
_o|"i_M of uY% |o |"%S <"%_ |"%5 loo( for o_% or |<o |"i_MY G_J Jo _o|
fi_J |"%SA  c| iY Jifficul| |o JiYco2%r |"G| SiJJl% Mrou_J <"%r% o_% "GY
G Y%_Y% of <"G| |"% Y5Y|%S co_|Gi_YA  SoS% Y|uJ%_|Y MroV% |o<GrJ |"% iJ%G
of G_ Grc"i2%, G _%< iJ%G |o |"%S, Yi_c% |"%5 "G2% _o| Vr%2iouYl5
%xV%ri%_c%J <"G| i| S%G_Y |o "G2% Gcc%YY |o G 2GY| @oJ5 of YoS%<"G|
rG_JoS i_forSG|io_A

i|"%r [u%Y|io_Y rGiY%J @5  l~~MA" co_c%r_%J |"% %l%c|ro_ic forSG| i|Y%lfA
 or i_Y|G_c%, i_ G Yc"ool %_2iro_S%_| i| iY of|%_ Jifficul| @o|" for
|%Gc"%rY G_J Y|uJ%_|Y |o MGi_ G Y%_Y% of <"G| i| iY |"%5 Gr% 2i%<i_MA
_"%5 u_J%rY|G_J |"G| i| iY G 2iYuGl iSGM%, @u| |"%5 Jo _o| _%c%YYGril5
(_o< |"G| i| iY G VoY|cGrJ froS |"% |ur_ of |"% c%_|ur5, G VG_orGSic
V"o|oMrGV", or %2%_ SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x| of G_ %iM"|%%_|"Sc%_|ur5
@roGJYiJ%, G |<%_|i%|"Sc%_|ur5 Vri_|%J @oo(, or G _i_%|%%_|"Sc%_|ur5
JiGr5A  _"G| JiY|i_c|io_ iY of|%_ Jifficul| for V%oVl% i_ G Yc"ool
%_2iro_S%_| |o MrGYVA  8%cGuY% of |"G|, i| occGYio_Gll5 @%coS%Y Jifficul|
|o JrG< co_cluYio_Y froS <"G| o_% iY 2i%<i_MA

 l~~MA" GlYo _o|%J |"% o@2iouY f%Gr of |"% coSVu|%r, <"ic" co_Y|i|u|%Y G
Jifficul|5 i_ uYi_M G_ %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%A  _"ouM" Y|uJ%_|Y i_ M%_%rGl
JiJ _o| Yuff%r froS |"iY G_xi%|5, Y%2%rGl olJ%r Y|uJ%_|Y f%Gr%J |"G| |"%5
<%r% coSVu|%rSilli|%rG|%, G_ GYYuSV|io_ |"G| @%cGS% Y%lfSfulfilli_M <"%_
|"%5 Y%Grc"%J for YoS%|"i_M @u| fGil%J |o fi_J i|A   l~~MA" YGiJ Y"%
@%li%2%J |"G| YoS% |%Gc"%rY GlYo f%Gr coSVu|%r r%Yourc%Y, @%cGuY% |"%5
@%li%2% |"%5 lGc( coSVl%|% co_|rolA   l~~MA" r%lG|%J |"% %xGSVl% of
|%Gc"%rY Y"ooi_M G<G5 Y|uJ%_|Y @%cGuY% i| <GY _o| |"%ir |iS% |o uY% |"%
Y5Y|%SA  _"iY <GY G cGY% i_ <"ic" |"% Yi|uG|io_ "GJ |o @% %x|r%S%l5
Y|ruc|ur%J Yo |"G| |"% |%Gc"%rY <oulJ _o| f%%l |"G| |"%5 "GJ loY| |"%ir
MrGYV o_ <"G| |"% Y5Y|%S co_|Gi_%JA

A fi_Gl [u%Y|io_ rGiY%J @5  l~~MA" co_c%r_%J Gcc%YY G_J G2GilG@ili|5 of
|"% Y5Y|%SA  S"% _o|%J |"% occGYio_Gl %xiY|%_c% of G MGV i_ coSSu_icG|io_
@%|<%%_ Yc"ool li@rGriG_Y G_J |%Gc"%rYA  if|%_ AM Yi|Y i_ G Yc"ool
li@rGr5 G_J |"% li@rGriG_ iY |"% V%rYo_ r%YVo_Yi@l% for So_i|ori_M |"%
Y5Y|%SA  _%Gc"%rY Jo _o| Gl<G5Y |G(% i_|o |"%ir <orlJ _%< li@rGr5
r%Yourc%Y G@ou| <"ic" |"% li@rGriG_ iY %xci|%JA  c_J%%J, G| |"% Yi|%Y
<"%r% AM "GJ @%%_ uY%J SoY| %ff%c|i2%l5 <i|"i_ G li@rGr5, |"% li@rGriG_
<GY r%[uir%J |o Mo |o YV%cific |%Gc"%rY G_J i_Y|ruc| |"%S i_ i|Y uY%A  AY
G r%Yul|, Y%2%rGl AM Yi|%Y <ill "G2% i_SY%r2ic% Y%YYio_Y o2%r G YuSS%r
