be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trendsY S%_|io_%J i_ |"% Y%YYio_A  l%fl%c|i_M o_
DAfYMY oV%_i_M coSS%_|Y o_ "o< "% coulJ "G2% uY%J G fG|i_ coll%c|io_ of
|%x| i_ G_ %l%c|ro_ic forS, "% YGiJ |"G| G| firY| "% |"ouM"| SoY| Yc"olGrY
<oulJ @% u_<illi_M |o Jo |"G|A  8u| GY "% |"ouM"| of |"G| i_ |%rSY of |"%
oriMi_Gl S%G_i_M of r%Y%Grc"SS|"G| iY, "G2i_M Glr%GJ5 SGY|%r%J |"%Y% |%x|Y,
r%Y%Grc"i_M |"%S for cri|icGl G_J coSVGrG|i2% VurVoY%YSSfor |"% firY| |iS%,
|"% %l%c|ro_ic forSG| SGJ% G lo| of Y%_Y%A  Gl~~" c~fD coulJ %_2iYio_
Mro<i_M _uS@%rY of Yc"olGrY l%Gr_i_M |"% _%< |%c"_oloMi%Y for |"G| 2%r5
GYV%c| of |"%ir Yc"olGrY"iV G_J for co_2%_i%_c%MY YG(%A

fiY|%_i_M |o V~}}cA G_J  l~~MA", Gl~~" c~fD |"ouM"| of G_ GJJi|io_Gl
GVVlicG|io_ of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|YA  @% r%Gli,%J |"G| AM coulJ @% uY%J GY G
MuiJ% |o l%GJ YoS%o_% |o oriMi_Gl Yourc%YA  S|uJ%_|Y cG__o| @% %xV%c|%J
|o "G2% SGY|%r%J |"%Y% Yourc%Y, |"i_MY |"%5 "G2% _%2%r (_o<_ G@ou|
@%for%A  _"uY, AM iY l%GJi_M |"%S, i_ |"%or5, |o G 2GY| @oJ5 of
i_forSG|io_ G_J Mi2i_M |"%S G YuV%rficiGl o2%r2i%< of i|, %_G@li_M |"%S
|o Y%l%c| VGr|Y of i|A  Gl~~" c~fD GY(%J if G_5 %2iJ%_c% %xiY|Y |"G| |"iY
r%Yourc% <ill i_J%%J |%Gc" |"% _%< uY%r, |"% %Su2 Y|uJ%_|Y, "o< |o Jo
r%Y%Grc"A  Sc"olGrY Glr%GJ5 (_o< "o< |o Jo r%Y%Grc" G_J Gr% GVVl5i_M
|"%Y% _%< |oolYA  8u| "% <o_J%r%J <"5 Y|uJ%_|Y <oulJ Mo @%5o_J Vic(i_M
ou| |"i_MY |"G| <%r% SoY| %xci|i_M |o |"%SA

 l~~MA" co_c%J%J |"% corr%c|_%YY of Gl~~" c~fDMY o@Y%r2G|io_ GY GVVli%J
|o G Yc"ool %_2iro_S%_|A  _"% riY( iY |"G| G Y|uJ%_| <oulJ Yi| Jo<_ G| G
Y5Y|%S, VlG5 <i|" i|, fi_J YoS% |"i_MY of i_|%r%Y|, G_J |"%_ <Gl( G<G5A
8u| i_ |"% r%lG|i2%l5 co_|roll%J Yi|uG|io_ of G Yc"ool li@rGr5, Suc" <ill
J%V%_J o_ |"% i_Y|ruc|io_Y G |%Gc"%r or G li@rGriG_ Mi2%Y G Y|uJ%_|A  S"%
2i%<%J |"% Yi|uG|io_ _o| GY o_% of fi_%S|u_i_M r%Y%Grc" Y(illY @u| of
i_2ol2i_M Y|uJ%_|Y G| G V%rYo_Gl l%2%l i_ u_J%rY|G_Ji_M G_J r%Y%Grc"i_M
|"i_MYA  Gi2%_ |"% MuiJG_c% o_% cG_ r%c%i2% G| Yc"ool, i| |"%_ @%coS%Y
VoYYi@l% |o |%Gc" %l%S%_|Gr5 r%Y%Grc" Y(illY |o Y|uJ%_|Y, <"ic" i_ fGc|
o_% VGr|iculGr li@rGriG_ YGiJ Y"% <GY |%Gc"i_M "%r fif|" MrGJ%rYA
 l~~MA" co_cluJ%J |"G| i_|roJuci_M |"% iJ%G of follo<i_M o_%MY o<_ VG|"
of i_[uir5, <"ic" iY %YY%_|iGll5 <"G| r%Y%Grc" %_|GilY, i_2ol2%Y Sor%
|"G_ |%Gc"i_M YV%cific Y(illYA  _o |"%Y% coSS%_|Y V~}}cA GJJ%J |"%
o@Y%r2G|io_ |"G| |"% i_Ji2iJuGl |%Gc"%r G_J |"% uY% of G cr%G|i2%
r%Yourc%, rG|"%r |"G_ AM i|Y%lf, Y%%S%J |o SG(% |"% (%5 Jiff%r%_c%A
SoS% Yc"oolY G_J YoS% |%Gc"%rY Gr% SG(i_M %xc%ll%_| uY% of |"% _G|ur%
of cri|icGl |"i_(i_M G_J |%Gc"i_M Y(illY, Y"% YGiJ
