While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding enccourGM%S%_| i_ G coSS%_| of Mc}@~fSi"MY froS |"% Sor_i_M
Y%YYio_SS|"G| _uS%rouY V%oVl% i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y <%r% c"ooYi_M %l%c|ro_ic
oV|io_Y |o Jo |"%ir <or(SSDoro|"5 _[i@cG, %Ji|or, _"% PGV%rY of G%orM%
[GY"i_M|o_, oV%_%J "%r illuY|rG|%J |Gl( @5 _o|i_M |"G| "%r %xV%ri%_c%
<i|" li|%rGr5 Yc"olGrY G_J _uS%rouY V%oVl% i_ %Ji|i_M <GY co_|rGr5 |o
Mc}@~fSi"MYA  _[i@cG %SV"GYi,%J li|%rGr5 Yc"olGrYM coSVl%|% iM_orG_c% of
|"% |%c"_oloMicGl oV|io_Y G2GilG@l% |o |"%S or |"%ir r%luc|G_c% or, i_
YoS% cGY%Y, |"%ir Jo<_riM"| "oY|ili|5 |o<GrJ |"%Y% oV|io_YA

Af|%r Vro2iJi_M G_ o2%r2i%< of |"% fi2%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VroP%c|Y
(J%ff%rYo_ G| Pri_c%|o_,  rG_(li_ G| YGl%, Jo"_ AJGSY G| |"%
MGYYGc"uY%||Y @iY|oricGl Soci%|5, G_J MGJiYo_ Jo<_ |"% "Gll froS "%r G|
|"% o_i2%rYi|5 of VirMi_iGl, _[i@cG o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY,
li(% Gll of |"% VroP%c|Y, i_cluJ% @o|" YiJ%Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_
corr%YVo_J%_c% G_J J%Gl <i|" YoS% u<5,DDD JocuS%_|Y |o @% Vu@liY"%J <i|"
%x|%_Yi2% G__o|G|io_ i_ %iM"|5 |o %iM"|5Sfi2% 2oluS%Y, G VroP%c| |"G|
<ill _o| @% coSVl%|%J u_|il <%ll i_|o |"% _%x| c%_|ur5A  _"uY, i| <GY
<i|" co_YiJ%rG@l% %_|"uYiGYS Y%2%rGl 5%GrY GMo |"G| |"% [GY"i_M|o_ PGV%rY
ProP%c| ([PPl Mr%%|%J DG2iJ PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ |"G| |"% VGV%rY of |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY coulJ @% Vu@liY"%J %GYil5 G_J i_%xV%_Yi2%l5, G_J |o |"%
Mr%G| @%_%fi| of AS%ricG_ Yc"olGrY"iV, 2iG }DSliMA

c_ VrGMSG|ic |%rSY, fu_Ji_M froS |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ <oulJ %xV%Ji|%
|"% |rG_YcriV|io_ of |"ouYG_JY of JocuS%_|Y <Gi|i_M |o @% Vu| o_ JiY( i_
|"% [PP offic%YA   ur|"%r, Yi_c% |"% coY|Y of coll%c|i_M, %Ji|i_M, G_J
co_2%r|i_M |"%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY JocuS%_|Y i_|o l%||%rVr%YY %Ji|io_Y <%r%
ru__i_M i_|o |"% Sillio_Y of JollGrY, G_J |"% co_YiJ%rG@l% Y|GffY
i_2ol2%J i_ Gll of |"%Y% VroP%c|Y <%r% J%2o|i_M |"%ir cGr%%rY |o
VroJuci_M |"% <or(, |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_MY YuMM%Y|io_ "GJ G
r%2olu|io_Gr5 GYV%c|u  _rG_YcriV|io_Y of |"% %_|ir% corVuY of |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VGV%rY <oulJ @% G2GilG@l% o_ }DSliM |o Vu@lic G_J
coll%M% li@rGri%Y, %2%_ "iM" Yc"oolY, G| G frGc|io_ of |"% coY|SS
JuDDSJu5D for |"% G__uGl lic%_Y% f%%SS|o VroJuc% G liSi|%J u_i2%rYi|5
Vr%YY ru_ of u,DDD of %Gc" 2oluS% of |"% Vu@liY"%J VGV%rY G| Jx5SJu5D V%r
Vri_|%J 2oluS%A  Gi2%_ |"% curr%_| @uJM%| cru_c" i_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SY
G_J |"% corr%YVo_Ji_M co_Y|rGi_|Y o_ li@rGriG_Y i_ YSGll%r i_Y|i|u|io_Y
<"o <iY" |o GJJ |"%Y% 2oluS%Y |o |"%ir coll%c|io_Y, VroJuci_M |"%
JocuS%_|Y o_ }DSliM <oulJ li(%l5 oV%_ G Mr%G|l5 %xVG_J%J GuJi%_c% for |"%
VGV%rYA  _[i@cG Y|r%YY%J, "o<%2%r, |"G| J%2%loVS%_| of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY }DSliM iY Y|ill i_ i|Y i_fG_c5A  S%riouY Yof|<Gr% Vro@l%SY r%SGi_
|o @% r%Yol2%J @%for% |"% SG|%riGl cG_ @% Vu| i_|o r%GJG@l% forSA

 u_Ji_M froS |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ r%Yul|%J i_ G SGPor VuY" |o
|rG_Ycri@% |"% A5,DDD or Yo JocuS%_|Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY r%SGi_i_M
|o @% |rG_Ycri@%J o_|o coSVu|%r JiY(YA  SliJ%Y illuY|rG|%J Y%2%rGl of |"%
Vro@l%SY %_cou_|%r%J, for %xGSVl%, |"% Vr%Y%_| i_G@ili|5 of }DSliM |o
i_JicG|% |"% croYYSou|Y (J%l%|%J SG|%riGll i_ %iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5
JocuS%_|YA  _[i@cG _%x| J%Ycri@%J JocuS%_|Y froS 2GriouY V%rioJY i_ |"%
%iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5 |"G| "G2% @%%_ |rG_Ycri@%J i_ c"ro_oloMicGl orJ%r G_J
J%li2%r%J |o |"% PGc(GrJ offic%Y i_ }Glifor_iG, <"%r% |"%5 Gr% co_2%r|%J
|o |"% }DSliM, G Vroc%YY |"G| iY %xV%c|%J |o co_YuS% fi2% 5%GrY |o
coSVl%|% (|"G| iY, r%c(o_i_M froS DG2iJ PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ SGJ% Y%2%rGl
5%GrY GMo, u_|il G@ou| Jul5 u}}xlA  _[i@cG fou_J G_ %_courGMi_M
i_JicG|io_ of |"% VroP%c|MY @%_%fi|Y i_ |"% o_Moi_M uY% SGJ% @5 Yc"olGrY
of |"% Y%Grc" fu_c|io_Y of |"% }DSliM, VGr|iculGrl5 i_ r%Juci_M |"% |iS%
YV%_| i_ SG_uGll5 |ur_i_M |"% VGM%Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rYA

_[i@cG _%x| fur_iY"%J J%|GilY co_c%r_i_M |"% GccurGc5 of |rG_YcriV|io_YA
 or i_Y|G_c%, |"% i_Y%r|io_ of |"ouYG_JY of JocuS%_|Y o_ |"% }DSliM
curr%_|l5 Jo%Y _o| V%rSi| %Gc" JocuS%_| |o @% 2%rifi%J GMGi_Y| |"%
oriMi_Gl SG_uYcriV| Y%2%rGl |iS%Y GY i_ |"% cGY% of JocuS%_|Y |"G| GVV%Gr
i_ |"% Vu@liY"%J %Ji|io_A  @o<%2%r, |"% |rG_YcriV|io_Y r%c%i2% G curYor5
c"%c( for o@2iouY |5VoY, |"% SiYYV%lli_MY of VroV%r _GS%Y, G_J o|"%r
%rrorY froS |"% [PP }DSliM %Ji|orA  ~2%_|uGll5, Gll JocuS%_|Y |"G| GVV%Gr
i_ |"% %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_ <ill @% c"%c(%J @5 VroP%c| %Ji|orYA  Al|"ouM"
|"iY Vroc%YY "GY S%| <i|" oVVoYi|io_ froS YoS% of |"% %Ji|orY o_ |"%
Mrou_JY |"G| iSV%rf%c| <or( SG5 l%G2% |"%ir offic%Y, |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y i_
SG(i_M |"iY SG|%riGl G2GilG@l% GY G r%Y%Grc" |ool ou|<%iM"  f%GrY G@ou| |"%
SiYYV%lli_M of VroV%r _GS%Y G_J o|"%r r%lG|i2%l5 Si_or %Ji|oriGl SG||%rYA

}oSVl%|io_ of Gll fi2%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VroP%c|Y (iA%A, r%|ri%2G@ili|5
G_J Y%Grc"G@ili|5 of Gll of |"% JocuS%_|Y @5 VroV%r _GS%Y, Gl|%r_G|%
YV%lli_MY, or 2Gri%|i%Y of Yu@P%c|Yl <ill Vro2iJ% o_% of |"% ric"%Y|
Yourc%Y of |"iY Yi,% for |"% "iY|or5 of |"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y i_ |"% lG||%r
VGr| of |"% %iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5A   ur|"%r, Vu@licG|io_ o_ }DSliM <ill
Gllo< %Ji|orY |o i_cluJ% %2%_ Si_u|iG%, Yuc" GY lGu_Jr5 liY|Y, _o|
i_cluJ%J i_ |"% Vri_|%J 2oluS%YA

c| Y%%SY VoYYi@l% |"G| |"% %x|%_Yi2% G__o|G|io_ Vro2iJ%J i_ |"% Vri_|%J
2oluS%Y %2%_|uGll5 <ill @% GJJ%J |o |"% }DSliM %Ji|io_, V%_Ji_M
_%Mo|iG|io_Y <i|" |"% Vu@liY"%rY of |"% VGV%rYA  A| |"% SoS%_|, |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY }DSliM iY Gcc%YYi@l% o_l5 o_ |"% c8Y}oS, G coSVu|%
