storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering  <ill @%coS% i_cr%GYi_Ml5
_%c%YYGr5, G_J _o| PuY| <i|"i_ G Yi_Ml% r%Yourc% @u| GcroYY r%Yourc%Y
(%AMA, |rGci_M S5|"oloM5 G_J cul|urGl |"%S%Y GcroYY Y%2%rGl clGYYicY
JG|G@GY%Y GY <%ll GY G JG|G@GY% of l%_GiYYG_c% cul|ur%lA  _"iY G@ili|5 |o
orMG_i,% r%Yourc%Y, |o @uilJ |"i_MY ou| of Sul|iVl% o|"%r |"i_MY o_ |"%
_%|<or( or Y%l%c| Vi%c%Y of i|, r%Vr%Y%_|%J for fY"}@ o_% of |"% (%5
GYV%c|Y of _%|<or( i_forSG|io_A

}o_|%_Ji_M |"G| i_forSG|io_ r%uY% co_Y|i|u|%J G_o|"%r YiM_ificG_| iYYu%,
fY"}@ coSS%_J%J |o |"% GuJi%_c%MY G||%_|io_ ProP%c| "~~DS (iA%A, "G|io_Gl
~_Mi_%%ri_M ~JucG|io_ D%li2%r5 S5Y|%SlA  _"iY VroP%c|MY o@P%c|i2% iY |o
VroJuc% G JG|G@GY% of %_Mi_%%ri_M courY%<Gr% GY <%ll GY |"% coSVo_%_|Y
|"G| cG_ @% uY%J |o J%2%loV _%< courY%<Gr%A  c_ G _uS@%r of |"% %xiY|i_M
GVVlicG|io_Y, fY"}@ YGiJ, |"% iYYu% of r%uY% ("o< Suc" o_% cG_ |G(% GVGr|
G_J r%uY% i_ o|"%r GVVlicG|io_Yl <GY _o| @%i_M <%ll co_YiJ%r%JA  @% GlYo
rGiY%J |"% iYYu% of Gc|i2% 2%rYuY VGYYi2% uY%, o_% GYV%c| of <"ic"  iY
"o< Suc" i_forSG|io_ <ill @% SG_iVulG|%J locGll5 @5 uY%rYA  MoY| V%oVl%,
"% GrMu%J, SG5 Jo G li||l% @ro<Yi_M G_J |"%_ <ill <iY" |o Vri_|A  fY"}@
<GY u_c%r|Gi_ "o< |"%Y% r%Yourc%Y <oulJ @% uY%J @5 |"% 2GY| SGPori|5 of
uY%rY i_ |"% _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|A

fY"}@ _%x| YGiJ G f%< <orJY G@ou| rS[i_Jo<Y GY G <G5 of Jiff%r%_|iG|i_M
@%|<%%_ _%|<or( Gcc%YY G_J _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_A  A _uS@%r of |"%
GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J G| |"% [or(Y"oV coulJ @% r%<ri||%_ |o uY% r
GcroYY |"% _%|<or(, Yo |"G| o_% coulJ ru_ |"%S froS G_5 rScGVG@l% J%2ic%S
SG <or(Y|G|io_, G_ r |%rSi_GlSSG_J |rG_YGc| <i|" G JG|G@GY% GcroYY |"%
_%|<or(A  Al|"ouM" |"iY oV%_Y uV Gcc%YY G li||l%, GYYuSi_M o_% "GY %_ouM"
_%|<or( |o "G_Jl% i|, i| Jo%Y _o| Vro2iJ% G_ i_|%rfGc% |o J%2%loV G
VroMrGS |"G| co_2%_i%_|l5 i_|%MrG|%Y i_forSG|io_ froS Sul|iVl% JG|G@GY%YA
r iY G 2i%<i_M |%c"_oloM5 |"G| "GY liSi|YA  c_ G r%Gl Y%_Y%, i| iY PuY| G
MrGV"icGl 2%rYio_ of r%So|% loMSi_ GcroYY |"% _%|<or(A  rS|5V% GVVlicG|io_Y
r%Vr%Y%_| o_l5 o_% Y|%V i_ |"% VroMr%YYio_ |o<GrJY r%Gl Gcc%YYA

fY"}@ _%x| JiYcuYY%J @Grri%rY |o |"% JiY|ri@u|io_ of _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG
i_forSG|io_A  _"% "%Gr| of |"% Vro@l%S iY G lGc( of Y|G_JGrJY |o Vro2iJ%
|"% G@ili|5 for coSVu|%rY |o |Gl( |o %Gc" o|"%r, r%|ri%2% i_forSG|io_,
G_J Y"uffl% i| Grou_J fGirl5 cGYuGll5A  A| |"% SoS%_|, li||l% VroMr%YY iY
@%i_M SGJ% o_ Y|G_JGrJY for _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_2 for %xGSVl%, Vr%Y%_|
Y|G_JGrJY Jo _o| co2%r iSGM%Y, JiMi|Gl 2oic%, G_J JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oA  A
uY%ful |ool (i| of %xc"G_M% forSG|Y for @GYic |%x|Y iY o_l5 _o< @%i_M
GYY%S@l%JA  _"% Y5_c"ro_i,G|io_ of co_|%_| Y|r%GSY (iA%A, Y5_c"ro_i,i_M G
2oic% |rGc( |o G 2iJ%o |rGc(, %Y|G@liY"i_M |%SVorGl r%lG|io_Y @%|<%%_
Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y i_ G Sul|iS%JiG o@P%c|l co_Y|i|u|%Y G_o|"%r iYYu%
for _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG |"G| iY PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o r%c%i2% G||%_|io_A

o_J%rl5i_M _%|<or( Vro|ocolY GlYo _%%J YoS% <or(2 MooJ, r%GlS|iS%
J%li2%r5 Vro|ocolY o_ |"% c_|%r_%| Jo _o| 5%| %xiY|A  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<,
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| i_ |"iY co_|%x| iY |"% _o|io_ of _%|<or(%J JiMi|Gl
o@P%c| cDY, |"% G@ili|5 of o_% o@P%c| o_ |"% _%|<or( |o Voi_| |o G_o|"%r
o@P%c| (or coSVo_%_| |"%r%ofl o_ |"% _%|<or(A  S%riouY @G_J<iJ|" iYYu%Y
GlYo %xiY|A  fY"}@ <GY u_c%r|Gi_ if @illio_S@i|SV%rSY%co_J _%|<or(Y <oulJ
Vro2% Yuffici%_| if _uS%rouY V%oVl% rG_ 2iJ%o i_ VGrGll%lA

fY"}@ co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G_ iYYu% for JG|G@GY% cr%G|orY |o co_YiJ%r,
GY <%ll GY Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y G@ou| <"G| SiM"| co_Y|i|u|% MooJ |riGl
Sul|iS%JiG %xV%riS%_|YA  c_ G _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <orlJ |"% JG|G@GY%
@uilJ%r or Y%r2ic% @uilJ%r (Vu@liY"%rl Jo%Y _o| %x%rciY% |"% YGS%
%x|%_Yi2% co_|rol o2%r |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_2 Y|rG_M%
VroMrGSY "Su_M%" <i|" o_%MY JG|G @%for% |"% uY%r Y%%Y i|A  S%riouY
|"ouM"| SuY| @% Mi2%_ |o <"G| MuGrG_|%%Y i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  PGr|
of |"G| iY r%lG|%J |o <"%r% o_% JrG<Y |"% @ou_JGri%Y Grou_J G _%|<or(%J
i_forSG|io_ Y%r2ic%A  _"iY [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_
cli%_|SY%r2%r coSVu|i_M "GY _o| @%%_ Y|r%YY%J %_ouM" i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic
<orlJ, fY"}@ GrMu%J, |"ouM" coSS%rciGl Y%r2ic% Vro2iJ%rY J%Gl <i|" i|
r%MulGrl5A

}o_c%r_i_M Sul|iS%JiG, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| MooJ Sul|iS%JiG G| |"% SoS%_|
iY "iJ%ouYl5 %xV%_Yi2% |o VroJuc%A  @% r%coSS%_J%J VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
<i|" %i|"%r 2%r5 "iM" YGl% 2Glu%, or Sul|iS%JiG <i|" G 2%r5 lo_M lif%
YVG_, or Sul|iS%JiG |"G| <ill "G2% G 2%r5 @roGJ uYGM% @GY% G_J <"oY%
coY|Y |"%r%for% cG_ @% GSor|i,%J GSo_M lGrM% _uS@%rY of uY%rYA  c_ |"iY
co__%c|io_, "iY|oricGl G_J "uSG_iY|icGll5 ori%_|%J SG|%riGl SG5 @% G MooJ
VlGc% |o Y|Gr|, @%cGuY% i| |%_JY |o "G2% G lo_M%r lif% YVG_ |"G_ Suc" of
|"% Yci%_|ific SG|%riGl, GY <%ll GY G <iJ%r uY%r @GY%A  fY"}@ _o|%J, for
%xGSVl%, |"G| AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 fi|Y SG_5 of |"% cri|%riG ou|li_%JA  @%
r%SGr(%J |"% %x|%_Yi2% JiYcuYYio_ G@ou| @ri_Mi_M |"% c_|%r_%| or |"%
"G|io_Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~JucG|io_ "%|<or( ("l~"l i_|o |"% %Su2 %_2iro_S%_
