LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gaining access, it can
be extremely frustrating.  He suggested that because of economics and
physical barriers we were beginning to create a world of haves and have-nots
in the process of scholarly communication, even in the United States.

BROWNRIGG detailed the development of MELVYL in academic year 1980-81 in
the Division of Library Automation at the University of California, in
order to underscore the issue of access to the system, which at the
outset was extremely limited.  In short, the project needed to build a
network, which at that time entailed use of satellite technology, that is,
putting earth stations on campus and also acquiring some terrestrial links
from the State of California's microwave system.  The installation of
satellite links, however, did not solve the problem (which actually
formed part of a larger problem involving politics and financial resources).
For while the project team could get a signal onto a campus, it had no means
of distributing the signal throughout the campus.  The solution involved
adopting a recent development in wireless communication called packet radio,
which combined the basic notion of packet-switching with radio.  The project
used this technology to get the signal from a point on campus where it
came down, an earth station for example, into the libraries, because it
found that wiring the libraries, especially the older marble buildings,
would cost $2,000-$5,000 per terminal.

BROWNRIGG noted that, ten years ago, the project had neither the public
policy nor the technology that would have allowed it to use packet radio
in any meaningful way.  Since then much had changed.  He proceeded to
detail research and development of the technology, how it is being
deployed in California, and what direction he thought it would take.
The design criteria are to produce a high-speed, one-time, low-cost,
high-quality, secure, license-free device (packet radio) that one can
plug in and play today, forget about it, and have access to the Internet.
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a medium-speed radio for the office or home, have full network connectivity
to the Internet, and partake of all its services, with no need for an FCC
license and no regular bill from the local common carrier.  BROWNRIGG
presented several details of a demonstration project currently taking
place in San Diego and described plans, pending funding, to install a
full-bore network in the San Francisco area.  This network will have 600
nodes running at backbone speeds, and 100 of these nodes will be libraries,
which in turn will be the gateway ports to the 38.4 kilobyte radios that
will give coverage for the neighborhoods surrounding the libraries.

BROWNRIGG next explained Part 15.247, a new rule within Title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations enacted by the FCC in 1985.  This rule
challenged the industry, which has only now risen to the occasion, to
build a radio that would run at no more than one watt of output power and
use a fairly exotic method of modulating the radio wave called spread
spectrum.  Spread spectrum in fact permits the building of networks so
that numerous data communications can occur simultaneously, without
interfering with each other, within the same wide radio channel.

BROWNRIGG explained that the frequencies at which the radios would run
are very short wave signals.  They are well above standard microwave and
radar.  With a radio wave that small, one watt becomes a tremendous punch
per bit and thus makes transmission at reasonable speed possible.  In
order to minimize the potential for congestion, the project is
undertaking to reimplement software which has been available in the
networking business and is taken for granted now, for example, TCP/IP,
routing algorithms, bridges, and gateways.  In addition, the project
plans to take the WAIS server software in the public domain and
reimplement it so that one can have a WAIS server on a Mac instead of a
Unix machine.  The Memex Research Institute believes that libraries, in
particular, will want to use the WAIS servers with packet radio.  This
project, which has a team of about twelve people, will run through 1993
and will include the 100 libraries already mentioned as well as other
professionals such as those in the medical profession, engineering, and
law.  Thus, the need is to create an infrastructure of radios that do not
move around, which, BROWNRIGG hopes, will solve a problem not only for
libraries but for individuals who, by and large today, do not have access
to the Internet from their homes and offices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's diiYcuYYio_ V"GY% <GY JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oJiYc, <"ic"
i_JicG|%Y "o< lo_M GMo i| <GY co_c%i2%JA

i2%r |"% four 5%GrY of |"iY VroP%c|, four Y%VGrG|% }DSliM VroJuc|Y o_
four Jiff%r%_| GMricul|urGl |oVicY <%r% cr%G|%J, |<o G| G
YcG__i_MSG_JSi}l Y|G|io_ i_Y|Gll%J G| "Af, G_J |<o @5 Y%r2ic% @ur%GuYA
_"uY, "A_DP "GY MGi_%J coSVGrG|i2% i_forSG|io_ i_ |%rSY of |"oY% r%lG|i2%
coY|YA  ~Gc" of |"%Y% VroJuc|Y co_|Gi_%J |"% full AS}cc |%x| GY <%ll GY
VGM% iSGM%Y of |"% SG|%riGl, or @%|<%%_ x,DDD G_J ,,DDD VGM%Y of SG|%riGl
o_ |"%Y% JiY(YA  _oVicY i_cluJ%J G[uGcul|ur%, fooJ, GMricul|ur% G_J
Yci%_c% (iA%A, i_|%r_G|io_Gl GMricul|ur% G_J r%Y%Grc"l, GciJ rGi_, G_J
AM%_| irG_M%, <"ic" <GY |"% fi_Gl VroJuc| JiY|ri@u|%J (GVVroxiSG|%l5
%iM"|%%_ So_|"Y @%for% |"% [or(Y"oVlA

_"% |"irJ V"GY% of "A_DP focuY%J o_ J%li2%r5 S%c"G_iYSY o|"%r |"G_
}DSliMA  A| |"% YuMM%Y|io_ of }lifforJ fY"}@, <"o <GY G |%c"_icGl
co_Yul|G_| |o |"% VroP%c| G| |"iY Voi_|, "A_DP @%cGS% i_2ol2%J <i|" |"%
c_|%r_%| G_J i_i|iG|%J G VroP%c| <i|" |"% "%lV of "or|" }Groli_G S|G|%
o_i2%rYi|5, i_ <"ic" four|%%_ of |"% lG_JSMrG_| u_i2%rYi|5 li@rGri%Y Gr%
|rG_YSi||i_M JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y o2%r |"% c_|%r_%| i_ r%YVo_Y% |o i_|%rli@rGr5
loG_ r%[u%Y|YSSG |oVic for G_o|"%r S%%|i_MA  A| |"iY Voi_|, |"% Vilo|
VroP%c| "GJ @%%_ coSVl%|%J for G@ou| G 5%Gr G_J |"% fi_Gl r%Vor| <oulJ @%
G2GilG@l% Y"or|l5 Gf|%r |"% [or(Y"oVA  c_ |"% S%G_|iS%, |"% VroP%c|MY
Yucc%YY "GJ l%J |o i|Y %x|%_Yio_A  (A"Dl~ _o|%J |"G| o_% of |"% firY|
|"i_MY Jo_% u_J%r |"% VroMrGS |i|l% <GY |o Y%l%c| G r%|ri%2Gl VGc(GM% |o
uY% <i|" Yu@Y%[u%_| VroJuc|Y2 [i_Jo<Y P%rYo_Gl fi@rGriG_ <GY |"% VGc(GM%
of c"oic% Gf|%r G l%_M|"5 %2GluG|io_Al

_"r%% GJJi|io_Gl VroJuc|Y "GJ @%%_ VlG__%J G_J <%r% i_ VroMr%YYu

     ul A_ GrrG_M%S%_| <i|" |"% AS%ricG_ Soci%|5 of AMro_oS5SSG
     Vrof%YYio_Gl Yoci%|5 |"G| "GY Vu@liY"%J |"% AMro_oS5 Jour_Gl Yi_c%
     G@ou| u}D8SS|o YcG_ G_J cr%G|% @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y of i|Y Pour_GlA
     ASA MrG_|%J V%rSiYYio_ firY| |o Vu| G_J |"%_ |o JiY|ri@u|% |"iY
     SG|%riGl i_ %l%c|ro_ic forS, |o "olJ i| G| "Af, G_J |o uY% |"%Y%
     %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%Y GY G S%c"G_iYS |o J%li2%r JocuS%_|Y or Vri_| ou|
     SG|%riGl for VG|ro_Y, GSo_M o|"%r uY%YA  ~ff%c|i2%l5, "Af "GY |"%
     riM"| |o uY% |"iY SG|%riGl i_ YuVVor| of i|Y VroMrGSA
     (SiM_ificG_|l5, |"iY GrrG_M%S%_| off%rY G Vo|%_|iGl cooV%rG|i2%
     SoJ%l for <or(i_M <i|" o|"%r Vrof%YYio_Gl Yoci%|i%Y i_ GMricul|ur%
     |o |r5 |o Jo |"% YGS% |"i_MSSVu| |"% Pour_GlY of VGr|iculGr i_|%r%Y|
     |o GMricul|ur% r%Y%Grc" i_|o %l%c|ro_ic forSAl

     2l A_ %x|%_Yio_ of |"% %Grli%r VroJuc| o_ G[uGcul|ur%A

     <l _"% G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r PGV%rYSSG Poi_| VroP%c| <i|"
     _uY(%M%% o_i2%rYi|5 |o YcG_ G_J co_2%r| froS SicrofilS YoS% <,5DD
     iSGM%Y of }Gr2%rMY VGV%rY, l%||%rY, G_J JrG<i_MYA

c| <GY G_|iciVG|%J |"G| Gll of |"%Y% VroJuc|Y <oulJ GVV%Gr _o Sor% |"G_
Yix So_|"Y Gf|%r |"% [or(Y"oVA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
|cDAl P (A Y%VGrG|% Gr%_G for YcG__i_Ml P S|%VY i_ cr%G|i_M G JG|G@GY% P
cSGM% cGV|ur%, <i|" G_J <i|"ou| V%rforSi_M i}l P %%5i_M i_ |rGc(i_M JG|G
P ScG__i_M, <i|" %l%c|ro_ic G_J SG_uGl |rGc(i_M P AJPuY|S%_|Y Juri_M
YcG__i_M Vroc%YY P ScG__i_M r%Yolu|io_Y P }oSVr%YYio_ P D%SY(%<i_M G_J
fil|%ri_M P cSGM% cGV|ur% froS SicroforSu  |"% VGV%rY G_J l%||%rY of
G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r P ~[uiVS%_| uY%J for G YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

JuJi|" |cDAl, coorJi_G|or, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x| DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS
("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5 ("Afl, illuY|rG|%J |"% |%c"_icG
