did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic infforSG|io_A  Gl~~" c~fD GlYo _o|%J |"G| l%@%ccG
Go~"_@~l froS |"G| offic% MG2% G VGV%r |o |"% AS%ricG_ Soci%|5 for
c_forSG|io_ Sci%_c% (AScSl YuSSGri,i_M Y%2%rGl of |"% JiYcuYYio_ VGV%rY
|"G| <%r% coSi_M ou| of |"% "%|<or( D%2%loVS%_| iffic%A  Gl~~" c~fD YGiJ
"% u_J%rY|ooJ |"G| |"G| offic% "GJ G liY|SY%r2%r Yolici|i_M PuY| |"% (i_J
of f%%J@Gc( r%c%i2%J |oJG5 co_c%r_i_M |"% Jifficul|i%Y of iJ%_|if5i_M G_J
cG|GloMui_M %l%c|ro_ic i_forSG|io_A  Gl~~" c~fD "oV%J |"G| %2%r5@oJ5
<oulJ @% G<Gr% of |"G| G_J YoS%"o< co_|ri@u|% |o |"G| co_2%rYG|io_A

"o|i_M |<o of f}MY rol%Y, firY|, |o Gc| GY G r%VoYi|or5 of r%corJ for
SG|%riGl |"G| iY coV5riM"|%J i_ |"iY cou_|r5, G_J Y%co_J, |o SG(%
SG|%riGlY i| "olJY G2GilG@l% i_ YoS% liSi|%J forS |o G cli%_|%l% |"G|
Mo%Y @%5o_J }o_Mr%YY, 8~SS~l YuMM%Y|%J |"G| i| <GY i_cuS@%_| o_ f} |o
%x|%_J |"oY% r%YVo_Yi@ili|i%Y |o Gll |"% |"i_MY @%i_M Vu@liY"%J i_
%l%c|ro_ic forSA  _"iY <oulJ S%G_ %2%_|uGll5 Gcc%V|i_M %l%c|ro_ic
forSG|YA  f} coulJ r%[uir% |"G| G| YoS% Voi_| |"%5 @% i_ G c%r|Gi_
liSi|%J Y%| of forSG|Y, G_J |"%_ J%2%loV S%c"G_iYSY for Gllo<i_M V%oVl%
|o Gcc%YY |"oY% i_ |"% YGS% <G5 |"G| o|"%r |"i_MY Gr% Gcc%YY%JA  _"iY
Jo%Y _o| iSVl5 |"G| |"%5 Gr% o_ |"% _%|<or( G_J G2GilG@l% |o %2%r5o_%A
f} Jo%Y |"G| <i|" SoY| of i|Y @i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJY, 8~SS~l YGiJ, <"ic"
%_J uV SiMrG|i_M |o |"% u|ili|5 (%AMA, i}f}l or YoS%<"%r% %lY%A  8u| PuY|
GY SoY| of f}MY @oo(Y Gr% G2GilG@l% i_ YoS% forS |"rouM" i_|%rli@rGr5
loG_ or YoS% o|"%r S%c"G_iYS, Yo i_ |"% YGS% <G5 %l%c|ro_ic forSG|Y ouM"|
|o @% G2GilG@l% |o o|"%rY i_ YoS% forSG|, |"ouM" <i|" YoS% coV5riM"|
co_YiJ%rG|io_YA  8~SS~l <GY _o| YuMM%Y|i_M |"G| |"%Y% S%c"G_iYSY @%
%Y|G@liY"%J |oSorro<, o_l5 |"G| |"%5 Y%%S%J |o fGll <i|"i_ f}MY Vur2i%<,
G_J |"G| |"%r% Y"oulJ @% lo_MSrG_M% VlG_Y |o %Y|G@liY" |"%SA

Ac(_o<l%JMi_M |"G| |"oY% froS f} i_ |"% rooS GMr%%J <i|" 8~SS~l
co_c%r_i_M |"% _%%J |o co_fro_| Jifficul| [u%Y|io_Y, Gc  ilD u_J%rYcor%J
|"% SGM_i|uJ% of |"% Vro@l%S of <"G| |o (%%V G_J <"G| |o Y%l%c|A  Gc  ilD
_o|%J |"G| f} curr%_|l5 r%c%i2%Y YoS% <u,DDD i|%SY V%r JG5, _o| cou_|i_M
%l%c|ro_ic SG|%riGlY, G_J GrMu%J for Suc" Sor% JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|5
i_ orJ%r |o SGi_|Gi_ G_J Y|or% %l%c|ro_ic i_forSG|io_A

8~SS~l r%YVo_J%J |"G| |"% GYY%S@l%J MrouV coulJ @% 2i%<%J GY G Y|Gr|i_M
Voi_|, <"oY% i_i|iGl oV%rG|i_M Vr%SiY% coulJ @% "%lVi_M |o So2% i_ |"iY
Jir%c|io_ G_J J%fi_i_M "o< f} coulJ Jo Yo, for %xGSVl%, i_ Gr%GY of
Y|G_JGrJi,G|io_ or JiY|ri@u|io_ of r%YVo_Yi@ili|5A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l GJJ%J |"G| AM <GY full5 %_MGM%J, <r%Y|li_M <i|" YoS% of |"%
[u%Y|io_Y |"G| V%r|Gi_ |o |"% co_2%rYio_ of olJ%r "iY|oricGl SG|%riGlY,
<"ic" <oulJ @% o_% |"i_M |"G| |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY SiM"| JoA  S%2%rGl
Voi_|Y S%_|io_%J @5 8~SS~l G_J Y%2%rGl o|"%rY o_ |"iY [u%Y|io_ "G2% G
Suc" Mr%G|%r iSVGc| o_ |"oY% <"o Gr% co_c%r_%J <i|" cG|GloMui_M G_J |"%
_%|<or(i_M of @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_, GY <%ll GY Vr%Y%r2G|io_ i|Y%lfA

SV%G(i_M Jir%c|l5 |o AM, <"ic" "% co_YiJ%r%J <GY G lGrM%l5 u_coV5riM"|%J
JG|G@GY%, fY"}@ urM%J J%2%loVS%_| of G _%|<or( 2%rYio_ of AM, or
co_YiJ%rG|io_ of SG(i_M |"% JG|G i_ i| G2GilG@l% |o V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_
Joi_M _%|<or( Sul|iS%JiGA  i_ Gccou_| of |"% curr%_| Mr%G| Y"or|GM% of
JiMi|Gl JG|G |"G| iY @o|" GVV%Gli_M G_J u_%_cuS@%r%J @5 coSVl%x riM"|Y
Vro@l%SY, |"iY courY% of Gc|io_ coulJ "G2% G YiM_ificG_| %ff%c| o_ SG(i_M
_%|<or( Sul|iS%JiG G r%Gli|5A

c_ |"iY co__%c|io_,  f~cS}@@Ao~l r%Vor|%J o_ G frGMS%_|Gr5 Vro|o|5V% i_
f}MY iffic% of c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloM5 S%r2ic%Y |"G| G||%SV|Y |o GYYociG|%
JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y of V"o|oMrGV"Y <i|" cG|GloMui_M i_forSG|io_ i_ <G5Y |"G|
<or( <i|"i_ G locGl Gr%G _%|<or(SSG Y|%V, Yo |o YG5, |o<GrJ AMMY
co_Y|ruc|io_ of YoS% Yor| of GVVGrG|uY for Gcc%YYA   ur|"%r, AM "GY
G||%SV|%J |o uY% Y|G_JGrJ JG|G forSY i_ orJ%r |o "%lV SG(% |"G|
JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% Gcc%YY |oolY G_J |"% u_J%rl5i_M JG|G, G_J |"uY
@%li%2%Y |"G| |"% JG|G@GY% iY _%|<or(G@l%A

A J%licG|% G_J GMo_i,i_M Volic5 [u%Y|io_ for f}, "o<%2%r, <"ic" coS%Y
@Gc( |o r%Yourc%Y G_J u_for|u_G|%l5 "GY G_ iSVGc| o_ |"iY, iY |o fi_J
YoS% GVVroVriG|%, "o_orG@l%, G_J l%MGl coY|Sr%co2%r5 VoYYi@ili|i%YA  A
c%r|Gi_ Y(i||iY"_%YY co_c%r_i_M coY|Sr%co2%r5 "GY SGJ% V%oVl% u_Yur%
%xGc|l5 <"G| |o JoA  AM <oulJ @% "iM"l5 r%c%V|i2% |o JiYcuYYi_M fur|"%r
fY"}@MY off%r |o |%Y| or J%So_Y|rG|% i|Y JG|G@GY% i_ G _%|<or(
%_2iro_S%_|,  f~cS}@@Ao~l YGiJA

l%|ur_i_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ |o <"G| Y"% 2i%<%J GY |"% 2i|Gl iYYu% of
%l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi|, 8A__c" r%coSS%_J%J |"G| f} i_i|iG|% G cG|Gl5|ic
Vroc%YY i_ |%rSY of JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, |"G| iY, @ri_M |oM%|"%r
|"% JiY|ri@u|%J orMG_i,G|io_Y G_J Y%| uV G Y|uJ5 MrouV |o loo( G| Gll
|"%Y% iYYu%Y G_J Y%% <"%r% <% GY G _G|io_ Y"oulJ So2%A  _"% @roGJ%r
iYYu%Y of "o< <% J%Gl <i|" |"% SG_GM%S%_| of %l%c|ro_ic i_forSG|io_ <ill
_o| JiYGVV%Gr, @u| o_l5 Mro< <orY%A

f~S% |oo( uV |"iY |"%S% G_J YuMM%Y|%J |"G| f} G||%SV| |o V%rYuGJ% o_%
SGPor li@rGr5 i_ %Gc" Y|G|% |o J%Gl <i|" i|Y Y|G|% %[ui2Gl%_| Vu@liY"%r,
<"ic" SiM"| VroJuc% G cooV%rG|i2% VroP%c| |"G| <oulJ @% %[ui|G@l5
JiY|ri@u|%J Grou_J |"% cou_|r5, G_J o_% i_ <"ic" f} <oulJ @% J%Gli_M <i|"
G Si_iSGl _uS@%r of Vu@liY"%rY G_J Si_iSGl coV5riM"| Vro@l%SYA

GlA8~l r%SGr(%J |"% r%c%_| J%2%loVS%_| i_ |"% Yci%_|ific coSSu_i|5 of G
<illi_M_%YY |o uY% SGMf G_J %i|"%r J%VoYi| or i_|%rc"G_M% o_ G fGirl5
Y|G_JGrJi,%J forSG|A  @% <o_J%r%J if G YiSilGr So2%S%_| <GY |G(i_M VlGc%
i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%YA  Al|"ouM" |"% "G|io_Gl fi@rGr5 of M%Jici_% fou_J o_l5
G f%< Vu@liY"%rY |o cooV%rG|% i_ G li(% 2%_|ur% |<o or |"r%% 5%GrY GMo, G
_%< %ffor| SiM"| M%_%rG|% G Suc" lGrM%r _uS@%r <illi_M |o cooV%rG|%A

%cM8Aff r%cou_|%J "iY u_i|MY (MGc"i_%Sl%GJG@l% }oll%c|io_Y l%GJi_M looSl
|rou@l%Y <i|" |"% coSS%rciGl Vu@liY"%rY of %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG i_ Gc[uiri_M
SG|%riGlY for f}MY coll%c|io_Y, i_ VGr|iculGr |"% Vu@liY"%rYM f%Gr |"G|
|"%5 <oulJ _o| @% G@l% |o co2%r |"%ir coY|Y G_J <oulJ loY% co_|rol of
|"%ir VroJuc|Y, |"G| f} <oulJ Mi2% |"%S G<G5 or Y%ll |"%S G_J SG(%
Vrofi|Y froS |"%SA  @% Jou@|%J |"G| |"% Vu@liY"i_M i_JuY|r5 <GY Vr%VGr%J
|o So2% i_|o |"iY Gr%G G| |"% SoS%_|, Mi2%_ i|Y r%YiY|G_c% |o Gllo<i_M f}
|o uY% i|Y SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% SG|%riGlY GY |"% fi@rGr5 <oulJ li(%A

_"% coV5riM"| lG< _o< GJJr%YY%Y coSVGc| JiY( GY G S%JiuS, G_J f} cG_
r%[u%Y| o_% coV5 of |"G|, or |<o coVi%Y if i| iY |"% o_l5 2%rYio_, G_J
cG_ r%[u%Y| coVi%Y of Yof|<Gr%, @u| |"G| fGilY |o GJJr%YY SGMG,i_%Y or
@oo(Y or G_5|"i_M li(% |"G| <"ic" iY i_ SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forSA

Gc  ilD Gc(_o<l%JM%J |"% |"or_5 _G|ur% of |"iY iYYu%, <"ic" "% illuY|rG|%J
<i|" |"% %xGSVl% of |"% cuS@%rYoS% Vroc%YY i_2ol2%J i_ Vu||i_M G coV5 of G
Yci%_|ific JG|G@GY% o_ G fA" i_ f}MY Yci%_c% r%GJi_M rooSA  @% GlYo
Gc(_o<l%JM%J |"G| f} _%%JY "%lV G_J coulJ %_liY| |"% %_%rMi%Y G_J |Gl%_|Y
of [or(Y"oV VGr|iciVG_|Y i_ |"i_(i_M |"rouM" G _uS@%r of |"%Y% Vro@l%SYA

Gc  ilD r%|ur_%J |"% JiYcuYYio_ |o M%||i_M |"% iSGM% G_J |%x| V%oVl% |o
|"i_( |"rouM" |oM%|"%r <"%r% |"%5 <G_| |o Mo i_ |"% lo_M |%rSA  MYfi"AS
co_c%J%J |"G| "%r %xV%ri%_c% G| |"% Pi%rc% S5SVoYiuS |"% Vr%2iouY <%%( G|
G%orM%|o<_ o_i2%rYi|5 G_J |"iY <%%( G| f} "GJ forc%J "%r |o r%%2GluG|%
"%r V%rYV%c|i2% o_ |"% uY%ful_%YY of |%x| GY iSGM%YA  MYfi"AS frGS%J |"%
iYYu%Y i_ G Y%ri%Y of [u%Y|io_Yu  @o< Jo <% Gc[uir% SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l%