at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk ffroS |"%
|5rG__icGl, 5%| i_ YoS% <G5Y VGrGJoxicGll5 "GVV5 Yc"olGrl5 JruJM%r5SS
<oulJ "G2% @%%_ G@l% |o J%2o|% |"G| YGS% @ul( of |iS% |o G_Gl5,i_M G_J
i_|%rVr%|i_M VirMiliG_ 2%r@Gl uYGM%A

}i|i_M _"%oJor% 8ru__%r, Gr%Mor5 }rG_%, ~lli MYfi"AS, G_J A2rG Mc}@~fSi",
DAfY GrMu%J |"G| |"iY r%2%rYGl i_ "iY Y|5l% of <or(, SGJ% VoYYi@l% @5 |"%
_%< |%c"_oloM5, <oulJ V%r"GVY "G2% r%Yul|%J i_ @%||%r, Sor% VroJuc|i2%
r%Y%Grc"A  c_J%%J, %2%_ i_ |"% courY% of "iY @ro<Yi_M |"% fG|i_ Gu|"orY
JiY( G| lu|M%rY, i|Y Vo<%rful Y%Grc", r%|ri%2Gl, G_J "iM"liM"|i_M
cGVG@ili|i%Y YuMM%Y|%J |o "iS Y%2%rGl _%< G2%_u%Y of r%Y%Grc" i_|o
VirMilMY uY% of You_J %ff%c|YA  _"iY G_%cJo|Gl Gccou_|, DAfY SGi_|Gi_%J
