
MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examSi_G|io_ <oulJ VroJuc% G
cl%Gr%r u_J%rY|G_Ji_M of |"% Y5_%rM5 GSo_M |"%Y% fi2% Vroc%YY%Y |"G|
fu%lY |"% |%_J%_c5 of |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y for o_% Vroc%YY |o
Y|iSulG|% i|Y uY% for o|"%r Vroc%YY%Y of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A

 or |"% firY| Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_, |"% iJ%_|ificG|io_ of
Yourc%Y, Mc}@~fSi" r%SGr(%J |"% oVVor|u_i|5 Yc"olGrY _o< %_Po5 |o
YuVVl%S%_| |rGJi|io_Gl <orJSofSSou|" Y%Grc"%Y for Yourc%Y GSo_M |"%ir
coll%GMu%Y <i|" _%< forSY of %l%c|ro_ic Y%Grc"i_MA  So, for %xGSVl%
