distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
coo_2%r|i_M |"% %x|G_| G_ci%_| |%x|Y of clGYYicGl Gr%%c%A  (~Ji|orMY _o|%u
GccorJi_M |o |"% _fG "%<Yl%||%r of MG5 l}}2, _fG <GY i_ uY% i_ |"ir|5S|<o
Jiff%r%_| cou_|ri%YA  _"iY fiMur% uVJG|%Y Mc}@~fSi"MY Vr%2iouY cou_| @5 o_%Al

_"% Yc"olGrY V%rforSi_M |"%Y% co_2%rYio_Y "G2% @%%_ GY(%J |o r%coM_i,
