for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been converted to
machine-readable form worldwide.  CETH is undertaking an international
search for converted text in the humanities, compiling it into an
electronic library, and preparing bibliographic descriptions of the
sources for the Research Libraries Information Network's (RLIN)
machine-readable data file.  The library profession has begun to initiate
large conversion projects as well, such as American Memory.

While scholars have been making converted text available to one another,
typically on disk or on CD-ROM, the clear trend is toward making these
resources available through research and education networks.  Thus, the
American and French Research on the Treasury of the French Language
(ARTFL) and the Dante Project are already available on Internet.
MICHELSON summarized this section on inte%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY @5
_o|i_M |"G|u  ul i_cr%GYi_M _uS@%rY of "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY i_ |"% li@rGr5
coSSu_i|5 Gr% r%coM_i,i_M |"% iSVor|G_c% |o |"% GJ2G_c%S%_| of
Yc"olGrY"iV of r%|roYV%c|i2% co_2%rYio_ of Yourc% SG|%riGlY i_ |"% Gr|Y
G_J "uSG_i|i%Y2 G_J 2l |"%r% iY G Mro<i_M r%Gli,G|io_ |"G| SG(i_M |"%
Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% o_ r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y SGxiSi,%Y |"%i
