what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are approoVriG|% for
G_Gl5Y%Y, G_J |"% forS i_ <"ic" fi_Ji_MY Gr% Vr%Y%_|%JA  _"% |r%_J |o<GrJ
%_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M S%G_Y |"G|, i_cr%GYi_Ml5, %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG G_J
coSVu|G|io_ Gr% @%i_M i_fuY%J i_|o Gll Vroc%YY%Y of "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY"iV, i_YViri_M r%SGr(G@l% |rG_YforSG|io_Y i_ Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_A

_"% |r%_J |o<GrJ Mr%G|%r co__%c|i2i|5 YuMM%Y|Y |"G| r%Y%Grc"%rY Gr% uYi_
