important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a fut|ur% i_ <"ic"
"uSG_i|i%Y r%Y%Grc"%rY <ill uY% coSVu|G|io_ G_J %l%c|ro_ic coSSu_icG|io_
|o "%lV |"%S forSulG|% iJ%GY, Gcc%YY Yourc%Y, V%rforS r%Y%Grc",
collG@orG|% <i|" coll%GMu%Y, Y%%( V%%r r%2i%<, Vu@liY" G_J JiYY%Si_G|%
r%Yul|Y, G_J %_MGM% i_ SG_5 o|"%r Vrof%YYio_Gl G_J %JucG|io_Gl Gc|i2i|i%YA

c_ YuSSGr5, Mc}@~fSi" %SV"GYi,%J four Voi_|Yu  ul A Vor|io_ of "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY Glr%GJ5 co_YiJ%r %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y |"% Vr%f%rr%J forSG| for
G_Gl5YiY G_J JiYY%Si_G|io_A  2l Sc"olGrY Gr% uYi_M |"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic
|%x|Y, i_ co_Pu_c|io_ <i|" o|"%r %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y, i_ Gll |"%
Vroc%YY%Y of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A  <l _"% "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrYM
<or(i_M co_|%x| iY i_ |"% Vroc%YY of c"G_Mi_M froS Vri_| |%c"_oloM5 |o
%l%c|ro_ic |%c"_oloM5, i_ SG_5 <G5Y Sirrori_M |rG_YforSG|io_Y |"G| "G2%
occurr%J or Gr% occurri_M <i|"i_ |"% Yci%_|ific coSSu_i|5A  xl _"%Y%
c"G_M%Y Gr% occurri_M i_ co_Pu_c|io_ <i|" |"% J%2%loVS%_| of G _%<
coSSu_icG|io_ S%JiuSu  r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y |"G| Gr
