



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed; it was
labelled `ORANGE MARMALADE', but to her great disappointment it
was empty:  she did not like to drop the jar for fear of killing
somebody, so managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.

  `Well!' thought Alice to herself, `after such a fall as this, I
shall think nothing of tumbling down stairs!  How brave they'll
all think me at home!  Why, I wouldn't say anything about it,
even if I fell off the top of the house!' (Which was very likely
true.)

  Down, down, down.  Would the fall NEVER come to an end!  `I
wonder how many miles I've fallen by this time?' she said aloud.
`I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth.  Let
me see:  that would be four thousand miles down, I think--' (for,
you see, Alice had learnt several things of this sort in her
lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not a VERY good
opportunity for showing off her knowledge, as there was no one to
listen to her, still it was good practice to say it over) `--yes,
that's about the right distance--but then I wonder what Latitude
or Longitude I've got to?'  (Alice had no idea what Latitude was,
or Longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to
say.)

  Presently she began again.  `I wonder if I shall fall right
THROUGH the earth!  How funny it'll seem to come out among the
people that walk with their heads downward!  The Antipathies, I
think--' (she was rather glad there WAS no one listening, this
time, as it didn't sound at all the right word) `--but I shall
have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know.
Please, Ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia?' (and she tried
to curtsey as she spoke--fancy CURTSEYING as you're falling
through the air!  Do you think you could manage it?)  `And what
an ignorant little girl she'll think me for asking!  No, it'll
never do to ask:  perhaps I shall see it written up somewhere.'

  Down, down, down.  There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again.  `Dinah'll miss me very much to-night, I
should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, aG_J "G2% _%x| |o _o |o5Y |o VlG5 <i|", G_J o"G %2%r Yo
SG_5 l%YYo_Y |o l%Gr_G  "o, cM2% SGJ% uV S5 Si_J G@ou| i|2 if cMS
MG@%l, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_ "%r%G  c|Mll @% _o uY% |"%ir Vu||i_M |"%ir
"%GJY Jo<_ G_J YG5i_M "}oS% uV GMGi_, J%GrG"  c Y"Gll o_l5 loo(
uV G_J YG5 "["o GS c |"%_8  _%ll S% |"G| firY|, G_J |"%_, if c
li(% @%i_M |"G| V%rYo_, cMll coS% uVu  if _o|, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_
"%r% |ill cMS YoS%@oJ5 %lY%"SS@u|, o" J%GrGM cri%J Alic%, <i|" G
YuJJ%_ @urY| of |%GrY,  c Jo <iY" |"%5 [iofD Vu| |"%ir "%GJY
Jo<_G  c GS Yo V~lY |ir%J of @%i_M Gll Glo_% "%r%GM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"iY Y"% loo(%J Jo<_ G| "%r "G_JY, G_J <GY
YurVriY%J |o Y%% |"G| Y"% "GJ Vu| o_ o_% of |"% lG@@i|MY li||l%
<"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y <"il% Y"% <GY |Gl(i_MA   @o< }A" c "G2% Jo_%
|"G|8M Y"% |"ouM"|A   c SuY| @% Mro<i_M YSGll GMGi_AM  S"% Mo| uV
G_J <%_| |o |"% |G@l% |o S%GYur% "%rY%lf @5 i|, G_J fou_J |"G|,
GY _%Grl5 GY Y"% coulJ Mu%YY, Y"% <GY _o< G@ou| |<o f%%| "iM",
G_J <GY Moi_M o_ Y"ri_(i_M rGViJl5u  Y"% Yoo_ fou_J ou| |"G| |"%
cGuY% of |"iY <GY |"% fG_ Y"% <GY "olJi_M, G_J Y"% JroVV%J i|
"GY|il5, PuY| i_ |iS% |o G2oiJ Y"ri_(i_M G<G5 Gl|oM%|"%rA

 _"G| [AS G _Grro< %YcGV%GM YGiJ Alic%, G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J G|
|"% YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u| 2%r5 MlGJ |o fi_J "%rY%lf Y|ill i_
%xiY|%_c%2  G_J _o< for |"% MGrJ%_GM G_J Y"% rG_ <i|" Gll YV%%J
@Gc( |o |"% li||l% Jooru  @u|, GlGYG |"% li||l% Joor <GY Y"u|
GMGi_, G_J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 <GY l5i_M o_ |"% MlGYY |G@l% GY
@%for%,  G_J |"i_MY Gr% <orY% |"G_ %2%r,M |"ouM"| |"% Voor c"ilJ,
 for c _%2%r <GY Yo YSGll GY |"iY @%for%, _%2%rG  A_J c J%clGr%
i|MY |oo @GJ, |"G| i| iYGM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"%Y% <orJY "%r foo| YliVV%J, G_J i_ G_o|"%r
SoS%_|, YVlGY"G Y"% <GY uV |o "%r c"i_ i_ YGl| <G|%rA  @% firY|
iJ%G <GY |"G| Y"% "GJ YoS%"o< fGll%_ i_|o |"% Y%G,  G_J i_ |"G|
cGY% c cG_ Mo @Gc( @5 rGil<G5,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA  (Alic% "GJ
@%%_ |o |"% Y%GYiJ% o_c% i_ "%r lif%, G_J "GJ coS% |o |"% M%_%rGl
co_cluYio_, |"G| <"%r%2%r 5ou Mo |o o_ |"% ~_MliY" coGY| 5ou fi_J
G _uS@%r of @G|"i_M SGc"i_%Y i_ |"% Y%G, YoS% c"ilJr%_ JiMMi_M i_
|"% YG_J <i|" <ooJ%_ YVGJ%Y, |"%_ G ro< of loJMi_M "ouY%Y, G_J
@%"i_J |"%S G rGil<G5 Y|G|io_Al  @o<%2%r, Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
Y"% <GY i_ |"% Vool of |%GrY <"ic" Y"% "GJ <%V| <"%_ Y"% <GY _i_%
f%%| "iM"A

   c <iY" c "GJ_M| cri%J Yo Suc"GM YGiJ Alic%, GY Y"% Y<GS G@ou|,
|r5i_M |o fi_J "%r <G5 ou|A   c Y"Gll @% Vu_iY"%J for i| _o<, c
YuVVoY%, @5 @%i_M Jro<_%J i_ S5 o<_ |%GrYG  _"G| [cff @% G [u%%r
|"i_M, |o @% Yur%G  @o<%2%r, %2%r5|"i_M iY [u%%r |oSJG5AM

  JuY| |"%_ Y"% "%GrJ YoS%|"i_M YVlGY"i_M G@ou| i_ |"% Vool G
li||l% <G5 off, G_J Y"% Y<GS _%Gr%r |o SG(% ou| <"G| i| <GYu  G|
firY| Y"% |"ouM"| i| SuY| @% G <GlruY or "iVVoVo|GSuY, @u| |"%_
Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "o< YSGll Y"% <GY _o<, G_J Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
i| <GY o_l5 G SouY% |"G| "GJ YliVV%J i_ li(% "%rY%lfA

   [oulJ i| @% of G_5 uY%, _o<,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  |o YV%G( |o |"iY
SouY%8  ~2%r5|"i_M iY Yo ou|SofS|"%S<G5 Jo<_ "%r%, |"G| c Y"oulJ
|"i_( 2%r5 li(%l5 i| cG_ |Gl(u  G| G_5 rG|%, |"%r%MY _o "GrS i_
|r5i_MAM  So Y"% @%MG_u   i MouY%, Jo 5ou (_o< |"% <G5 ou| of
|"iY Vool8  c GS 2%r5 |ir%J of Y<iSSi_M G@ou| "%r%, i MouY%GM
(Alic% |"ouM"| |"iY SuY| @% |"% riM"| <G5 of YV%G(i_M |o G SouY%u
Y"% "GJ _%2%r Jo_% Yuc" G |"i_M @%for%, @u| Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "G2i_M
Y%%_ i_ "%r @ro|"%rMY fG|i_ GrGSSGr,  A SouY%SSof G SouY%SS|o G
SouY%SSG SouY%SSi SouY%GM  _"% MouY% loo(%J G| "%r rG|"%r
i_[uiYi|i2%l5, G_J Y%%S%J |o "%r |o <i_( <i|" o_% of i|Y li||l%
%5%Y, @u| i| YGiJ _o|"i_MA

   P%r"GVY i| Jo%Y_M| u_J%rY|G_J ~_MliY",M |"ouM"| Alic%2  c
JGr%YG5 i|MY G  r%_c" SouY%, coS% o2%r <i|" [illiGS |"%
}o_[u%rorAM  ( or, <i|" Gll "%r (_o<l%JM% of "iY|or5, Alic% "GJ
_o 2%r5 cl%Gr _o|io_ "o< lo_M GMo G_5|"i_M "GJ "GVV%_%JAl  So Y"%
@%MG_ GMGi_u   iu %Y| SG c"G||%8M <"ic" <GY |"% firY| Y%_|%_c% i_
"%r  r%_c" l%YYo_S@oo(A  _"% MouY% MG2% G YuJJ%_ l%GV ou| of |"%
<G|%r, G_J Y%%S%J |o [ui2%r Gll o2%r <i|" friM"|A   i", c @%M
5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% "GY|il5, GfrGiJ |"G| Y"% "GJ "ur| |"%
Voor G_iSGlMY f%%li_MYA   c [ui|% forMo| 5ou JiJ_M| li(% cG|YAM

   "o| li(% cG|YGM cri%J |"% MouY%, i_ G Y"rill, VGYYio_G|%
2oic%A   [oulJ Yio li(% cG|Y if 5ou <%r% S%8M

   [%ll, V%r"GVY _o|,M YGiJ Alic% i_ G Yoo|"i_M |o_%u   Jo_M| @%
G_Mr5 G@ou| i|A  A_J 5%| c <iY" c coulJ Y"o< 5ou our cG| Di_G"u
c |"i_( 5ouMJ |G(% G fG_c5 |o cG|Y if 5ou coulJ o_l5 Y%% "%rA
S"% iY Yuc" G J%Gr [ui%| |"i_M,M Alic% <%_| o_, "Glf |o "%rY%lf,
GY Y"% Y<GS lG,il5 G@ou| i_ |"% Vool,  G_J Y"% Yi|Y Vurri_M Yo
_ic%l5 @5 |"% fir%, lic(i_M "%r VG<Y G_J <GY"i_M "%r fGc%SSG_J
Y"% iY Yuc" G _ic% Yof| |"i_M |o _urY%SSG_J Y"%MY Yuc" G cGVi|Gl
o_% for cG|c"i_M Sic%SSo", c @%M 5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% GMGi_,
for |"iY |iS% |"% MouY% <GY @riY|li_M Gll o2%r, G_J Y"% f%l|
c%r|Gi_ i| SuY| @% r%Gll5 off%_J%JA   [% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| "%r G_5
Sor% if 5ouMJ rG|"%r _o|AM

   [% i_J%%JGM cri%J |"% MouY%, <"o <GY |r%S@li_M Jo<_ |o |"% %_J
of "iY |GilA   AY if c <oulJ |Gl( o_ Yuc" G Yu@P%c|G  iur fGSil5
Gl<G5Y @A_~D cG|Yu  _GY|5, lo<, 2ulMGr |"i_MYG  Do_M| l%| S% "%Gr
|"% _GS% GMGi_GM

   c <o_M| i_J%%JGM YGiJ Alic%, i_ G Mr%G| "urr5 |o c"G_M% |"%
Yu@P%c| of co_2%rYG|io_A   Ar% 5ouSSGr% 5ou fo_JSSofSSof JoMY8M
_"% MouY% JiJ _o| G_Y<%r, Yo Alic% <%_| o_ %GM%rl5u   _"%r% iY
Yuc" G _ic% li||l% JoM _%Gr our "ouY% c Y"oulJ li(% |o Y"o< 5ouG
A li||l% @riM"|S%5%J |%rri%r, 5ou (_o<, <i|" o", Yuc" lo_M curl5
@ro<_ "GirG  A_J i|Mll f%|c" |"i_MY <"%_ 5ou |"ro< |"%S, G_J
i|Mll Yi| uV G_J @%M for i|Y Ji__%r, G_J Gll Yor|Y of |"i_MYSSc
cG_M| r%S%S@%r "Glf of |"%SSSG_J i| @%lo_MY |o G fGrS%r, 5ou
(_o<, G_J "% YG5Y i|MY Yo uY%ful, i|MY <or|" G "u_Jr%J Vou_JYG
@% YG5Y i| (illY Gll |"% rG|Y G_JSSo" J%GrGM cri%J Alic% i_ G
Yorro<ful |o_%,  cMS GfrGiJ cM2% off%_J%J i| GMGi_GM   or |"%
MouY% <GY Y<iSSi_M G<G5 froS "%r GY "GrJ GY i| coulJ Mo, G_J
SG(i_M [ui|% G coSSo|io_ i_ |"% Vool GY i| <%_|A

  So Y"% cGll%J Yof|l5 Gf|%r i|,  MouY% J%GrG  Do coS% @Gc(
GMGi_, G_J <% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| cG|Y or JoMY %i|"%r, if 5ou Jo_M|
li(% |"%SGM  ["%_ |"% MouY% "%GrJ |"iY, i| |ur_%J rou_J G_J Y<GS
Ylo<l5 @Gc( |o "%ru  i|Y fGc% <GY [ui|% VGl% (<i|" VGYYio_, Alic%
|"ouM"|l, G_J i| YGiJ i_ G lo< |r%S@li_M 2oic%,  f%| uY M%| |o
|"% Y"or%, G_J |"%_ cMll |%ll 5ou S5 "iY|or5, G_J 5ouMll
u_J%rY|G_J <"5 i| iY c "G|% cG|Y G_J JoMYAM

  c| <GY "iM" |iS% |o Mo, for |"% Vool <GY M%||i_M [ui|% cro<J%J
<i|" |"% @irJY G_J G_iSGlY |"G| "GJ fGll%_ i_|o i|u  |"%r% <%r% G
Duc( G_J G DoJo, G for5 G_J G_ ~GMl%|, G_J Y%2%rGl o|"%r curiouY
cr%G|ur%YA  Alic% l%J |"% <G5, G_J |"% <"ol% VGr|5 Y<GS |o |"%
Y"or%A



                           }@AP_~l ccc

                  A }GucuYSlGc% G_J G fo_M _Gl%


  _"%5 <%r% i_J%%J G [u%%rSloo(i_M VGr|5 |"G| GYY%S@l%J o_ |"%
@G_(SS|"% @irJY <i|" JrGMMl%J f%G|"%rY, |"% G_iSGlY <i|" |"%ir
fur cli_Mi_M cloY% |o |"%S, G_J Gll JriVVi_M <%|, croYY, G_J
u_coSfor|G@l%A

  _"% firY| [u%Y|io_ of courY% <GY, "o< |o M%| Jr5 GMGi_u  |"%5
"GJ G co_Yul|G|io_ G@ou| |"iY, G_J Gf|%r G f%< Si_u|%Y i| Y%%S%J
[ui|% _G|urGl |o Alic% |o fi_J "%rY%lf |Gl(i_M fGSiliGrl5 <i|"
|"%S, GY if Y"% "GJ (_o<_ |"%S Gll "%r lif%A  c_J%%J, Y"% "GJ
[ui|% G lo_M GrMuS%_| <i|" |"% for5, <"o G| lGY| |ur_%J Yul(5,
G_J <oulJ o_l5 YG5,  c GS olJ%r |"G_ 5ou, G_J SuY| (_o< @%||%rM2
G_J |"iY Alic% <oulJ _o| Gllo< <i|"ou| (_o<i_M "o< olJ i| <GY,
G_J, GY |"% for5 VoYi|i2%l5 r%fuY%J |o |%ll i|Y GM%, |"%r% <GY _o
Sor% |o @% YGiJA

  A| lGY| |"% MouY%, <"o Y%%S%J |o @% G V%rYo_ of Gu|"ori|5 GSo_M
|"%S, cGll%J ou|,  Si| Jo<_, Gll of 5ou, G_J liY|%_ |o S%G  cMff
Yoo_ SG(% 5ou Jr5 %_ouM"GM  _"%5 Gll YG| Jo<_ G| o_c%, i_ G lGrM%
ri_M, <i|" |"% MouY% i_ |"% SiJJl%A  Alic% (%V| "%r %5%Y
G_xiouYl5 fix%J o_ i|, for Y"% f%l| Yur% Y"% <oulJ cG|c" G @GJ
colJ if Y"% JiJ _o| M%| Jr5 2%r5 Yoo_A

   A"%SGM YGiJ |"% MouY% <i|" G_ iSVor|G_| Gir,  Gr% 5ou Gll r%GJ58
_"iY iY |"% Jri%Y| |"i_M c (_o<A  Sil%_c% Gll rou_J, if 5ou Vl%GY%G
"[illiGS |"% }o_[u%ror, <"oY% cGuY% <GY fG2our%J @5 |"% VoV%, <GY
Yoo_ Yu@Si||%J |o @5 |"% ~_MliY", <"o <G_|%J l%GJ%rY, G_J "GJ @%%_
of lG|% Suc" GccuY|oS%J |o uYurVG|io_ G_J co_[u%Y|A  ~J<i_ G_J
MorcGr, |"% %GrlY of M%rciG G_J "or|"uS@riGSS"M

   oM"GM YGiJ |"% for5, <i|" G Y"i2%rA

   c @%M 5our VGrJo_GM YGiJ |"% MouY%, fro<_i_M, @u| 2%r5
Voli|%l5u   DiJ 5ou YV%G(8M

   "o| cGM YGiJ |"% for5 "GY|il5A

   c |"ouM"| 5ou JiJ,M YGiJ |"% MouY%A   SSc Vroc%%JA  "~J<i_ G_J
MorcGr, |"% %GrlY of M%rciG G_J "or|"uS@riG, J%clGr%J for "iSu
G_J %2%_ S|iMG_J, |"% VG|rio|ic Grc"@iY"oV of }G_|%r@ur5, fou_J
i| GJ2iYG@l%SS"M

    ou_J [@A_8M YGiJ |"% Duc(A

    ou_J c_,M |"% MouY% r%Vli%J rG|"%r croYYl5u   of courY% 5ou
(_o< <"G| "i|" S%G_YAM

   c (_o< <"G| "i|" S%G_Y <%ll %_ouM", <"%_ c fi_J G |"i_M,M YGiJ
|"% Duc(u   i|MY M%_%rGll5 G froM or G <orSA  _"% [u%Y|io_ iY,
<"G| JiJ |"% Grc"@iY"oV fi_J8M

  _"% MouY% JiJ _o| _o|ic% |"iY [u%Y|io_, @u| "urri%Jl5 <%_| o_,
 "SSfou_J i| GJ2iYG@l% |o Mo <i|" ~JMGr A|"%li_M |o S%%| [illiGS
G_J off%r "iS |"% cro<_A  [illiGSMY co_Juc| G| firY| <GY
SoJ%rG|%A  8u| |"% i_Yol%_c% of "iY "orSG_YSS"  @o< Gr% 5ou
M%||i_M o_ _o<, S5 J%Gr8M i| co_|i_u%J, |ur_i_M |o Alic% GY i|
YVo(%A

   AY <%| GY %2%r,M YGiJ Alic% i_ G S%lG_c"ol5 |o_%u   i| Jo%Y_M|
Y%%S |o Jr5 S% G| GllAM

   c_ |"G| cGY%,M YGiJ |"% DoJo Yol%S_l5, riYi_M |o i|Y f%%|,  c
So2% |"G| |"% S%%|i_M GJPour_, for |"% iSS%JiG|% GJoV|io_ of Sor%
%_%rM%|ic r%S%Ji%YSSM





                Afc}~MS ADV~"_ol~S c" [i"D~lfA"D

                          f%<iY }Grroll

               _@~ Mcff~""coM  of}loM ~Dc_ci" 2A}




                            }@AP_~l c

                      Do<_ |"% lG@@i|S@ol%


  Alic% <GY @%Mi__i_M |o M%| 2%r5 |ir%J of Yi||i_M @5 "%r YiY|%r
o_ |"% @G_(, G_J of "G2i_M _o|"i_M |o Jou  o_c% or |<ic% Y"% "GJ
V%%V%J i_|o |"% @oo( "%r YiY|%r <GY r%GJi_M, @u| i| "GJ _o
Vic|ur%Y or co_2%rYG|io_Y i_ i|,  G_J <"G| iY |"% uY% of G @oo(,M
|"ouM"| Alic%  <i|"ou| Vic|ur%Y or co_2%rYG|io_8M

  So Y"% <GY co_YiJ%ri_M i_ "%r o<_ Si_J (GY <%ll GY Y"% coulJ,
for |"% "o| JG5 SGJ% "%r f%%l 2%r5 Yl%%V5 G_J Y|uViJl, <"%|"%r
|"% Vl%GYur% of SG(i_M G JGiY5Sc"Gi_ <oulJ @% <or|" |"% |rou@l%
of M%||i_M uV G_J Vic(i_M |"% JGiYi%Y, <"%_ YuJJ%_l5 G ["i|%
lG@@i| <i|" Vi_( %5%Y rG_ cloY% @5 "%rA

  _"%r% <GY _o|"i_M Yo V~lY r%SGr(G@l% i_ |"G|2 _or JiJ Alic%
|"i_( i| Yo V~lY Suc" ou| of |"% <G5 |o "%Gr |"% lG@@i| YG5 |o
i|Y%lf,  i" J%GrG  i" J%GrG  c Y"Gll @% lG|%GM  (<"%_ Y"% |"ouM"|
i| o2%r Gf|%r<GrJY, i| occurr%J |o "%r |"G| Y"% ouM"| |o "G2%
<o_J%r%J G| |"iY, @u| G| |"% |iS% i| Gll Y%%S%J [ui|% _G|urGll2
@u| <"%_ |"% lG@@i| Gc|uGll5 _ii% A [A_}@ io_ i  c_S [AcS_}iA_S
Pi}%~_, G_J loo(%J G| i|, G_J |"%_ "urri%J o_, Alic% Y|Gr|%J |o
"%r f%%|, for i| flGY"%J GcroYY "%r Si_J |"G| Y"% "GJ _%2%r
@%for% Y%%_ G rG@@i| <i|" %i|"%r G <GiY|coG|SVoc(%|, or G <G|c" |o
|G(% ou| of i|, G_J @ur_i_M <i|" curioYi|5, Y"% rG_ GcroYY |"%
fi%lJ Gf|%r i|, G_J for|u_G|%l5 <GY PuY| i_ |iS% |o Y%% i| VoV
Jo<_ G lGrM% rG@@i|S"ol% u_J%r |"% "%JM%A

  c_ G_o|"%r SoS%_| Jo<_ <%_| Alic% Gf|%r i|, _%2%r o_c%
co_YiJ%ri_M "o< i_ |"% <orlJ Y"% <GY |o M%| ou| GMGi_A

  _"% rG@@i|S"ol% <%_| Y|rGiM"| o_ li(% G |u__%l for YoS% <G5,
G_J |"%_ JiVV%J YuJJ%_l5 Jo<_, Yo YuJJ%_l5 |"G| Alic% "GJ _o| G
SoS%_| |o |"i_( G@ou| Y|oVVi_M "%rY%lf @%for% Y"% fou_J "%rY%lf
fGlli_M Jo<_ G 2%r5 J%%V <%llA

  ~i|"%r |"% <%ll <GY 2%r5 J%%V, or Y"% f%ll 2%r5 Ylo<l5, for Y"%
"GJ Vl%_|5 of |iS% GY Y"% <%_| Jo<_ |o loo( G@ou| "%r G_J |o
<o_J%r <"G| <GY Moi_M |o "GVV%_ _%x|A   irY|, Y"% |ri%J |o loo(
Jo<_ G_J SG(% ou| <"G| Y"% <GY coSi_M |o, @u| i| <GY |oo JGr( |o
Y%% G_5|"i_M2 |"%_ Y"% loo(%J G| |"% YiJ%Y of |"% <%ll, G_J
_o|ic%J |"G| |"%5 <%r% fill%J <i|" cuV@oGrJY G_J @oo(SY"%l2%Y2
"%r% G_J |"%r% Y"% YG< SGVY G_J Vic|ur%Y "u_M uVo_ V%MYA  S"%
|oo( Jo<_ G PGr froS o_% of |"% Y"%l2%Y GY Y"% VGYY%J2 i| <GY
lG@%ll%J  ilA"G~ MAlMAfAD~M, @u| |o "%r Mr%G| JiYGVVoi_|S%_| i|
<GY %SV|5u  Y"% JiJ _o| li(% |o JroV |"% PGr for f%Gr of (illi_M
YoS%@oJ5, Yo SG_GM%J |o Vu| i| i_|o o_% of |"% cuV@oGrJY GY Y"%
f%ll VGY| i|A

   [%llGM |"ouM"| Alic% |o "%rY%lf,  Gf|%r Yuc" G fGll GY |"iY, c
Y"Gll |"i_( _o|"i_M of |uS@li_M Jo<_ Y|GirYG  @o< @rG2% |"%5Mll
Gll |"i_( S% G| "oS%G  ["5, c <oulJ_M| YG5 G_5|"i_M G@ou| i|,
%2%_ if c f%ll off |"% |oV of |"% "ouY%GM (["ic" <GY 2%r5 li(%l5
|ru%Al

  Do<_, Jo<_, Jo<_A  [oulJ |"% fGll "~V~l coS% |o G_ %_JG   c
<o_J%r "o< SG_5 Sil%Y cM2% fGll%_ @5 |"iY |iS%8M Y"% YGiJ GlouJA
 c SuY| @% M%||i_M YoS%<"%r% _%Gr |"% c%_|r% of |"% %Gr|"A  f%|
S% Y%%u  |"G| <oulJ @% four |"ouYG_J Sil%Y Jo<_, c |"i_(SSM (for,
5ou Y%%, Alic% "GJ l%Gr_| Y%2%rGl |"i_MY of |"iY Yor| i_ "%r
l%YYo_Y i_ |"% Yc"oolrooS, G_J |"ouM" |"iY <GY _o| G V~lY MooJ
oVVor|u_i|5 for Y"o<i_M off "%r (_o<l%JM%, GY |"%r% <GY _o o_% |o
liY|%_ |o "%r, Y|ill i| <GY MooJ VrGc|ic% |o YG5 i| o2%rl  SS5%Y,
|"G|MY G@ou| |"% riM"| JiY|G_c%SS@u| |"%_ c <o_J%r <"G| fG|i|uJ%
or fo_Mi|uJ% cM2% Mo| |o8M  (Alic% "GJ _o iJ%G <"G| fG|i|uJ% <GY,
or fo_Mi|uJ% %i|"%r, @u| |"ouM"| |"%5 <%r% _ic% MrG_J <orJY |o
YG5Al

  Pr%Y%_|l5 Y"% @%MG_ GMGi_A   c <o_J%r if c Y"Gll fGll riM"|
_@lioG@ |"% %Gr|"G  @o< fu__5 i|Mll Y%%S |o coS% ou| GSo_M |"%
V%oVl% |"G| <Gl( <i|" |"%ir "%GJY Jo<_<GrJG  _"% A_|iVG|"i%Y, c
|"i_(SSM (Y"% <GY rG|"%r MlGJ |"%r% [AS _o o_% liY|%_i_M, |"iY
|iS%, GY i| JiJ_M| You_J G| Gll |"% riM"| <orJl  SS@u| c Y"Gll
"G2% |o GY( |"%S <"G| |"% _GS% of |"% cou_|r5 iY, 5ou (_o<A
Pl%GY%, MGMGS, iY |"iY "%< |%GlG_J or AuY|rGliG8M (G_J Y"% |ri%J
|o cur|Y%5 GY Y"% YVo(%SSfG_c5 }ol_S~Yc"G GY 5ouMr% fGlli_M
|"rouM" |"% GirG  Do 5ou |"i_( 5ou coulJ SG_GM% i|8l   A_J <"G|
G_ iM_orG_| li||l% Mirl Y"%Mll |"i_( S% for GY(i_MG  "o, i|Mll
_%2%r Jo |o GY(u  V%r"GVY c Y"Gll Y%% i| <ri||%_ uV YoS%<"%r%AM

  Do<_, Jo<_, Jo<_A  _"%r% <GY _o|"i_M %lY% |o Jo, Yo Alic% Yoo_
@%MG_ |Gl(i_M GMGi_A   Di_G"Mll SiYY S% 2%r5 Suc" |oS_iM"|, c
Y"oulJ |"i_(GM  (Di_G" <GY |"% cG|Al   c "oV% |"%5Mll r%S%S@%r
"%r YGuc%r of Sil( G| |%GS|iS%A  Di_G" S5 J%GrG  c <iY" 5ou <%r%
Jo<_ "%r% <i|" S%G  _"%r% Gr% _o Sic% i_ |"% Gir, cMS GfrGiJ, @u|
5ou SiM"| cG|c" G @G|, G_J |"G|MY 2%r5 li(% G SouY%, 5ou (_o<A
8u| Jo cG|Y %G| @G|Y, c <o_J%r8M  A_J "%r% Alic% @%MG_ |o M%|
rG|"%r Yl%%V5, G_J <%_| o_ YG5i_M |o "%rY%lf, i_ G Jr%GS5 Yor| of
<G5,  Do cG|Y %G| @G|Y8  Do cG|Y %G| @G|Y8M G_J YoS%|iS%Y,  Do
@G|Y %G| cG|Y8M for, 5ou Y%%, GY Y"% coulJ_M| G_Y<%r %i|"%r
[u%Y|io_, i| JiJ_M| Suc" SG||%r <"ic" <G5 Y"% Vu| i|A  S"% f%l|
|"G| Y"% <GY Jo,i_M off, G_J "GJ PuY| @%Mu_ |o Jr%GS |"G| Y"%
<GY <Gl(i_M "G_J i_ "G_J <i|" Di_G", G_J YG5i_M |o "%r 2%r5
%Gr_%Y|l5,  "o<, Di_G", |%ll S% |"% |ru|"u  JiJ 5ou %2%r %G| G
@G|8M <"%_ YuJJ%_l5, |"uSVG |"uSVG Jo<_ Y"% cGS% uVo_ G "%GV of
Y|ic(Y G_J Jr5 l%G2%Y, G_J |"% fGll <GY o2%rA

  Alic% <GY _o| G @i| "ur|, G_J Y"% PuSV%J uV o_ |o "%r f%%| i_ G
SoS%_|u  Y"% loo(%J uV, @u| i| <GY Gll JGr( o2%r"%GJ2 @%for% "%r
<GY G_o|"%r lo_M VGYYGM%, G_J |"% ["i|% lG@@i| <GY Y|ill i_
YiM"|, "urr5i_M Jo<_ i|A  _"%r% <GY _o| G SoS%_| |o @% loY|u
G<G5 <%_| Alic% li(% |"% <i_J, G_J <GY PuY| i_ |iS% |o "%Gr i|
YG5, GY i| |ur_%J G cor_%r,  i" S5 %GrY G_J <"iY(%rY, "o< lG|%
i|MY M%||i_MGM  S"% <GY cloY% @%"i_J i| <"%_ Y"% |ur_%J |"%
cor_%r, @u| |"% lG@@i| <GY _o lo_M%r |o @% Y%%_u  Y"% fou_J
"%rY%lf i_ G lo_M, lo< "Gll, <"ic" <GY li| uV @5 G ro< of lGSVY
"G_Mi_M froS |"% roofA

  _"%r% <%r% JoorY Gll rou_J |"% "Gll, @u| |"%5 <%r% Gll loc(%J2
G_J <"%_ Alic% "GJ @%%_ Gll |"% <G5 Jo<_ o_% YiJ% G_J uV |"%
o|"%r, |r5i_M %2%r5 Joor, Y"% <Gl(%J YGJl5 Jo<_ |"% SiJJl%,
<o_J%ri_M "o< Y"% <GY %2%r |o M%| ou| GMGi_A

  SuJJ%_l5 Y"% cGS% uVo_ G li||l% |"r%%Sl%MM%J |G@l%, Gll SGJ% of
YoliJ MlGYY2 |"%r% <GY _o|"i_M o_ i| %xc%V| G |i_5 MolJ%_ (%5,
G_J Alic%MY firY| |"ouM"| <GY |"G| i| SiM"| @%lo_M |o o_% of |"%
JoorY of |"% "Gll2 @u|, GlGYG %i|"%r |"% loc(Y <%r% |oo lGrM%, or
|"% (%5 <GY |oo YSGll, @u| G| G_5 rG|% i| <oulJ _o| oV%_ G_5 of
|"%SA  @o<%2%r, o_ |"% Y%co_J |iS% rou_J, Y"% cGS% uVo_ G lo<
cur|Gi_ Y"% "GJ _o| _o|ic%J @%for%, G_J @%"i_J i| <GY G li||l%
Joor G@ou| fif|%%_ i_c"%Y "iM"u  Y"% |ri%J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5
i_ |"% loc(, G_J |o "%r Mr%G| J%liM"| i| fi||%JG

  Alic% oV%_%J |"% Joor G_J fou_J |"G| i| l%J i_|o G YSGll
VGYYGM%, _o| Suc" lGrM%r |"G_ G rG|S"ol%u  Y"% (_%l| Jo<_ G_J
loo(%J Glo_M |"% VGYYGM% i_|o |"% lo2%li%Y| MGrJ%_ 5ou %2%r YG<A
@o< Y"% lo_M%J |o M%| ou| of |"G| JGr( "Gll, G_J <G_J%r G@ou|
GSo_M |"oY% @%JY of @riM"| flo<%rY G_J |"oY% cool fou_|Gi_Y, @u|
Y"% coulJ _o| %2%_ M%| "%r "%GJ |"ouM" |"% Joor<G52  G_J %2%_ if
S5 "%GJ <oulJ Mo |"rouM",M |"ouM"| Voor Alic%,  i| <oulJ @% of
2%r5 li||l% uY% <i|"ou| S5 Y"oulJ%rYA  i", "o< c <iY"
c coulJ Y"u| uV li(% G |%l%YcoV%G  c |"i_( c coulJ, if c o_l5
(_o< "o< |o @%Mi_AM   or, 5ou Y%%, Yo SG_5 ou|SofS|"%S<G5 |"i_MY
"GJ "GVV%_%J lG|%l5, |"G| Alic% "GJ @%Mu_ |o |"i_( |"G| 2%r5 f%<
|"i_MY i_J%%J <%r% r%Gll5 iSVoYYi@l%A

  _"%r% Y%%S%J |o @% _o uY% i_ <Gi|i_M @5 |"% li||l% Joor, Yo Y"%
<%_| @Gc( |o |"% |G@l%, "Glf "oVi_M Y"% SiM"| fi_J G_o|"%r (%5 o_
i|, or G| G_5 rG|% G @oo( of rul%Y for Y"u||i_M V%oVl% uV li(%
|%l%YcoV%Yu  |"iY |iS% Y"% fou_J G li||l% @o||l% o_ i|, ( <"ic"
c%r|Gi_l5 <GY _o| "%r% @%for%,M YGiJ Alic%,l G_J rou_J |"% _%c(
of |"% @o||l% <GY G VGV%r lG@%l, <i|" |"% <orJY  Dlc"% M~M
@%Gu|ifull5 Vri_|%J o_ i| i_ lGrM% l%||%rYA

  c| <GY Gll 2%r5 <%ll |o YG5  Dri_( S%,M @u| |"% <iY% li||l%
Alic% <GY _o| Moi_M |o Jo _@A_ i_ G "urr5A   "o, cMll loo(
firY|,M Y"% YGiJ,  G_J Y%% <"%|"%r i|MY SGr(%J "VoiYo_" or _o|M2
for Y"% "GJ r%GJ Y%2%rGl _ic% li||l% "iY|ori%Y G@ou| c"ilJr%_ <"o
"GJ Mo| @ur_|, G_J %G|%_ uV @5 <ilJ @%GY|Y G_J o|"%r u_Vl%GYG_|
|"i_MY, Gll @%cGuY% |"%5 [iofD _o| r%S%S@%r |"% YiSVl% rul%Y
|"%ir fri%_JY "GJ |GuM"| |"%Su  Yuc" GY, |"G| G r%JS"o| Vo(%r
<ill @ur_ 5ou if 5ou "olJ i| |oo lo_M2 G_J |"G| if 5ou cu| 5our
fi_M%r V~lY J%%Vl5 <i|" G (_if%, i| uYuGll5 @l%%JY2 G_J Y"% "GJ
_%2%r forMo||%_ |"G|, if 5ou Jri_( Suc" froS G @o||l% SGr(%J
 VoiYo_,M i| iY GlSoY| c%r|Gi_ |o JiYGMr%% <i|" 5ou, Yoo_%r or
lG|%rA

  @o<%2%r, |"iY @o||l% <GY "i_ SGr(%J  VoiYo_,M Yo Alic% 2%_|ur%J
|o |GY|% i|, G_J fi_Ji_M i| 2%r5 _ic%, (i| "GJ, i_ fGc|, G Yor|
of Six%J flG2our of c"%rr5S|Gr|, cuY|GrJ, Vi_%SGVVl%, roGY|
|ur(%5, |off%%, G_J "o| @u||%r%J |oGY|,l Y"% 2%r5 Yoo_ fi_iY"%J
i| offA

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

         P       P       P       P       P       P

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

   ["G| G curiouY f%%li_MGM YGiJ Alic%2  c SuY| @% Y"u||i_M uV
li(% G |%l%YcoV%AM

  A_J Yo i| <GY i_J%%Ju  Y"% <GY _o< o_l5 |%_ i_c"%Y "iM", G_J
"%r fGc% @riM"|%_%J uV G| |"% |"ouM"| |"G| Y"% <GY _o< |"% riM"|
Yi,% for Moi_M |"ouM" |"% li||l% Joor i_|o |"G| lo2%l5 MGrJ%_A
 irY|, "o<%2%r, Y"% <Gi|%J for G f%< Si_u|%Y |o Y%% if Y"% <GY
Moi_M |o Y"ri_( G_5 fur|"%ru  Y"% f%l| G li||l% _%r2ouY G@ou|
|"iY2  for i| SiM"| %_J, 5ou (_o<,M YGiJ Alic% |o "%rY%lf,  i_ S5
Moi_M ou| Gl|oM%|"%r, li(% G cG_Jl%A  c <o_J%r <"G| c Y"oulJ @%
li(% |"%_8M  A_J Y"% |ri%J |o fG_c5 <"G| |"% flGS% of G cG_Jl% iY
li(% Gf|%r |"% cG_Jl% iY @lo<_ ou|, for Y"% coulJ _o| r%S%S@%r
%2%r "G2i_M Y%%_ Yuc" G |"i_MA

  Af|%r G <"il%, fi_Ji_M |"G| _o|"i_M Sor% "GVV%_%J, Y"% J%ciJ%J
o_ Moi_M i_|o |"% MGrJ%_ G| o_c%2 @u|, GlGY for Voor Alic%G <"%_
Y"% Mo| |o |"% Joor, Y"% fou_J "% "GJ forMo||%_ |"% li||l% MolJ%_
(%5, G_J <"%_ Y"% <%_| @Gc( |o |"% |G@l% for i|, Y"% fou_J Y"%
coulJ _o| VoYYi@l5 r%Gc" i|u  Y"% coulJ Y%% i| [ui|% VlGi_l5
|"rouM" |"% MlGYY, G_J Y"% |ri%J "%r @%Y| |o cliS@ uV o_% of |"%
l%MY of |"% |G@l%, @u| i| <GY |oo YliVV%r52 G_J <"%_ Y"% "GJ
|ir%J "%rY%lf ou| <i|" |r5i_M, |"% Voor li||l% |"i_M YG| Jo<_ G_J
cri%JA

   }oS%, |"%r%MY _o uY% i_ cr5i_M li(% |"G|GM YGiJ Alic% |o
"%rY%lf, rG|"%r Y"GrVl52  c GJ2iY% 5ou |o l%G2% off |"iY Si_u|%GM
S"% M%_%rGll5 MG2% "%rY%lf 2%r5 MooJ GJ2ic%, (|"ouM" Y"% 2%r5
Y%lJoS follo<%J i|l, G_J YoS%|iS%Y Y"% YcolJ%J "%rY%lf Yo
Y%2%r%l5 GY |o @ri_M |%GrY i_|o "%r %5%Y2 G_J o_c% Y"% r%S%S@%r%J
|r5i_M |o @ox "%r o<_ %GrY for "G2i_M c"%G|%J "%rY%lf i_ G MGS%
of cro[u%| Y"% <GY VlG5i_M GMGi_Y| "%rY%lf, for |"iY curiouY
c"ilJ <GY 2%r5 fo_J of Vr%|%_Ji_M |o @% |<o V%oVl%A   8u| i|MY _o
uY% _o<,M |"ouM"| Voor Alic%,  |o Vr%|%_J |o @% |<o V%oVl%G  ["5,
|"%r%MY "GrJl5 %_ouM" of S% l%f| |o SG(% i"~ r%YV%c|G@l%
V%rYo_GM

  Soo_ "%r %5% f%ll o_ G li||l% MlGYY @ox |"G| <GY l5i_M u_J%r
|"% |G@l%u  Y"% oV%_%J i|, G_J fou_J i_ i| G 2%r5 YSGll cG(%, o_
<"ic" |"% <orJY  ~A_ M~M <%r% @%Gu|ifull5 SGr(%J i_ currG_|YA
 [%ll, cMll %G| i|,M YGiJ Alic%,  G_J if i| SG(%Y S% Mro< lGrM%r,
c cG_ r%Gc" |"% (%52 G_J if i| SG(%Y S% Mro< YSGll%r, c cG_ cr%%V
u_J%r |"% Joor2 Yo %i|"%r <G5 cMll M%| i_|o |"% MGrJ%_, G_J c
Jo_M| cGr% <"ic" "GVV%_YGM

  S"% G|% G li||l% @i|, G_J YGiJ G_xiouYl5 |o "%rY%lf,  ["ic"
<G58  ["ic" <G58M, "olJi_M "%r "G_J o_ |"% |oV of "%r "%GJ |o
f%%l <"ic" <G5 i| <GY Mro<i_M, G_J Y"% <GY [ui|% YurVriY%J |o
fi_J |"G| Y"% r%SGi_%J |"% YGS% Yi,%u  |o @% Yur%, |"iY M%_%rGll5
"GVV%_Y <"%_ o_% %G|Y cG(%, @u| Alic% "GJ Mo| Yo Suc" i_|o |"%
<G5 of %xV%c|i_M _o|"i_M @u| ou|SofS|"%S<G5 |"i_MY |o "GVV%_,
|"G| i| Y%%S%J [ui|% Jull G_J Y|uViJ for lif% |o Mo o_ i_ |"%
coSSo_ <G5A

  So Y"% Y%| |o <or(, G_J 2%r5 Yoo_ fi_iY"%J off |"% cG(%A

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

         P       P       P       P       P       P

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P




                           }@AP_~l cc

                        _"% Pool of _%GrY


   }uriouY%r G_J curiouY%rGM cri%J Alic% (Y"% <GY Yo Suc"
YurVriY%J, |"G| for |"% SoS%_| Y"% [ui|% forMo| "o< |o YV%G( MooJ
~_MliY"l2  _o< cMS oV%_i_M ou| li(% |"% lGrM%Y| |%l%YcoV% |"G|
%2%r <GYG  GooJS@5%, f%%|GM (for <"%_ Y"% loo(%J Jo<_ G| "%r
f%%|, |"%5 Y%%S%J |o @% GlSoY| ou| of YiM"|, |"%5 <%r% M%||i_M Yo
fGr offlA   i", S5 Voor li||l% f%%|, c <o_J%r <"o <ill Vu| o_
5our Y"o%Y G_J Y|oc(i_MY for 5ou _o<, J%GrY8  cMS Yur% _c_ Y"G_M|
@% G@l%G  c Y"Gll @% G Mr%G| J%Gl |oo fGr off |o |rou@l% S5Y%lf
G@ou| 5ouu  5ou SuY| SG_GM% |"% @%Y| <G5 5ou cG_2 SS@u| c SuY| @%
(i_J |o |"%S,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  or V%r"GVY |"%5 <o_M| <Gl( |"%
<G5 c <G_| |o MoG  f%| S% Y%%u  cMll Mi2% |"%S G _%< VGir of
@oo|Y %2%r5 }"riY|SGYAM

  A_J Y"% <%_| o_ VlG__i_M |o "%rY%lf "o< Y"% <oulJ SG_GM% i|A
 _"%5 SuY| Mo @5 |"% cGrri%r,M Y"% |"ouM"|2  G_J "o< fu__5 i|Mll
Y%%S, Y%_Ji_M Vr%Y%_|Y |o o_%MY o<_ f%%|G  A_J "o< oJJ |"%
Jir%c|io_Y <ill loo(G

            Afc}~MS lcG@_  ii_, ~S(A
                @~Al_@loG,
                    "~Al _@~  ~"D~l,
                        ([c_@ Afc}~MS fiV~lA

i" J%Gr, <"G| _o_Y%_Y% cMS |Gl(i_MGM

  JuY| |"%_ "%r "%GJ Y|ruc( GMGi_Y| |"% roof of |"% "Gllu  i_
fGc| Y"% <GY _o< Sor% |"G_ _i_% f%%| "iM", G_J Y"% G| o_c% |oo(
uV |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 G_J "urri%J off |o |"% MGrJ%_ JoorA

  Poor Alic%G  c| <GY GY Suc" GY Y"% coulJ Jo, l5i_M Jo<_ o_ o_%
YiJ%, |o loo( |"rouM" i_|o |"% MGrJ%_ <i|" o_% %5%2 @u| |o M%|
|"rouM" <GY Sor% "oV%l%YY |"G_ %2%ru  Y"% YG| Jo<_ G_J @%MG_ |o
cr5 GMGi_A

   You ouM"| |o @% GY"GS%J of 5ourY%lf,M YGiJ Alic%,  G Mr%G|
Mirl li(% 5ou,M (Y"% SiM"| <%ll YG5 |"iYl,  |o Mo o_ cr5i_M i_
|"iY <G5G  S|oV |"iY SoS%_|, c |%ll 5ouGM  8u| Y"% <%_| o_ Gll
|"% YGS%, Y"%JJi_M MGllo_Y of |%GrY, u_|il |"%r% <GY G lGrM% Vool
Gll rou_J "%r, G@ou| four i_c"%Y J%%V G_J r%Gc"i_M "Glf Jo<_ |"%
"GllA

  Af|%r G |iS% Y"% "%GrJ G li||l% VG||%ri_M of f%%| i_ |"%
JiY|G_c%, G_J Y"% "GY|il5 Jri%J "%r %5%Y |o Y%% <"G| <GY coSi_MA
c| <GY |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%|ur_i_M, YVl%_JiJl5 Jr%YY%J, <i|" G
VGir of <"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y i_ o_% "G_J G_J G lGrM% fG_ i_ |"%
o|"%ru  "% cGS% |ro||i_M Glo_M i_ G Mr%G| "urr5, Su||%ri_M |o
"iSY%lf GY "% cGS%,  i"G |"% Duc"%YY, |"% Duc"%YYG i"G <o_M| Y"%
@% YG2GM% if cM2% (%V| "%r <Gi|i_MGM  Alic% f%l| Yo J%YV%rG|%
|"G| Y"% <GY r%GJ5 |o GY( "%lV of G_5 o_%2 Yo, <"%_ |"% lG@@i|
cGS% _%Gr "%r, Y"% @%MG_, i_ G lo<, |iSiJ 2oic%,  cf 5ou Vl%GY%,
YirSSM  _"% lG@@i| Y|Gr|%J 2iol%_|l5, JroVV%J |"% <"i|% (iJ
Mlo2%Y G_J |"% fG_, G_J Y(urri%J G<G5 i_|o |"% JGr(_%YY GY "GrJ
GY "% coulJ MoA

  Alic% |oo( uV |"% fG_ G_J Mlo2%Y, G_J, GY |"% "Gll <GY 2%r5
"o|, Y"% (%V| fG__i_M "%rY%lf Gll |"% |iS% Y"% <%_| o_ |Gl(i_Mu
 D%Gr, J%GrG  @o< [u%%r %2%r5|"i_M iY |oSJG5G  A_J 5%Y|%rJG5
|"i_MY <%_| o_ PuY| GY uYuGlA  c <o_J%r if cM2% @%%_ c"G_M%J i_
|"% _iM"|8  f%| S% |"i_(u  <GY c |"% YGS% <"%_ c Mo| uV |"iY
Sor_i_M8  c GlSoY| |"i_( c cG_ r%S%S@%r f%%li_M G li||l%
Jiff%r%_|A  8u| if cMS _o| |"% YGS%, |"% _%x| [u%Y|io_ iY, ["o i_
|"% <orlJ GS c8  A", _@A_MS |"% Mr%G| Vu,,l%GM  A_J Y"% @%MG_
|"i_(i_M o2%r Gll |"% c"ilJr%_ Y"% (_%< |"G| <%r% of |"% YGS% GM%
GY "%rY%lf, |o Y%% if Y"% coulJ "G2% @%%_ c"G_M%J for G_5 of
|"%SA

   cMS Yur% cMS _o| AJG,M Y"% YGiJ,  for "%r "Gir Mo%Y i_ Yuc"
lo_M ri_Ml%|Y, G_J Si_% Jo%Y_M| Mo i_ ri_Ml%|Y G| Gll2 G_J cMS
Yur% c cG_M| @% MG@%l, for c (_o< Gll Yor|Y of |"i_MY, G_J Y"%,
o"G Y"% (_o<Y Yuc" G 2%r5 li||l%G  8%YiJ%Y, S@~MS Y"%, G_J cMS c,
G_JSSo" J%Gr, "o< Vu,,li_M i| Gll iYG  cMll |r5 if c (_o< Gll |"%
|"i_MY c uY%J |o (_o<A  f%| S% Y%%u  four |iS%Y fi2% iY |<%l2%,
G_J four |iS%Y Yix iY |"ir|%%_, G_J four |iS%Y Y%2%_ iYSSo" J%GrG
c Y"Gll _%2%r M%| |o |<%_|5 G| |"G| rG|%G  @o<%2%r, |"%
Mul|iVlicG|io_ _G@l% Jo%Y_M| YiM_if5u  l%|MY |r5 G%oMrGV"5A
fo_Jo_ iY |"% cGVi|Gl of PGriY, G_J PGriY iY |"% cGVi|Gl of loS%,
G_J loS%SS_o, _@A_MS Gll <ro_M, cMS c%r|Gi_G  c SuY| "G2% @%%_
c"G_M%J for MG@%lG  cMll |r5 G_J YG5 "@o< Jo|" |"% li||l%SS"M
G_J Y"% croYY%J "%r "G_JY o_ "%r lGV GY if Y"% <%r% YG5i_M l%YYo_Y,
G_J @%MG_ |o r%V%G| i|, @u| "%r 2oic% You_J%J "oGrY% G_J
Y|rG_M%, G_J |"% <orJY JiJ _o| coS% |"% YGS% GY |"%5 uY%J |o JouSS

             @o< Jo|" |"% li||l% crocoJil%
              cSVro2% "iY Y"i_i_M |Gil,
            A_J Vour |"% <G|%rY of |"% "il%
              i_ %2%r5 MolJ%_ YcGl%G

             @o< c"%%rfull5 "% Y%%SY |o Mri_,
              @o< _%G|l5 YVr%GJ "iY clG<Y,
            A_J <%lcoS% li||l% fiY"%Y i_
              [i|" M%_|l5 YSili_M PG<YGM

   cMS Yur% |"oY% Gr% _o| |"% riM"| <orJY,M YGiJ Voor Alic%, G_J
"%r %5%Y fill%J <i|" |%GrY GMGi_ GY Y"% <%_| o_,  c SuY| @% MG@%l
Gf|%r Gll, G_J c Y"Gll "G2% |o Mo G_J li2% i_ |"G| Vo(5 li||l%
"ouY%, G_J "G2% _%x| |o _o |o5Y |o VlG5 <i|", G_J o"G %2%r Yo
SG_5 l%YYo_Y |o l%Gr_G  "o, cM2% SGJ% uV S5 Si_J G@ou| i|2 if cMS
MG@%l, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_ "%r%G  c|Mll @% _o uY% |"%ir Vu||i_M |"%ir
"%GJY Jo<_ G_J YG5i_M "}oS% uV GMGi_, J%GrG"  c Y"Gll o_l5 loo(
uV G_J YG5 "["o GS c |"%_8  _%ll S% |"G| firY|, G_J |"%_, if c
li(% @%i_M |"G| V%rYo_, cMll coS% uVu  if _o|, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_
"%r% |ill cMS YoS%@oJ5 %lY%"SS@u|, o" J%GrGM cri%J Alic%, <i|" G
YuJJ%_ @urY| of |%GrY,  c Jo <iY" |"%5 [iofD Vu| |"%ir "%GJY
Jo<_G  c GS Yo V~lY |ir%J of @%i_M Gll Glo_% "%r%GM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"iY Y"% loo(%J Jo<_ G| "%r "G_JY, G_J <GY
YurVriY%J |o Y%% |"G| Y"% "GJ Vu| o_ o_% of |"% lG@@i|MY li||l%
<"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y <"il% Y"% <GY |Gl(i_MA   @o< }A" c "G2% Jo_%
|"G|8M Y"% |"ouM"|A   c SuY| @% Mro<i_M YSGll GMGi_AM  S"% Mo| uV
G_J <%_| |o |"% |G@l% |o S%GYur% "%rY%lf @5 i|, G_J fou_J |"G|,
GY _%Grl5 GY Y"% coulJ Mu%YY, Y"% <GY _o< G@ou| |<o f%%| "iM",
G_J <GY Moi_M o_ Y"ri_(i_M rGViJl5u  Y"% Yoo_ fou_J ou| |"G| |"%
cGuY% of |"iY <GY |"% fG_ Y"% <GY "olJi_M, G_J Y"% JroVV%J i|
"GY|il5, PuY| i_ |iS% |o G2oiJ Y"ri_(i_M G<G5 Gl|oM%|"%rA

 _"G| [AS G _Grro< %YcGV%GM YGiJ Alic%, G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J G|
|"% YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u| 2%r5 MlGJ |o fi_J "%rY%lf Y|ill i_
%xiY|%_c%2  G_J _o< for |"% MGrJ%_GM G_J Y"% rG_ <i|" Gll YV%%J
@Gc( |o |"% li||l% Jooru  @u|, GlGYG |"% li||l% Joor <GY Y"u|
GMGi_, G_J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 <GY l5i_M o_ |"% MlGYY |G@l% GY
@%for%,  G_J |"i_MY Gr% <orY% |"G_ %2%r,M |"ouM"| |"% Voor c"ilJ,
 for c _%2%r <GY Yo YSGll GY |"iY @%for%, _%2%rG  A_J c J%clGr%
i|MY |oo @GJ, |"G| i| iYGM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"%Y% <orJY "%r foo| YliVV%J, G_J i_ G_o|"%r
SoS%_|, YVlGY"G Y"% <GY uV |o "%r c"i_ i_ YGl| <G|%rA  @% firY|
iJ%G <GY |"G| Y"% "GJ YoS%"o< fGll%_ i_|o |"% Y%G,  G_J i_ |"G|
cGY% c cG_ Mo @Gc( @5 rGil<G5,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA  (Alic% "GJ
@%%_ |o |"% Y%GYiJ% o_c% i_ "%r lif%, G_J "GJ coS% |o |"% M%_%rGl
co_cluYio_, |"G| <"%r%2%r 5ou Mo |o o_ |"% ~_MliY" coGY| 5ou fi_J
G _uS@%r of @G|"i_M SGc"i_%Y i_ |"% Y%G, YoS% c"ilJr%_ JiMMi_M i_
|"% YG_J <i|" <ooJ%_ YVGJ%Y, |"%_ G ro< of loJMi_M "ouY%Y, G_J
@%"i_J |"%S G rGil<G5 Y|G|io_Al  @o<%2%r, Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
Y"% <GY i_ |"% Vool of |%GrY <"ic" Y"% "GJ <%V| <"%_ Y"% <GY _i_%
f%%| "iM"A

   c <iY" c "GJ_M| cri%J Yo Suc"GM YGiJ Alic%, GY Y"% Y<GS G@ou|,
|r5i_M |o fi_J "%r <G5 ou|A   c Y"Gll @% Vu_iY"%J for i| _o<, c
YuVVoY%, @5 @%i_M Jro<_%J i_ S5 o<_ |%GrYG  _"G| [cff @% G [u%%r
|"i_M, |o @% Yur%G  @o<%2%r, %2%r5|"i_M iY [u%%r |oSJG5AM

  JuY| |"%_ Y"% "%GrJ YoS%|"i_M YVlGY"i_M G@ou| i_ |"% Vool G
li||l% <G5 off, G_J Y"% Y<GS _%Gr%r |o SG(% ou| <"G| i| <GYu  G|
firY| Y"% |"ouM"| i| SuY| @% G <GlruY or "iVVoVo|GSuY, @u| |"%_
Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "o< YSGll Y"% <GY _o<, G_J Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
i| <GY o_l5 G SouY% |"G| "GJ YliVV%J i_ li(% "%rY%lfA

   [oulJ i| @% of G_5 uY%, _o<,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  |o YV%G( |o |"iY
SouY%8  ~2%r5|"i_M iY Yo ou|SofS|"%S<G5 Jo<_ "%r%, |"G| c Y"oulJ
|"i_( 2%r5 li(%l5 i| cG_ |Gl(u  G| G_5 rG|%, |"%r%MY _o "GrS i_
|r5i_MAM  So Y"% @%MG_u   i MouY%, Jo 5ou (_o< |"% <G5 ou| of
|"iY Vool8  c GS 2%r5 |ir%J of Y<iSSi_M G@ou| "%r%, i MouY%GM
(Alic% |"ouM"| |"iY SuY| @% |"% riM"| <G5 of YV%G(i_M |o G SouY%u
Y"% "GJ _%2%r Jo_% Yuc" G |"i_M @%for%, @u| Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "G2i_M
Y%%_ i_ "%r @ro|"%rMY fG|i_ GrGSSGr,  A SouY%SSof G SouY%SS|o G
SouY%SSG SouY%SSi SouY%GM  _"% MouY% loo(%J G| "%r rG|"%r
i_[uiYi|i2%l5, G_J Y%%S%J |o "%r |o <i_( <i|" o_% of i|Y li||l%
%5%Y, @u| i| YGiJ _o|"i_MA

   P%r"GVY i| Jo%Y_M| u_J%rY|G_J ~_MliY",M |"ouM"| Alic%2  c
JGr%YG5 i|MY G  r%_c" SouY%, coS% o2%r <i|" [illiGS |"%
}o_[u%rorAM  ( or, <i|" Gll "%r (_o<l%JM% of "iY|or5, Alic% "GJ
_o 2%r5 cl%Gr _o|io_ "o< lo_M GMo G_5|"i_M "GJ "GVV%_%JAl  So Y"%
@%MG_ GMGi_u   iu %Y| SG c"G||%8M <"ic" <GY |"% firY| Y%_|%_c% i_
"%r  r%_c" l%YYo_S@oo(A  _"% MouY% MG2% G YuJJ%_ l%GV ou| of |"%
<G|%r, G_J Y%%S%J |o [ui2%r Gll o2%r <i|" friM"|A   i", c @%M
5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% "GY|il5, GfrGiJ |"G| Y"% "GJ "ur| |"%
Voor G_iSGlMY f%%li_MYA   c [ui|% forMo| 5ou JiJ_M| li(% cG|YAM

   "o| li(% cG|YGM cri%J |"% MouY%, i_ G Y"rill, VGYYio_G|%
2oic%A   [oulJ Yio li(% cG|Y if 5ou <%r% S%8M

   [%ll, V%r"GVY _o|,M YGiJ Alic% i_ G Yoo|"i_M |o_%u   Jo_M| @%
G_Mr5 G@ou| i|A  A_J 5%| c <iY" c coulJ Y"o< 5ou our cG| Di_G"u
c |"i_( 5ouMJ |G(% G fG_c5 |o cG|Y if 5ou coulJ o_l5 Y%% "%rA
S"% iY Yuc" G J%Gr [ui%| |"i_M,M Alic% <%_| o_, "Glf |o "%rY%lf,
GY Y"% Y<GS lG,il5 G@ou| i_ |"% Vool,  G_J Y"% Yi|Y Vurri_M Yo
_ic%l5 @5 |"% fir%, lic(i_M "%r VG<Y G_J <GY"i_M "%r fGc%SSG_J
Y"% iY Yuc" G _ic% Yof| |"i_M |o _urY%SSG_J Y"%MY Yuc" G cGVi|Gl
o_% for cG|c"i_M Sic%SSo", c @%M 5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% GMGi_,
for |"iY |iS% |"% MouY% <GY @riY|li_M Gll o2%r, G_J Y"% f%l|
c%r|Gi_ i| SuY| @% r%Gll5 off%_J%JA   [% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| "%r G_5
Sor% if 5ouMJ rG|"%r _o|AM

   [% i_J%%JGM cri%J |"% MouY%, <"o <GY |r%S@li_M Jo<_ |o |"% %_J
of "iY |GilA   AY if c <oulJ |Gl( o_ Yuc" G Yu@P%c|G  iur fGSil
