literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall in_|o |<o GJJi|io_Gl cG|%Mori%Yu
V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ |"% co_|%_| G_J "iY|oricGl co__o|G|io_Y of |"%Y%
VriSGr5 r%Yourc%Y, G_J |"oY% fGYci_G|%J @5 |"% |%c"_oloM5A  _"% forSG|
r%c%i2i_M |"% SoY| coSS%_|Y "GY @%%_ So|io_ Vic|ur%YA  _"% GJul| uY%rY i_
Vu@lic li@rGri%Y Gr% Sor% coSfor|G@l% <i|" c8M coSVu|%rY, <"%r%GY 5ou_M
V%oVl% Y%%S coSfor|G@l% <i|" %i|"%r c8M or MGci_|oY", Gl|"ouM" SoY| of
|"%S Y%%S |o coS% froS G MGci_|oY" @Gc(Mrou_JA  _"iY YGS% |%_J%_c5 iY
fou_J i_ |"% Yc"oolYA

["G| (i_JY of |"i_MY Jo uY%rY Jo <i|" AM8  c_ G Vu@lic li@rGr5 |"%r% Gr%
|<o SGi_ MoGlY or <G5Y |"G| AM iY @%i_M uY%Ju  GY G_ i_Ji2iJuGl l%Gr_i_M
|ool, G_J GY G l%iYur% Gc|i2i|5A  AJul| l%Gr_i_M <GY o_% Gr%G |"G| V~}}c
