                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the fii_Gl Y%YYio_ of |"% [or(Y"oV, ProYY%r Gc  ilD Jir%c|%J
JiYcuYYio_ |o fu|ur% courY%Y of Gc|io_ G_J |"% Vo|%_|iGl rol% of f} i_
GJ2G_ci_M |"%SA  ASo_M |"% r%coSS%_JG|io_Y |"G| %S%rM%J <%r% |"% follo<i_Mu

     P [or(Y"oV VGr|iciVG_|Y Y"oulJ ul @%Mi_ |o |"i_( G@ou| <or(i_M
     <i|" iSGM% SG|%riGl, @u| Y|ruc|ur% G_J JiMi|i,% i| i_ Yuc" G
     <G5 |"G| G| G lG|%r Y|GM% i| cG_ @% i_|%rVr%|%J i_|o |%x|, G_J
     2l fi_J G coSSo_ <G5 |o @uilJ |%x| G_J iSGM%Y |oM%|"%r Yo |"G|
     |"%5 cG_ @% uY%J Poi_|l5 G| YoS% Y|GM% i_ |"% fu|ur%, <i|"
     GVVroVriG|% _%|<or( YuVVor|, @%cGuY% |"G| iY "o< uY%rY <ill <G_|
     |o Gcc%YY |"%Y% SG|%riGlYA  _"% fi@rGr5 SiM"| %_courGM% G||%SV|Y
     |o @ri_M |oM%|"%r V%oVl% <"o Gr% <or(i_M o_ |%x|Y G_J iSGM%YA

     P A _%|<or( 2%rYio_ of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 Y"oulJ @% J%2%loV%J or
     co_YiJ%rG|io_ Y"oulJ @% Mi2%_ |o SG(i_M |"% JG|G i_ i|
     G2GilG@l% |o V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ Joi_M _%|<or( Sul|iS%JiGA
     Gi2%_ |"% curr%_| J%Gr|" of JiMi|Gl JG|G |"G| iY GVV%Gli_M G_J
     u_%_cuS@%r%J @5 %x|r%S%l5 coSVl%x riM"|Y Vro@l%SY, J%2%loVi_M G
     _%|<or( 2%rYio_ of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 coulJ Jo Suc" |o "%lV SG(%
     _%|<or( Sul|iS%JiG G r%Gli|5A

     P }o_c%r_i_M |"% |"or_5 iYYu% of %l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi|, f} Y"oulJ
     i_i|iG|% G cG|Gl5|ic Vroc%YY i_ |%rSY of JiY|ri@u|%J
     r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, |"G| iY, @ri_M |oM%|"%r |"% JiY|ri@u|%J
     orMG_i,G|io_Y G_J Y%| uV G Y|uJ5 MrouV |o loo( G| Gll |"%
     iYYu%Y r%lG|%J |o %l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi| G_J Y%% <"%r% <% GY G
     _G|io_ Y"oulJ So2%A   or %xGSVl%, f} SiM"| G||%SV| |o V%rYuGJ%
     o_% SGPor li@rGr5 i_ %Gc" Y|G|% |o J%Gl <i|" i|Y Y|G|%
     %[ui2Gl%_| Vu@liY"%r, <"ic" SiM"| VroJuc% G cooV%rG|i2% VroP%c|
     |"G| <oulJ @% %[ui|G@l5 JiY|ri@u|%J Grou_J |"% cou_|r5, G_J o_%
     i_ <"ic" f} <oulJ @% J%Gli_M <i|" G Si_iSGl _uS@%r of Vu@liY"%rY
     G_J Si_iSGl coV5riM"| Vro@l%SYA  f} SuY| GlYo J%Gl <i|" |"%
     co_c%V| of o_Sli_% Vu@liY"i_M, J%|%rSi_i_M, GSo_M o|"%r |"i_MY,
     "o< Y%riGlY Yuc" GY iJ}}_ SiM"| @% J%VoYi|%J for coV5riM"|A

     P Si_c% G _uS@%r of VroP%c|Y Gr% VlG__i_M |o cGrr5 ou|
     Vr%Y%r2G|io_ @5 cr%G|i_M JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y |"G| <ill %_J uV i_
     o_Sli_% or _%GrSli_% Y|orGM% G| YoS% i_Y|i|u|io_, f} SiM"| VlG5
     G "%lVful rol%, G| l%GY| i_ |"% _%Gr |%rS, @5 Gcc%l%rG|i_M "o<
     |o cG|GloM |"G| i_forSG|io_ i_|o |"% l%Y%Grc" fi@rGr5 c_forSG|io_
     "%|<or( (lfc"l G_J |"%_ i_|o i}f}, Yo |"G| i| <oulJ @% Gcc%YYi@l%A
     _"iY <oulJ r%Juc% |"% VoYYi@ili|5 of Sul|iVl% i_Y|i|u|io_Y JiMi|i,i_M
     |"% YGS% <or(A


}i"}foSci"

_"% [or(Y"oV <GY 2GluG@l% @%cGuY% i| @rouM"| |oM%|"%r VGr|iYG_Y froS
2GriouY MrouVY G_J Vro2iJ%J G_ occGYio_ |o coSVGr% MoGlY G_J S%|"oJYA
_"% Sor% coSSi||%J VGr|iYG_Y fr%[u%_|l5 coSSu_icG|% <i|" o|"%rY i_ |"%ir
MrouVY, @u| l%YY of|%_ GcroYY MrouV @ou_JGri%YA  _"% [or(Y"oV <GY GlYo
2GluG@l% |o G||%_J%%YSSi_cluJi_M |"oY% i_2ol2%J <i|" AS%ricG_ M%Sor5SS<"o
cGS% l%YY coSSi||%J |o VGr|iculGr GVVroGc"%Y or co_c%V|YA  _"%Y%
G||%_J%%Y l%Gr_%J G Mr%G| J%Gl, G_J VlG_ |o Y%l%c| G_J %SVlo5 %l%S%_|Y of
iSGMi_M, |%x|ScoJi_M, G_J _%|<or(%J JiY|ri@u|io_ |"G| Yui| |"%ir
r%YV%c|i2% VroP%c|Y G_J VurVoY%YA

S|ill, r%Gli|5 r%GrY i|Y uMl5 "%GJu  _o @r%G(|"rouM" "GY @%%_ Gc"i%2%JA
i_ |"% iSGMi_M YiJ%, o_% co_fro_|Y G Vrolif%rG|io_ of coSV%|i_M
JG|GSi_|%rc"G_M% Y|G_JGrJY G_J G lGc( of co_Y%_YuY o_ |"% rol% of JiMi|Gl
fGcYiSil%Y i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_A  c_ |"% r%GlS of SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x|Y, o_%
%_cou_|%rY G r%GYo_G@l5 SG|ur% Y|G_JGrJ @u| S%|"oJoloMicGl Jifficul|i%Y
G_J "iM" coY|YA  _"%Y% lG||%r Vro@l%SY, of courY%, r%Vr%Y%_| G YV%ciGl
iSV%JiS%_| |o |"% J%Yir%, GY i| iY YoS%|iS%Y %xVr%YY%J i_ |"% VoVulGr
Vr%YY, "|o Vu| |"% [co_|%_|Y of |"%r fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY o_ li_%A"  c_
|"% <orJY of o_% VGr|iciVG_|, |"%r% <GY "_o Yolu|io_ |o |"% %co_oSic
Vro@l%SYSS|"% VroP%c|Y |"G| Gr% ou| |"%r% Gr% Yur2i2i_M, @u| i| iY Moi_M
|o @% G lo| of <or( |o |rG_YforS |"% i_forSG|io_ i_JuY|r5, G_J Yo fGr |"%
i_2%Y|S%_| |o Jo |"G| iY _o| for|"coSi_M" (f~S%, V%r li||%rGYlA


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                               Pli}~~Dc"GS


[~f}iM~

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Gc  ilD P iriMi_ of [or(Y"oV i_ curr%_| fi@rGriG_MY J%Yir% |o SG(% f}MY
coll%c|io_Y Sor% <iJ%l5 G2GilG@l% P D%YiJ%rG|G GriYi_M froS |"% VroYV%c|
of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Af|%r <%lcoSi_M VGr|iciVG_|Y o_ @%"Glf of |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 (AMl, G_J |"% "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@, ProYY%r
Gc  ilD, Jir%c|or for Yc"olGrl5 VroMrGSY, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, locG|%J
|"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV o_ ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ G co_2%rYG|io_ "% "GJ
"GJ co_YiJ%rG@l5 Sor% |"G_ G 5%Gr GMo <i|" }Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%r_i_M
YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y fGc%J @5 AMA  i_ |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| _uS%rouY o|"%r
V%oVl% <%r% GY(i_M |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y, |"% J%ciYio_ <GY SGJ% |o @ri_M
|oM%|"%r GY SG_5 of |"%Y% V%oVl% GY VoYYi@l% |o GY( |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y
|oM%|"%rA  c_ G J%%V%r Y%_Y%, Gc  ilD YGiJ, |"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV
lG5 i_ |"% J%Yir% of |"% curr%_| fi@rGriG_ of }o_Mr%YY, JGS%Y @A
8illi_M|o_, |o SG(% |"% coll%c|io_Y of |"% fi@rGr5, %YV%ciGll5 |"oY%
off%ri_M u_i[u% or u_uYuGl |%Y|iSo_5 o_ GYV%c|Y of |"% AS%ricG_
%xV%ri%_c%, G2GilG@l% |o G Suc" <iJ%r circl% of uY%rY |"G_ |"oY% f%<
V%oVl% <"o cG_ coS% |o [GY"i_M|o_ |o uY% |"%SA  _"iY S%G_| |"G| |"%
%SV"GYiY of AM, froS |"% ou|Y%|, "GY @%%_ o_ Grc"i2Gl coll%c|io_Y of |"%
@GYic SG|%riGl, G_J o_ SG(i_M |"%Y% coll%c|io_Y |"%SY%l2%Y G2GilG@l%,
rG|"%r |"G_ Y%l%c|%J or "%G2il5 %Ji|%J VroJuc|YA

 roS AMMY %SV"GYiY follo<%J |"% [u%Y|io_Y <i|" <"ic" |"% [or(Y"oV @%MG_u
<"o <ill uY% |"%Y% SG|%riGlY, G_J i_ <"G| forS <ill |"%5 <iY" |o uY%
|"%SA  8u| G_ %2%_ lGrM%r iYYu% J%Y%r2i_M S%_|io_, i_ Gc  ilDMY 2i%<, <GY
|"% V"%_oS%_Gl Mro<|" i_ c_|%r_%| co__%c|i2i|5A  @% %xVr%YY%J |"% "oV%
|"G| |"% VroYV%c| of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY |"G_ %2%r @%for% <oulJ
l%GJ |ou  ul Suc" Sor% cooV%rG|i2% G_J Su|uGll5 YuVVor|i2% %_J%G2orY2 2l
J%2%loVS%_| of Y5Y|%SY of Y"Gr%J G_J JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|i%Y |o
G2oiJ JuVlicG|io_ G_J |o %_Yur% GccurGc5 G_J Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of u_i[u%
SG|%riGlY2 G_J <l GMr%%S%_| o_ |"% _%c%YYGr5 Y|G_JGrJY G_J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% GVVroVriG|% Jir%c|ori%Y G_J i_Jic%Y |o SG(% _G2iMG|io_
Y|rGiM"|for<GrJ GSo_M |"% 2Gri%J r%Yourc%Y |"G| Gr%, G_J i_cr%GYi_Ml5
<ill @%, G2GilG@l%A  c_ |"iY co__%c|io_, Gc  ilD r%[u%Y|%J |"G|
VGr|iciVG_|Y r%fl%c| froS |"% ou|Y%| uVo_ |"% Yor|Y of ou|coS%Y |"%5
|"ouM"| |"% [or(Y"oV SiM"| "G2%A  DiJ |"oY% Vr%Y%_| co_Y|i|u|% G MrouV
<i|" Yuffici%_| coSSo_ i_|%r%Y|Y |o VroVoY% G _%x| Y|%V or _%x| Y|%VY,
G_J if Yo, <"G| SiM"| |"oY% @%8  _"%5 <oulJ r%|ur_ |o |"%Y% [u%Y|io_Y |"%
follo<i_M Gf|%r_oo_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 f~cS}@@Ao~l P }or% of [or(Y"oV co_c%r_Y Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_ of
SG|%riGlY P SV%ciGl c"Gll%_M% i_ co_2%rYio_ of |%x|uGl SG|%riGlY P
(uGli|5 2%rYuY [uG_|i|5 P Do |"% Y%2%rGl MrouVY r%Vr%Y%_|%J Y"Gr% coSSo_
i_|%r%Y|Y8 P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

}Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l, coorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
%SV"GYi,%J |"G| "% <oulJ G||%SV| |o r%Vr%Y%_| |"% V%oVl% <"o V%rforS YoS%
of |"% <or( of co_2%r|i_M or Vr%VGri_M  SG|%riGlY G_J |"G| |"% cor% of
|"% [or(Y"oV "GJ |o Jo <i|" Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_A   f~cS}@@Ao~l
|"%_ Jr%< G JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% lo_M |%rS, <"%_ SG_5 |"i_MY <oulJ @%
G2GilG@l% G_J co__%c|%J i_ |"% <G5Y |"G| Gc  ilD J%Ycri@%J, G_J |"% Y"or|
|%rS, i_ <"ic" AM _o| o_l5 "GY <r%Y|l%J <i|" |"% iYYu% of <"G| iY |"%
@%Y| courY% |o VurYu% @u| GlYo "GY fGc%J G 2Gri%|5 of |%c"_icGl
c"Gll%_M%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l r%SGr(%J AMMY %_J%G2orY |o J%Gl <i|" G <iJ% rG_M% of li@rGr5
forSG|Y, Yuc" GY So|io_ Vic|ur% coll%c|io_Y, You_JSr%corJi_M coll%c|io_Y,
G_J Vic|oriGl coll%c|io_Y of 2GriouY Yor|Y, %YV%ciGll5 coll%c|io_Y of
V"o|oMrGV"YA  c_ |"% courY% of |"%Y% %ffor|Y, AM (%V| coSi_M @Gc( |o
|%x|uGl SG|%riGlYSSSG_uYcriV|Y or rGr% Vri_|%J SG||%r, @ou_J SG|%riGlY,
%|cA  _%x| VoY%J |"% Mr%G|%Y| co_2%rYio_ c"Gll%_M% of GllA  _"uY, |"%
M%_%YiY of |"% [or(Y"oV, <"ic" r%fl%c|Y |"% Vro@l%SY fGc%J @5 AMA  _"%Y%
Vro@l%SY i_cluJ% V"5YicGl Vro@l%SYA   or %xGSVl%, |"oY% i_ |"% li@rGr5
G_J Grc"i2% @uYi_%YY J%Gl <i|" coll%c|io_Y SGJ% uV of frGMil% G_J rGr%
SG_uYcriV| i|%SY, @ou_J SG|%riGlY, %YV%ciGll5 |"% _o|oriouYl5 @ri||l%
@ou_J SG|%riGlY of |"% lG|% _i_%|%%_|" c%_|ur5A  _"%Y% Gr% Vr%ciouY
cul|urGl Gr|ifGc|Y, "o<%2%r, GY <%ll GY i_|%r%Y|i_M Yourc%Y of
i_forSG|io_, G_J f} J%Yir%Y |o r%|Gi_ G_J co_Y%r2% |"%SA  AM _%%JY |o
"G_Jl% |"i_MY <i|"ou| JGSGMi_M |"%SA  Guillo|i_i_M G @oo( |o ru_ i|
|"rouM" G Y"%%| f%%J%r SuY| @% G2oiJ%J G| Gll coY|YA

8%5o_J V"5YicGl Vro@l%SY, iYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o [uGli|5 GroY%A   or
%xGSVl%, |"% J%Yir% |o Vro2iJ% uY%rY <i|" G Y%Grc"G@l% |%x| iY Gff%c|%J
@5 |"% [u%Y|io_ of Gcc%V|G@l% l%2%l of GccurGc5A  i_% "u_Jr%J V%rc%_|
GccurGc5 iY |r%S%_JouYl5 %xV%_Yi2%A  i_ |"% o|"%r "G_J, |"% ou|Vu| of
oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ (i}ll cG_ @% |r%S%_JouYl5 i_GccurG|%A
Al|"ouM" AM "GY G||%SV|%J |o fi_J G SiJJl% Mrou_J, u_c%r|Gi_|5 V%rYiY|Y
GY |o <"%|"%r or _o| i| "GY JiYco2%r%J |"% riM"| Yolu|io_A

(u%Y|io_Y of [uGli|5 GroY% co_c%r_i_M iSGM%Y GY <%llA   f~cS}@@Ao~l
co_|rGY|%J |"% %x|r%S%l5 "iM" l%2%l of [uGli|5 of |"% JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y i_
|"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| <i|" AMMY %ffor|Y |o Vro2iJ% G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5
or Gcc%YYS[uGli|5 iSGM%, GY oVVoY%J |o G_ Grc"i2Gl or Vr%Y%r2G|io_ iSGM%A
 f~cS}@@Ao~l |"%r%for% <%lcoS%J |"% oVVor|u_i|5 |o coSVGr% _o|%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J i_ VGYYi_M |"G| co_2%rYG|io_Y "% "GJ "GJ G@ou|
_%|<or(Y "G2% @%Mu_ |o YiM_Gl |"G| for 2GriouY forSY of S%JiG G
J%|%rSi_G|io_ SG5 @% SGJ% |"G| |"%r% iY G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5 i|%S, or G
JiY|ri@u|io_SG_JSGcc%YYS[uGli|5 i|%S |"G| SG5 co%xiY| i_ YoS% Y5Y|%SY
<i|" G "iM"%r [uGli|5 Grc"i2Gl i|%S |"G| <oulJ @% i_co_2%_i%_| |o Y%_J
|"rouM" |"% _%|<or( @%cGuY% of i|Y Yi,%A   f~cS}@@Ao~l r%f%rr%J, of
courY%, |o iSGM%Y Sor% |"G_ |o Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|A

AY AM co_YiJ%r%J |"oY% [u%Y|io_Y, Y%2%rGl co_c%V|uGl iYYu%Y GroY%u  ouM"|
AM occGYio_Gll5 |o r%VroJuc% SG|%riGlY %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G_ iSGM% Y%|, G|
o|"%r |iS%Y, %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G |%x| Y%|, G_J i_ YoS% cGY%Y, G Six8
_"%r% Vro@G@l5 <oulJ @% |iS%Y <"%_ |"% "iY|oricGl Gu|"%_|ici|5 of G_
Gr|ifGc| <oulJ r%[uir% |"G| i|Y iSGM% @% uY%JA  A_ iSGM% SiM"| @%
J%YirG@l% GY G r%courY% for uY%rY if o_% coulJ _o| Vro2iJ% uDDSV%rc%_|
GccurG|% |%x|A  AMGi_, AM <o_J%r%J, GY G VrGc|icGl SG||%r, if G

S}~"~ cc~_"% for%Y|A


~[~_|%r ilfA"Di G_J ifcV~lr

ilfA"Di~cYM| VoYYi@l% |"G| o_ Yo li||l% Gc[uGi_|G_c% 5ou
~Y"oulJ li(% "%r8 |"G| @u| Y%%i_M 5ou Y"oulJ lo2%
~"%r8 G_J lo2i_M <oo8 G_J, <ooi_M, Y"% Y"oulJ
~MrG_|8 G_J <ill 5ou V%rY%2%r |o %_Po5 "%r8

ifcV~l~"%i|"%r cGll |"% MiJJi_%YY of i| i_ [u%Y|io_, |"%
~Vo2%r|5 of "%r, |"% YSGll Gc[uGi_|G_c%, S5 YuJJ%_
~<ooi_M, _or "%r YuJJ%_ co_Y%_|i_M2 @u| YG5 <i|" S%,
~c lo2% Ali%_G2 YG5 <i|" "%r |"G| Y"% lo2%Y S%2
~co_Y%_| <i|" @o|" |"G| <% SG5 %_Po5 %Gc" o|"%ru i|
~Y"Gll @% |o 5our MooJ2 for S5 fG|"%rMY "ouY% G_J Gll
~|"% r%2%_u% |"G| <GY olJ Sir lo<lG_JMY <ill c
~%Y|G|% uVo_ 5ou, G_J "%r% li2% G_J Ji% G Y"%V"%rJA

ilfA"Di~You "G2% S5 co_Y%_|A f%| 5our <%JJi_M @% |oSSorro<u
~|"i|"%r <ill c i_2i|% |"% Ju(% G_J GllMY co_|%_|%J
~follo<%rYA Go 5ou G_J Vr%VGr% Ali%_G2 for loo(
~5ou, "%r% coS%Y S5 loYGli_JA

~[~_|%r liSAfc"Dr

liSAfc"D~GoJ YG2% 5ou, @ro|"%rA

ifcV~l~A_J 5ou, fGir YiY|%rA

~[~xi|r

liSAfc"D~i, S5 J%Gr irlG_Jo, "o< i| Mri%2%Y S% |o Y%% |"%%
~<%Gr |"5 "%Gr| i_ G YcGrfG

ilfA"Di~c| iY S5 GrSA

liSAfc"D~c |"ouM"| |"5 "%Gr| "GJ @%%_ <ou_J%J <i|" |"% clG<Y
~of G lio_A

ilfA"Di~[ou_J%J i| iY, @u| <i|" |"% %5%Y of G lGJ5A

liSAfc"D~DiJ 5our @ro|"%r |%ll 5ou "o< c cou_|%rf%i|%J |o
~Y<oo_ <"%_ "% Y"o<%J S% 5our "G_J(%rc"i%f8

ilfA"Di~A5, G_J Mr%G|%r <o_J%rY |"G_ |"G|A

liSAfc"D~i, c (_o< <"%r% 5ou Gr%u _G5, M|iY |ru%u |"%r% <GY
~_%2%r G_5 |"i_M Yo YuJJ%_ @u| |"% fiM"| of |<o rGSY
~G_J }G%YGrMY |"rGYo_icGl @rGM of Mc cGS%, YG<, G_J
~o2%rcGS%uM for 5our @ro|"%r G_J S5 YiY|%r _o Yoo_%r
~S%| @u| |"%5 loo(%J, _o Yoo_%r loo(%J @u| |"%5
~lo2%J, _o Yoo_%r lo2%J @u| |"%5 YiM"%J, _o Yoo_%r
~YiM"%J @u| |"%5 GY(%J o_% G_o|"%r |"% r%GYo_, _o
~Yoo_%r (_%< |"% r%GYo_ @u| |"%5 YouM"| |"% r%S%J52
~G_J i_ |"%Y% J%Mr%%Y "G2% |"%5 SGJ% G VGir of Y|GirY
~|o SGrriGM% <"ic" |"%5 <ill cliS@ i_co_|i_%_|, or
~%lY% @% i_co_|i_%_| @%for% SGrriGM%u |"%5 Gr% i_
~|"% 2%r5 <rG|" of lo2% G_J |"%5 <ill |oM%|"%r2 clu@Y
~cG__o| VGr| |"%SA

ilfA"Di~_"%5 Y"Gll @% SGrri%J |oSSorro<, G_J c <ill @iJ |"%
~Ju(% |o |"% _uV|iGlA 8u|, i, "o< @i||%r G |"i_M i|
~iY |o loo( i_|o "GVVi_%YY |"rouM" G_o|"%r SG_MY
~%5%YG 85 Yo Suc" |"% Sor% Y"Gll c |oSSorro< @% G|
~|"% "%iM"| of "%Gr|S"%G2i_%YY, @5 "o< Suc" c Y"Gll
~|"i_( S5 @ro|"%r "GVV5 i_ "G2i_M <"G| "% <iY"%Y forA

liSAfc"D~["5 |"%_, |oSSorro< c cG__o| Y%r2% 5our |ur_ for loYGli_J8

ilfA"Di~c cG_ li2% _o lo_M%r @5 |"i_(i_MA

liSAfc"D~c <ill <%Gr5 5ou |"%_ _o lo_M%r <i|" iJl% |Gl(i_MA
~%_o< of S% |"%_, for _o< c YV%G( |o YoS% VurVoY%,
~|"G| c (_o< 5ou Gr% G M%_|l%SG_ of MooJ co_c%i|u c
~YV%G( _o| |"iY |"G| 5ou Y"oulJ @%Gr G MooJ oVi_io_
~of S5 (_o<l%JM%, i_YoSuc" c YG5 c (_o< 5ou Gr%2
~_%i|"%r Jo c lG@our for G Mr%G|%r %Y|%%S |"G_ SG5 i_
~YoS% li||l% S%GYur% JrG< G @%li%f froS 5ou, |o Jo
~5ourY%lf MooJ G_J _o| |o MrGc% S%A 8%li%2% |"%_, if
~5ou Vl%GY%, |"G| c cG_ Jo Y|rG_M% |"i_MYu c "G2%,
~Yi_c% c <GY |"r%% 5%Gr olJ, co_2%rY%J <i|" G
~SGMiciG_, SoY| Vrofou_J i_ "iY Gr| G_J 5%| _o|
~JGS_G@l%A cf 5ou Jo lo2% loYGli_J Yo _%Gr |"% "%Gr|
~GY 5our M%Y|ur% cri%Y i| ou|, <"%_ 5our @ro|"%r
~SGrri%Y Ali%_G, Y"Gll 5ou SGrr5 "%ru c (_o< i_|o
~<"G| Y|rGi|Y of for|u_% Y"% iY Jri2%_2 G_J i| iY
~_o| iSVoYYi@l% |o S%, if i| GVV%Gr _o| i_co_2%_i%_|
~|o 5ou, |o Y%| "%r @%for% 5our %5%Y |oSorro< "uSG_
~GY Y"% iY G_J <i|"ou| G_5 JG_M%rA

ilfA"Di~SV%G(%Y| |"ou i_ Yo@%r S%G_i_MY8

liSAfc"D~85 S5 lif%, c Jo2 <"ic" c |%_J%r J%Grl5, |"ouM" c
~YG5 c GS G SGMiciG_A _"%r%for%, Vu| 5ou i_ 5our
~@%Y| GrrG5u @iJ 5our fri%_JY2 for if 5ou <ill @%
~SGrri%J |oSSorro<, 5ou Y"Gll, G_J |o loYGli_J, if 5ou <illA

~[~_|%r ScfVcoS G_J P@~8~r

~foo(, "%r% coS%Y G lo2%r of Si_% G_J G lo2%r of "%rYA

P@~8~~You|", 5ou "G2% Jo_% S% Suc" u_M%_|l%_%YY,
~_o Y"o< |"% l%||%r |"G| c <ri| |o 5ouA

liSAfc"D~c cGr% _o| if c "G2%u i| iY S5 Y|uJ5
~_o Y%%S J%YVi|%ful G_J u_M%_|l% |o 5ouu
~You Gr% |"%r% follo<%J @5 G fGi|"ful Y"%V"%rJ2
~foo( uVo_ "iS, lo2% "iS2 "% <orY"iVY 5ouA

P@~8~~GooJ Y"%V"%rJ, |%ll |"iY 5ou|" <"G| M|iY |o lo2%A

ScfVcoS~c| iY |o @% Gll SGJ% of YiM"Y G_J |%GrY2
~A_J Yo GS c for P"%@%A

P@~8~~A_J c for GG_5S%J%A

ilfA"Di~A_J c for loYGli_JA

liSAfc"D~A_J c for _o <oSG_A

ScfVcoS~c| iY |o @% Gll SGJ% of fGi|" G_J Y%r2ic%2
~A_J Yo GS c for P"%@%A

P@~8~~A_J c for GG_5S%J%A

ilfA"Di~A_J c for loYGli_JA

liSAfc"D~A_J c for _o <oSG_A

ScfVcoS~c| iY |o @% Gll SGJ% of fG_|GY5,
~All SGJ% of VGYYio_ G_J Gll SGJ% of <iY"%Y,
~All GJorG|io_, Ju|5, G_J o@Y%r2G_c%,
~All "uS@l%_%YY, Gll VG|i%_c% G_J iSVG|i%_c%,
~All Vuri|5, Gll |riGl, Gll o@Y%r2G_c%2
~A_J Yo GS c for P"%@%A

P@~8~~A_J Yo GS c for GG_5S%J%A

ilfA"Di~A_J Yo GS c for loYGli_JA

liSAfc"D~A_J Yo GS c for _o <oSG_A

P@~8~~cf |"iY @% Yo, <"5 @lGS% 5ou S% |o lo2% 5ou8

ScfVcoS~cf |"iY @% Yo, <"5 @lGS% 5ou S% |o lo2% 5ou8

ilfA"Di~cf |"iY @% Yo, <"5 @lGS% 5ou S% |o lo2% 5ou8

liSAfc"D~["o Jo 5ou YV%G( |o, M["5 @lGS% 5ou S% |o lo2% 5ou8M

ilfA"Di~_o "%r |"G| iY _o| "%r%, _or Jo|" _o| "%GrA

liSAfc"D~PrG5 5ou, _o Sor% of |"iY2 M|iY li(% |"% "o<li_M
~of criY" <ol2%Y GMGi_Y| |"% Soo_A

~[_o ScfVcoSr

~c <ill "%lV 5ou, if c cG_u

~[_o P@~8~r

~c <oulJ lo2% 5ou, if c coulJA _oSSorro< S%%| S% Gll |oM%|"%rA

~[_o P@~8~r

~c <ill SGrr5 5ou, if %2%r c SGrr5 <oSG_, G_J cMll @%
~SGrri%J |oSSorro<u

~[_o ilfA"Dir

~c <ill YG|iYf5 5ou, if %2%r c YG|iYfi%J SG_, G_J 5ou
~Y"Gll @% SGrri%J |oSSorro<u

~[_o ScfVcoSr

~c <ill co_|%_| 5ou, if <"G| Vl%GY%Y 5ou co_|%_|Y
~5ou, G_J 5ou Y"Gll @% SGrri%J |oSSorro<A

~[_o ilfA"Dir

~AY 5ou lo2% loYGli_J, S%%|u

~[_o ScfVcoSr

~GY 5ou lo2% P"%@%, S%%|u G_J GY c lo2% _o <oSG_,
~cMll S%%|A So fGr% 5ou <%llu c "G2% l%f| 5ou coSSG_JYA

ScfVcoS~cMll _o| fGil, if c li2%A

P@~8~~"or cA

ilfA"Di~"or cA

~[~x%u_|r




~AS Yio fc%~ c_


A}_ V



S}~"~ ccc~_"% for%Y|A


~[~_|%r _io}@S_i"~ G_J AoDl~Yr

_io}@S_i"~~_oSSorro< iY |"% Po5ful JG5, AuJr%52 |oSSorro< <ill
~<% @% SGrri%JA

AoDl~Y~c Jo J%Yir% i| <i|" Gll S5 "%Gr|2 G_J c "oV% i| iY
~_o JiY"o_%Y| J%Yir% |o J%Yir% |o @% G <oSG_ of |"%
~<orlJA @%r% coS%Y |<o of |"% @G_iY"%J Ju(%MY VGM%YA

~[~_|%r |<o PGM%Yr

 irY| PGM%~[%ll S%|, "o_%Y| M%_|l%SG_A

_io}@S_i"~~85 S5 |ro|", <%ll S%|A }oS%, Yi|, Yi|, G_J G Yo_MA

S%co_J PGM%~[% Gr% for 5ouu Yi| iM |"% SiJJl%A

 irY| PGM%~S"Gll <% clGV i_|oM| rou_Jl5, <i|"ou| "G<(i_M or
~YVi||i_M or YG5i_M <% Gr% "oGrY%, <"ic" Gr% |"% o_l5
~VroloMu%Y |o G @GJ 2oic%8

S%co_J PGM%~cMfGi|", iMfGi|"2 G_J @o|" i_ G |u_%, li(% |<o
~MiVYi%Y o_ G "orY%A

~Si"GA
~c| <GY G lo2%r G_J "iY lGYY,
~[i|" G "%5, G_J G "o, G_J G "%5 _o_i_o,
~_"G| oM%r |"% Mr%%_ cor_Sfi%lJ JiJ VGYY
~c_ |"% YVri_M |iS%, |"% o_l5 Vr%||5 ri_M |iS%,
~["%_ @irJY Jo Yi_M, "%5 Ji_M G Ji_M, Ji_Mu
~S<%%| lo2%rY lo2% |"% YVri_MA

~8%|<%%_ |"% Gcr%Y of |"% r5%,
~[i|" G "%5, G_J G "o, G_J G "%5 _o_i_o
~_"%Y% Vr%||5 cou_|r5 fol(Y <oulJ li%,
~c_ YVri_M |iS%, icA

~_"iY cGrol |"%5 @%MG_ |"G| "our,
~[i|" G "%5, G_J G "o, G_J G "%5 _o_i_o,
~@o< |"G| G lif% <GY @u| G flo<%r
~c_ YVri_M |iS%, icA

~A_J |"%r%for% |G(% |"% Vr%Y%_| |iS%,
~[i|" G "%5, G_J G "o, G_J G "%5 _o_i_o2
~ or lo2% iY cro<_%J <i|" |"% VriS%
~c_ YVri_M |iS%, icA

_io}@S_i"~~_rul5, 5ou_M M%_|l%S%_, |"ouM" |"%r% <GY _o Mr%G|
~SG||%r i_ |"% Ji||5, 5%| |"% _o|% <GY 2%r5
~u_|u_%G@l%A

 irY| PGM%~You Gr% J%c%i2%J, Yiru <% (%V| |iS%, <% loY| _o| our |iS%A

_io}@S_i"~~85 S5 |ro|", 5%Y2 c cou_| i| @u| |iS% loY| |o "%Gr
~Yuc" G fooliY" Yo_MA GoJ @% <iM 5ou2 G_J GoJ S%_J
~5our 2oic%YG }oS%, AuJr%5A

~[~x%u_|r




~AS Yio fc%~ c_


A}_ V



S}~"~ cV~_"% for%Y|A


~[~_|%r Do%~ S~"cil, AMc~"S, JA(o~S, ilfA"Di, ifcV~l,
~G_J }~fcAr

Do%~ S~"cil~DoY| |"ou @%li%2%, irlG_Jo, |"G| |"% @o5
~}G_ Jo Gll |"iY |"G| "% "G|" VroSiY%J8

ilfA"Di~c YoS%|iS%Y Jo @%li%2%, G_J YoS%|iS%Y Jo _o|2
~AY |"oY% |"G| f%Gr |"%5 "oV%, G_J (_o< |"%5 f%GrA

~[~_|%r liSAfc"D, ScfVcoS, G_J P@~8~r

liSAfc"D~PG|i%_c% o_c% Sor%, <"il%Y our coSVGc| iY urM%Ju
~You YG5, if c @ri_M i_ 5our loYGli_J,
~You <ill @%Y|o< "%r o_ irlG_Jo "%r%8

Do%~ S~"cil~_"G| <oulJ c, "GJ c (i_MJoSY |o Mi2% <i|" "%rA

liSAfc"D~A_J 5ou YG5, 5ou <ill "G2% "%r, <"%_ c @ri_M "%r8

ilfA"Di~_"G| <oulJ c, <%r% c of Gll (i_MJoSY (i_MA

liSAfc"D~You YG5, 5ouMll SGrr5 S%, if c @% <illi_M8

P@~8~~_"G| <ill c, Y"oulJ c Ji% |"% "our Gf|%rA

liSAfc"D~8u| if 5ou Jo r%fuY% |o SGrr5 S%,
~YouMll Mi2% 5ourY%lf |o |"iY SoY| fGi|"ful Y"%V"%rJ8

P@~8~~So iY |"% @GrMGi_A

liSAfc"D~You YG5, |"G| 5ouMll "G2% P"%@%, if Y"% <ill8

ScfVcoS~_"ouM" |o "G2% "%r G_J J%G|" <%r% @o|" o_% |"i_MA

liSAfc"D~c "G2% VroSiY%J |o SG(% Gll |"iY SG||%r %2%_A
~%%%V 5ou 5our <orJ, i Ju(%, |o Mi2% 5our JGuM"|%r2
~You 5ourY, irlG_Jo, |o r%c%i2% "iY JGuM"|%ru
~%%%V 5our <orJ, P"%@%, |"G| 5ouMll SGrr5 S%,
~ir %lY% r%fuYi_M S%, |o <%J |"iY Y"%V"%rJu
~%%%V 5our <orJ, Sil2iuY, |"G| 5ouMll SGrr5 "%rA
~cf Y"% r%fuY% S%u G_J froS "%_c% c Mo,
~_o SG(% |"%Y% Jou@|Y Gll %2%_A

~[~x%u_| liSAfc"D G_J }~fcAr

Do%~ S~"cil~c Jo r%S%S@%r i_ |"iY Y"%V"%rJ @o5