opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed;  i_ o|"%r <orJY, Gll |"G| (i_J of i_forSG|io_SS
Gll forSY of Gll <orJY, <"%r% |"%5 %xiY|, |"% Jic|io_Gr5 forS |"%5 @%lo_M
|oSS<%r% coll%c|%J i_|o JG|G@GY%Y, <"ic" <ill %xV%Ji|% Y%Grc"i_MA  _"%_
i| <GY JiYco2%r%J |"G| o_% cG_ Jo |"i_MY Y%Grc"i_M i_ |"%Y% JG|G@GY%Y
|"G| coulJ _o| @% Jo_% Y%Grc"i_M i_ |"% full |%x|YA  _"uY, Gl|"ouM" |"%r%
Gr% fullS|%x| Y%Grc"%Y i_ P%rY%uY, Suc" of |"% <or( iY Jo_% @%"i_J |"%
Yc%_%Y, uYi_M Vr%VGr%J i_Jic%YA  l% |"% i_J%xi_M |"G| iY Jo_% @%"i_J |"%
Yc%_%Y, MYfi"AS Voi_|%J ou| |"G| <i|"ou| |"% SGMf forSY of |"% |%x|, i|
coulJ _o| @% Jo_% %ff%c|i2%l5A  Muc" of |"iY i_J%xi_M iY @GY%J o_ |"%
Y|ruc|ur%Y |"G| Gr% SGJ% %xVlici| @5 |"% SGMf |GMMi_MA

c| <GY fou_J |"G| o_% of |"% |"i_MY SG_5 of P%rY%uYM _o_SGr%%(Sr%GJi_M
uY%rY Jo iY Y|Gr| froS |"% Jic|io_Gr5 G_J |"%_ So2% i_|o |"% cloY% Y|uJ5
of <orJY G_J co_c%V|Y 2iG |"iY (i_J of ~_MliY"SGr%%( <orJ Y%Grc", @5 <"ic"
S%G_Y |"%5 SiM"| Y%l%c| G co_c%V|A  _"iY %x%rciY% "GY @%%_ GYYiM_%J |o
Y|uJ%_|Y i_ cor% courY%Y G| @Gr2GrJSS|o Y|uJ5 G co_c%V| @5 loo(i_M for |"%
~_MliY" <orJ i_ |"% Jic|io_Gr5, fi_Ji_M |"% Gr%%( <orJY, G_J |"%_ fi_Ji_M
|"% <orJY i_ |"% Gr%%( @u|, of courY%, r%GJi_M GcroYY i_ |"% ~_MliY"A
_"G| |%llY |"%S G Mr%G| J%Gl G@ou| <"G| G |rG_YlG|io_ S%G_Y GY <%llA

S"oulJ o_% GlYo <iY" |o Y%% iSGM%Y |"G| "G2% |o Jo <i|" YGcrific%, |"G|
V%rYo_ <oulJ Mo |o |"% o@P%c| (%5 <orJ Y%Grc", <"ic" Gllo<Y o_% |o
V%rforS G YiSilGr (i_J of i_J%x r%|ri%2Gl o_ |"% JG|G@GY% of
Grc"G%oloMicGl o@P%c|YA  [i|"ou| <orJY, Vic|ur%Y Gr% uY%l%YY2 P%rY%uY "GY
_o| r%Gc"%J |"% Voi_| <"%r% i| cG_ Jo Suc" <i|" iSGM%Y |"G| Gr% _o|
cG|GloM%JA  _"uY, Gl|"ouM" i| iY VoYYi@l% i_ P%rY%uY <i|" |%x| G_J iSGM%Y
|o _G2iMG|% @5 (_o<i_M <"%r% o_% <G_|Y |o %_J uVSSfor %xGSVl%, G
r%JSfiMur% 2GY% froS |"% 8oY|o_ MuY%uS of  i_% Ar|YSSo_% cG_ V%rforS |"iY
(i_J of _G2iMG|io_ 2%r5 %GYil5 @5 |rGci_M Jo<_ i_Jic%YA  MYfi"AS
illuY|rG|%J Y%2%rGl M%_%ric Yc%_%Y of YGcrific% o_ 2GY%YA  _"% f%G|ur%Y
J%So_Y|rG|%J J%ri2%J froS P%rY%uY uAD2 2%rYio_ 2AD <ill iSVl%S%_| %2%_
@%||%r S%G_Y of r%|ri%2GlA

MYfi"AS cloY%J @5 loo(i_M G| o_% of |"% Vic|ur%Y G_J _o|i_M GMGi_ |"G|
o_% cG_ Jo G Mr%G| J%Gl of r%Y%Grc" uYi_M |"% ico_oMrGV"5 GY <%ll GY |"%
|%x|YA   or i_Y|G_c%, Y|uJ%_|Y i_ G cor% courY% G| @Gr2GrJ |"iY 5%Gr <%r%
"iM"l5 i_|%r%Y|%J i_ Gr%%( co_c%V|Y of for%iM_%rY G_J r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_Y of
_o_SGr%%(YA  So |"%5 V%rforS%J G Mr%G| J%Gl of r%Y%Grc", @o|" <i|" |%x|Y
(%AMA, @%roJo|uYl G_J <i|" ico_oMrGV"5 o_ 2GY%Y G_J coi_Y, o_ "o< |"%
Gr%%(Y Vor|rG5%J _o_SGr%%(YA  A| |"% YGS% |iS%, Gr| "iY|oriG_Y <"o Y|uJ5
ico_oMrGV"5 <%r% GlYo i_|%r%Y|%J, G_J <%r% G@l% |o uY% |"iY SG|%riGlA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P c_J%xi_M G_J Y%Grc"G@ili|5 of Gll ~_MliY" <orJY i_ P%rY%uY P
S%2%rGl f%G|ur%Y of P%rY%uY uAD P S%2%rGl l%2%lY of cuY|oSi,G|io_
VoYYi@l% P P%rY%uY uY%J for M%_%rGl %JucG|io_ P P%rY%uYM %ff%c|Y o_
%JucG|io_ P }o_|%x|uGl i_forSG|io_ i_ P%rY%uY P MGi_ c"Gll%_M% G_J
%SV"GYiY of P%rY%uY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

S%2%rGl Voi_|Y %S%rM%J i_ |"% JiYcuYYio_ |"G| follo<%J MYfi"ASMY Vr%Y%_|G|io_A

Al|"ouM" MYfi"AS "GJ _o| J%So_Y|rG|%J P%rY%uYM G@ili|5 |o croYYSY%Grc"
JocuS%_|Y, Y"% co_firS%J |"G| Gll ~_MliY" <orJY i_ P%rY%uY Gr% i_J%x%J
G_J cG_ @% Y%Grc"%JA  So, for %xGSVl%, YGcrific% coulJ "G2% @%%_ Y%Grc"%J
i_ Gll |%x|Y, |"% "iY|oricGl %YYG5, G_J Gll |"% cG|GloMu% %_|ri%Y <i|"
|"%ir J%YcriV|io_YSSi_ Y"or|, i_ Gll of P%rY%uYA

8ool%G_ loMic iY _o| i_ P%rY%uY uAD @u| <ill @% GJJ%J |o |"% _%x|
2%rYio_, Gl|"ouM" G_ %ffor| iY @%i_M SGJ% _o| |o r%Y|ric| P%rY%uY |o G
JG|G@GY% i_ <"ic" o_% PuY| V%rforSY Y%Grc"i_M, 8ool%G_ or o|"%r<iY%A  c|
iY VoYYi@l% |o So2% lG|%rGll5 |"rouM" |"% JocuS%_|Y @5 Y%l%c|i_M G <orJ
o_% iY i_|%r%Y|%J i_ G_J Y%l%c|i_M G_ Gr%G of i_forSG|io_ o_% iY
i_|%r%Y|%J i_ G_J |r5i_M |o loo( |"G| <orJ uV i_ |"G| Gr%GA

Si_c% P%rY%uY <GY J%2%loV%J i_ @5V%r}GrJ, Y%2%rGl l%2%lY of cuY|oSi,G|io_
Gr% VoYYi@l%A  SiSVl% Gu|"ori_M |oolY %xiY| |"G| Gllo< o_% |o cr%G|%
G__o|G|%J VG|"Y |"rouM" |"% i_forSG|io_, <"ic" Gr% uY%ful for _o|%S|G(i_M
G_J for MuiJ%J |ourY for |%Gc"i_M VurVoY%Y G_J for %xVoYi|or5 <ri|i_MA
[i|" G li||l% Sor% i_M%_ui|5 i| iY VoYYi@l% |o @%Mi_ |o GJJ or Yu@Y|i|u|%
SG|%riGl i_ P%rY%uYA
P }DSliM VroJuc|io_ G_J JiYY%Si_G|io_
P M%|"oJY G_J |%c"_oloM5 for co_2%r|i_M olJ%r VGV%r SG|%riGlY i_|o
%l%c|ro_ic forS
P S|uJ5 of |"% uY% of JiMi|Gl SG|%riGlY @5 Yc"olGrY G_J o|"%rY

_"iY YuSSGr5 iY GrrG_M%J |"%SG|icGll5 G_J Jo%Y _o| follo< |"% Gc|uGl
Y%[u%_c% of Vr%Y%_|G|io_YA

"i_~Su
     (ul  c_ |"iY JocuS%_|, |"% V"rGY% %l%c|ro_ic |%x| iY uY%J |o S%G_
     G_5 coSVu|%ri,%J r%VroJuc|io_ or 2%rYio_ of G JocuS%_|, @oo(,
     Gr|icl%, or SG_uYcriV| (i_cluJi_M iSGM%Yl, G_J _o| S%r%l5 G SGc"i_%S
     r%GJG@l% or SGc"i_%SY%Grc"G@l% |%x|A

     (2l  _"% [or(Y"oV <GY "%lJ G| |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY o_ }SuD Ju_%
     u}}2, <i|" fu_Ji_M froS |"% DG2iJ G_J fucil% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_A
     _"% JocuS%_| |"G| follo<Y r%Vr%Y%_|Y G YuSSGr5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_Y
     SGJ% G| |"% [or(Y"oV G_J <GY coSVil%J @5 JGS%Y DAfYA  _"iY
     i_|roJuc|io_ <GY <ri||%_ @5 DAfY G_J }Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~lA


Pl~S~lVA_ci" A"D cMAGc"G

Pr%Y%r2G|io_, GY |"G| |%rS iY uY%J @5 Grc"i2iY|Y,(<l <GY SoY| %xVlici|l5
JiYcuYY%J i_ |"% co_|%x| of iSGMi_MA  A__% %~""~Y G_J f5__% P~lSi"coS
%xVlGi_%J "o< |"% co_c%V| of G fGi|"ful coV5 G_J |"% uY%rSfri%_Jli_%YY of
|"% |rGJi|io_Gl @oo( "G2% MuiJ%J |"%ir VroP%c| G| }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5A(xl
Al|"ouM" i_|%r%Y|%J i_ coSVu|%ri,%J JiYY%Si_G|io_, VGr|iciVG_|Y i_ |"%
}or_%ll VroP%c| Gr% cr%G|i_M JiMi|Gl iSGM% Y%|Y of olJ%r @oo(Y i_ |"%
Vu@lic JoSGi_ GY G Yourc% for G fr%Y" VGV%r fGcYiSil% or, i_ G fu|ur%
V"GY%, SicrofilSA  _"% @oo(Y r%|ur_%J |o |"% li@rGr5 Y"%l2%Y Gr%
"iM"S[uGli|5 G_J uY%ful r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%r |"G| Y"oulJ lGY|
G lo_M |iS%A  _o JG|%, |"% }or_%ll VroP%c| "GY VlGc%J li||l% or _o
%SV"GYiY o_ cr%G|i_M Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|Y2 o_% <oulJ _o| @% YurVriY%J |o fi_J
|"G| |"% VroP%c| VGr|iciVG_|Y 2i%< Yuc" |%x|Y GY _%< %Ji|io_Y, G_J |"uY
_o| GY fGi|"ful r%VroJuc|io_YA

c_ "%r |Gl( o_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_, PG|riciG 8A__c" Y|ruc( G_ %cuS%_icGl G_J
fl%xi@l% _o|% GY Y"% %_JorY%J |"% cr%G|io_ G_J JiYY%Si_G|io_ of G 2Gri%|5
of |5V%Y of JiMi|Gl coVi%YA  Do _o| @% |oo _Grro< i_ J%fi_i_M <"G| cou_|Y
GY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ %l%S%_|, 8A__c" cou_Y%l%J2 for |"% Vr%Y%_|, G| l%GY|,
JiMi|Gl coVi%Y SGJ% <i|" Vr%Y%r2G|io_ i_ Si_J cG__o| @% GY _Grro<l5
Y|G_JGrJi,%J GY, YG5, SicrofilS coVi%Y <i|" |"% YGS% o@P%c|i2%A  S%||i_M
Y|G_JGrJY Vr%ciVi|ouYl5 cG_ i_"i@i| cr%G|i2i|5, @u| J%lG5 cG_ r%Yul| i_
c"GoY, Y"% GJ2iY%JA

c_ VGr|, 8A__c"MY VoYi|io_ r%fl%c|%J |"% u_Y%||l%J _G|ur% of iSGM%SforSG|
Y|G_JGrJY, G_J G||%_J%%Y coulJ "%Gr %c"o%Y of |"iY u_Y%||l%J_%YY i_ |"%
coSS%_|Y of 2GriouY YV%G(%rYA   or %xGSVl%, J%G_ 8Ali"AS r%2i%<%J |"%
Y|G|uY of Y%2%rGl forSGl Y|G_JGrJY So2i_M |"rouM" coSSi||%%Y of %xV%r|Y2
G_J }lifforJ fY"}@ %_courGM%J |"% uY% of G _%< MuiJ%li_% for |rG_YSi||i_M
JocuS%_| iSGM%Y o_ c_|%r_%|A  _%Y|iSo_5 froS VGr|iciVG_|Y i_ |"% "G|io_Gl
AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5MY ("Afl _%x| DiMi|i,G|io_ ProMrGS G_J f}MY AS%ricG_
M%Sor5 VroP%c| "iM"liM"|%J YoS% of |"% c"Gll%_M%Y |o |"% Gc|uGl cr%G|io_
or i_|%rc"G_M% of iSGM%Y, i_cluJi_M Jifficul|i%Y i_ co_2%r|i_M
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilS |o JiMi|Gl forSA  Do_GlJ [A_~lS r%Vor|%J o_ |"%
VroMr%YY of G SGY|%r VlG_ for G VroP%c| G| YGl% o_i2%rYi|5 |o co_2%r|
@oo(Y o_ SicrofilS |o JiMi|Gl iSGM% Y%|Y, ProP%c| iV%_ 8oo( (Pi8lA

_"% [or(Y"oV off%r%J rG|"%r l%YY of G_ iSGMi_M VrGc|icuS |"G_ VlG__%J,
@u| ""o<S|o" "i_|Y %S%rM% G| 2GriouY Voi_|Y, for %xGSVl%, |"rouM"ou|
%~""~YMY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ G_J i_ |"% JiYcuYYio_ of GrcG_G Yuc" GY
|"r%Y"olJi_M G_J Ji|"%ri_M off%r%J @5 G%orM% _@iMA G_J  f~cS}@@Ao~lA

"i_~Su
     (<l  Al|"ouM" |"%r% iY G Y%_Y% i_ <"ic" G_5 r%VroJuc|io_Y of
     "iY|oricGl SG|%riGlY Vr%Y%r2% |"% "uSG_ r%corJ, YV%ciGliY|Y i_ |"%
     fi%lJ "G2% J%2%loV%J VGr|iculGr MuiJ%li_%Y for |"% cr%G|io_ of
     Gcc%V|G@l% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ coVi%YA

     (xl  _i|l%Y G_J GffiliG|io_Y of Vr%Y%_|%rY Gr% Mi2%_ G| |"%
     @%Mi__i_M of |"%ir r%YV%c|i2% |Gl(Y G_J i_ |"% Dir%c|or5 of
     PGr|iciVG_|Y (AVV%_Jix ccclA


_@~ MA}@c"~Sl~ADA8f~ _~r_u  MAl%oP A"D oS~

_"% Y%c|io_Y of |"% [or(Y"oV |"G| J%Gl| <i|" SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x| |%_J%J
|o @% Sor% co_c%r_%J <i|" Gcc%YY G_J uY% |"G_ <i|" Vr%Y%r2G|io_, G| l%GY|
i_ |"% _Grro< |%c"_icGl Y%_Y%A  Mic"G%l SP~l8~lGSMc(o~~" SGJ% G forc%ful
Vr%Y%_|G|io_ o_ |"% _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2%MY (_~cl iSVl%S%_|G|io_ of
|"% S|G_JGrJ G%_%rGli,%J MGr(uV fG_MuGM% (SGMflA  @iY iJ%GY <%r% %c"o%J
@5 SuYG_ @i}%~Y, ~lli MYfi"AS, G_J S|uGr| [~c8~fA  ["il% |"%
Vr%Y%_|G|io_Y SGJ% @5 |"% _~c GJ2ocG|%Y co_|Gi_%J _o VrGc|icuS, |"%ir
JiYcuYYio_ focuY%J o_ |"% 2Glu% of |"% fi_iY"%J VroJuc|, <"G| |"%
~uroV%G_ }oSSu_i|5 cGllY r%uYG@ili|5, @u| <"G| SG5 GlYo @% |%rS%J
JurG@ili|5A  _"%5 GrMu%J |"G| SGr(i_M uVSS|"G| iY, coJi_MSSG |%x| i_ G
<%llSco_c%i2%J <G5 <ill V%rSi| i| |o @% So2%J froS o_% coSVu|%r
%_2iro_S%_| |o G_o|"%r, GY <%ll GY |o @% uY%J @5 2GriouY uY%rYA  _<o
(i_JY of SGr(uV <%r% JiY|i_MuiY"%Ju  ul Vroc%JurGl SGr(uV, <"ic"
J%Ycri@%Y |"% f%G|ur%Y of G |%x| (%AMA, Jo|Y o_ G VGM%l, G_J 2l
J%YcriV|i2% SGr(uV, <"ic" J%Ycri@%Y |"% Y|ruc|ur% or %l%S%_|Y of G
JocuS%_| (%AMA, c"GV|%rY, VGrGMrGV"Y, G_J fro_| SG||%rlA

_"% _~c VroVo_%_|Y %SV"GYi,%J |"% iSVor|G_c% of |%x|Y |o Yc"olGrY"iVA
_"%5 %xVlGi_%J "o< "%G2il5 coJ%J (G_J |"uY G_Gl5,%J G_J G__o|G|%Jl |%x|Y
cG_ u_J%rli% r%Y%Grc", VlG5 G rol% i_ Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_, G_J
fGcili|G|% clGYYrooS |%Gc"i_MA  SP~l8~lGSMc(o~~" r%Si_J%J liY|%_%rY |"G|
G <ri||%_ or Vri_|%J i|%S (%AMA, G VGr|iculGr %Ji|io_ of G @oo(l iY
S%r%l5 G r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_ of |"% G@Y|rGc|io_ <% cGll G |%x|A  _o co_c%r_
ourY%l2%Y <i|" fGi|"full5 r%VroJuci_M G Vri_|%J i_Y|G_c% of |"% |%x|,
SP~l8~lGSMc(o~~" GrMu%J, iY |o co_c%r_ ourY%l2%Y <i|" |"% r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_
of G r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_ ("iSGM%Y GY YiSulGcrG for |"% |%x|"lA  _"% _~c VroVo_%_|YM
i_|%r%Y| i_ iSGM%Y |%_JY |o focuY o_ corollGr5 SG|%riGlY for uY% i_ |%Gc"i_M,
for %xGSVl%, V"o|oMrGV"Y of |"% AcroVoliY |o GccoSVG_5 G Gr%%( |%x|A

85 |"% %_J of |"% [or(Y"oV, SP~l8~lGSMc(o~~" co_f%YY%J |o "G2i_M @%%_
co_2%r|%J |o G liSi|%J %x|%_| |o |"% 2i%< |"G| %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%Y
co_Y|i|u|% G VroSiYi_M Gl|%r_G|i2% |o SicrofilSi_M2 i_J%%J, G_
Gl|%r_G|i2% Vro@G@l5 YuV%rior |o SicrofilSi_MA  8u| "% <GY _o| co_2i_c%J
|"G| %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%Y co_Y|i|u|% G Y%riouY G||%SV| |o r%Vr%Y%_| |%x| i_
%l%c|ro_ic forSA  @i}%~Y G_J MYfi"AS GlYo co_c%J%J |"G| |"%ir %xV%ri%_c%
G| |"% Pi%rc% S5SVoYiuS |"% Vr%2iouY <%%( G| G%orM%|o<_ o_i2%rYi|5 G_J
|"% Vr%Y%_| co_f%r%_c% G| |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY "GJ coSV%ll%J |"%S |o
r%%2GluG|% |"%ir V%rYV%c|i2% o_ |"% uY%ful_%YY of |%x| GY iSGM%YA
A||%_J%%Y coulJ Y%% |"G| |"% |%x| G_J iSGM% GJ2ocG|%Y <%r% i_
co_Y|ruc|i2% |%_Yio_, Yo |o YG5A

_"r%% _o__~c Vr%Y%_|G|io_Y J%Ycri@%J GVVroGc"%Y |o Vr%VGri_M
SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x| |"G| Gr% l%YY riMorouY G_J |"uY l%YY %xV%_Yi2%A  c_
|"% cGY% of |"% PGV%rY of G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_, Doro|"5 _[i@cG %xVlGi_%J
|"G| |"% JiMi|Gl 2%rYio_ <ill Vro2iJ% G _o|S[ui|%SV%rf%c| r%_J%ri_M of
|"% |rG_Ycri@%J |%x|SSYoS% u<5,DDD JocuS%_|Y, G2GilG@l% for r%Y%Grc"
Juri_M |"% J%cGJ%Y <"il% |"% V%rf%c| or Vri_| 2%rYio_ iY coSVl%|%JA
M%S@%rY of |"% AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 |%GS G_J |"% Y|Gff of "AfMY _%x|
DiMi|i,G|io_ ProMrGS (Y%% @%lo<l GlYo ou|li_%J G SiJJl% Mrou_J co_c%r_i_M
Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|YA  c_ |"% cGY% of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, co_|rGc|orY VroJuc%
|%x|Y <i|" G@ou| }}SV%rc%_| GccurGc5 |"G| Y%r2% GY "@ro<Y%" or
"r%f%r%_c%" 2%rYio_Y of <ri||%_ or Vri_|%J oriMi_GlYA  ~_J uY%rY <"o _%%J
fGi|"ful coVi%Y or V%rf%c| r%_Ji|io_Y SuY| r%f%r |o GccoSVG_5i_M Y%|Y of
JiMi|Gl fGcYiSil% iSGM%Y or co_Yul| coVi%Y of |"% oriMi_GlY i_ G _%Gr@5
li@rGr5 or Grc"i2%A  AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 Y|Gff GrMu%J |"G| |"% "iM" coY| of
VroJuci_M uDDSV%rc%_| GccurG|% coVi%Y <oulJ Vr%2%_| f} froS off%ri_M
Gcc%YY |o lGrM% VGr|Y of i|Y coll%c|io_YA

