in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AM's goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGML-proficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1) the inability of any known microcomputer-based
user-retrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding; and 2) the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single document-type definition (DTD) and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenth-century broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AM's experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AM's materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While non-English
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAY's experience, was the most time-consuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous day's discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete run-through of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
one's imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of one's system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than HaGr2GrJ, for %xGSVl%, |%Y| Yi|%Y G| 8Gll S|G|%
o_i2%rYi|5, Drur5 }oll%M%, G_J _uS%rouY YSGll VlGc%Y <"%r% oVVor|u_i|i%Y
|o uY% 2GY| GSou_|Y of VriSGr5 JG|G SG5 _o| %xiY|A  i_% JocuS%_|%J %ff%c|
iY |"G| Grc"G%oloMicGl, G_|"roVoloMicGl, G_J V"iloloMicGl r%Y%Grc" iY
@%i_M Jo_% @5 |"% YGS% V%rYo_ i_Y|%GJ of @5 |"r%% Jiff%r%_| V%oVl%A

_"% co_|%x|uGl i_forSG|io_ i_ P%rY%uY i_cluJ%Y G_ o2%r2i%< %YYG5, G
fGirl5 li_%Gr "iY|oricGl %YYG5 o_ |"% fif|" c%_|ur5 8A}A |"G| Vro2iJ%Y
li_(Y i_|o |"% VriSGr5 SG|%riGl (%AMA, @%roJo|uY, _"uc5JiJ%Y, G_J
Plu|Grc"l, 2iG YSGll MrG5 u_J%rYcori_M (o_ |"% Ycr%%_l of li_(%J
VGYYGM%YA  _"%Y% Gr% "G_JSGJ% li_(Y i_|o o|"%r SG|%riGlA

_o Jiff%r%_| %x|%_|Y, SoY| of |"% VroJuc|io_ <or( <GY Jo_% G| @Gr2GrJ,
<"%r% |"% V%oVl% G_J |"% %[uiVS%_| Gr% locG|%JA  Muc" of |"%
collG@orG|i2% Gc|i2i|5 i_2ol2%J JG|G coll%c|io_ G_J Y|ruc|uri_M, @%cGuY%
|"% SGi_ c"Gll%_M% G_J |"% %SV"GYiY of P%rY%uY iY |"% MG|"%ri_M of
VriSGr5 SG|%riGl, |"G| iY, @uilJi_M G uY%ful %_2iro_S%_| for Y|uJ5i_M
clGYYicGl Gr%%c%, coll%c|i_M JG|G, G_J SG(i_M i| uY%fulA
S5Y|%SYS@uilJi_M iY J%fi_i|%l5 _o| |"% SGi_ co_c%r_A  _"uY, Suc" of |"%
<or( "GY i_2ol2%J <ri|i_M %YYG5Y, coll%c|i_M i_forSG|io_, r%<ri|i_M i|,
G_J |GMMi_M i|A  _"G| cG_ @% Jo_% off Yi|%A  _"% cr%G|i2% li_( for |"%
o2%r2i%< %YYG5 GY <%ll GY for @o|" Y5Y|%SY G_J JG|G <GY collG@orG|i2%,
G_J <GY forM%J 2iG ~SSGil G_J VGV%r SGil <i|" Vrof%YYorY G| PoSo_G G_J
8o<Joi_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
}AfAfo}A P PfDMY Vri_ciVGl focuY G_J co_|ri@u|io_ |o Yc"olGrY"iV P
VGriouY [u%Y|io_Y Vr%VGrG|or5 |o @%Mi__i_M |"% VroP%c| P 8GYiY for
VroP%c| P 8GYic rul% i_ co_2%r|i_M PfD P }o_c%r_i_M |"% iSGM%Y i_ PfD P
lu__i_M PfD u_J%r G 2Gri%|5 of r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr%Y P ~_coJi_M |"%
JG|G@GY% G "GrJSfouM"| iYYu% P VGriouY f%G|ur%Y J%So_Y|rG|%J P cSVor|G_c%
of uY%r JocuS%_|G|io_ P fiSi|G|io_Y of |"% }DSliM 2%rYio_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

~ric }AfAfo}A, 2ic% Vr%YiJ%_|, }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA, J%So_Y|rG|%J G
Yof|<Gr% i_|%rVr%|G|io_ of |"% PG|roloMiG fG|i_G DG|G@GY% (PfDlA  PfDMY
Vri_ciVGl focuY froS |"% @%Mi__i_M of |"% VroP%c| G@ou| |"r%%SG_JSGS"Glf
5%GrY GMo <GY o_ co_2%r|i_M MiM_%MY fG|i_ Y%ri%Y, G_J i_ |"% %_J,
}AfAfo}A YuMM%Y|%J, co_2%rYio_ of |"% |%x| <ill @% |"% SGPor co_|ri@u|io_
|o Yc"olGrY"iVA  }AfAfo}A Y|r%YY%J |"G|, GY VoYYi@l5 |"% o_l5 Vri2G|%
Vu@liY"i_M orMG_i,G|io_ G| |"% [or(Y"oV, }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5 "GJ YouM"| _o
f%J%rGl fu_JY or _G|io_Gl fou_JG|io_ YuVVor| @%for% %S@Gr(i_M uVo_ |"%
VroP%c|, @u| i_Y|%GJ "GJ r%li%J uVo_ G Mr%G| J%Gl of "oS%<or( G_J
SGr(%|i_M |o GccoSVliY" |"% |GY( of co_2%rYio_A

~2%r Yi_c% |"% VoYYi@ili|i%Y of coSVu|%rSY%Grc"i_M "G2% %S%rM%J, Yc"olGrY
i_ |"% fi%lJ of lG|% G_ci%_| G_J %Grl5 S%Ji%2Gl Y|uJi%Y (V"iloYoV"%rY,
|"%oloMiG_Y, clGYYiciY|Y, G_J |"oY% Y|uJ5i_M |"% "iY|or5 of _G|urGl lG<
G_J |"% "iY|or5 of |"% l%MGl J%2%loVS%_| of [%Y|%r_ ci2ili,G|io_l "G2%
@%%_ lo_Mi_M for G full5 Y%Grc"G@l% 2%rYio_ of [%Y|%r_ li|%rG|ur%, for
%xGSVl%, Gll |"% |%x|Y of AuMuY|i_% G_J 8%r_GrJ of }lGir2Gux G_J
8o%|"iuY, _o| |o S%_|io_ Gll |"% Y%co_JGr5 G_J |%r|iGr5 Gu|"orYA

VGriouY [u%Y|io_Y GroY%, }AfAfo}A YGiJA  S"oulJ o_% co_2%r| MiM_%8
S"oulJ |"% JG|G@GY% @% %_coJ%J8  cY i| _%c%YYGr5 |o Jo |"G|8  @o< Y"oulJ
i| @% J%li2%r%J8  ["G| G@ou| }DSliM8  Si_c% |"iY iY G |rG_Yi|io_Gl
S%JiuS, <"5 %2%_ @o|"%r |o cr%G|% Yof|<Gr% |o ru_ o_ G }DSliM8  Si_c%
%2%r5@oJ5 (_o<Y V%oVl% <ill @% _%|<or(i_M i_forSG|io_, <"5 Mo |o |"%
|rou@l%SS<"ic" iY fGr Mr%G|%r <i|" }DSliM |"G_ <i|" |"% VroJuc|io_ of
SGM_%|ic JG|G8   i_Gll5, "o< Jo%Y o_% SG(% |"% JG|G G2GilG@l%8  }G_ SG_5
of |"% "urJl%Y |o uYi_M %l%c|ro_ic i_forSG|io_ |"G| YoS% Vu@liY"%rY "G2%
iSVoY%J uVo_ JG|G@GY%Y @% %liSi_G|%J8

_"% PfD VroP%c| <GY @GY%J o_ |"% Vri_ciVl% |"G| coSVu|%rSY%Grc"i_M of
|%x|Y iY SoY| %ff%c|i2% <"%_ i| iY Jo_% <i|" G lGrM% JG|G@GY%A  8%cGuY%
PfD r%Vr%Y%_|%J G coll%c|io_ |"G| Y%r2%Y Yo SG_5 JiYciVli_%Y GcroYY Yo
SG_5 V%rioJY, i| <GY irr%YiY|i@l%A

_"% @GYic rul% i_ co_2%r|i_M PfD <GY |o Jo _o "GrS, |o G2oiJ |"% Yi_Y of
i_|ruYio_ i_ Yuc" G JG|G@GY%u  _o i_|roJuc|io_ of _%<%r %Ji|io_Y, _o
o_S|"%SYVo| c"G_M%Y, _o %rGJicG|i_M of Gll VoYYi@l% fGlY%"ooJY froS G_
%Ji|io_A  _"uY, PfD iY _o| |"% fi_Gl Gc| i_ %l%c|ro_ic Vu@liY"i_M for
|"iY JiYciVli_%, @u| YiSVl5 |"% @%Mi__i_MA  _"% co_2%rYio_ of PfD "GY
%2o(%J _uS%rouY u_G_|iciVG|%J [u%Y|io_Yu  @o< <ill i_forSG|io_ @% uY%J8
["G| G@ou| _%|<or(i_M8  }G_ |"% riM"|Y of G JG|G@GY% @% Vro|%c|%J8
S"oulJ o_% Vro|%c| |"% riM"|Y of G JG|G@GY%8  @o< cG_ i| @% SGJ%
G2GilG@l%8

_"oY% co_2%r|i_M PfD GlYo |ri%J |o G2oiJ |"% Yi_Y of oSiYYio_, |"G| iY,
%xcluJi_M Vor|io_Y of |"% coll%c|io_Y or <"ol% Y%c|io_YA  ["G| G@ou| |"%
iSGM%Y8  PfD iY full of iSGM%Y, YoS% Gr% %x|r%S%l5 ViouY
_i_%|%%_|"Sc%_|ur5 r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_Y of |"%  G|"%rY, <"il% o|"%rY co_|Gi_
"iM"l5 i_|%r%Y|i_M %l%S%_|YA  _"% MoGl <GY |o co2%r Gll |"% |%x| of MiM_%
(i_cluJi_M _o|%Y, i_ Gr%%( G_J i_ @%@r%<, |"% lG||%r of <"ic", i_
VGr|iculGr, cGuY%Y Vro@l%SY i_ cr%G|i_M G Y%Grc" Y|ruc|ur%l, Gll |"%
i_Jic%Y, G_J %2%_ |"% iSGM%Y, <"ic" Gr% @%i_M YcG__%J i_ Y%VGrG|%l5
Y%Grc"G@l% fil%YA

S%2%rGl "or|" AS%ricG_ i_Y|i|u|io_Y |"G| "G2% VlGc%J Gc[uiYi|io_ r%[u%Y|Y
for |"% PfD JG|G@GY% "G2% r%[u%Y|%J i| i_ SGM_%|ic forS <i|"ou| Yof|<Gr%,
<"ic" S%G_Y |"%5 Gr% Glr%GJ5 ru__i_M i| <i|"ou| Yof|<Gr%, <i|"ou|
G_5|"i_M J%So_Y|rG|%J G| |"% [or(Y"oVA

["G| cG__o| VrGc|icGll5 @% Jo_% iY Mo @Gc( G_J r%co_2%r| G_J r%S%_coJ%
JG|G, G |iS%Sco_YuSi_M G_J %x|r%S%l5 coY|l5 %_|%rVriY%A  }AfAfo}A Y%%Y
PfD GY G JG|G@GY% |"G| cG_, G_J Y"oulJ, @% ru_ u_J%r G 2Gri%|5 of
r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr%YA  _"iY <ill V%rSi| |"% <iJ%Y| VoYYi@l% Y%Grc"%YA
}o_Y%[u%_|l5, |"% _%%J |o VroJuc% G }DSliM of PfD, GY <%ll GY |o J%2%loV
Yof|<Gr% |"G| coulJ "G_Jl% YoS% uA< MiMG@5|% of "%G2il5 %_coJ%J |%x|,
J%2%loV%J ou| of co_2%rYG|io_Y <i|" coll%c|io_ J%2%loVS%_| G_J r%f%r%_c%
li@rGriG_Y <"o <G_|%J Yof|<Gr% @o|" coSVGYYio_G|% %_ouM" for |"%
V%J%Y|riG_ @u| GlYo cGVG@l% of i_corVorG|i_M |"% SoY| J%|Gil%J
l%xicoMrGV"icGl Y|uJi%Y |"G| G uY%r J%Yir%Y |o co_Juc|A  c_ |"% %_J, |"%
%_coJi_M G_J co_2%rYio_ of |"% JG|G <ill Vro2% |"% SoY| %_Juri_M
|%Y|GS%_| |o |"% 2Glu% of |"% VroP%c|A

_"% %_coJi_M of |"% JG|G@GY% <GY GlYo G "GrJSfouM"| iYYu%u  DiJ |"%
JG|G@GY% _%%J |o @% %_coJ%J8 [%r% |"%r% _orSG|i2% Y|ruc|ur%Y for %_coJi_M
"uSG_iY| |%x|Y8  S"oulJ i| @% SGMf8  ["G| G@ou| |"% _~cSS<ill i| lGY|,
<ill i| Vro2% uY%ful8  }AfAfo}A %xVr%YY%J YoS% Si_or Jou@|Y GY |o <"%|"%r
G JG|G @G_( cG_ @% full5 _~cSco_forSG_|A  ~2%r5 %ffor| cG_ @% SGJ%, @u|
i_ |"% %_J |o @% _~cSco_forSG_| S%G_Y |o Gcc%V| |"% _%%J |o SG(% YoS%
firS %_coJi_M J%ciYio_Y |"G| cG_, i_J%%J, @% JiYVu|%JA  _"% _~c Voi_|Y
|"% Vu@liY"%r i_ G VroV%r Jir%c|io_ @u| Jo%Y _o| Vr%YuS% |o SG(% Gll |"%
J%ciYio_Y for "iS or "%rA  ~YY%_|iGll5, |"% MoGl of %_coJi_M <GY |o
%liSi_G|%, GY Suc" GY VoYYi@l%, |"% "i_JrG_c%Y |o i_forSG|io_S_%|<or(i_M,
Yo |"G| if G_ i_Y|i|u|io_ Gc[uir%Y G JG|G@GY%, %2%r5@oJ5 GYYociG|%J <i|"
|"% i_Y|i|u|io_ cG_ "G2% Gcc%YY |o i|A

}AfAfo}A J%So_Y|rG|%J G Vor|io_ of VoluS% u,D, @%cGuY% i| "GJ |"% SoY|
G_oSGli%Y i_ i|A  _"% Yof|<Gr% <GY cr%G|%J @5 ~l%c|ro_ic 8oo(
_%c"_oloMi%Y of Pro2iJ%_c%, lc, G_J iY cGll%J D5_G|%x|A  _"% Yof|<Gr%
<or(Y o_l5 <i|" SGMfScoJ%J JG|GA

Vi%<i_M G |G@l% of co_|%_|Y o_ |"% Ycr%%_, |"% GuJi%_c% YG< "o< D5_G|%x|
|r%G|Y %Gc" %l%S%_| GY G @oo( G_J G||%SV|Y |o YiSVlif5 So2%S%_| |"rouM" G
2oluS%A   GSiliGri|5 <i|" |"% PG|roloMiG i_ Vri_| (iA%A, |"% |%x|, i|Y
Yourc%, G_J |"% %Ji|io_Yl <ill SG(% |"% SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% 2%rYio_Y "iM"l5
uY%fulA  (Sof|<Gr% <i|" G [i_Jo<Y GVVlicG|io_ <GY YouM"| for PfD,
}AfAfo}A YGiJ, @%cGuY% |"iY <GY |"% SGi_ |r%_J for Yc"olGrl5 uY%Al

}AfAfo}A GlYo J%So_Y|rG|%J "o< G uY%r cG_ V%rforS G 2Gri%|5 of Y%Grc"%Y
G_J [uic(l5 So2% |o G_5 VGr| of G 2oluS%2 |"% loo(SuV Ycr%%_ Vro2iJ%Y
YoS% @GYic, YiSVl% <orJSY%Grc"i_MA

}AfAfo}A GrMu%J |"G| o_% of |"% SGPor Jifficul|i%Y iY _o| |"% Yof|<Gr%A
lG|"%r, i_ cr%G|i_M G VroJuc| |"G| <ill @% uY%J @5 Yc"olGrY r%Vr%Y%_|i_M
G @roGJ YV%c|ruS of coSVu|%r YoV"iY|icG|io_,  uY%r JocuS%_|G|io_ Vro2%Y
|o @% |"% SoY| iSVor|G_| Y%r2ic% o_% cG_ Vro2iJ%A

}AfAfo}A _%x| illuY|rG|%J G |ru_cG|%J Y%Grc" u_J%r S5Y|%riuS <i|"i_ |%_
<orJY of 2ir|uY G_J "o< o_% <oulJ @% G@l% |o fi_J i|Y co_|%_|Y |"rouM"ou|
|"% %_|ir% JG|G@GY%A  @% YGiJ |"G| |"% %xci|i_M |"i_M G@ou| PfD iY |"G|
SG_5 of |"% GVVlicG|io_Y i_ |"% r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr% @%i_M <ri||%_ for i|
<ill %xc%%J |"% cGVG@ili|i%Y of |"% Yof|<Gr% %SVlo5%J _o< for |"% }DSliM
2%rYio_A  _"% }DSliM fGc%Y M%_ui_% liSi|G|io_Y, i_ |%rSY of YV%%J G_J
coSVr%"%_Yi2%_%YY, i_ |"% cr%G|io_ of G r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr% |o ru_ i|A
}AfAfo}A YGiJ "% "oV%J |"G| i_Ji2iJuGl Yc"olGrY <ill Jo<_loGJ |"% JG|G,
if |"%5 <iY", |o |"%ir V%rYo_Gl coSVu|%rY, G_J "G2% r%GJ5 Gcc%YY |o
iSVor|G_| |%x|Y o_ G co_Y|G_| @GYiY, <"ic" |"%5 <ill @% G@l% |o uY% i_
|"%ir r%Y%Grc" G_J froS <"ic" |"%5 SiM"| %2%_ @% G@l% |o Vu@liY"A

(}AfAfo}A %xVlGi_%J |"G| |"% @lu% _uS@%rY r%Vr%Y%_|%J MiM_%MY coluS_ _uS@%rY,
<"ic" Gr% |"% Y|G_JGrJ Yc"olGrl5 r%f%r%_c%YA  Pulli_M uV G _o|%, "% Y|G|%J
|"G| |"%Y% |%x|Y <%r% "%G2il5 %Ji|%J G_J |"% iSGM% fil%Y <oulJ GVV%Gr YiSVl5
GY G _o|% GY <%ll, Yo |"G| o_% coulJ [uic(l5 Gcc%YY G_ iSGM%Al

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 f~cS}@@Ao~lY~l[AY P S%2%rGl Vro@l%SY <i|" <"ic" AM iY Y|ill <r%Y|li_M P
VGriouY Y%Grc" G_J r%|ri%2Gl cGVG@ili|i%Y P clluY|rG|io_ of Gu|oSG|ic
Y|%SSi_M G_J G |ru_cG|%J Y%Grc" P AMMY G||%SV| |o fi_J <G5Y |o co__%c|
cG|GloMi_M |o |"% |%x|Y P AMMY MrG2i|G|io_ |o<GrJY SGMf P S|ri(i_M G
@GlG_c% @%|<%%_ [uG_|i|5 G_J [uGli|5 P @o< AM fur_iY"%Y uY%rY r%courY% |o
iSGM%Y P }o_Juc|i_M G Y%Grc" i_ G fullS|%x| %_2iro_S%_| P MGci_|oY" G_J
c8M Vro|o|5V%Y of AM P Mul|iS%JiG GYV%c|Y of AM P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A J%So_Y|rG|io_ of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 @5 i|Y coorJi_G|or, }Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l,
G_J lic(5 ~l[AY, GYYociG|% coorJi_G|or, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, co_cluJ%J
|"% Sor_i_M Y%YYio_A  8%Mi__i_M <i|" G coll%c|io_ of @roGJYiJ%Y froS |"%
}o_|i_%_|Gl }o_Mr%YY G_J |"% }o_Y|i|u|io_Gl }o_2%_|io_, |"% o_l5 |%x|
coll%c|io_ i_ G Vr%Y%_|G@l% forS G| |"% |iS% of |"% [or(Y"oV,  f~cS}@@Ao~l
"iM"liM"|%J Y%2%rGl of |"% Vro@l%SY <i|" <"ic" AM iY Y|ill <r%Y|li_MA
(c_ i|Y fi_Gl forS, |"% JiY( <ill co_|Gi_ |<o coll%c|io_Y, _o| o_l5 |"%
@roGJYiJ%Y @u| GlYo |"% full |%x| <i|" illuY|rG|io_Y of G Y%| of
GVVroxiSG|%l5 <DD AfricG_SAS%ricG_ VGSV"l%|Y froS |"% V%rioJ u8AD |o u}uDAl

AY  l~~MA" "GJ %xVlGi_%J %Grli%r, AM "GY G||%SV|%J |o uY% G YSGll GSou_|
of i_|%rVr%|G|io_ |o i_|roJuc% coll%c|io_YA  c_ |"% Vr%Y%_| cGY%, |"%
co_|rGc|or, G coSVG_5 _GS%J (uic( Sourc%, i_ Sil2%r SVri_M, MDA, uY%J
Yof|<Gr% cGll%J _ool@oo( G_J Vu| |oM%|"%r G SoJ%Y|l5 i_|%rGc|i2%
i_|roJuc|io_ |o |"% coll%c|io_A  fi(% |"% |<o Vr%c%Ji_M YV%G(%rY,
 f~cS}@@Ao~l GrMu%J |"G| |"% r%Gl GYY%| <GY |"% u_J%rl5i_M coll%c|io_A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l Vroc%%J%J |o J%Ycri@% 2GriouY Y%Grc" G_J r%|ri%2Gl
cGVG@ili|i%Y <"il% ~l[AY <or(%J |"% coSVu|%rA  c_ |"iY VGr|iculGr VGc(GM%
|"% "Mo |o" VullSJo<_ Gllo<%J |"% uY%r i_ %ff%c| |o PuSV ou| of _ool@oo(,
<"%r% |"% i_|%rGc|i2% VroMrGS <GY locG|%J, G_J %_|%r |"% |"irJSVGr|5
Yof|<Gr% uY%J @5 AM for |"iY |%x| coll%c|io_, <"ic" iY cGll%J P%rYo_Gl
fi@rGriG_A  _"iY <GY |"% [i_Jo<Y 2%rYio_ of P%rYo_Gl fi@rGriG_, G
Yof|<Gr% GVVlicG|io_ Vu| |oM%|"%r @5 G coSVG_5 i_ loc(2ill%, MJA

Si_c% |"% @roGJYiJ%Y cGS% froS |"% l%2olu|io_Gr5 [Gr V%rioJ, G Y%Grc" <GY
co_Juc|%J uYi_M |"% <orJY 8ri|iY" or <Gr, <i|" |"% J%fGul| oV%rG|or r%Y%|
GY orA   f~cS}@@Ao~l J%So_Y|rG|%J @o|" Gu|oSG|ic Y|%SSi_M (<"ic" fi_JY
o|"%r forSY of |"% YGS% roo|l G_J G |ru_cG|%J Y%Grc"A  i_% of P%rYo_Gl
fi@rGriG_MY Y|ro_M%Y| f%G|ur%Y, |"% r%l%2G_c% rG_(i_M, <GY r%Vr%Y%_|%J @5
G c"Gr| |"G| i_JicG|%J "o< of|%_ <orJY @%i_M YouM"| GVV%Gr%J i_
JocuS%_|Y, <i|" |"% o_% r%c%i2i_M |"% SoY| ""i|Y" o@|Gi_i_M |"% "iM"%Y|
Ycor%A  _"% ""i| liY|" |"G| iY YuVVli%J |G(%Y |"% r%l%2G_c% rG_(i_M i_|o
Gccou_|, SG(i_M |"% firY| "i|, i_ %ff%c|, |"% o_% |"% Yof|<Gr% "GY
Y%l%c|%J GY |"% SoY| r%l%2G_| %xGSVl%A

["il% i_ |"% |%x| of o_% of |"% @roGJYiJ% JocuS%_|Y,  f~cS}@@Ao~l
r%SGr(%J AMMY G||%SV| |o fi_J <G5Y |o co__%c| cG|GloMi_M |o |"% |%x|Y,
<"ic" i| Jo%Y i_ Jiff%r%_| <G5Y i_ Jiff%r%_| SG_if%Y|G|io_YA  c_ |"% cGY%
Y"o<_, |"% cG|GloMi_M <GY VGY|%J o_u  AM |oo( MAl} r%corJY |"G| <%r%
<ri||%_ GY o_Sli_% r%corJY riM"| i_|o o_% of |"% fi@rGr5MY SGi_frGS%
r%|ri%2Gl VroMrGSY, Vull%J |"%S ou|, G_J "G_J%J |"%S off |o |"% co_|rGc|or,
<"o SGYYGM%J |"%S YoS%<"G| |o JiYVlG5 |"%S i_ |"% SG__%r Y"o<_A  i_% of
AMMY [u%Y|io_Y iY, Do%Y |"% cG|GloMui_M _orSGll5 V%rforS%J i_ |"% SGi_frGS%
<or( i_ |"iY co_|%x|, or "GJ AM ouM"| |o |"i_( |"rouM" GJPuY|S%_|Y8

 f~cS}@@Ao~l SGJ% |"% GJJi|io_Gl Voi_| |"G|, GY fGr GY |"% |%x| Mo%Y, AM
"GY MrG2i|G|%J |o<GrJY SGMf ("% Voi_|%J |o |"% @olJfGc% i_ |"% uVV%r VGr|
of |"% Ycr%%_lA  Al|"ouM" %x|r%S%l5 liSi|%J i_ i|Y G@ili|5 |o |rG_YlG|%
or i_|%rVr%| SGMf, P%rYo_Gl fi@rGriG_ <ill fur_iY" @o|" @olJ G_J i|GlicY
o_ Ycr%%_2 G fGirl5 %GY5 |"i_M |o Jo, @u| i| iY o_% of |"% <G5Y i_ <"ic"
SGMf iY uY%fulA

S|ri(i_M G @GlG_c% @%|<%%_ [uG_|i|5 G_J [uGli|5 "GY @%%_ G SGPor co_c%r_
of AM, <i|" GccurGc5 @%i_M o_% of |"% VlGc%Y <"%r% VroP%c| Y|Gff "G2%
f%l| |"G| l%YY |"G_ uDDSV%rc%_| GccurGc5 <GY _o| u_Gcc%V|G@l%A
 f~cS}@@Ao~l ci|%J |"% %xGSVl% of |"% Y|G_JGrJ of |"% r%(%5i_M i_JuY|r5,
_GS%l5 }}A}5 V%rc%_|2 GY o_% Y%r2ic% @ur%Gu i_forS%J "iS, |o Mo froS
}}A}5 |o uDD V%rc%_| <oulJ Jou@l% |"% coY|A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l _%x| J%So_Y|rG|%J "o< AM fur_iY"%Y uY%rY r%courY% |o iSGM%Y,
G_J G| |"% YGS% |iS% r%cGll%J f~S%MY Voi_|%J [u%Y|io_ co_c%r_i_M |"%
_uS@%r of V%oVl% <"o <oulJ loo( G| |"oY% iSGM%Y G_J |"% _uS@%r <"o <oulJ
<or( o_l5 <i|" |"% |%x|A  cf |"% iSVlicG|io_ of f~S%MY [u%Y|io_ <GY
You_J,  f~cS}@@Ao~l YGiJ, i| rGiY%J |"% Y|G(%Y for |%x| GccurGc5 G_J
r%Juc%J |"% 2Glu% of |"% Y|rG|%M5 for iSGM%YA

}o_|%_Ji_M |"G| Vr%Y%r2G|io_ iY Gl<G5Y G @uMG@oo,  f~cS}@@Ao~l
J%So_Y|rG|%J Y%2%rGl iSGM%Y J%ri2%J froS G YcG_ of G Vr%Y%r2G|io_
SicrofilS |"G| AM "GJ SGJ%A  @% G<GrJ%J G MrGJ% of } G| @%Y|, V%r"GVY G
} Si_uY or G } VluY, for "o< <%ll i| <or(%J ou|A  c_J%%J, |"% SG||%r of
l%Gr_i_M if o|"%r V%oVl% "GJ @%||%r iJ%GY G@ou| YcG__i_M i_ M%_%rGl, G_J,
i_ VGr|iculGr, YcG__i_M froS SicrofilS, <GY o_% of |"% fGc|orY |"G| Jro2%
AM |o G||%SV| |o |"i_( |"rouM" |"% GM%_JG for |"% [or(Y"oVA  S(%<, for
%xGSVl%, <GY o_% of |"% iYYu%Y |"G| AM i_ i|Y iM_orG_c% "GJ _o| r%c(o_%J
<oulJ Vro2% Yo Jifficul|A

 ur|"%r, |"% "G_Jli_M of iSGM%Y of |"% Yor| Y"o<_, i_ G J%Y(|oV coSVu|%r
%_2iro_S%_|, i_2ol2%J G co_YiJ%rG@l% GSou_| of ,ooSi_M G_J Ycrolli_MA
ol|iSG|%l5, AM Y|Gff f%%l |"G| V%r"GVY |"% VGV%r coV5 |"G| iY Vri_|%J ou|
SiM"| @% |"% SoY| uY%ful o_%, @u| |"%5 r%SGi_ u_c%r|Gi_ GY |o "o< Suc"
o_SYcr%%_ r%GJi_M uY%rY <ill JoA

l%|ur_i_M |o |"% |%x|,  f~cS}@@Ao~l GY(%J 2i%<%rY |o iSGMi_% G V%rYo_ <"o
SiM"| @% co_Juc|i_M G Y%Grc" i_ G fullS|%x| %_2iro_S%_|A  [i|" |"iY
Yc%_Grio, "% Vroc%%J%J |o illuY|rG|% o|"%r f%G|ur%Y of P%rYo_Gl fi@rGriG_
|"G| "% co_YiJ%r%J "%lVful2 for %xGSVl%, i| Vro2iJ%Y |"% G@ili|5 |o
_o|ic% <orJY GY o_% r%GJYA  }lic(i_M |"% "i_cluJ%" @u||o_ o_ |"% @o||oS
of |"% Y%Grc" <i_Jo< VoVY |"% <orJY |"G| "G2% @%%_ "iM"liM"|%J i_|o |"%
Y%Grc"A  _"uY, G uY%r cG_ r%fi_% |"% Y%Grc" GY "% or Y"% r%GJY,
r%S%x%cu|i_M |"% Y%Grc" G_J co_|i_ui_M |o fi_J |"i_MY i_ |"% [u%Y| for
SG|%riGlYA  _"iY Yof|<Gr% _o| o_l5 co_|Gi_Y r%l%2G_c% rG_(i_M, 8ool%G_
oV%rG|orY, G_J |ru_cG|io_, i| GlYo V%rSi|Y o_% |o V%rforS <orJ GlM%@rG,
Yo |o YG5, <"%r% o_% Vu|Y |<o or |"r%% <orJY i_ VGr%_|"%Y%Y G_J li_(Y
|"%S <i|" o_% 8ool%G_ oV%rG|or G_J |"%_ G couVl% of <orJY i_ G_o|"%r Y%|
of VGr%_|"%Y%Y G_J GY(Y for |"i_MY <i|"i_ Yo SG_5 <orJY of o|"%rYA

o_|il |"%5 @%cGS% Gc[uGi_|%J r%c%_|l5 <i|" YoS% of |"% <or( @%i_M Jo_% i_
clGYYicY, |"% AM Y|Gff "GJ _o| r%Gli,%J |"G| G lGrM% _uS@%r of |"%
VroP%c|Y |"G| i_2ol2% %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y <%r% @%i_M Jo_% @5 V%oVl% <i|" G
Vrofou_J i_|%r%Y| i_ lG_MuGM% G_J li_MuiY|icYA  _"%ir Y%Grc" Y|rG|%Mi%Y
G_J |"i_(i_M Gr% ori%_|%J |o |"oY% fi%lJY, GY iY Y"o<_ i_ VGr|iculGr @5
|"% P%rY%uY %xGSVl%A  AY GSG|%ur "iY|oriG_Y, |"% AM Y|Gff <%r% |"i_(i_M
Sor% of Y%Grc"i_M for co_c%V|Y G_J iJ%GY |"G_ for VGr|iculGr <orJYA
i@2iouYl5,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, Y%Grc"i_M for co_c%V|Y G_J iJ%GY G_J
Y%Grc"i_M for <orJY SG5 @% |<o rG|"%r cloY%l5 r%lG|%J |"i_MYA

["il% JiYVlG5i_M Y%2%rGl iSGM%Y,  f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"% MGci_|oY"
Vro|o|5V% @uil| @5 AM co_|Gi_Y G Mr%G|%r Ji2%rYi|5 of forSG|YA  ~c"oi_M G
Vr%2iouY YV%G(%r, "% YGiJ |"G| i| <GY %GYi%r |o Y|i|c" |"i_MY |oM%|"%r i_
|"% MGci_|oY", |"ouM" i| |%_J%J |o @% G li||l% Sor% G_%Sic i_ Y%Grc" G_J
r%|ri%2GlA  AM, |"%r%for%, i_cr%GYi_Ml5 "GY @%%_ i_2%Y|iMG|i_M
YoV"iY|icG|%J r%|ri%2Gl %_Mi_%Y i_ |"% c8M forSG|A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l J%So_Y|rG|%J Y%2%rGl GJJi|io_Gl %xGSVl%Y of |"% Vro|o|5V%
i_|%rfGc%Yu  i_% <GY AMMY S%|GV"or for |"% _%|<or( fu|ur%, i_ <"ic" G
(i_J of r%GJi_MSrooS MrGV"ic YuMM%Y|Y "o< o_% <oulJ @% G@l% |o Mo Grou_J
|o Jiff%r%_| SG|%riGlYA  AM co_|Gi_Y G lGrM% _uS@%r of V"o|oMrGV"Y i_
G_GloM 2iJ%o forS <or(%J uV froS G 2iJ%oJiYc, <"ic" %_G@l% uY%rY |o SG(%
coVi%Y |o Vri_| or i_corVorG|% i_ JiMi|Gl JocuS%_|YA  A frGS%SMrG@@%r iY
@uil| i_|o |"% Y5Y|%S, SG(i_M i| VoYYi@l% |o @ri_M G_ iSGM% i_|o G <i_Jo<
G_J JiMi|i,% or Vri_| i| ou|A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l _%x| J%So_Y|rG|%J You_J r%corJi_M, <"ic" i_cluJ%J |%x|YA
l%c5cl%J froS G Vr%2iouY VroP%c|, |"% coll%c|io_ i_cluJ%J Yix|5 A8SrVS
V"o_oMrGV" r%corJY of Voli|icGl YV%%c"%Y |"G| <%r% SGJ% Juri_M G_J
iSS%JiG|%l5 Gf|%r [orlJ [Gr cA  _"%Y% co_Y|i|u|%J GVVroxiSG|%l5 |"r%%
"ourY of GuJio, GY AM "GY JiMi|i,%J i|, <"ic" occuV5 u5D S%MG@5|%Y o_ G
}DA  _"uY, |"%5 Gr% co_YiJ%rG@l5 coSVr%YY%JA   roS |"% cG|GloMu% cGrJ,
 f~cS}@@Ao~l Vroc%%J%J |o G |rG_YcriV| of G YV%%c" <i|" |"% GuJio
G2GilG@l% G_J <i|" "iM"liM"|%J |%x| follo<i_M i| GY i| VlG5%JA
A V"o|oMrGV" "GY @%%_ GJJ%J G_J G |rG_YcriV|io_ SGJ%A
