performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an in-house service
bureau executed the first at a cost between $8 and $10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Project--a
two-disk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid rain--cost $6.70 per page for everything,
including keying of the text, which was double keyed, scanning of the
images, and building of the database.  The in-house project offered
considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.  On
the other hand, the service bureaus know their job and perform it
expeditiously, because they have more people.

As a useful comparison, ERWAY revealed AM's costs as follows:  $0.75
cents to $0.85 cents per thousand characters, with an average page
containing 2,700 characters.  Requirements for coding and imaging
increase the costs.  Thus, conversion of the text, including the coding,
costs approximately $3 per page.  (This figure does not include the
imaging and database-building included in the NAL costs.)  AM also
enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the request-for-proposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AM's rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a book-edge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately $7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spell-checkings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NAL's expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records h"G2%
@%%_ SGJ% for %Gc" V"o|oMrGV",  f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J |"G| G_ i|%SSl%2%l
cG|GloM r%corJ %xiY|Y, for %xGSVl%, for %Gc" V"o|oMrGV" i_ |"% D%|roi|
Pu@liY"i_M coll%c|io_ of 25,DDD Vic|ur%YA  c_ |"% cGY% of |"%  %J%rGl
[ri|%rY ProP%c|, for <"ic" _%Grl5 <,DDD JocuS%_|Y %xiY|, r%Vr%Y%_|i_M
i_forSG|io_ froS |<%_|5SYix Jiff%r%_| Y|G|%Y, AM <i|" |"% GYYiY|G_c% of
%Gr%_ S_oAl_ of |"% MG_uYcriV| Di2iYio_ <ill G||%SV| |o fi_J YoS% <G5 _o|
o_l5 |o "G2% G coll%c|io_Sl%2%l r%corJ @u| V%r"GVY G MAl} r%corJ for %Gc"
Y|G|%, <"ic" <ill |"%_ Y%r2% GY G_ uS@r%llG for |"% uDDS2DD JocuS%_|Y
|"G| coS% u_J%r i|A  8u| |"G| JrGSG r%SGi_Y |o @% %_Gc|%JA  _"% AM Y|Gff
iY co_Y%r2G|i2% G_J cli_MY |o cG|GloMui_M, |"ouM" of courY% 2iYi|orY |ou|
Gr|ificiGl i_|%lliM%_c% G_J _%urGl _%|<or(Y i_ G SG__%r |"G| YuMM%Y|Y |"G|
V%r"GVY o_% _%%J _o| "G2% cG|GloMui_M or |"G| Suc" of i| coulJ @% Vu| GYiJ%A

_"% SG||%r of SGMf coJi_M,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, r%|ur_%J |"% JiYcuYYio_
|o |"% %Grli%r |r%G|%J [u%Y|io_ of [uGli|5 2%rYuY [uG_|i|5 i_ |"% fi@rGr5
of }o_Mr%YYA  if courY%, |%x| co_2%rYio_ cG_ @% Jo_% <i|" uDDSV%rc%_|
GccurGc5, @u| i| S%G_Y |"G| <"%_ o_%MY "olJi_MY Gr% GY 2GY| GY f}MY o_l5
G |i_5 GSou_| <ill @% %xVoY%J, <"%r%GY V%rSi||i_M lo<%r l%2%lY of
GccurGc5 cG_ l%GJ |o %xVoYi_M or Y"Gri_M lGrM%r GSou_|Y, @u| <i|" |"%
[uGli|5 corr%YVo_Ji_Ml5 iSVGir%JA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
_[i@cG P A co_|rGr5 %xV%ri%_c% co_c%r_i_M %l%c|ro_ic oV|io_Y P VoluS% of
SG|%riGl i_ |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY G_J G YuMM%Y|io_ of DG2iJ PGc(GrJ P
cSVlicG|io_Y of PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ P _rG_Ycri@i_M |"% JocuS%_|Y for |"%
}DSliM P AccurGc5 of |rG_YcriV|io_Y P _"% }DSliM %Ji|io_ of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY JocuS%_|Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 i_Ji_M %_courGM%S%_| i_ G coSS%_| of Mc}@~fSi"MY froS |"% Sor_i_M
Y%YYio_SS|"G| _uS%rouY V%oVl% i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y <%r% c"ooYi_M %l%c|ro_ic
oV|io_Y |o Jo |"%ir <or(SSDoro|"5 _[i@cG, %Ji|or, _"% PGV%rY of G%orM%
[GY"i_M|o_, oV%_%J "%r illuY|rG|%J |Gl( @5 _o|i_M |"G| "%r %xV%ri%_c%
<i|" li|%rGr5 Yc"olGrY G_J _uS%rouY V%oVl% i_ %Ji|i_M <GY co_|rGr5 |o
Mc}@~fSi"MYA  _[i@cG %SV"GYi,%J li|%rGr5 Yc"olGrYM coSVl%|% iM_orG_c% of
|"% |%c"_oloMicGl oV|io_Y G2GilG@l% |o |"%S or |"%ir r%luc|G_c% or, i_
YoS% cGY%Y, |"%ir Jo<_riM"| "oY|ili|5 |o<GrJ |"%Y% oV|io_YA

Af|%r Vro2iJi_M G_ o2%r2i%< of |"% fi2%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VroP%c|Y
(J%ff%rYo_ G| Pri_c%|o_,  rG_(li_ G| YGl%, Jo"_ AJGSY G| |"%
MGYYGc"uY%||Y @iY|oricGl Soci%|5, G_J MGJiYo_ Jo<_ |"% "Gll froS "%r G|
|"% o_i2%rYi|5 of VirMi_iGl, _[i@cG o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY,
li(% Gll of |"% VroP%c|Y, i_cluJ% @o|" YiJ%Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_
corr%YVo_J%_c% G_J J%Gl <i|" YoS% u<5,DDD JocuS%_|Y |o @% Vu@liY"%J <i|"
%x|%_Yi2% G__o|G|io_ i_ %iM"|5 |o %iM"|5Sfi2% 2oluS%Y, G VroP%c| |"G|
<ill _o| @% coSVl%|%J u_|il <%ll i_|o |"% _%x| c%_|ur5A  _"uY, i| <GY
<i|" co_YiJ%rG@l% %_|"uYiGYS Y%2%rGl 5%GrY GMo |"G| |"% [GY"i_M|o_ PGV%rY
ProP%c| ([PPl Mr%%|%J DG2iJ PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ |"G| |"% VGV%rY of |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY coulJ @% Vu@liY"%J %GYil5 G_J i_%xV%_Yi2%l5, G_J |o |"%
Mr%G| @%_%fi| of AS%ricG_ Yc"olGrY"iV, 2iG }DSliMA

c_ VrGMSG|ic |%rSY, fu_Ji_M froS |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ <oulJ %xV%Ji|%
|"% |rG_YcriV|io_ of |"ouYG_JY of JocuS%_|Y <Gi|i_M |o @% Vu| o_ JiY( i_
|"% [PP offic%YA   ur|"%r, Yi_c% |"% coY|Y of coll%c|i_M, %Ji|i_M, G_J
co_2%r|i_M |"%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY JocuS%_|Y i_|o l%||%rVr%YY %Ji|io_Y <%r%
ru__i_M i_|o |"% Sillio_Y of JollGrY, G_J |"% co_YiJ%rG@l% Y|GffY
i_2ol2%J i_ Gll of |"%Y% VroP%c|Y <%r% J%2o|i_M |"%ir cGr%%rY |o
VroJuci_M |"% <or(, |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_MY YuMM%Y|io_ "GJ G
r%2olu|io_Gr5 GYV%c|u  _rG_YcriV|io_Y of |"% %_|ir% corVuY of |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VGV%rY <oulJ @% G2GilG@l% o_ }DSliM |o Vu@lic G_J
coll%M% li@rGri%Y, %2%_ "iM" Yc"oolY, G| G frGc|io_ of |"% coY|SS
JuDDSJu5D for |"% G__uGl lic%_Y% f%%SS|o VroJuc% G liSi|%J u_i2%rYi|5
Vr%YY ru_ of u,DDD of %Gc" 2oluS% of |"% Vu@liY"%J VGV%rY G| Jx5SJu5D V%r
Vri_|%J 2oluS%A  Gi2%_ |"% curr%_| @uJM%| cru_c" i_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SY
G_J |"% corr%YVo_Ji_M co_Y|rGi_|Y o_ li@rGriG_Y i_ YSGll%r i_Y|i|u|io_Y
<"o <iY" |o GJJ |"%Y% 2oluS%Y |o |"%ir coll%c|io_Y, VroJuci_M |"%
JocuS%_|Y o_ }DSliM <oulJ li(%l5 oV%_ G Mr%G|l5 %xVG_J%J GuJi%_c% for |"%
VGV%rYA  _[i@cG Y|r%YY%J, "o<%2%r, |"G| J%2%loVS%_| of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY }DSliM iY Y|ill i_ i|Y i_fG_c5A  S%riouY Yof|<Gr% Vro@l%SY r%SGi_
|o @% r%Yol2%J @%for% |"% SG|%riGl cG_ @% Vu| i_|o r%GJG@l% forSA

 u_Ji_M froS |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ r%Yul|%J i_ G SGPor VuY" |o
|rG_Ycri@% |"% A5,DDD or Yo JocuS%_|Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY r%SGi_i_M
|o @% |rG_Ycri@%J o_|o coSVu|%r JiY(YA  SliJ%Y illuY|rG|%J Y%2%rGl of |"%
Vro@l%SY %_cou_|%r%J, for %xGSVl%, |"% Vr%Y%_| i_G@ili|5 of }DSliM |o
i_JicG|% |"% croYYSou|Y (J%l%|%J SG|%riGll i_ %iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5
JocuS%_|YA  _[i@cG _%x| J%Ycri@%J JocuS%_|Y froS 2GriouY V%rioJY i_ |"%
%iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5 |"G| "G2% @%%_ |rG_Ycri@%J i_ c"ro_oloMicGl orJ%r G_J
J%li2%r%J |o |"% PGc(GrJ offic%Y i_ }Glifor_iG, <"%r% |"%5 Gr% co_2%r|%J
|o |"% }DSliM, G Vroc%YY |"G| iY %xV%c|%J |o co_YuS% fi2% 5%GrY |o
coSVl%|% (|"G| iY, r%c(o_i_M froS DG2iJ PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ SGJ% Y%2%rGl
5%GrY GMo, u_|il G@ou| Jul5 u}}xlA  _[i@cG fou_J G_ %_courGMi_M
i_JicG|io_ of |"% VroP%c|MY @%_%fi|Y i_ |"% o_Moi_M uY% SGJ% @5 Yc"olGrY
of |"% Y%Grc" fu_c|io_Y of |"% }DSliM, VGr|iculGrl5 i_ r%Juci_M |"% |iS%
YV%_| i_ SG_uGll5 |ur_i_M |"% VGM%Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rYA

_[i@cG _%x| fur_iY"%J J%|GilY co_c%r_i_M |"% GccurGc5 of |rG_YcriV|io_YA
 or i_Y|G_c%, |"% i_Y%r|io_ of |"ouYG_JY of JocuS%_|Y o_ |"% }DSliM
curr%_|l5 Jo%Y _o| V%rSi| %Gc" JocuS%_| |o @% 2%rifi%J GMGi_Y| |"%
oriMi_Gl SG_uYcriV| Y%2%rGl |iS%Y GY i_ |"% cGY% of JocuS%_|Y |"G| GVV%Gr
i_ |"% Vu@liY"%J %Ji|io_A  @o<%2%r, |"% |rG_YcriV|io_Y r%c%i2% G curYor5
c"%c( for o@2iouY |5VoY, |"% SiYYV%lli_MY of VroV%r _GS%Y, G_J o|"%r
%rrorY froS |"% [PP }DSliM %Ji|orA  ~2%_|uGll5, Gll JocuS%_|Y |"G| GVV%Gr
i_ |"% %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_ <ill @% c"%c(%J @5 VroP%c| %Ji|orYA  Al|"ouM"
|"iY Vroc%YY "GY S%| <i|" oVVoYi|io_ froS YoS% of |"% %Ji|orY o_ |"%
Mrou_JY |"G| iSV%rf%c| <or( SG5 l%G2% |"%ir offic%Y, |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y i_
SG(i_M |"iY SG|%riGl G2GilG@l% GY G r%Y%Grc" |ool ou|<%iM"  f%GrY G@ou| |"%
SiYYV%lli_M of VroV%r _GS%Y G_J o|"%r r%lG|i2%l5 Si_or %Ji|oriGl SG||%rYA

}oSVl%|io_ of Gll fi2%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY VroP%c|Y (iA%A, r%|ri%2G@ili|5
G_J Y%Grc"G@ili|5 of Gll of |"% JocuS%_|Y @5 VroV%r _GS%Y, Gl|%r_G|%
YV%lli_MY, or 2Gri%|i%Y of Yu@P%c|Yl <ill Vro2iJ% o_% of |"% ric"%Y|
Yourc%Y of |"iY Yi,% for |"% "iY|or5 of |"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y i_ |"% lG||%r
VGr| of |"% %iM"|%%_|" c%_|ur5A   ur|"%r, Vu@licG|io_ o_ }DSliM <ill
Gllo< %Ji|orY |o i_cluJ% %2%_ Si_u|iG%, Yuc" GY lGu_Jr5 liY|Y, _o|
i_cluJ%J i_ |"% Vri_|%J 2oluS%YA

c| Y%%SY VoYYi@l% |"G| |"% %x|%_Yi2% G__o|G|io_ Vro2iJ%J i_ |"% Vri_|%J
2oluS%Y %2%_|uGll5 <ill @% GJJ%J |o |"% }DSliM %Ji|io_, V%_Ji_M
_%Mo|iG|io_Y <i|" |"% Vu@liY"%rY of |"% VGV%rYA  A| |"% SoS%_|, |"%
 ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY }DSliM iY Gcc%YYi@l% o_l5 o_ |"% c8Y}oS, G coSVu|%r
J%2%loV%J ou| of |"% _"%YGuruY fi_MuG% GrG%cG% VroP%c| G_J J%YiM_%J for
|"% uY% of clGYYicGl Yc"olGrYA  _"%r% Gr% V%r"GVY xDD c8Y}oS coSVu|%rY i_
|"% cou_|r5, SoY| of <"ic" Gr% i_ u_i2%rYi|5 clGYYicY J%VGr|S%_|YA
ol|iSG|%l5, i| iY G_|iciVG|%J |"G| |"% }DSliM %Ji|io_ of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY JocuS%_|Y <ill ru_ o_ G_5 c8MScoSVG|i@l% or MGci_|oY" coSVu|%r
<i|" G }DSliM Jri2%A  "uS%rouY c"G_M%Y i_ |"% Yof|<Gr% <ill GlYo occur
@%for% |"% VroP%c| iY coSVl%|%JA  (~Ji|orMY _o|%u G_ c8Y}oS <GY
u_G2GilG@l% |o J%So_Y|rG|% |"% }DSliMAl

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P S%2%rGl GJJi|io_Gl f%G|ur%Y of [PP clGrifi%J P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

DiYcuYYio_ follo<i_M _[i@cGMY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ Y%r2%J |o clGrif5 Y%2%rGl
GJJi|io_Gl f%G|ur%Y, i_cluJi_M (ul |"G| |"% VroP%c|MY VriSGr5
i_|%ll%c|uGl VroJuc| co_YiY|Y i_ |"% %l%c|ro_ic |rG_YcriV|io_ of |"%
SG|%riGl2 (2l |"G| |"% |%x| |rG_YSi||%J |o |"% }DSliM V%oVl% iY _o|
SGr(%J uV2 (<l |"G| cG|GloMi_M G_J Yu@P%c|Si_J%xi_M of |"% SG|%riGl
r%SGi_ |o @% <or(%J ou| (|"ouM" G| |"iY Voi_| SG|%riGl cG_ @% r%|ri%2%J
@5 _GS%l2 G_J (xl |"G| @%cGuY% Gll |"% Y%Grc"i_M iY Jo_% i_ |"% "GrJ<Gr%,
|"% c8Y}oS iY J%YiM_%J |o r%GJ G }DSliM <"ic" co_|Gi_Y o_l5 Y%[u%_|iGl
|%x| fil%YA  _%c"_icGll5, i| |"%_ @%coS%Y 2%r5 %GY5 |o r%GJ |"% SG|%riGl
off G_J Vu| i| o_ G_o|"%r J%2ic%A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
f~8li" P i2%r2i%< of |"% "iY|or5 of |"% Poi_| VroP%c| @%|<%%_ AAAS G_J
i}f} P S%2%rGl VrGc|ic%Y |"% o_Sli_% %_2iro_S%_| Y"Gr%Y <i|" |rGJi|io_Gl
Vu@liY"i_M o_ "GrJ coV5 P S%2%rGl |%c"_icGl G_J @%"G2iorGl @Grri%rY |o
%l%c|ro_ic Vu@liY"i_M P @o< AAAS G_J i}f} Grri2%J G| |"% Yu@P%c| of
cli_icGl |riGlY P AJ2G_|GM%Y of |"% %l%c|ro_ic forSG| G_J o|"%r f%G|ur%Y
of iJ}}_ P A_ illuY|rG|%J |our of |"% Pour_Gl P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

MGriG f~8li", SG_GMi_M %Ji|or, _"% i_li_% Jour_Gl of }urr%_| }li_icGl
_riGlY (iJ}}_l, Vr%Y%_|%J G_ illuY|rG|%J o2%r2i%< of |"% "iY|or5 of |"%
Poi_| VroP%c| @%|<%%_ |"% AS%ricG_ AYYociG|io_ for |"% AJ2G_c%S%_| of
Sci%_c% (AAASl G_J |"% i_li_% }oSVu|%r fi@rGr5 }%_|%r, c_cA (i}f}lA  _"
