for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several datab@GY%Y i_ G Y%_Y% co_Y|i|u|%
i_forSG|io_ Grc"i2%Y <i|"ou| G YiM_ificG_| GSou_| of _G2iMG|io_ @uil| i_A
~JucG|orY, cri|icY, G_J o|"%rY <ill <G_| G lG5%r%J Y|ruc|ur%SSo_% |"G|
J%fi_%Y or li_(Y VG|"Y |"rouM" |"% lG5%rY |o Gllo< uY%rY |o r%Gc"
YV%cific Voi_|YA  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<, lG5%ri_M <ill @%coS% i_cr%GYi_Ml5
_%c%YYGr5, G_J _o| PuY| <i|"i_ G Yi_Ml% r%Yourc% @u| GcroYY r%Yourc%Y
(%AMA, |rGci_M S5|"oloM5 G_J cul|urGl |"%S%Y GcroYY Y%2%rGl clGYYicY
JG|G@GY%Y GY <%ll GY G JG|G@GY% of l%_GiYYG_c% cul|ur%lA  _"iY G@ili|5 |o
orMG_i,% r%Yourc%Y, |o @uilJ |"i_MY ou| of Sul|iVl% o|"%r |"i_MY o_ |"%
_%|<or( or Y%l%c| Vi%c%Y of i|, r%Vr%Y%_|%J for fY"}@ o_% of |"% (%5
GYV%c|Y of _%|<or( i_forSG|io_A

}o_|%_Ji_M |"G| i_forSG|io_ r%uY% co_Y|i|u|%J G_o|"%r YiM_ificG_| iYYu%,
fY"}@ coSS%_J%J |o |"% GuJi%_c%MY G||%_|io_ ProP%c| "~~DS (iA%A, "G|io_Gl
~_Mi_%%ri_M ~JucG|io_ D%li2%r5 S5Y|%SlA  _"iY VroP%c|MY o@P%c|i2% iY |o
VroJuc% G JG|G@GY% of %_Mi_%%ri_M courY%<Gr% GY <%ll GY |"% coSVo_%_|Y
|"G| cG_ @% uY%J |o J%2%loV _%< courY%<Gr%A  c_ G _uS@%r of |"% %xiY|i_M
GVVlicG|io_Y, fY"}@ YGiJ, |"% iYYu% of r%uY% ("o< Suc" o_% cG_ |G(% GVGr|
G_J r%uY% i_ o|"%r GVVlicG|io_Yl <GY _o| @%i_M <%ll co_YiJ%r%JA  @% GlYo
rGiY%J |"% iYYu% of Gc|i2% 2%rYuY VGYYi2% uY%, o_% GYV%c| of <"ic"  iY
"o< Suc" i_forSG|io_ <ill @% SG_iVulG|%J locGll5 @5 uY%rYA  MoY| V%oVl%,
"% GrMu%J, SG5 Jo G li||l% @ro<Yi_M G_J |"%_ <ill <iY" |o Vri_|A  fY"}@
<GY u_c%r|Gi_ "o< |"%Y% r%Yourc%Y <oulJ @% uY%J @5 |"% 2GY| SGPori|5 of
uY%rY i_ |"% _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|A

fY"}@ _%x| YGiJ G f%< <orJY G@ou| rS[i_Jo<Y GY G <G5 of Jiff%r%_|iG|i_M
@%|<%%_ _%|<or( Gcc%YY G_J _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_A  A _uS@%r of |"%
GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J G| |"% [or(Y"oV coulJ @% r%<ri||%_ |o uY% r
GcroYY |"% _%|<or(, Yo |"G| o_% coulJ ru_ |"%S froS G_5 rScGVG@l% J%2ic%S
SG <or(Y|G|io_, G_ r |%rSi_GlSSG_J |rG_YGc| <i|" G JG|G@GY% GcroYY |"%
_%|<or(A  Al|"ouM" |"iY oV%_Y uV Gcc%YY G li||l%, GYYuSi_M o_% "GY %_ouM"
_%|<or( |o "G_Jl% i|, i| Jo%Y _o| Vro2iJ% G_ i_|%rfGc% |o J%2%loV G
VroMrGS |"G| co_2%_i%_|l5 i_|%MrG|%Y i_forSG|io_ froS Sul|iVl% JG|G@GY%YA
r iY G 2i%<i_M |%c"_oloM5 |"G| "GY liSi|YA  c_ G r%Gl Y%_Y%, i| iY PuY| G
MrGV"icGl 2%rYio_ of r%So|% loMSi_ GcroYY |"% _%|<or(A  rS|5V% GVVlicG|io_Y
r%Vr%Y%_| o_l5 o_% Y|%V i_ |"% VroMr%YYio_ |o<GrJY r%Gl Gcc%YYA

fY"}@ _%x| JiYcuYY%J @Grri%rY |o |"% JiY|ri@u|io_ of _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG
i_forSG|io_A  _"% "%Gr| of |"% Vro@l%S iY G lGc( of Y|G_JGrJY |o Vro2iJ%
|"% G@ili|5 for coSVu|%rY |o |Gl( |o %Gc" o|"%r, r%|ri%2% i_forSG|io_,
G_J Y"uffl% i| Grou_J fGirl5 cGYuGll5A  A| |"% SoS%_|, li||l% VroMr%YY iY
@%i_M SGJ% o_ Y|G_JGrJY for _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_2 for %xGSVl%, Vr%Y%_|
Y|G_JGrJY Jo _o| co2%r iSGM%Y, JiMi|Gl 2oic%, G_J JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oA  A
uY%ful |ool (i| of %xc"G_M% forSG|Y for @GYic |%x|Y iY o_l5 _o< @%i_M
GYY%S@l%JA  _"% Y5_c"ro_i,G|io_ of co_|%_| Y|r%GSY (iA%A, Y5_c"ro_i,i_M G
2oic% |rGc( |o G 2iJ%o |rGc(, %Y|G@liY"i_M |%SVorGl r%lG|io_Y @%|<%%_
Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y i_ G Sul|iS%JiG o@P%c|l co_Y|i|u|%Y G_o|"%r iYYu%
for _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG |"G| iY PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o r%c%i2% G||%_|io_A

o_J%rl5i_M _%|<or( Vro|ocolY GlYo _%%J YoS% <or(2 MooJ, r%GlS|iS%
J%li2%r5 Vro|ocolY o_ |"% c_|%r_%| Jo _o| 5%| %xiY|A  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<,
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| i_ |"iY co_|%x| iY |"% _o|io_ of _%|<or(%J JiMi|Gl
o@P%c| cDY, |"% G@ili|5 of o_% o@P%c| o_ |"% _%|<or( |o Voi_| |o G_o|"%r
o@P%c| (or coSVo_%_| |"%r%ofl o_ |"% _%|<or(A  S%riouY @G_J<iJ|" iYYu%Y
GlYo %xiY|A  fY"}@ <GY u_c%r|Gi_ if @illio_S@i|SV%rSY%co_J _%|<or(Y <oulJ
Vro2% Yuffici%_| if _uS%rouY V%oVl% rG_ 2iJ%o i_ VGrGll%lA

fY"}@ co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G_ iYYu% for JG|G@GY% cr%G|orY |o co_YiJ%r,
GY <%ll GY Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y G@ou| <"G| SiM"| co_Y|i|u|% MooJ |riGl
Sul|iS%JiG %xV%riS%_|YA  c_ G _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <orlJ |"% JG|G@GY%
@uilJ%r or Y%r2ic% @uilJ%r (Vu@liY"%rl Jo%Y _o| %x%rciY% |"% YGS%
%x|%_Yi2% co_|rol o2%r |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_2 Y|rG_M%
VroMrGSY "Su_M%" <i|" o_%MY JG|G @%for% |"% uY%r Y%%Y i|A  S%riouY
|"ouM"| SuY| @% Mi2%_ |o <"G| MuGrG_|%%Y i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  PGr|
of |"G| iY r%lG|%J |o <"%r% o_% JrG<Y |"% @ou_JGri%Y Grou_J G _%|<or(%J
i_forSG|io_ Y%r2ic%A  _"iY [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_
cli%_|SY%r2%r coSVu|i_M "GY _o| @%%_ Y|r%YY%J %_ouM" i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic
<orlJ, fY"}@ GrMu%J, |"ouM" coSS%rciGl Y%r2ic% Vro2iJ%rY J%Gl <i|" i|
r%MulGrl5A

}o_c%r_i_M Sul|iS%JiG, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| MooJ Sul|iS%JiG G| |"% SoS%_|
iY "iJ%ouYl5 %xV%_Yi2% |o VroJuc%A  @% r%coSS%_J%J VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
<i|" %i|"%r 2%r5 "iM" YGl% 2Glu%, or Sul|iS%JiG <i|" G 2%r5 lo_M lif%
YVG_, or Sul|iS%JiG |"G| <ill "G2% G 2%r5 @roGJ uYGM% @GY% G_J <"oY%
coY|Y |"%r%for% cG_ @% GSor|i,%J GSo_M lGrM% _uS@%rY of uY%rYA  c_ |"iY
co__%c|io_, "iY|oricGl G_J "uSG_iY|icGll5 ori%_|%J SG|%riGl SG5 @% G MooJ
VlGc% |o Y|Gr|, @%cGuY% i| |%_JY |o "G2% G lo_M%r lif% YVG_ |"G_ Suc" of
|"% Yci%_|ific SG|%riGl, GY <%ll GY G <iJ%r uY%r @GY%A  fY"}@ _o|%J, for
%xGSVl%, |"G| AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 fi|Y SG_5 of |"% cri|%riG ou|li_%JA  @%
r%SGr(%J |"% %x|%_Yi2% JiYcuYYio_ G@ou| @ri_Mi_M |"% c_|%r_%| or |"%
"G|io_Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~JucG|io_ "%|<or( ("l~"l i_|o |"% %Su2 %_2iro_S%_|
GY G <G5 of "%lVi_M |"% AS%ricG_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SA

fY"}@ cloY%J @5 _o|i_M |"G| |"% (i_JY of GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J Y|ruc(
"iS GY %xc%ll%_| PuY|ificG|io_Y of @roGJSYcGl% _%|<or(i_M for %Su2, @u|
|"G| G| |"iY |iS% _o "(ill%r" GVVlicG|io_ %xiY|Y |o So@ili,% |"% %Su2
coSSu_i|5 |o o@|Gi_ co__%c|i2i|5A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P D%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5 i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(
G Ylo<Sc"G_Mi_M Yi|uG|io_ P _"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_
G _%|<or(%J %_2iro_S%_| P S%2%rGl r%GYo_Y <"5 }DSliM Yof|<Gr% Jo%Y _o|
_%|<or( P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J fY"}@MY Vr%Y%_|G|io_, Y%2%rGl
GJJi|io_Gl Voi_|Y <%r% SGJ%A

fY"}@ r%i|%rG|%J %2%_ Sor% Y|ro_Ml5 "iY co_|%_|io_ |"G|, "iY|oricGll5,
o_c% o_% Mo%Y ou|YiJ% "iM"S%_J Yci%_c% G_J |"% MrouV of |"oY% <"o _%%J
Gcc%YY |o YuV%rcoSVu|%rY, |"%r% iY G Mr%G| J%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5
i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(A  @% YG< |"iY Yi|uG|io_ c"G_Mi_M
Ylo<l5, <i|" YoS% of |"% Yci%_|ific JG|G@GY%Y G_J Yc"olGrl5 JiYcuYYio_
MrouVY G_J %l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY coSi_M o_ GY <%ll GY <i|" |"% G2GilG@ili|5
of [iJ% Ar%G c_forSG|io_ S%r2%rY ([AcSl G_J YoS% of |"% JG|G@GY%Y |"G|
Gr% @%i_M Sou_|%J |"%r%A  @o<%2%r, SG_5 of |"oY% |"i_MY Jo _o| Y%%S |o
"G2% Vi[u%J Mr%G| VoVulGr i_|%r%Y|A   or i_Y|G_c%, SoY| "iM" Yc"ool
Y|uJ%_|Y of fY"}@MY Gc[uGi_|G_c% <oulJ _o| [uGlif5 GY J%2o|%%Y of Y%riouY
Sol%culGr @ioloM5A

}o_c%r_i_M |"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_, fY"}@ @%li%2%J
|"G| G couVl% of i_forSG|io_ Vro2iJ%rY "G2% lGiJ Jo<_ |"% lG< G| l%GY| o_
c%r|Gi_ |"i_MYA   or %xGSVl%, "iY r%coll%c|io_ <GY |"G| |"% "G|io_Gl
fi@rGr5 of M%Jici_% f%%lY Y|ro_Ml5 |"G| o_% _%%JY |o %SVlo5 |"%
iJ%_|ifi%r fi%lJ if "% or Y"% iY |o Sou_| G JG|G@GY% coSS%rciGll5A  _"%
Vro@l%S <i|" G r%Gl _%|<or(%J %_2iro_S%_| iY |"G| o_% Jo%Y _o| (_o< <"o
iY r%forSG||i_M G_J r%Vroc%YYi_M o_%MY JG|G <"%_ o_% %_|%rY G cli%_|
Y%r2%r SoJ%A  c| @%coS%Y G_5@oJ5MY Mu%YY, for %xGSVl%, if |"% _%|<or(
uY%Y G |<}A5D Y%r2%r, or <"G| cli%_|Y Gr% Joi_M <i|" o_%MY JG|GA  A JG|G
Vro2iJ%r cG_ YG5 |"G| "iY co_|rGc| <ill o_l5 V%rSi| cli%_|Y |o "G2%
Gcc%YY |o "iY JG|G Gf|%r "% 2%|Y |"%S G_J |"%ir Vr%Y%_|G|io_ G_J SG(%Y
c%r|Gi_ i| Yui|Y "iSA  8u| fY"}@ "%lJ ou| li||l% %xV%c|G|io_ |"G| |"%
_%|<or( SGr(%|VlGc% <oulJ %2ol2% i_ |"G| <G5, @%cGuY% i| r%[uir%J |oo
Suc" Vrior _%Mo|iG|io_A

}DSliM Yof|<Gr% Jo%Y _o| _%|<or( for G 2Gri%|5 of r%GYo_Y, fY"}@ YGiJA
@% YV%culG|%J |"G| }DSliM Vu@liY"%rY Gr% _o| %GM%r |o "G2% |"%ir VroJuc|Y
r%Gll5 "oo( i_|o <iJ% Gr%G _%|<or(Y, @%cGuY% |"%5 f%Gr i| <ill SG(% |"%ir
JG|G YuVVli%rY _%r2ouYA  Mor%o2%r, u_|il r%lG|i2%l5 r%c%_|l5, o_% "GJ |o
@% rG|"%r GJroi| |o ru_ G full _}PYcP Y|Gc( VluY GVVlicG|io_Y o_ G
P}SYi,% SGc"i_%, <"%r%GY _o<GJG5Y i| iY @%coSi_M %GYi%r GY P}Y Mro<
@iMM%r G_J fGY|%rA  fY"}@ GlYo YV%culG|%J |"G| Yof|<Gr% Vro2iJ%rY "GJ _o|
"%GrJ froS |"%ir cuY|oS%rY u_|il |"% lGY| 5%Gr or Yo, or "GJ _o| "%GrJ
froS %_ouM" of |"%ir cuY|oS%rYA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
8~SS~l P cSVlicG|io_Y of JiYY%Si_G|i_M iSGM%Y o_ |"% _%|<or(2 VlG__i_M
|"% JiY|ri@u|io_ of Sul|iS%JiG JocuS%_|Y VoY%Y |<o cri|icG
