resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
By high speed, BROWNRIGG meant 1 megabyte and 1.5 megabytes.  Those units
have been built, he continued, and are in the process of being
type-certified by an independent underwriting laboratory so that they can
be type-licensed by the Federal Communications Commission.  As is the
case with citizens band, one will be able to purchase a unit and not have
to worry about applying for a license.

The basic idea, BROWNRIGG elaborated, is to take high-speed radio data
transmission and create a backbone network that at certain strategic
points in the network will "gateway" into a medium-speed packet radio
(i.e., one that runs at 38.4 kilobytes), so that perhaps by 1994-1995
people, like those in the audience for the price of a VCR could purchase
a mS%JiuSSYV%%J rGJio for |"% offic% or "oS%, "G2% full _%|<or( co__%c|i2i|5
|o |"% c_|%r_%|, G_J VGr|G(% of Gll i|Y Y%r2ic%Y, <i|" _o _%%J for G_  }}
lic%_Y% G_J _o r%MulGr @ill froS |"% locGl coSSo_ cGrri%rA  8li["lcGG
Vr%Y%_|%J Y%2%rGl J%|GilY of G J%So_Y|rG|io_ VroP%c| curr%_|l5 |G(i_M
VlGc% i_ SG_ Di%Mo G_J J%Ycri@%J VlG_Y, V%_Ji_M fu_Ji_M, |o i_Y|Gll G
fullS@or% _%|<or( i_ |"% SG_  rG_ciYco Gr%GA  _"iY _%|<or( <ill "G2% ,DD
_oJ%Y ru__i_M G| @Gc(@o_% YV%%JY, G_J uDD of |"%Y% _oJ%Y <ill @% li@rGri%Y,
<"ic" i_ |ur_ <ill @% |"% MG|%<G5 Vor|Y |o |"% <8Ax (ilo@5|% rGJioY |"G|
<ill Mi2% co2%rGM% for |"% _%iM"@or"ooJY Yurrou_Ji_M |"% li@rGri%YA

8li["lcGG _%x| %xVlGi_%J PGr| u5A2xA, G _%< rul% <i|"i_ _i|l% xA of |"%
}oJ% of  %J%rGl l%MulG|io_Y %_Gc|%J @5 |"%  }} i_ u}85A  _"iY rul%
c"Gll%_M%J |"% i_JuY|r5, <"ic" "GY o_l5 _o< riY%_ |o |"% occGYio_, |o
@uilJ G rGJio |"G| <oulJ ru_ G| _o Sor% |"G_ o_% <G|| of ou|Vu| Vo<%r G_J
uY% G fGirl5 %xo|ic S%|"oJ of SoJulG|i_M |"% rGJio <G2% cGll%J YVr%GJ
YV%c|ruSA  SVr%GJ YV%c|ruS i_ fGc| V%rSi|Y |"% @uilJi_M of _%|<or(Y Yo
|"G| _uS%rouY JG|G coSSu_icG|io_Y cG_ occur YiSul|G_%ouYl5, <i|"ou|
i_|%rf%ri_M <i|" %Gc" o|"%r, <i|"i_ |"% YGS% <iJ% rGJio c"G__%lA

8li["lcGG %xVlGi_%J |"G| |"% fr%[u%_ci%Y G| <"ic" |"% rGJioY <oulJ ru_
Gr% 2%r5 Y"or| <G2% YiM_GlYA  _"%5 Gr% <%ll G@o2% Y|G_JGrJ Sicro<G2% G_J
rGJGrA  [i|" G rGJio <G2% |"G| YSGll, o_% <G|| @%coS%Y G |r%S%_JouY Vu_c"
V%r @i| G_J |"uY SG(%Y |rG_YSiYYio_ G| r%GYo_G@l% YV%%J VoYYi@l%A  c_
orJ%r |o Si_iSi,% |"% Vo|%_|iGl for co_M%Y|io_, |"% VroP%c| iY
u_J%r|G(i_M |o r%iSVl%S%_| Yof|<Gr% <"ic" "GY @%%_ G2GilG@l% i_ |"%
_%|<or(i_M @uYi_%YY G_J iY |G(%_ for MrG_|%J _o<, for %xGSVl%, _}PYcP,
rou|i_M GlMori|"SY, @riJM%Y, G_J MG|%<G5YA  c_ GJJi|io_, |"% VroP%c|
VlG_Y |o |G(% |"% [AcS Y%r2%r Yof|<Gr% i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi_ G_J
r%iSVl%S%_| i| Yo |"G| o_% cG_ "G2% G [AcS Y%r2%r o_ G MGc i_Y|%GJ of G
o_ix SGc"i_%A  _"% M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|% @%li%2%Y |"G| li@rGri%Y, i_
VGr|iculGr, <ill <G_| |o uY% |"% [AcS Y%r2%rY <i|" VGc(%| rGJioA  _"iY
VroP%c|, <"ic" "GY G |%GS of G@ou| |<%l2% V%oVl%, <ill ru_ |"rouM" u}}<
G_J <ill i_cluJ% |"% uDD li@rGri%Y Glr%GJ5 S%_|io_%J GY <%ll GY o|"%r
Vrof%YYio_GlY Yuc" GY |"oY% i_ |"% S%JicGl Vrof%YYio_, %_Mi_%%ri_M, G_J
lG<A  _"uY, |"% _%%J iY |o cr%G|% G_ i_frGY|ruc|ur% of rGJioY |"G| Jo _o|
So2% Grou_J, <"ic", 8li["lcGG "oV%Y, <ill Yol2% G Vro@l%S _o| o_l5 for
li@rGri%Y @u| for i_Ji2iJuGlY <"o, @5 G_J lGrM% |oJG5, Jo _o| "G2% Gcc%YY
|o |"% c_|%r_%| froS |"%ir "oS%Y G_J offic%YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P ProP%c| oV%rG|i_M fr%[u%_ci%Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M G @ri%f JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ, <"ic" GlYo co_cluJ%J |"% JG5MY
Vroc%%Ji_MY, 8li["lcGG Y|G|%J |"G| |"% VroP%c| <GY oV%rG|i_M i_ four
fr%[u%_ci%YA  _"% Ylo< YV%%J iY oV%rG|i_M G| x<5 S%MG"%r|,, G_J i| <oulJ
lG|%r Mo uV |o }2D S%MG"%r|,A  [i|" |"% "iM"SYV%%J fr%[u%_c5, |"%
o_%SS%MG@5|% rGJioY <ill ru_ G| 2Ax MiMG@i|Y, G_J uA5 <ill ru_ G| 5AAA
A| 5AA, rGi_ cG_ @% G fGc|or, @u| i| <oulJ "G2% |o @% |roVicGl rGi_,
u_li(% <"G| fGllY i_ SoY| VGr|Y of |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cVA  cMAG~ }AP_ol~, _~r_ }AP_ol~, iV~lVc~[ i  _~r_ A"D
             cMAG~ S_ilAG~  ilMA_S

[illiGS @ii_i", 2ic% Vr%YiJ%_| of oV%rG|io_Y, cS"~_, SoJ%rG|%J |"iY Y%YYio_A

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
%~""~Y P  Gc|orY i_flu%_ci_M J%2%loVS%_| of }rP P AJ2G_|GM%Y of uYi_M
JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 2%rYuY V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS P A VriSGr5 MoGl of
}rP2 Vu@liY"i_M c"Gll%_M%Y P }"GrGc|%riY|icY of coVi%Y Vri_|%J P (uGli|5
of YGSVl%Y Gc"i%2%J i_ iSGM% cGV|ur% P S%2%rGl fGc|orY |o @% co_YiJ%r%J
i_ c"ooYi_M YcG__i_M P ~SV"GYiY of }rP o_ |iS%l5 G_J coY|S%ff%c|i2%
VroJuc|io_ of @lGc(SG_JS<"i|% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y P l%Yul|Y of VroJuci_M
SicrofilS froS JiMi|Gl fil%Y P AJ2G_|GM%Y of cr%G|i_M SicrofilS P D%|GilY
co_c%r_i_M VroJuc|io_ P }oY|Y P lol% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 i_ li@rGr5
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A__% %~""~Y, GYYociG|% Jir%c|or, D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J
}o_Y%r2G|io_, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, oV%_%J "%r |Gl( @5 o@Y%r2i_M |"G| |"%
}or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| (}rPl "GY @%%_ MuiJ%J @5 |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| |"%
G@ili|5 |o VroJuc% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y or |o r%VlGc% VGV%r <i|" VGV%r
<oulJ @% iSVor|G_|, G| l%GY| for |"% Vr%Y%_| M%_%rG|io_ of uY%rY G_J
%[uiVS%_|A  S"% J%Ycri@%J |"r%% fGc|orY |"G| i_flu%_c%J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% VroP%c|u  ul 8%cGuY% |"% VroP%c| "GY %SV"GYi,%J |"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of
J%|%riorG|i_M @ri||l% @oo(Y, |"% [uGli|5 of <"G| <GY VroJuc%J "GJ |o @%
Yuffici%_|l5 "iM" |o r%|ur_ G VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| |o |"% Y"%lfA  }rP <GY
o_l5 i_|%r%Y|%J i_ uYi_Mu  2l G Y5Y|%S |"G| <GY coY|S%ff%c|i2%, <"ic"
S%G_| |"G| i| "GJ |o @% coY|ScoSV%|i|i2% <i|" |"% Vroc%YY%Y curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l%, Vri_ciVGll5 V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS, G_J <l _%< or curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l% VroJuc| "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%A

%~""~Y J%Ycri@%J |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y |"G| uYi_M JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 off%rY o2%r
@o|" V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilSu  ul _"% Vo|%_|iGl %xiY|Y |o cr%G|% G "iM"%r
[uGli|5 r%VroJuc|io_ of G J%|%riorG|i_M oriMi_Gl |"G_ co_2%_|io_Gl
liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5A  2l 8%cGuY% G JiMi|Gl iSGM% iY G_ %_coJ%J
r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_, i| cG_ @% r%VroJuc%J GMGi_ G_J GMGi_ <i|" _o r%Yul|i_M
loYY of [uGli|5, GY oVVoY%J |o |"% Yi|uG|io_ <i|" liM"|Sl%_Y Vroc%YY%Y,
i_ <"ic" |"%r% iY JiYc%r_i@l% Jiff%r%_c% @%|<%%_ G Y%co_J G_J G
Yu@Y%[u%_| M%_%rG|io_ of G_ iSGM%A  <l A JiMi|Gl iSGM% cG_ @% SG_iVulG|%J
i_ G _uS@%r of <G5Y |o iSVro2% iSGM% cGV|ur%2 for %xGSVl%, r%rox "GY
J%2%loV%J G <i_Jo<i_M GVVlicG|io_ |"G| %_G@l%Y o_% |o cGV|ur% G VGM%
co_|Gi_i_M @o|" |%x| G_J illuY|rG|io_Y i_ G SG__%r |"G| oV|iSi,%Y |"%
r%VroJuc|io_ of @o|"A  ([i|" liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5, o_% SuY| c"ooY% <"ic"
|o oV|iSi,%, |%x| or |"% illuY|rG|io_2 i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilSi_M, |"%
curr%_| VrGc|ic% iY |o Y"oo| G_ illuY|rG|%J VGM% |<ic%, o_c% |o "iM"liM"|
|"% |%x| G_J |"% Y%co_J |iS% |o Vro2iJ% |"% @%Y| cGV|ur% for |"%
illuY|rG|io_Al  xl A JiMi|Gl iSGM% cG_ GlYo @% %Ji|%J, J%_Yi|5 l%2%lY
GJPuY|%J |o r%So2% u_J%rli_i_M G_J Y|Gi_Y, G_J |o i_cr%GY% l%Mi@ili|5 for
fGi_| JocuS%_|YA  5l i_SYcr%%_ i_YV%c|io_ cG_ |G(% VlGc% G| |"% |iS% of
i_i|iGl Y%|uV G_J GJPuY|S%_|Y SGJ% Vrior |o YcG__i_M, fGc|orY |"G|
Yu@Y|G_|iGll5 r%Juc% |"% _uS@%r of r%|G(%Y r%[uir%J i_ [uGli|5 co_|rolA

A VriSGr5 MoGl of }rP "GY @%%_ |o %2GluG|% |"% VGV%r ou|Vu| Vri_|%J o_
|"% r%rox Docu_%c", G "iM"SYV%%J Vri_|%r |"G| VroJuc%Y ,DDSJVi VGM%Y froS
YcG__%J iSGM%Y G| G rG|% of u<5 VGM%Y G Si_u|%A  %~""~Y r%cou_|%J Y%2%rGl
Vu@liY"i_M c"Gll%_M%Y |o r%Vr%Y%_| fGi|"ful G_J l%Mi@l% r%VroJuc|io_Y of
|"% oriMi_GlY |"G| |"% ,DDSJVi coV5 for |"% SoY| VGr| Yucc%YYfull5
cGV|ur%JA   or %xGSVl%, SG_5 of |"% J%|%riorG|i_M 2oluS%Y i_ |"% VroP%c|
<%r% "%G2il5 illuY|rG|%J <i|" fi_% li_% JrG<i_MY or "Glf|o_%Y or cGS% i_
lG_MuGM%Y Yuc" GY JGVG_%Y%, i_ <"ic" |"% @uilJuV of c"GrGc|%rY coSVriY%J
of 2Gr5i_M Y|ro(%Y iY Jifficul| |o r%VroJuc% G| lo<%r r%Yolu|io_Y2 G
YurVriYi_M _uS@%r of |"%S cGS% <i|" G__o|G|io_Y G_J SG|"%SG|icGl
forSulGY, <"ic" i| <GY cri|icGl |o @% G@l% |o JuVlicG|% %xGc|l5A

%~""~Y _o|%J |"G| ul |"% coVi%Y Gr% @%i_M Vri_|%J o_ VGV%r |"G| S%%|Y |"%
A"Sc Y|G_JGrJY for V%rforSG_c%, 2l |"% Docu_%c" Vri_|%r S%%|Y |"% SGc"i_%
G_J |o_%r r%[uir%S%_|Y for VroV%r GJ"%Yio_ of Vri_| |o VGM%, GY J%Ycri@%J
@5 |"% "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y, G_J |"uY <l VGV%r VroJuc| iY co_YiJ%r%J |o @%
|"% Grc"i2Gl %[ui2Gl%_| of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ V"o|ocoV5A

%~""~Y |"%_ JiYcuYY%J Y%2%rGl YGSVl%Y of |"% [uGli|5 Gc"i%2%J i_ |"%
VroP%c| |"G| "GJ @%%_ JiY|ri@u|%J i_ G "G_Jou|, for %xGSVl%, G coV5 of G
Vri_|So_SJ%SG_J 2%rYio_ of |"% u}uu l%%J l%c|ur% o_ |"% Y|%GS |ur@i_%,
<"ic" co_|Gi_Y "Glf|o_%Y, li_% JrG<i_MY, G_J illuY|rG|io_Y %S@%JJ%J i_
|%x|2 |"% firY| four looY% VGM%Y i_ |"% 2oluS% coSVGr%J |"% cGV|ur%
cGVG@ili|i%Y of YcG__i_M |o V"o|ocoV5 for G Y|G_JGrJ |%Y| |GrM%|, |"%
c~~~ Y|G_JGrJ u,AA u}8A |%Y| c"Gr|A  c_ Gll i_Y|G_c%Y YcG__i_M Vro2%
