workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver'MY VGV%rY, l%||%rY, G_J JrG<i_MYA

c| <GY G_|iciVG|%J |"G| Gll of |"%Y% VroJuc|Y <oulJ GVV%Gr _o Sor% |"G_
Yix So_|"Y Gf|%r |"% [or(Y"oVA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
|cDAl P (A Y%VGrG|% Gr%_G for YcG__i_Ml P S|%VY i_ cr%G|i_M G JG|G@GY% P
cSGM% cGV|ur%, <i|" G_J <i|"ou| V%rforSi_M i}l P %%5i_M i_ |rGc(i_M JG|G
P ScG__i_M, <i|" %l%c|ro_ic G_J SG_uGl |rGc(i_M P AJPuY|S%_|Y Juri_M
YcG__i_M Vroc%YY P ScG__i_M r%Yolu|io_Y P }oSVr%YYio_ P D%SY(%<i_M G_J
fil|%ri_M P cSGM% cGV|ur% froS SicroforSu  |"% VGV%rY G_J l%||%rY of
G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r P ~[uiVS%_| uY%J for G YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

JuJi|" |cDAl, coorJi_G|or, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x| DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS
("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5 ("Afl, illuY|rG|%J |"% |%c"_icGl
J%|GilY of "A_DP, i_cluJi_M "%r VriSGr5 r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, YcG__i_M G_J
cr%G|i_M JG|G@GY%Y o_ G |oVic G_J Vu||i_M |"%S o_ }DSliMA

(|cDAl r%SGr(%J G Y%VGrG|% Gr%_G froS |"% }DSliM VroP%c|Y, Gl|"ouM" |"%
Vroc%YYi_M of |"% SG|%riGl iY _%Grl5 iJ%_|icGl, i_ <"ic" "A_DP iY GlYo
YcG__i_M SG|%riGl G_J loGJi_M i| o_ G "%x| SicrocoSVu|%r, <"ic" i_ |ur_
iY li_(%J |o "AfMY i_|%MrG|%J li@rGr5 Y5Y|%SA  _"uY, Y%Grc"%Y i_ "AfMY
@i@lioMrGV"ic JG|G@GY% <ill %_G@l% V%oVl% |o Vull uV Gc|uGl VGM% iSGM%Y
G_J |%x| for G_5 JocuS%_|Y |"G| "G2% @%%_ %_|%r%JAl

c_ GccorJG_c% <i|" |"% Y%YYio_MY |oVic, |cDAl focuY%J "%r illuY|rG|%J
|Gl( o_ iSGM% cGV|ur%, off%ri_M G VriS%r o_ |"% |"r%% SGi_ Y|%VY i_ |"%
Vroc%YYu  ul GYY%S@l% |"% Vri_|%J Vu@licG|io_Y2 2l J%YiM_ |"% JG|G@GY%
(JG|G@GY% J%YiM_ occurY i_ |"% Vroc%YY of Vr%VGri_M |"% SG|%riGl for
YcG__i_M2 |"iY Y|%V %_|GilY r%2i%<i_M G_J orMG_i,i_M |"% SG|%riGl,
J%fi_i_M |"% co_|%_|YSS<"G| <ill co_Y|i|u|% G r%corJ, <"G| (i_JY of
fi%lJY <ill @% cGV|ur%J i_ |%rSY of Gu|"or, |i|l%, %|cAl2 <l V%rforS G
c%r|Gi_ GSou_| of SGr(uV o_ |"% VGV%r Vu@licG|io_YA  "Af V%rforSY |"iY
|GY( r%corJ @5 r%corJ, Vr%VGri_M <or( Y"%%|Y or YoS% o|"%r Yor| of
|rGc(i_M SG|%riGl G_J J%YiM_i_M J%YcriV|orY G_J o|"%r %_"G_c%S%_|Y |o @%
GJJ%J |o |"% JG|G |"G| <ill _o| @% cGV|ur%J froS |"% Vri_|%J Vu@licG|io_A
PGr| of |"iY Vroc%YY GlYo i_2ol2%Y J%|%rSi_i_M "A_DPMY fil% G_J Jir%c|or5
Y|ruc|ur%u  "A_DP G||%SV|Y |o G2oiJ Vu||i_M Sor% |"G_ GVVroxiSG|%l5 uDD
iSGM%Y i_ G Jir%c|or5, @%cGuY% VlGci_M Sor% |"G_ |"G| o_ G }DSliM <oulJ
r%Juc% |"% Gcc%YY YV%%JA

_"iY uVSfro_| Vroc%YY |G(%Y GVVroxiSG|%l5 |<o <%%(Y for G
,,DDDSA,DDDSVGM% JG|G@GY%A  _"% _%x| Y|%V iY |o cGV|ur% |"% VGM% iSGM%YA
@o< lo_M |"iY Vroc%YY |G(%Y iY J%|%rSi_%J @5 |"% J%ciYio_ <"%|"%r or _o|
|o V%rforS i}lA  "o| V%rforSi_M i}l YV%%JY |"% Vroc%YY, <"%r%GY |%x|
cGV|ur% r%[uir%Y Mr%G|%r cGr% @%cGuY% of |"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%u  i|
"GY |o @% Y|rGiM"|%r G_J Gllo<G_c% SuY| @% SGJ% for |%x| o_ G VGM%, _o|
PuY| for |"% cGV|ur% of V"o|oMrGV"YA

"A_DP (%5Y i_ |rGc(i_M JG|G, |"G| iY, G Y|G_JGrJ @i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJ
i_cluJi_M |"% |i|l% of |"% @oo( G_J |"% |i|l% of |"% c"GV|%r, <"ic" <ill
lG|%r %i|"%r @%coS% |"% Gcc%YY i_forSG|io_ or <ill @% G||Gc"%J |o |"%
fro_| of G fullS|%x| r%corJ Yo |"G| i| iY Y%Grc"G@l%A

cSGM%Y Gr% YcG__%J froS G @ou_J or u_@ou_J Vu@licG|io_, c"i%fl5 froS
@ou_J Vu@licG|io_Y i_ |"% cGY% of "A_DP, "o<%2%r, @%cGuY% of|%_ |"%5 Gr%
|"% o_l5 coVi%Y G_J |"% Vu@licG|io_Y Gr% r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%l2%YA  "A_DP
uYuGll5 YcG_Y o_% r%corJ G| G |iS%, @%cGuY% i|Y JG|G@GY% |rGc(i_M Y5Y|%S
|rGc(Y |"% JocuS%_| i_ |"G| <G5 G_J Jo%Y _o| r%[uir% fur|"%r loMicGl
Y%VGrG|i_M of |"% iSGM%YA  Af|%r V%rforSi_M oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r
r%coM_i|io_, "A_DP So2%Y |"% iSGM%Y off |"% "GrJ JiY( G_J SGi_|Gi_Y G
2oluS% Y"%%|A  _"ouM" |"% Y5Y|%S |rGc(Y %l%c|ro_icGll5, Gll |"%
Vroc%YYi_M Y|%VY Gr% GlYo |rGc(%J SG_uGll5 <i|" G loM Y"%%|A

|cDAl _%x| illuY|rG|%J |"% (i_JY of GJPuY|S%_|Y |"G| o_% cG_ SG(% <"%_
YcG__i_M froS VGV%r G_J SicrofilS, for %xGSVl%, r%Joi_M iSGM%Y |"G| _%%J
YV%ciGl "G_Jli_M, Y%||i_M for Ji|"%ri_M or MrG5 YcGl%, G_J GJPuY|i_M for
@riM"|_%YY or for |"% <"ol% @oo( G| o_% |iS%A

"A_DP iY YcG__i_M G| <DD Jo|Y V%r i_c", G Y|G_JGrJ YcG__i_M r%Yolu|io_A
_"ouM" GJ%[uG|% for cGV|uri_M |%x| |"G| iY Gll of G Y|G_JGrJ Yi,%, <DD
JVi iY u_Yui|G@l% for G_5 (i_J of V"o|oMrGV"ic SG|%riGl or for 2%r5 YSGll
|%x|A  MG_5 YcG__%rY Gllo< for Jiff%r%_| iSGM% forSG|Y, _c  , of courY%,
@%i_M G J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJA  8u| if o_% i_|%_JY |o %xc"G_M% iSGM%Y <i|"
o|"%r V%oVl%, |"% G@ili|5 |o YcG_ o|"%r iSGM% forSG|Y, %2%_ if |"%5 Gr%
l%YY coSSo_, @%coS%Y "iM"l5 J%YirG@l%A

}}c__ GrouV x iY |"% Y|G_JGrJ coSVr%YYio_ for _orSGl @lGc(SG_JS<"i|%
iSGM%Y, JP~G for MrG5 YcGl% or colorA   |cDAl r%coSS%_J%J ul uYi_M |"%
Y|G_JGrJ coSVr%YYio_Y, VGr|iculGrl5 if o_% G||%SV|Y |o SG(% SG|%riGl
G2GilG@l% G_J |o Gllo< uY%rY |o Jo<_loGJ iSGM%Y G_J r%uY% |"%S froS
}DSliMY2 G_J 2l SGi_|Gi_i_M |"% G@ili|5 |o ou|Vu| G_ u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%,
@%cGuY% i_ iSGM% %xc"G_M% u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%Y Gr% Sor% li(%l5 |o @% G@l%
|o croYY VlG|forSYA

|cDAl %SV"GYi,%J |"% iSVor|G_c% of J%SY(%<i_M G_J fil|%ri_M GY
r%[uir%S%_|Y o_ "A_DPMY uVMrGJ%J Y5Y|%SA   or i_Y|G_c%, YcG__i_M @ou_J
@oo(Y, VGr|iculGrl5 @oo(Y Vu@liY"%J @5 |"% f%J%rGl Mo2%r_S%_| <"oY% VGM%Y
Gr% Y(%<%J, G_J |r5i_M |o YcG_ |"%S Y|rGiM"| if i}l iY |o @% V%rforS%J,
iY %x|r%S%l5 |iS%Sco_YuSi_MA  _"% YGS% "olJY for fil|%ri_M of
VoorS[uGli|5 or olJ%r SG|%riGlYA

|cDAl J%Ycri@%J iSGM% cGV|ur% froS SicroforS, uYi_M GY G_ %xGSVl% |"r%%
r%%lY froS G Yix|5SY%2%_Sr%%l Y%| of |"% VGV%rY G_J l%||%rY of G%orM%
[GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r |"G| "GJ @%%_ VroJuc%J @5 _uY(%M%% o_i2%rYi|5A  _"%Y%
r%Yul|%J i_ GVVroxiSG|%l5 <,5DD iSGM%Y, <"ic" "A_DP "GJ "GJ YcG__%J @5
i|Y Y%r2ic% co_|rGc|or, Sci%_c% AVVlicG|io_Y c_|%r_G|io_Gl }orVorG|io_
(SAc}lA  "A_DP GlYo cr%G|%J @i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJY for Gcc%YYA  ("A_DP JiJ
_o| "G2% Yuc" YV%ciGli,%J %[uiVS%_| GY G SicrofilS YcG__%rA

o_for|u_G|%l5, |"% Vroc%YY of YcG__i_M froS SicrofilS <GY _o| G_
u_[uGlifi%J Yucc%YY, |cDAl r%Vor|%Ju  @%cGuY% SicrofilS frGS% Yi,%Y 2Gr5,
occGYio_Gll5 YoS% frGS%Y <%r% SiYY%J, <"ic" <i|"ou| YV%_Ji_M Suc" |iS%
G_J So_%5 coulJ _o| @% r%cGV|ur%JA

i}l coulJ _o| @% V%rforS%J froS |"% YcG__%J iSGM%Y of |"% frGS%YA  _"%
@l%%Ji_M i_ |"% |%x| YiSVl5 ou|Vu| |%x|, <"%_ i}l <GY ru_, |"G| coulJ _o|
%2%_ @% %Ji|%JA  "A_DP |%Y|%J for _%MG|i2% 2%rYuY VoYi|i2% iSGM%Y,
lG_JYcGV% 2%rYuY Vor|rGi| ori%_|G|io_, G_J Yi_Ml%S 2%rYuY JuGlSVGM%
SicrofilS, _o_% of <"ic" Y%%S%J |o Gff%c| |"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%2 @u|
GlYo o_ _o_% of |"%S coulJ i}l @% V%rforS%JA

c_ Y%l%c|i_M |"% SicrofilS |"%5 <oulJ uY%, |"%r%for%, "A_DP "GJ o|"%r
fGc|orY i_ Si_JA  |cDAl _o|%J |<o fGc|orY |"G| i_flu%_c%J |"% [uGli|5 of
|"% iSGM%Yu  ul |"% i_"%r%_| [uGli|5 of |"% oriMi_Gl G_J 2l |"% GSou_| of
Yi,% r%Juc|io_ o_ |"% VGM%YA

_"% }Gr2%r VGV%rY <%r% Y%l%c|%J @%cGuY% |"%5 Gr% i_forSG|i2% G_J 2iYuGll5
i_|%r%Y|i_M, |r%G| G Yi_Ml% Yu@P%c|, G_J Gr% 2GluG@l% i_ |"%ir o<_ riM"|A
_"% iSGM%Y <%r% YcG__%J G_J Ji2iJ%J i_|o loMicGl r%corJY @5 SAc}, |"%_
J%li2%r%J, G_J loGJ%J o_|o "A_DPMY Y5Y|%S, <"%r% @i@lioMrGV"ic
i_forSG|io_ |G(%_ Jir%c|l5 froS |"% iSGM%Y <GY GJJ%JA  ScG__i_M <GY
coSVl%|%J i_ YuSS%r u}}u G_J @5 |"% %_J of YuSS%r u}}2 |"% JiY( <GY
Yc"%Jul%J |o @% Vu@liY"%JA

Pro@l%SY %_cou_|%r%J Juri_M Vroc%YYi_M i_cluJ%J |"% follo<i_Mu  8%cGuY%
|"% SicrofilS YcG__i_M "GJ |o @% Jo_% i_ G @G|c", GJPuY|S%_| for
i_Ji2iJuGl VGM% 2GriG|io_Y <GY _o| VoYYi@l%A  _"% frGS% Yi,% 2Gri%J o_
Gccou_| of |"% _G|ur% of |"% SG|%riGl, G_J |"%r%for% YoS% of |"% frGS%Y
<%r% SiYY%J <"il% o|"%rY <%r% PuY| VGr|iGl frGS%YA  _"% o_l5 <G5 |o Mo
@Gc( G_J cGV|ur% |"iY SG|%riGl <GY |o Vri_| ou| |"% VGM% <i|" |"%
SicrofilS r%GJ%r froS |"% SiYYi_M frGS% G_J |"%_ YcG_ i| i_ froS |"%
VGM%, <"ic" <GY %x|r%S%l5 |iS%Sco_YuSi_MA  _"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%Y
YcG__%J froS |"% Vri_|ou| of |"% SicrofilS coSVGr%J u_fG2orG@l5 <i|" |"G|
of |"% oriMi_Gl iSGM%Y cGV|ur%J Jir%c|l5 froS |"% SicrofilSA  _"%
i_G@ili|5 |o V%rforS i}l GlYo <GY G SGPor JiYGVVoi_|S%_|A  A| |"% |iS%,
coSVu|%r ou|Vu| SicrofilS <GY u_G2GilG@l% |o |%Y|A

_"% %[uiVS%_| uY%J for G YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S <GY |"% lGY| |oVic GJJr%YY%J @5
|cDAlA  _"% |5V% of %[uiVS%_| |"G| o_% <oulJ Vurc"GY% for G YcG__i_M
Y5Y|%S i_cluJ%Ju  G SicrocoSVu|%r, G| l%GY| G <8,, @u| Vr%f%rG@l5 G x8,2
G lGrM% "GrJ JiY(, <8D S%MG@5|% G| Si_iSuS2 G Sul|iS|GY(i_M oV%rG|i_M
Y5Y|%S |"G| Gllo<Y o_% |o ru_ YoS% |"i_MY i_ @G|c" i_ |"% @Gc(Mrou_J
<"il% YcG__i_M or Joi_M |%x| %Ji|i_M, for %xGSVl%, o_ix or iSY2 G_J,
|"%or%|icGll5, [i_Jo<Y2 G "iM"SYV%%J YcG__%r G_J YcG__i_M Yof|<Gr% |"G|
Gllo<Y o_% |o SG(% |"% 2GriouY GJPuY|S%_|Y S%_|io_%J %Grli%r2 G
"iM"Sr%Yolu|io_ So_i|or (u5D JVi l2 i}l Yof|<Gr% G_J "GrJ<Gr% |o V%rforS
|%x| r%coM_i|io_2 G_ oV|icGl JiY( Yu@Y5Y|%S o_ <"ic" |o Grc"i2% Gll |"%
iSGM%Y GY |"% Vroc%YYi_M iY Jo_%2 fil% SG_GM%S%_| G_J |rGc(i_M Yof|<Gr%A

|cDAl oVi_%J |"G| |"% Yof|<Gr% o_% Vurc"GY%Y <GY Sor% iSVor|G_| |"G_ |"%
"GrJ<Gr% G_J SiM"| GlYo coY| Sor% |"G_ |"% "GrJ<Gr%, @u| i| <GY li(%l5 |o
Vro2% cri|icGl |o |"% Yucc%YY or fGilur% of o_%MY Y5Y|%SA  c_ GJJi|io_ |o
G Y|G_JSGlo_% YcG__i_M <or(Y|G|io_ for iSGM% cGV|ur%, |"%_, |%x| cGV|ur%
r%[uir%Y o_% or |<o %Ji|i_M Y|G|io_Y _%|<or(%J |o |"iY YcG__i_M Y|G|io_
|o V%rforS %Ji|i_MA  ~Ji|i_M |"% |%x| |G(%Y |<o or |"r%% |iS%Y GY lo_M GY
cGV|uri_M |"% iSGM%YA

 i_Gll5, |cDAl Y|r%YY%J |"% iSVor|G_c% of @u5i_M G_ oV%_ Y5Y|%S |"G| Gllo<Y
for Sor% |"G_ o_% 2%_Jor, coSVli%Y <i|" Y|G_JGrJY, G_J cG_ @% uVMrGJ%JA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
[A_~lS PYGl% o_i2%rYi|5 fi@rGr5MY SGY|%r VlG_ |o co_2%r| SicrofilS |o
JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 (Pi8l P _"% VlGc% of %l%c|ro_ic |oolY i_ |"% li@rGr5 of
|"% fu|ur% P _"% uY%Y of iSGM%Y G_J G_ iSGM% li@rGr5 P PriSGr5 i_Vu| froS
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilS P  %G|ur%Y JiY|i_MuiY"i_M Pi8 froS }rP G_J (%5
"5Vo|"%Y%Y MuiJi_M Pi8 P oY% of 2%_Jor Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY |o fGcili|G|%
orMG_i,G|io_Gl <or( P }ri|%riG for Y%l%c|i_M 2%_Jor P  i_GliY|Y G_J
r%Yul|Y of Vroc%YY for YGl% P %%5 fGc|or JiY|i_MuiY"i_M 2%_JorY P
}oSVo_%_|Y, J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, G_J YoS% %Y|iSG|%J coY|Y of Pi8 P lol% of
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SG|%riGlY i_ J%2%loVi_M iSGMi_M SGr(%| P  Gc|orY Gff%c|i_M
[uGli|5 G_J coY| P  Gc|orY Gff%c|i_M |"% uYG@ili|5 of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y
i_ iSGM% forS P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Do_GlJ [A_~lS, "%GJ of |"% S5Y|%SY iffic%, YGl% o_i2%rYi|5 fi@rGr5,
r%Vor|%J o_ |"% VroMr%YY of G SGY|%r VlG_ for G VroP%c| G| YGl% |o
co_2%r| SicrofilS |o JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5, ProP%c| iV%_ 8oo( (Pi8lA  S|G|i_M
|"G| Pi8 <GY i_ G_ GJ2G_c%J Y|GM% of VlG__i_M, [A_~lS J%|Gil%J, i_
VGr|iculGr, |"% Vroc%YY of Y%l%c|i_M G 2%_Jor VGr|_%r G_J Y%2%rGl (%5
iYYu%Y u_J%r JiYcuYYio_ GY YGl% Vr%VGr%Y |o So2% i_|o |"% VroP%c| i|Y%lfA
@% coSS%_|%J firY| o_ |"% 2iYio_ |"G| Y%r2%Y GY |"% co_|%x| of Pi8 G_J
|"%_ J%Ycri@%J i|Y VurVoY% G_J YcoV%A

[A_~lS Y%%Y |"% li@rGr5 of |"% fu|ur% _o| _%c%YYGril5 GY G_ %l%c|ro_ic
li@rGr5 @u| GY G VlGc% |"G| M%_%rG|%Y, Vr%Y%r2%Y, G_J iSVro2%Y for i|Y
cli%_|Y r%GJ5 Gcc%YY |o @o|" i_|%ll%c|uGl G_J V"5YicGl r%corJ%J
(_o<l%JM%A  ~l%c|ro_ic |oolY SuY| fi_J G VlGc% i_ |"% li@rGr5 i_ |"%
co_|%x| of |"iY 2iYio_A  S%2%rGl rol%Y for %l%c|ro_ic |oolY i_cluJ%
Y%r2i_M GYu  i_Jir%c| Yourc%Y of %l%c|ro_ic (_o<l%JM% or GY "fi_Ji_M"
GiJY (|"% o_Sli_% cG|GloMu%Y, |"% Gr|icl%Sl%2%l i_Jic%Y, r%MiY|%rY for
JocuS%_|Y G_J Grc"i2%Yl2 Jir%c| Yourc%Y of r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM%2 fullS|%x|
iSGM%Y2 G_J 2GriouY (i_JY of coSVou_J Yourc%Y of r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM% (|"%
YoScGll%J coSVou_J JocuS%_|Y of @5V%r|%x|, Six%J |%x| G_J iSGM%,
Six%JS|%x| iSGM% forSG|, G_J Sul|iS%JiGlA

Pi8 iY loo(i_M VGr|iculGrl5 G| iSGM%Y G_J G_ iSGM% li@rGr5, |"% uY%Y |o
<"ic" iSGM%Y <ill @% Vu| (%AMA, Y|orGM%, Vri_|i_M, @ro<Yi_M, G_J |"%_ uY%
GY i_Vu| for o|"%r Vroc%YY%Yl, i}l GY G Yu@Y%[u%_| Vroc%YY |o iSGM%
cGV|ur%, or cr%G|i_M G_ iSGM% li@rGr5, G_J GlYo VoYYi@l5 M%_%rG|i_M
SicrofilSA

["il% i_Vu| <ill coS% froS G 2Gri%|5 of Yourc%Y, Pi8 iY co_YiJ%ri_M
%YV%ciGll5 i_Vu| froS Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilSA  A VoYYi@l% ou|coS% iY |"G|
|"% filS G_J VGV%r <"ic" Vro2iJ% |"% i_Vu| for |"% iSGM% li@rGr5
%2%_|uGll5 SG5 Mo off i_|o r%So|% Y|orGM%, G_J |"G| |"% iSGM% li@rGr5 SG5
@% |"% VriSGr5 Gcc%YY |oolA

_"% VurVoY% G_J YcoV% of Pi8 focuY o_ iSGMi_MA  _"ouM" r%lG|%J |o }rP,
Pi8 "GY |<o f%G|ur%Y <"ic" JiY|i_MuiY" i|u  ul YcGl%SSco_2%rYio_ of
uD,DDD 2oluS%Y i_|o JiMi|Gl iSGM% forS2 G_J 2l Yourc%SSco_2%rYio_ froS
SicrofilSA  Gi2%_ |"%Y% f%G|ur%Y, Y%2%rGl (%5 <or(i_M "5Vo|"%Y%Y MuiJ%
Pi8, i_cluJi_Mu  ul Si_c% Pi8 iY uYi_M SicrofilS, i| iY _o| co_c%r_%J <i|"
|"% iSGM% li@rGr5 GY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ S%JiuSA  2l DiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 cG_ iSVro2%
Gcc%YY |o r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM% |"rouM" Vri_|i_M G_J _%|<or( JiY|ri@u|io_ G|
G SoJ%Y| i_cr%S%_|Gl coY| of SicrofilSA  <l }GV|uri_M G_J Y|ori_M JocuS%_|Y
i_ G JiMi|Gl iSGM% forS iY _%c%YYGr5 |o fur|"%r iSVro2%S%_|Y i_ Gcc%YYA
(Pi8 JiY|i_MuiY"%Y @%|<%%_ |"% iSGMi_M, JiMi|i,i_M Vroc%YY G_J i}l,
<"ic" G| |"iY Y|GM% i| Jo%Y _o| VlG_ |o V%rforSAl

}urr%_|l5 i_ i|Y firY| or orMG_i,G|io_Gl V"GY%, Pi8 fou_J |"G| i| coulJ
uY% G 2%_Jor Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY |o fGcili|G|% G MooJ J%Gl of |"%
orMG_i,G|io_Gl <or( (%AMA, cr%G|i_M G VroP%c| |%GS G_J GJ2iYor5 @oGrJ,
co_firSi_M |"% 2GliJi|5 of |"% VlG_, %Y|G@liY"i_M |"% coY| of |"% VroP%c|
G_J G @uJM%|, Y%l%c|i_M |"% SG|%riGlY |o co_2%r|, G_J |"%_ rGiYi_M |"%
_%c%YYGr5 fu_JYl
