across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, and standards; and the use of
this scanning technology for preservation purposes.

The 600-dpi digital images produced in the Cornell Xerox Project proved
highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and econooSicGll5 GVVl5 <"%_ YcG__i_M filS |o
Y%VGrG|% |<oSuV iSGM%Y G_J |o co_|rol for G_J corr%c| iSGM%
iSV%rf%c|io_Y8  @o< cG_ [uGli|5 co_|rol @%Y| @% i_|%MrG|%J i_|o
JiMi|i,i_M <or( flo< |"G| i_cluJ%Y JocuS%_| i_J%xi_M G_J Y|orGM%8

_"% Gc|uGl G_J %xV%c|%J uY%Y of JiMi|Gl iSGM%YSSY|orGM%, @ro<Yi_M,
Vri_|i_M, G_J i}lSS"%lV J%|%rSi_% |"% Y|G_JGrJY for S%GYuri_M |"%ir
[uGli|5A  8ro<Yi_M iY %YV%ciGll5 iSVor|G_|, @u| |"% fGcili|i%Y G2GilG@l%
for r%GJ%rY |o @ro<Y% iSGM% JocuS%_|Y iY V%r"GVY |"% <%G(%Y| GYV%c| of
iSGMi_M |%c"_oloM5 G_J SoY| i_ _%%J of J%2%loVS%_|A  AY i| J%fi_%J i|Y
r%[uir%S%_|Y, |"% YGl% fi@rGr5 co_c%_|rG|%J o_ YoS% fu_JGS%_|Gl GYV%c|Y
of uYG@ili|5 for iSGM% JocuS%_|Yu  Do%Y |"% Y5Y|%S "G2% Yuffici%_|
fl%xi@ili|5 |o "G_Jl% |"% full rG_M% of JocuS%_| |5V%Y, i_cluJi_M
So_oMrGV"Y, Sul|iSVGr| G_J Sul|i2oluS% Y%|Y, G_J Y%riGlY, GY <%ll GY
SG_uYcriV| coll%c|io_Y8  ["G| co_2%_|io_Y Gr% _%c%YYGr5 |o iJ%_|if5 G
JocuS%_| u_i[u%l5 for Y|orGM% G_J r%|ri%2Gl8  ["%r% iY |"% JG|G@GY% of
r%corJ for Y|ori_M @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ G@ou| |"% iSGM% JocuS%_|8
@o< Gr% @GYic i_|%r_Gl Y|ruc|ur%Y of JocuS%_|Y, Yuc" GY VGMi_G|io_, SGJ%
Gcc%YYi@l% |o |"% r%GJ%r8  @o< Gr% |"% iSGM% JocuS%_|Y V"5YicGll5
Vr%Y%_|%J o_ |"% Ycr%%_ |o |"% r%GJ%r8

_"% YGl% fi@rGr5 J%YiM_%J ProP%c| iV%_ 8oo( o_ |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G|
SicrofilS iY Sor% |"G_ GJ%[uG|% GY G S%JiuS for Vr%Y%r2i_M |"% co_|%_| of
J%|%riorG|%J li@rGr5 SG|%riGlYA  AY VlG__i_M i_ |"% VroP%c| "GY GJ2G_c%J,
i| iY i_cr%GYi_Ml5 cl%Gr |"G| |"% c"Gll%_M% of JiMi|Gl iSGM% |%c"_oloM5
G_J |"% (%5 |o |"% Yucc%YY of %ffor|Y li(% ProP%c| iV%_ 8oo( iY |o
Vro2iJ% G S%G_Y of @o|" Vr%Y%r2i_M G_J iSVro2i_M Gcc%YY |o |"oY%
J%|%riorG|%J SG|%riGlYA

S~SSci" cVS8

G%orM% _@iMA

c_ |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic iSGMi_M for JocuS%_| Vr%Y%r2G|io_, |"%r% Gr%
Y%2%rGl iYYu%Y |o co_YiJ%r, Yuc" GYu  %_Yuri_M GJ%[uG|% iSGM% [uGli|5,
SGi_|Gi_i_M Yu@Y|G_|iGl co_2%rYio_ rG|%Y (|"rouM"SVu|l, Vro2iJi_M u_i[u%
iJ%_|ificG|io_ for Gu|oSG|%J Gcc%YY G_J r%|ri%2Gl, G_J GccoSSoJG|i_M
@ou_J 2oluS%Y G_J frGMil% SG|%riGlA

_o SGi_|Gi_ "iM" iSGM% [uGli|5, iSGM% Vroc%YYi_M fu_c|io_Y Gr% r%[uir%J
|o corr%c| |"% J%fici%_ci%Y i_ |"% YcG__%J iSGM%A  SoS% coSS%rciGll5
G2GilG@l% Y5Y|%SY i_cluJ% |"%Y% fu_c|io_Y, <"il% YoS% Jo _o|A  _"%
YcG__%J rG< iSGM% SuY| @% Vroc%YY%J |o corr%c| co_|rGY| J%fici%_ci%YSS
@o|" Voor o2%rGll co_|rGY| r%Yul|i_M froS liM"| Vri_| G_JYor JGr(
@Gc(Mrou_J, G_J 2GriG@l% co_|rGY| r%Yul|i_M froS Y|Gi_Y G_J
@l%%JS|"rouM"A   ur|"%rSor%, |"% YcG_ J%_Yi|5 SuY| @% GJ%[uG|% |o Gllo<
l%Mi@ili|5 of Vri_| G_J Yuffici%_| fiJ%li|5 i_ |"% VY%uJoS"Glf|o_%J MrG5
SG|%riGlA  8orJ%rY or VGM%S%JM% %ff%c|Y SuY| @% r%So2%J for @o|"
coSVGc|i@ili|5 G_J G%Y|"%|icYA  PGM% Y(%< SuY| @% corr%c|%J for G%Y|"%|ic
r%GYo_Y G_J |o %_G@l% GccurG|% c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ if J%Yir%JA
}oSVou_J iSGM%Y co_YiY|i_M of @o|" |<oS|o_%J |%x| G_J MrG5SYcGl%
illuY|rG|io_Y SuY| @% Vroc%YY%J GVVroVriG|%l5 |o r%|Gi_ |"% [uGli|5 of
%Gc"A

S~SSci" cVS}

J%G_ 8Ali"AS

S|G_JGrJY Vu@licG|io_Y @%i_M J%2%loV%J @5 Yci%_|iY|Y, %_Mi_%%rY, G_J
@uYi_%YY SG_GM%rY i_ AYYociG|io_ for c_forSG|io_ G_J cSGM% MG_GM%S%_|
(AccMl Y|G_JGrJY coSSi||%%Y cG_ @% GVVli%J |o %l%c|ro_ic iSGM% SG_GM%S%_|
(~cMl Vroc%YY%Y i_cluJi_Mu  JocuS%_| (iSGM%l |rG_Yf%r, r%|ri%2Gl G_J
%2GluG|io_2 oV|icGl JiY( G_J JocuS%_| YcG__i_M2 G_J JocuS%_| J%YiM_ G_J
co_2%rYio_A  ["%_ coS@i_%J <i|" ~cM Y5Y|%S VlG__i_M G_J oV%rG|io_Y,
Y|G_JGrJY cG_ GYYiY| i_ M%_%rG|i_M iSGM% JG|G@GY%Y |"G| Gr%
i_|%rc"G_M%G@l% GSo_M G 2Gri%|5 of Y5Y|%SYA  _"% GVVlicG|io_Y of
Jiff%r%_| GVVroGc"%Y for iSGM%S|GMMi_M, i_J%xi_M, coSVr%YYio_, G_J
|rG_Yf%r of|%_ cGuY% u_c%r|Gi_|5 co_c%r_i_M ~cM Y5Y|%S coSVG|i@ili|5,
cGli@rG|io_, V%rforSG_c%, G_J uV<GrJ coSVG|i@ili|5, u_|il Y|G_JGrJ
iSVl%S%_|G|io_ VGrGS%|%rY Gr% %Y|G@liY"%JA  _"% AccM Y|G_JGrJY |"G| Gr%
@%i_M J%2%loV%J for |"%Y% GVVlicG|io_Y cG_ @% uY%J |o J%cr%GY% |"%
u_c%r|Gi_|5, Yucc%YYfull5 i_|%MrG|% iSGMi_M Vroc%YY%Y, G_J VroSo|% "oV%_
Y5Y|%SYA"  AccM iY G_ Gccr%Ji|%J AS%ricG_ "G|io_Gl S|G_JGrJY c_Y|i|u|%
(A"Scl Y|G_JGrJY J%2%loV%r <i|" Sor% |"G_ |<%_|5 coSSi||%%Y coSVriY%J of
<DD 2olu_|%%rY r%Vr%Y%_|i_M uY%rY, 2%_JorY, G_J SG_ufGc|ur%rYA  _"%
Y|G_JGrJY Vu@licG|io_Y |"G| Gr% J%2%loV%J i_ |"%Y% coSSi||%%Y "G2%
_G|io_Gl Gcc%V|G_c% G_J Vro2iJ% |"% @GYiY for i_|%r_G|io_Gl "GrSo_i,G|io_
i_ |"% J%2%loVS%_| of _%< c_|%r_G|io_Gl irMG_i,G|io_ for S|G_JGrJi,G|io_
(cSil Y|G_JGrJYA

_"iY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ J%Ycri@%Y |"% J%2%loVS%_| of AccMMY ~cM Y|G_JGrJY G_J G
_%< %ffor| G| AccM, G JG|G@GY% o_ Y|G_JGrJY VroP%c|Y i_ G <iJ% frGS%<or(
of iSGMi_M i_JuY|ri%Y i_cluJi_M cGV|ur%, r%corJi_M, Vroc%YYi_M,
JuVlicG|io_, JiY|ri@u|io_, JiYVlG5, %2GluG|io_, G_J Vr%Y%r2G|io_A  _"%
AccM cSGM%r5 DG|G@GY% <ill co2%r iSGMi_M Y|G_JGrJY @%i_M J%2%loV%J @5
SG_5 orMG_i,G|io_Y i_ SG_5 Jiff%r%_| cou_|ri%YA  c| <ill co_|Gi_
Y|G_JGrJY Vu@licG|io_YM JG|%Y, oriMi_Y, r%lG|%J _G|io_Gl G_J
i_|%r_G|io_Gl VroP%c|Y, Y|G|uY, (%5 <orJY, G_J G@Y|rGc|YA  _"% A"Sc cSGM%
_%c"_oloM5 S|G_JGrJY 8oGrJ r%[u%Y|%J |"G| Yuc" G JG|G@GY% @% %Y|G@liY"%J,
GY JiJ |"% cSiYc_|%r_G|io_Gl ~l%c|ro|%c"_icGl }oSSiYYio_ Joi_| _GY(  orc%
o_ cSGM%r5A  AccM <ill |G(% o_ |"% l%GJ%rY"iV rol% for |"% JG|G@GY% G_J
coorJi_G|% i|Y J%2%loVS%_| <i|" Y%2%rGl Y|G_JGrJY J%2%loV%rYA

PG|riciG 8A__c"

     }"GrGc|%riY|icY of Y|G_JGrJY for JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5u

          P "G|ur% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 iSVli%Y co_|i_ui_M 2olG|ili|5A

          P Pr%ciVi|ouY Y|G_JGrJSY%||i_M _o| VoYYi@l% G_J Vro@G@l5 _o|
          J%YirG@l%A

          P S|G_JGrJY Gr% G coSVl%x iYYu% i_2ol2i_M |"% S%JiuS, |"%
          "GrJ<Gr%, |"% Yof|<Gr%, G_J |"% |%c"_icGl cGVGci|5 for
          r%VroJuc|i2% fiJ%li|5 G_J clGri|5A

          P _"% VroM_oYiY for r%liG@l% Grc"i2Gl Y|G_JGrJY (GY J%fi_%J @5
          li@rGriG_Yl i_ |"% for%Y%%G@l% fu|ur% iY VoorA

     SiM_ificG_| Vo|%_|iGl G_J G||rGc|i2%_%YY of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 GY G
     Vr%Y%r2G|io_ S%JiuS G_J Gcc%YY S%c"G_iYSA

     ProJuc|i2% uY% of JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 for Vr%Y%r2G|io_ r%[uir%Y G
     r%co_c%V|uGli,i_M of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Vri_ciVl%Y i_ G 2olG|il%,
     Y|G_JGrJl%YY <orlJA

     }o_c%V| of SG_GMi_M co_|i_ui_M Gcc%YY i_ |"% JiMi|Gl %_2iro_S%_|
     rG|"%r |"G_ focuYi_M o_ |"% V%rSG_%_c% of |"% S%JiuS G_J lo_MS|%rS
     Grc"i2Gl Y|G_JGrJY J%2%loV%J for |"% G_GloM <orlJA

     _rG_Yi|io_ V%rioJu  @o< lo_M G_J <"G| |o Jo8

          P  l%J%fi_% "Grc"i2GlA"

          P  l%So2% |"% @urJ%_ of "Grc"i2Gl coV5" froS VGV%r Gr|ifGc|YA

          P  oY% JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 for Y|orGM%, J%2%loV SG_GM%S%_|
          Y|rG|%Mi%Y for r%fr%Y"i_M S%JiuS, "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%A

          P  }r%G|% GciJSfr%% VGV%r coVi%Y for |rG_Yi|io_ V%rioJ @Gc(uV
          u_|il <% J%2%loV r%liG@l% Vroc%Jur%Y for %_Yuri_M co_|i_ui_M
          Gcc%YY |o JiMi|Gl fil%YA

S~SSci" cVSD

S|uGr| [~c8~f            _"% lol% of SGMf MGr(uV i_ |"% }il~ ProP%c| (,l

_"% %S%rM%_c% of "iM"SYV%%J |%l%coSSu_icG|io_Y _%|<or(Y GY G @GYic
f%G|ur% of |"% Yc"olGrl5 <or(VlGc% iY Jri2i_M |"% J%SG_J for %l%c|ro_ic
JocuS%_| J%li2%r5A  _"r%% JiY|i_c| cG|%Mori%Y of %l%c|ro_ic
Vu@liY"i_MYr%Vu@liY"i_M Gr% _%c%YYGr5 |o YuVVor| Gcc%YY J%SG_JY i_ |"iY
%S%rMi_M %_2iro_S%_|u

     uAl  }o_2%rYio_ of VGV%r or SicrofilS Grc"i2%Y |o %l%c|ro_ic forSG|
     2Al  }o_2%rYio_ of %l%c|ro_ic fil%Y |o forSG|Y |Gilor%J |o
          %l%c|ro_ic r%|ri%2Gl G_J JiYVlG5
     <Al  PriSGr5 %l%c|ro_ic Vu@liY"i_M (SG|%riGlY for <"ic" |"%
          %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_ iY |"% VriSGr5 forSG|l

i}f} "GY %xV%riS%_|Gl or VroJuc| J%2%loVS%_| Gc|i2i|i%Y i_ %Gc" of |"%Y%
Gr%GYA  ASo_M |"% c"Gll%_M%Y |"G| li% G"%GJ iY |"% i_|%MrG|io_ of |"%Y%
|"r%% |5V%Y of i_forSG|io_ Y|or%Y i_ co"%r%_| JiY|ri@u|%J Y5Y|%SYA

_"% }il~ (}"%SiY|r5 i_li_% l%|ri%2Gl ~xV%riS%_|l ProP%c| iY G SoJ%l for
|"% co_2%rYio_ of lGrM% |%x| G_J MrGV"icY coll%c|io_Y for <"ic"
%l%c|ro_ic |5V%Y%||i_M fil%Y Gr% G2GilG@l% (cG|%Mor5 2lA  _"% AS%ricG_
}"%SicGl Soci%|5 "GY SGJ% G2GilG@l% coSVu|%r |5VoMrGV"5 fil%Y JG|i_M froS
u}8D for i|Y |<%_|5 Pour_GlYA  _"iY coll%c|io_ of YoS% 25D Pour_GlS5%GrY
iY @%i_M co_2%r|%J |o G_ %l%c|ro_ic forSG| |"G| <ill @% Gcc%YYi@l%
|"rouM" Y%2%rGl %_JSuY%r GVVlicG|io_YA

_"% uY% of S|G_JGrJ G%_%rGli,%J MGr(uV fG_MuGM% (SGMfl off%rY |"% S%G_Y
|o cGV|ur% |"% Y|ruc|urGl ric"_%YY of |"% oriMi_Gl Gr|icl%Y i_ G <G5 |"G|
<ill YuVVor| G 2Gri%|5 of r%|ri%2Gl, _G2iMG|io_, G_J JiYVlG5 oV|io_Y
_%c%YYGr5 |o _G2iMG|% %ff%c|i2%l5 i_ 2%r5 lGrM% |%x| JG|G@GY%YA

A_ SGMf JocuS%_| co_YiY|Y of |%x| |"G| iY SGr(%J uV <i|" J%YcriV|i2% |GMY
|"G| YV%cif5 |"% fu_c|io_ of G Mi2%_ %l%S%_| <i|"i_ |"% JocuS%_|A  AY G
forSGl lG_MuGM% co_Y|ruc|, G_ SGMf JocuS%_| cG_ @% VGrY%J GMGi_Y| G
JocuS%_|S|5V% J%fi_i|io_ (D_Dl |"G| u_GS@iMuouYl5 J%fi_%Y <"G| %l%S%_|Y
Gr% Gllo<%J G_J <"%r% i_ |"% JocuS%_| |"%5 cG_ (or SuY|l occurA  _"iY
forSGli,%J SGV of Gr|icl% Y|ruc|ur% Gllo<Y |"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% J%YiM_ |o
@% u_couVl%J froS |"% u_J%rl5i_M JG|G@GY% Y5Y|%S, G_ iSVor|G_| Y|%V
|o<GrJ i_|%roV%rG@ili|5A  D%So_Y|rG|io_ of |"iY Y%VGrG@ili|5 iY G VGr| of
|"% }il~ VroP%c|, <"%r%i_ uY%r i_|%rfGc% J%YiM_Y @or_ of 2%r5 Jiff%r%_|
V"iloYoV"i%Y <ill Gcc%YY |"% YGS% JG|G@GY%A

"i_~Su
     (,l  _"% }il~ VroP%c| iY G collG@orG|io_ GSo_M }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5MY
     MG__ fi@rGr5, 8%ll }oSSu_icG|io_Y l%Y%Grc" (8%llcor%l, |"% AS%ricG_
     }"%SicGl Soci%|5 (A}Sl, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic% (}ASl, G_J
     i}f}A

Mic"G%l f~S%                  _"% }il~ ~l%c|ro_ic }"%SiY|r5 fi@rGr5

A SGPor o_Sli_% fil% of c"%SicGl Pour_Gl li|%rG|ur% coSVl%|% <i|"
MrGV"icY iY @%i_M J%2%loV%J |o |%Y| |"% uYG@ili|5 of full5 %l%c|ro_ic
Gcc%YY |o JocuS%_|Y, GY G Poi_| VroP%c| of }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, |"%
AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic%, i}f}, G_J
8%llcor% (<i|" GJJi|io_Gl YuVVor| froS Su_ MicroY5Y|%SY, SVri_M%rSV%rlGM,
DiMi|Gc ~[uiVS%_| }orVorG|io_, So_5 }orVorG|io_ of AS%ricG, G_J AVVl%
}oSVu|%rYlA  iur fil% co_|Gi_Y |"% AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5MY o_Sli_%
Pour_GlY, YuVVl%S%_|%J <i|" |"% MrGV"icY froS |"% VGV%r Vu@licG|io_A  _"%
i_J%xi_M of |"% Gr|icl%Y froS }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y DocuS%_|Y iY G2GilG@l%
i_ @o|" iSGM% G_J |%x| forSG|, G_J Y%2%rGl Jiff%r%_| i_|%rfGc%Y cG_ @%
uY%JA  iur MoGlY Gr% (ul |o GYY%YY |"% %ff%c|i2%_%YY G_J Gcc%V|G@ili|5 of
%l%c|ro_ic Gcc%YY |o VriSGr5 Pour_GlY GY coSVGr%J <i|" VGV%r, G_J (2l |o
iJ%_|if5 |"% SoY| J%YirG@l% fu_c|io_Y of |"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% |o G_
%l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%S of Pour_GlY, i_cluJi_M i_ VGr|iculGr G coSVGriYo_ of
Pi8 J%2%loV%J _uS%rouY Y%l%c|io_ cri|%riG, i_cluJi_Mu  G firS coSSi||%J
|o iSGM%SJocuS%_| SG_GM%S%_|, |"% G@ili|5 |o Y%r2% GY Y5Y|%SY i_|%MrG|or
i_ G lGrM%SYcGl% VroP%c| o2%r Y%2%rGl 5%GrY, i_|%r%Y| i_ J%2%loVi_M |"%
r%[uiYi|% Yof|<Gr% GY G Y|G_JGrJ rG|"%r |"G_ G cuY|oS VroJuc|, G_J G
<illi_M_%YY |o i_2%Y| Yu@Y|G_|iGl r%Yourc%Y i_ |"% VroP%c| i|Y%lfA

_<o 2%_JorY, D~} G_J r%rox, <%r% Y%l%c|%J GY fi_GliY|Y i_ ic|o@%r u}}u,
G_J <i|" |"% YuVVor| of |"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY, %Gc"
<GY coSSiYYio_%J |o M%_%rG|% G J%|Gil%J r%[uir%S%_|Y G_Gl5YiY for |"%
VroP%c| G_J |"%_ |o Yu@Si| G forSGl VroVoYGl for |"% coSVl%|io_ of |"%
VroP%c|, <"ic" i_cluJ%J G @uJM%| G_J coY|YA _"% |%rSY <%r% |"G| Pi8 <oulJ
VG5 |"% loY%rA  _"% r%Yul|Y for YGl% of i_2ol2i_M G 2%_Jor i_cluJ%Ju
@roGJ i_2ol2%S%_| of YGl% Y|Gff GcroYY |"% @oGrJ G| G r%lG|i2%l5 lo<
coY|, <"ic" SG5 "G2% lo_MS|%rS YiM_ificG_c% i_ cGrr5i_M ou| |"% VroP%c|
(|<%_|5Sfi2% |o |"ir|5 u_i2%rYi|5 V%oVl% Gr% %_MGM%J i_ Pi8l2 @%||%r
u_J%rY|G_Ji_M of |"% fGc|orY |"G| Gff%c| corVorG|% r%YVo_Y% |o SGr(%|Y
for iSGMi_M VroJuc|Y2 G coSV%|i|i2% VroVoYGl2 G_J G Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
2i%< of |"% iSGMi_M SGr(%|YA

_"% SoY| iSVor|G_| fGc|or |"G| JiY|i_MuiY"%J |"% 2%_JorY u_J%r
co_YiJ%rG|io_ <GY |"%ir iJ%_|ificG|io_ <i|" |"% cuY|oS%rA  _"% Yi,% G_J
i_|%r_Gl coSVl%xi|5 of |"% coSVG_5 GlYo <GY G_ iSVor|G_| fGc|orA  Pi8 <GY
loo(i_M G| lGrM% coSVG_i%Y |"G| "GJ Yu@Y|G_|iGl r%Yourc%YA  c_ |"% %_J,
|"% Vroc%YY M%_%rG|%J for YGl% |<o coSV%|i|i2% VroVoYGlY, <i|" r%roxMY
|"% cl%Gr <i__%rA  [A_~lS |"%_ J%Ycri@%J |"% coSVo_%_|Y of |"% VroVoYGl,
|"% J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, G_J YoS% of |"% coY|Y %Y|iSG|%J for |"% Vroc%YYA

}oSVo_%_|Y Gr% %YY%_|iGll5 fouru  G co_2%rYio_ Yu@Y5Y|%S, G
_%|<or(SGcc%YYi@l% Y|orGM% Yu@Y5Y|%S for uD,DDD @oo(Y (G_J Pi8 %xV%c|Y
2DD |o ,DD JVi Y|orGM%l, @ro<Yi_M Y|G|io_Y JiY|ri@u|%J o_ |"% cGSVuY
_%|<or(, G_J _%|<or( Gcc%YY |o |"% iSGM% Vri_|%rYA

ASo_M |"% J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, Pi8 <G_|%J co_2%rYio_ G| |"% "iM"%Y|
VoYYi@l% r%Yolu|io_A  AYYuSi_M _c   fil%Y, _c   fil%Y <i|" GrouV x
coSVr%YYio_, _}PYcP, G_J %|"%r_%| _%|<or( o_ cGSVuY, Pi8 <G_|%J G
cli%_|SY%r2%r GVVroGc" <i|" iSGM% JocuS%_|Y JiY|ri@u|%J |o |"%
<or(Y|G|io_Y G_J SGJ% Gcc%YYi@l% |"rouM" _G|i2% <or(Y|G|io_ i_|%rfGc%Y
Yuc" GY [i_Jo<YA  Pi8 GlYo i_YiY|%J o_ G V"GY%J GVVroGc" |o
iSVl%S%_|G|io_u  ul G Y|G_JSGlo_%, Yi_Ml%SuY%r, lo<ScoY| %_|r5 i_|o |"%
@uYi_%YY <i|" G <or(Y|G|io_ focuY%J o_ co_2%rYio_ G_J Gllo<i_M Pi8 |o
%xVlor% uY%r Gcc%YY2 2l So2%S%_| i_|o G "iM"%rS2oluS% co_2%rYio_ <i|"
_%|<or(SGcc%YYi@l% Y|orGM% G_J Sul|iVl% Gcc%YY Y|G|io_Y2 G_J <l G
"iM"S2oluS% co_2%rYio_, fullScGVGci|5 Y|orGM%, G_J Sul|iVl% @ro<Yi_M
Y|G|io_Y JiY|ri@u|%J |"rouM"ou| |"% cGSVuYA

_"% coY|Y VroVoY%J for Y|Gr|SuV GYYuS%J |"% %xiY|%_c% of |"% YGl% _%|<or(
G_J i|Y |<o Docu_%c" iSGM% Vri_|%rYA  i|"%r Y|Gr|SuV coY|Y Gr% %Y|iSG|%J
G| Ju Sillio_ o2%r |"% |"r%% V"GY%YA  A| |"% %_J of |"% VroP%c|, |"% G__uGl
oV%rG|i_M coY|Y %Y|iSG|%J VriSGril5 for |"% Yof|<Gr% G_J "GrJ<Gr% VroVoY%J
coS% |o G@ou| J,D,DDD, @u| |"%Y% %xcluJ% coY|Y for lG@or _%%J%J i_ |"%
co_2%rYio_ Vroc%YY, _%|<or( G_J Vri_|%r uYGM%, G_J fGcili|i%Y SG_GM%S%_|A

 i_Gll5, |"% Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY VroJuc%J for YGl% G Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
2i%< of |"% iSGMi_M SGr(%|Yu  |"% SG_GM%S%_| of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_
iSGM% forS iY _o| G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Vro@l%S, _o| G li@rGr5 Vro@l%S, @u| G
M%_%rGl Vro@l%S i_ G @roGJ, M%_%rGl i_JuY|r5A  Pr%Y%r2G|io_ SG|%riGlY Gr%
uY%ful for J%2%loVi_M |"G| SGr(%| @%cGuY% of |"% [uGli|i%Y of |"%
SG|%riGlA   or %xGSVl%, Suc" of i| iY ou| of coV5riM"|A  _"% r%Yolu|io_
of (%5 iYYu%Y Yuc" GY |"% [uGli|5 of YcG__i_M G_J iSGM% @ro<Yi_M GlYo
<ill Gff%c| J%2%loVS%_| of |"G| SGr(%|A

_"% |%c"_oloM5 iY r%GJil5 G2GilG@l% @u| c"G_Mi_M rGViJl5A  c_ |"iY
co_|%x| of rGViJ c"G_M%, Y%2%rGl fGc|orY Gff%c| [uGli|5 G_J coY|, |o
<"ic" Pi8 i_|%_JY |o VG5 VGr|iculGr G||%_|io_, for %xGSVl%, |"% 2GriouY
l%2%lY of r%Yolu|io_ |"G| cG_ @% Gc"i%2%JA  Pi8 @%li%2%Y i| cG_ @ri_M
r%Yolu|io_ uV |o ,DD JVi, @u| G_ i_|%rVolG|io_ Vroc%YY froS xDD |o ,DD iY
Sor% li(%l5A  _"% 2GriG|io_ [uGli|5 i_ SicrofilS <ill Vro2% |o @% G
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| fGc|orA  Pi8 SG5 r%%xGSi_% |"% Y|G_JGrJY uY%J |o filS i_
|"% firY| VlGc% @5 loo(i_M G| |"iY Vroc%YY GY G follo<So_ |o SicrofilSi_MA

i|"%r iSVor|G_| fGc|orY i_cluJ%u  |"% |%c"_i[u%Y G2GilG@l% |o |"%
oV%rG|or for "G_Jli_M SG|%riGl, |"% <G5Y of i_|%MrG|i_M [uGli|5 co_|rol
i_|o |"% JiMi|i,i_M <or( flo<, G_J G <or( flo< |"G| i_cluJ%Y i_J%xi_M G_J
Y|orGM%A  Pi8MY r%[uir%S%_| <GY |o @% G@l% |o J%Gl <i|" [uGli|5 co_|rol
G| |"% Voi_| of YcG__i_MA  _"uY, |"G_(Y |o r%rox, Pi8 G_|iciVG|%Y "G2i_M
G S%c"G_iYS <"ic" <ill Gllo< i| _o| o_l5 |o YcG_ i_ @G|c" forS, @u| |o
r%2i%< |"% SG|%riGl GY i| Mo%Y |"rouM" |"% YcG__%r G_J co_|rol [uGli|5
froS |"% ou|Y%|A

_"% Y|G_JGrJY for S%GYuri_M [uGli|5 G_J coY|Y J%V%_J Mr%G|l5 o_ |"% uY%Y
of |"% SG|%riGl, i_cluJi_M Yu@Y%[u%_| i}l, Y|orGM%, Vri_|i_M, G_J
@ro<Yi_MA  8u| %YV%ciGll5 G| iYYu% for Pi8 iY |"% fGcili|5 for @ro<Yi_MA
_"iY fGcili|5, [A_~lS YGiJ, iY V%r"GVY |"% <%G(%Y| GYV%c| of iSGMi_M
|%c"_oloM5 G_J |"% SoY| i_ _%%J of J%2%loVS%_|A

A 2Gri%|5 of fGc|orY Gff%c| |"% uYG@ili|5 of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_ iSGM%
forS, GSo_M |"%Su  ul |"% G@ili|5 of |"% Y5Y|%S |o "G_Jl% |"% full rG_M%
of JocuS%_| |5V%Y, _o| PuY| So_oMrGV"Y @u| Y%riGlY, Sul|iSVGr|
So_oMrGV"Y, G_J SG_uYcriV|Y2 2l |"% locG|io_ of |"% JG|G@GY% of r%corJ
for @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ G@ou| |"% iSGM% JocuS%_|, <"ic" Pi8 <G_|Y
|o %_|%r o_c% G_J i_ |"% SoY| uY%ful VlGc%, |"% o_Sli_% cG|GloM2 <l G
JocuS%_| iJ%_|ifi%r for r%f%r%_ci_M |"% @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ i_ o_%
VlGc% G_J |"% iSGM%Y i_ G_o|"%r2 xl |"% |%c"_i[u% for SG(i_M |"% @GYic
i_|%r_Gl Y|ruc|ur% of |"% JocuS%_| Gcc%YYi@l% |o |"% r%GJ%r2 G_J fi_Gll5,
5l |"% V"5YicGl Vr%Y%_|G|io_ o_ |"% }l_ of |"oY% JocuS%_|YA  Pi8 iY r%GJ5
|o coSVl%|% |"iY V"GY% _o<A  i_% lGY| J%ciYio_ i_2ol2%Y J%ciJi_M <"ic"
SG|%riGl |o YcG_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P _c   fil%Y co_Y|i|u|% J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJ P "AlAMY %xV%ri%_c%
<i|" iSGM% co_2%rYio_ Yof|<Gr% G_J |%x| co_2%rYio_ P l } u<ux P
}o_YiJ%rG@l% flux co_c%r_i_M G2GilG@l% "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr% Yolu|io_Y 
