have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to sYol2% |"% co_|%x|uGli,i_M
Vro@l%SSS<"ic" |%llY |"% uY%r <"G| |"% Y5Y|%S co_|Gi_YA

MYfi"AS J%So_Y|rG|%J o_l5 G 2%r5 YSGll Vor|io_, @%Mi__i_M <i|" VriSGr5
|%x|Y G_J ru__i_M off |"% }DSliMA  @G2i_M Y%l%c|%J A%Yc"5luYM ProS%|"%uY
8ou_J, <"ic" <GY 2i%<G@l% i_ Gr%%( G_J ~_MliY" Vr%||5 Suc" i_ |"% YGS%
Y%MS%_|Y |oM%|"%r, MYfi"AS J%So_Y|rG|%J |oolY |o uY% <i|" |"% Gr%%( |%x|,
YoS%|"i_M _o| VoYYi@l% <i|" G @oo(u  loo(i_M uV |"% Jic|io_Gr5 %_|r5 forS
of G_ u_fGSiliGr <orJ i_ Gr%%( Gf|%r Yu@P%c|i_M i| |o P%rY%uYM
SorV"oloMicGl G_Gl5YiY for Gll |"% |%x|YA  Af|%r fi_Ji_M ou| G@ou| G
<orJ, G uY%r SG5 |"%_ J%ciJ% |o Y%% if i| iY uY%J G_5<"%r% %lY% i_ Gr%%(A
8%cGuY% 2GY| GSou_|Y of i_J%xi_M YuVVor| Gll of |"% VriSGr5 SG|%riGl, o_
