Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an_ %ff%c| G|
VlGc%Y o|"%r |"G_ @Gr2GrJ, for %xGSVl%, |%Y| Yi|%Y G| 8Gll S|G|%
o_i2%rYi|5, Drur5 }oll%M%, G_J _uS%rouY YSGll VlGc%Y <"%r% oVVor|u_i|i%Y
|o uY% 2GY| GSou_|Y of VriSGr5 JG|G SG5 _o| %xiY|A  i_% JocuS%_|%J %ff%c|
iY |"G| Grc"G%oloMicGl, G_|"roVoloMicGl, G_J V"iloloMicGl r%Y%Grc" iY
@%i_M Jo_% @5 |"% YGS% V%rYo_ i_Y|%GJ of @5 |"r%% Jiff%r%_| V%oVl%A

_"% co_|%x|uGl i_forSG|io_ i_ P%rY%uY i_cluJ%Y G_ o2%r2i%< %YYG5, G