  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men_M <oulJ "G2% Jo_% PuY|
GY <%llA

  _"% |<%l2% PurorY <%r% Gll <ri|i_M 2%r5 @uYil5 o_ YlG|%YA
 ["G| Gr% |"%5 Joi_M8M  Alic% <"iYV%r%J |o |"% Gr5V"o_A   _"%5
cG_M| "G2% G_5|"i_M |o Vu| Jo<_ 5%|, @%for% |"% |riGlMY @%Mu_AM

   _"%5Mr% Vu||i_M Jo<_ |"%ir _GS%Y,M |"% Gr5V"o_ <"iYV%r%J i_
r%Vl5,  for f%Gr |"%5 Y"oulJ forM%| |"%S @%for% |"% %_J of |"%
|riGlAM

   S|uViJ |"i_MYGM Alic% @%MG_ i_ G louJ, i_JiM_G_| 2oic%, @u|
Y"% Y|oVV%J "GY|il5, for |"% ["i|% lG@@i| cri%J ou|,  Sil%_c% i_
|"% cour|GM G_J |"% %i_M Vu| o_ "iY YV%c|Gcl%Y G_J loo(%J
G_xiouYl5 rou_J, |o SG(% ou| <"o <GY |Gl(i_MA

  Alic% coulJ Y%%, GY <%ll GY if Y"% <%r% loo(i_M o2%r |"%ir
Y"oulJ%rY, |"G| Gll |"% PurorY <%r% <ri|i_M Jo<_  Y|uViJ |"i_MYGM
o_ |"%ir YlG|%Y, G_J Y"% coulJ %2%_ SG(% ou| |"G| o_% of |"%S
JiJ_M| (_o< "o< |o YV%ll  Y|uViJ,M G_J |"G| "% "GJ |o GY( "iY
_%iM"@our |o |%ll "iSA   A _ic% SuJJl% |"%ir YlG|%YMll @% i_
@%for% |"% |riGlMY o2%rGM |"ouM"| Alic%A

  i_% of |"% PurorY "GJ G V%_cil |"G| Y[u%G(%JA  _"iY of courY%,
Alic% coulJ _o| Y|G_J, G_J Y"% <%_| rou_J |"% cour| G_J Mo|
@%"i_J "iS, G_J 2%r5 Yoo_ fou_J G_ oVVor|u_i|5 of |G(i_M i|
G<G5A  S"% JiJ i| Yo [uic(l5 |"G| |"% Voor li||l% Puror (i| <GY
8ill, |"% fi,GrJl coulJ _o| SG(% ou| G| Gll <"G| "GJ @%coS% of
i|2 Yo, Gf|%r "u_|i_M Gll G@ou| for i|, "% <GY o@liM%J |o <ri|%
<i|" o_% fi_M%r for |"% r%Y| of |"% JG52 G_J |"iY <GY of 2%r5
li||l% uY%, GY i| l%f| _o SGr( o_ |"% YlG|%A

   @%rGlJ, r%GJ |"% GccuYG|io_GM YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  i_ |"iY |"% ["i|% lG@@i| @l%< |"r%% @lGY|Y o_ |"% |ruSV%|, G_J
|"%_ u_roll%J |"% VGrc"S%_| Ycroll, G_J r%GJ GY follo<YuSS

     _"% (u%%_ of @%Gr|Y, Y"% SGJ% YoS% |Gr|Y,
          All o_ G YuSS%r JG5u
      _"% %_G2% of @%Gr|Y, "% Y|ol% |"oY% |Gr|Y,
          A_J |oo( |"%S [ui|% G<G5G
