  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even_ <Gi|i_M |o Vu| "iY Y"o%Y o_A

   SSG_J PuY| |G(% "iY "%GJ off ou|YiJ%,M |"% (u%%_ GJJ%J |o o_%
of |"% offic%rYu  @u| |"% @G||%r <GY ou| of YiM"| @%for% |"%
offic%r coulJ M%| |o |"% JoorA

   }Gll |"% _%x| <i|_%YYGM YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  _"% _%x| <i|_%YY <GY |"% Duc"%YYMY coo(A  S"% cGrri%J |"%
V%VV%rS@ox i_ "%r "G_J, G_J Alic% Mu%YY%J <"o i| <GY, %2%_ @%for%
Y"% Mo| i_|o |"% cour|, @5 |"% <G5 |"% V%oVl% _%Gr |"% Joor @%MG_
Y_%%,i_M Gll G| o_c%A

   Gi2% 5our %2iJ%_c%,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   S"G_M|,M YGiJ |"% coo(A

  _"% %i_M loo(%J G_xiouYl5 G| |"% ["i|% lG@@i|, <"o YGiJ i_ G
lo< 2oic%,  Your MGP%Y|5 SuY| croYYS%xGSi_% _@cS <i|_%YYAM

   [%ll, if c SuY|, c SuY|,M |"% %i_M YGiJ, <i|" G S%lG_c"ol5
Gir, G_J, Gf|%r folJi_M "iY GrSY G_J fro<_i_M G| |"% coo( |ill
"iY %5%Y <%r% _%Grl5 ou| of YiM"|, "% YGiJ i_ G J%%V 2oic%,  ["G|
Gr% |Gr|Y SGJ% of8M

   P%VV%r, SoY|l5,M YGiJ |"% coo(A

   _r%Gcl%,M YGiJ G Yl%%V5 2oic% @%"i_J "%rA

   }ollGr |"G| DorSouY%,M |"% (u%%_ Y"ri%(%J ou|A   8%"%GJ |"G|
DorSouY%G  _ur_ |"G| DorSouY% ou| of cour|G  SuVVr%YY "iSG  Pi_c"
"iSG  iff <i|" "iY <"iY(%rYGM

   or YoS% Si_u|%Y |"% <"ol% cour| <GY i_ co_fuYio_, M%||i_M |"%
DorSouY% |ur_%J ou|, G_J, @5 |"% |iS% |"%5 "GJ Y%||l%J Jo<_
GMGi_, |"% coo( "GJ JiYGVV%Gr%JA

   "%2%r Si_JGM YGiJ |"% %i_M, <i|" G_ Gir of Mr%G| r%li%fA
 }Gll |"% _%x| <i|_%YYAM  A_J "% GJJ%J i_ G_ u_J%r|o_% |o |"%
(u%%_,  l%Gll5, S5 J%Gr, Yio SuY| croYYS%xGSi_% |"% _%x| <i|_%YYA
c| [ui|% SG(%Y S5 for%"%GJ Gc"%GM

  Alic% <G|c"%J |"% ["i|% lG@@i| GY "% fuS@l%J o2%r |"% liY|,
f%%li_M 2%r5 curiouY |o Y%% <"G| |"% _%x| <i|_%YY <oulJ @% li(%,
 SSfor |"%5 "G2%_M| Mo| Suc" %2iJ%_c% Y~_,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA
cSGMi_% "%r YurVriY%, <"%_ |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%GJ ou|, G| |"% |oV
of "iY Y"rill li||l% 2oic%, |"% _GS%  Alic%GM



                           }@AP_~l rcc

                        Alic%MY ~2iJ%_c%


   @%r%GM cri%J Alic%, [ui|% forM%||i_M i_ |"% flurr5 of |"%
SoS%_| "o< lGrM% Y"% "GJ Mro<_ i_ |"% lGY| f%< Si_u|%Y, G_J Y"%
PuSV%J uV i_ Yuc" G "urr5 |"G| Y"% |iVV%J o2%r |"% Pur5S@ox <i|"
|"% %JM% of "%r Y(ir|, uVY%||i_M Gll |"% Pur5S%_ o_ |o |"% "%GJY
of |"% cro<J @%lo<, G_J |"%r% |"%5 lG5 YVrG<li_M G@ou|, r%Si_Ji_M
"%r 2%r5 Suc" of G Mlo@% of MolJfiY" Y"% "GJ GcciJ%_|Gll5 uVY%|
|"% <%%( @%for%A

   i", c 8~G 5our VGrJo_GM Y"% %xclGiS%J i_ G |o_% of Mr%G|
JiYSG5, G_J @%MG_ Vic(i_M |"%S uV GMGi_ GY [uic(l5 GY Y"% coulJ,
for |"% GcciJ%_| of |"% MolJfiY" (%V| ru__i_M i_ "%r "%GJ, G_J
Y"% "GJ G 2GMu% Yor| of iJ%G |"G| |"%5 SuY| @% coll%c|%J G| o_c%
G_J Vu| @Gc( i_|o |"% Pur5S@ox, or |"%5 <oulJ Ji%A

   _"% |riGl cG__o| Vroc%%J,M YGiJ |"% %i_M i_ G 2%r5 MrG2%
2oic%,  u_|il Gll |"% Pur5S%_ Gr% @Gc( i_ |"%ir VroV%r VlGc%YSS
Aff,M "% r%V%G|%J <i|" Mr%G| %SV"GYiY, loo(i_M "GrJ G| Alic% GY
"% YGiJ JoA

  Alic% loo(%J G| |"% Pur5S@ox, G_J YG< |"G|, i_ "%r "GY|%, Y"%
"GJ Vu| |"% fi,GrJ i_ "%GJ Jo<_<GrJY, G_J |"% Voor li||l% |"i_
