Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reporte%Jl5 u5 V%rc%_| G So_|"A  _"%5
curr%_|l5 co_Y|i|u|% GVVroxiSG|%l5 "Glf |"% |rGffic o_ r%Y%Grc" G_J
%JucG|io_ _%|<or(YA  Mor%o2%r, |"% Mlo@Gl YVr%GJ of ~SSGil "GY @%%_ Yo
rGViJ |"G| i| iY _o< VoYYi@l% for AS%ricG_ Yc"olGrY |o uY% i| |o
coSSu_icG|% <i|" coll%GMu%Y i_ cloY% |o uxD o|"%r cou_|ri%YA

i|"%r _%< %xc"G_M% forSG|Y cr%G|%J @5 Yc"olGrY G_J oV%rG|i_M o_ c_|%r_%|
i_cluJ% Sor% |"G_ ADD co_f%r%_c%Y, <i|" G@ou| 8D V%rc%_| of |"%Y% J%2o|%J
|o |oVicY i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J "uSG_i|i%YA  _"% rG|% of Mro<|" of
|"%Y% Yc"olGrl5 %l%c|ro_ic co_f%r%_c%Y GlYo iY GY|o_iY"i_MA   roS l}}D |o
l}}u, 2DD _%< co_f%r%_c%Y <%r% iJ%_|ifi%J o_ c_|%r_%|A   roS ic|o@%r u}}u
|o Ju_% u}}2, G_ GJJi|io_Gl u5D co_f%r%_c%Y i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J
"uSG_i|i%Y <%r% GJJ%J |o |"iY Jir%c|or5 of liY|i_MYA  Sc"olGrY "G2%
%Y|G@liY"%J co_f%r%_c%Y i_ 2ir|uGll5 %2%r5 fi%lJ, <i|"i_ %2%r5 Jiff%r%_|
JiYciVli_%A   or %xGSVl%, |"%r% Gr% curr%_|l5 cloY% |o ,DD Gc|i2% YociGl
Yci%_c% G_J "uSG_i|i%Y  co_f%r%_c%Y o_ |oVicY Yuc" GY Gr| G_J
Grc"i|%c|ur%, %|"_oSuYicoloM5, fol(lor%, JGVG_%Y% cul|ur%, S%JicGl
%JucG|io_, G_J Mif|%J G_J |Gl%_|%J %JucG|io_A  _"% GVV%Gl |o Yc"olGrY of
coSSu_icG|i_M |"rouM" |"%Y% co_f%r%_c%Y iY |"G|, u_li(% G_5 o|"%r S%JiuS,
%l%c|ro_ic co_f%r%_c%Y |oJG5 Vro2iJ% G foruS for Mlo@Gl coSSu_icG|io_
<i|" V%%rY G| |"% fro_| %_J of |"% r%Y%Grc" Vroc%YYA

c_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY of Yourc%Y co_Y|i|u|%Y |"% |"irJ Vroc%YY of
Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ |"G| Mc}@~fSi" JiYcuYY%J i_ |%rSY of |%x|Y G_J
|%x|uGl r%Yourc%YA  _"% S%|"oJY uY%J |o G_Gl5,% Yourc%Y fGll YoS%<"%r% o_
G co_|i_uuS froS [uG_|i|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY |o [uGli|G|i2% G_Gl5YiYA
_5VicGll5, %2iJ%_c% iY cull%J G_J %2GluG|%J uYi_M S%|"oJY JrG<_ froS @o|"
%_JY of |"iY co_|i_uuSA  A| o_% %_J, [uG_|i|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY i_2ol2%Y |"%
uY% of SG|"%SG|icGl Vroc%YY%Y Yuc" GY G cou_| of fr%[u%_ci%Y G_J
JiY|ri@u|io_Y of occurr%_c%Y or, o_ G "iM"%r l%2%l, r%Mr%YYio_ G_Gl5YiYA
A| |"% o|"%r %_J of |"% co_|i_uuS, [uGli|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY |5VicGll5
i_2ol2%Y _o_SG|"%SG|icGl Vroc%YY%Y ori%_|%J |o<GrJ lG_MuGM%
i_|%rVr%|G|io_ or |"% @uilJi_M of |"%or5A  AYV%c|Y of |"iY <or( i_2ol2%
|"% Vroc%YYi_MSS%i|"%r SG_uGl or coSVu|G|io_GlSSof lGrM% G_J YoS%|iS%Y
SGYYi2% GSou_|Y of |%x|uGl Yourc%Y, Gl|"ouM" |"% uY% of _o_|%x|uGl
Yourc%Y GY %2iJ%_c%, Yuc" GY V"o|oMrGV"Y, You_J r%corJi_MY, filS foo|GM%,
G_J Gr|ifGc|Y, iY YiM_ificG_| GY <%llA

Sc"olGrY "G2% JiYco2%r%J |"G| SG_5 of |"% S%|"oJY of i_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J
G_Gl5YiY |"G| Gr% r%lG|%J |o @o|" [uG_|i|G|i2% G_J [uGli|G|i2% S%|"oJY
Gr% Vroc%YY%Y |"G| cG_ @% V%rforS%J @5 coSVu|%rYA   or %xGSVl%, coSVu|%rY
cG_ cou_|A  _"%5 cG_ cou_| @ruY" Y|ro(%Y uY%J i_ G l%S@rG_J| VGi_|i_M or
V%rforS r%Mr%YYio_ G_Gl5YiY for u_J%rY|G_Ji_M cGuY% G_J %ff%c|A  85 S%G_Y
of GJ2G_c%J |%c"_oloMi%Y, coSVu|%rY cG_ r%coM_i,% VG||%r_Y, G_Gl5,% |%x|,
G_J SoJ%l co_c%V|YA   ur|"%rSor%, coSVu|%rY cG_ coSVl%|% |"%Y% Vroc%YY%Y
fGY|%r <i|" Sor% Yourc%Y G_J <i|" Mr%G|%r Vr%ciYio_ |"G_ Yc"olGrY <"o
SuY| r%l5 o_ SG_uGl i_|%rVr%|G|io_ of JG|GA  8u| if Yc"olGrY Gr% |o uY%
coSVu|%rY for |"%Y% Vroc%YY%Y, Yourc% SG|%riGlY SuY| @% i_ G forS
GS%_G@l% |o coSVu|%rSGYYiY|%J G_Gl5YiYA   or |"iY r%GYo_ SG_5 Yc"olGrY,
o_c% |"%5 "G2% iJ%_|ifi%J |"% Yourc%Y |"G| Gr% (%5 |o |"%ir r%Y%Grc", Gr%
co_2%r|i_M |"%S |o SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forSA  _"uY, G r%Vr%Y%_|G|i2% %xGSVl%
of |"% _uS%rouY |%x|uGl co_2%rYio_ VroP%c|Y orMG_i,%J @5 Yc"olGrY Grou_J
|"% <orlJ i_ r%c%_| 5%GrY |o YuVVor| coSVu|G|io_Gl |%x| G_Gl5YiY iY |"%
_fG, |"% _"%YGuruY fi_MuG% GrG%cG%A  _"iY VroP%c| iY J%2o|%J |o
co_2%r|i_M |"% %x|G_| G_ci%_| |%x|Y of clGYYicGl Gr%%c%A  (~Ji|orMY _o|%u
GccorJi_M |o |"% _fG "%<Yl%||%r of MG5 l}}2, _fG <GY i_ uY% i_ |"ir|5S|<o
Jiff%r%_| cou_|ri%YA  _"iY fiMur% uVJG|%Y Mc}@~fSi"MY Vr%2iouY cou_| @5 o_%Al

_"% Yc"olGrY V%rforSi_M |"%Y% co_2%rYio_Y "G2% @%%_ GY(%J |o r%coM_i,%
|"G| |"% %l%c|ro_ic Yourc%Y |"%5 Gr% co_2%r|i_M for o_% uY% VoYY%YY 2Glu%
for o|"%r r%Y%Grc" VurVoY%Y GY <%llA  AY G r%Yul|, Juri_M |"% VGY| f%<
5%GrY, "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY "G2% i_i|iG|%J G _uS@%r of VroP%c|Y |o
i_cr%GY% Yc"olGrl5 Gcc%YY |o co_2%r|%J |%x|A  So, for %xGSVl%, |"% _%x|
~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~cl, G@ou| <"ic" Sor% iY YGiJ lG|%r i_ |"% VroMrGS,
<GY %Y|G@liY"%J GY G_ %ffor| @5 Yc"olGrY |o J%|%rSi_% Y|G_JGrJ %l%S%_|Y
G_J S%|"oJY for %_coJi_M SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x| for %l%c|ro_ic %xc"G_M%A
c_ G Y%co_J %ffor| |o fGcili|G|% |"% Y"Gri_M of co_2%r|%J |%x|, Yc"olGrY
"G2% cr%G|%J G _%< i_Y|i|u|io_, |"% }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ |"%
@uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@lA  _"% c%_|%r %Y|iSG|%Y |"G| |"%r% Gr% 8,DDD Y%ri%Y of
Yourc% |%x|Y i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y |"G| "G2% @%%_ co_2%r|%J |o
SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forS <orlJ<iJ%A  }~_@ iY u_J%r|G(i_M G_ i_|%r_G|io_Gl
Y%Grc" for co_2%r|%J |%x| i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y, coSVili_M i| i_|o G_
%l%c|ro_ic li@rGr5, G_J Vr%VGri_M @i@lioMrGV"ic J%YcriV|io_Y of |"%
Yourc%Y for |"% l%Y%Grc" fi@rGri%Y c_forSG|io_ "%|<or(MY (lfc"l
SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% JG|G fil%A  _"% li@rGr5 Vrof%YYio_ "GY @%Mu_ |o i_i|iG|%
lGrM% co_2%rYio_ VroP%c|Y GY <%ll, Yuc" GY AS%ricG_ M%Sor5A

["il% Yc"olGrY "G2% @%%_ SG(i_M co_2%r|%J |%x| G2GilG@l% |o o_% G_o|"%r,
|5VicGll5 o_ JiY( or o_ }DSliM, |"% cl%Gr |r%_J iY |o<GrJ SG(i_M |"%Y%
r%Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% |"rouM" r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(YA  _"uY, |"%
AS%ricG_ G_J  r%_c" l%Y%Grc" o_ |"% _r%GYur5 of |"%  r%_c" fG_MuGM%
(Al_ fl G_J |"% DG_|% ProP%c| Gr% Glr%GJ5 G2GilG@l% o_ c_|%r_%|A
Mc}@~fSi" YuSSGri,%J |"iY Y%c|io_ o_ i_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY @5
_o|i_M |"G|u  ul i_cr%GYi_M _uS@%rY of "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY i_ |"% li@rGr5
coSSu_i|5 Gr% r%coM_i,i_M |"% iSVor|G_c% |o |"% GJ2G_c%S%_| of
Yc"olGrY"iV of r%|roYV%c|i2% co_2%rYio_ of Yourc% SG|%riGlY i_ |"% Gr|Y
G_J "uSG_i|i%Y2 G_J 2l |"%r% iY G Mro<i_M r%Gli,G|io_ |"G| SG(i_M |"%
Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% o_ r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y SGxiSi,%Y |"%ir
uY%ful_%YY for |"% G_Gl5YiY V%rforS%J @5 "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrYA

_"% four|" Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ iY JiYY%Si_G|io_ of
r%Y%Grc" fi_Ji_MY, |"G| iY, Vu@licG|io_A  Sc"olGrY Gr% uYi_M %xiY|i_M
r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y |o %_Mi_%%r G _%< |5V% of Vu@licG|io_u
Yc"olGrl5Sco_|roll%J Pour_GlY |"G| Gr% %l%c|ro_icGll5 VroJuc%J G_J
JiYY%Si_G|%JA  Al|"ouM" Yuc" Pour_GlY Gr% Y|ill %S%rMi_M GY G
coSSu_icG|io_ forSG|, |"%ir _uS@%r "GY Mro<_, froS GVVroxiSG|%l5 |<%l2%
|o |"ir|5SYix Juri_M |"% VGY| 5%Gr (Jul5 u}}u |o Ju_% u}}2lA  MoY| of
|"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic Yc"olGrl5 Pour_GlY Gr% J%2o|%J |o |oVicY i_ |"%
"uSG_i|i%YA  AY <i|" _%|<or( co_f%r%_c%Y, Yc"olGrl5 %_|"uYiGYS for |"%Y%
%l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY Y|%SY froS |"% S%JiuSMY u_i[u% G@ili|5 |o GJ2G_c%
Yc"olGrY"iV i_ G <G5 |"G| _o o|"%r S%JiuS cG_ Jo @5 YuVVor|i_M Mlo@Gl
f%%J@Gc( G_J i_|%rc"G_M%, VrGc|icGll5 i_ r%Gl |iS%, %Grl5 i_ |"% r%Y%Grc"
Vroc%YYA  8%5o_J Yc"olGrl5 Pour_GlY, Mc}@~fSi" r%SGr(%J |"% J%li2%r5 of
coSS%rciGl fullS|%x| VroJuc|Y, Yuc" GY Gr|icl%Y i_ Vrof%YYio_Gl Pour_GlY,
_%<Yl%||%rY, SGMG,i_%Y, <ir% Y%r2ic%Y, G_J r%f%r%_c% Yourc%YA  _"%Y% Gr%
@%i_M J%li2%r%J 2iG o_Sli_% locGl li@rGr5 cG|GloMu%Y, %YV%ciGll5 |"rouM"
}DSliMYA   ur|"%rSor%, GccorJi_M |o Mc}@~fSi", |"%r% iY M%_%rGl oV|iSiYS
|"G| |"% coV5riM"| G_J f%%Y iYYu%Y iSV%Ji_M |"% J%li2%r5 of full |%x| o_
%xiY|i_M r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y Yoo_ <ill @% r%Yol2%JA
