and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manuaGlA

All Vu@lic li@rGri%Y "G2% @%%_ %x|r%S%l5 %_|"uYiGY|ic, YuVVor|i2%, G_J
GVVr%ciG|i2% of |"% <or( |"G| AM "GY @%%_ Joi_MA  V~}}cA c"GrGc|%ri,%J
2GriouY uY%rYu  MoY| uY%rY i_ Vu@lic li@rGri%Y J%Ycri@% |"%SY%l2%Y GY
M%_%rGl r%GJ%rY2 of |"% Y|uJ%_|Y <"o uY% AM i_ |"% Vu@lic li@rGri%Y,
|"oY% i_ four|" MrGJ% G_J G@o2% Y%%S SoY| i_|%r%Y|%JA  Pu@lic li@rGri%Y
i_ rurGl Yi|%Y |%_J |o G||rGc| r%|ir%J V%oVl%, <"o "G2% @%%_ "iM"l5
r%c%V|i2% |o AMA  oY%rY |%_J |o fGll i_|o |<o GJJi|io_Gl cG|%Mori%Yu
V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ |"% co_|%_| G_J "iY|oricGl co__o|G|io_Y of |"%Y%
VriSGr5 r%Yourc%Y, G_J |"oY% fGYci_G|%J @5 |"% |%c"_oloM5A  _"% forSG|
r%c%i2i_M |"% SoY| coSS%_|Y "GY @%%_ So|io_ Vic|ur%YA  _"% GJul| uY%rY i_
Vu@lic li@rGri%Y Gr% Sor% coSfor|G@l% <i|" c8M coSVu|%rY, <"%r%GY 5ou_M
V%oVl% Y%%S coSfor|G@l% <i|" %i|"%r c8M or MGci_|oY", Gl|"ouM" SoY| of
|"%S Y%%S |o coS% froS G MGci_|oY" @Gc(Mrou_JA  _"iY YGS% |%_J%_c5 iY
fou_J i_ |"% Yc"oolYA

["G| (i_JY of |"i_MY Jo uY%rY Jo <i|" AM8  c_ G Vu@lic li@rGr5 |"%r% Gr%
|<o SGi_ MoGlY or <G5Y |"G| AM iY @%i_M uY%Ju  GY G_ i_Ji2iJuGl l%Gr_i_M
|ool, G_J GY G l%iYur% Gc|i2i|5A  AJul| l%Gr_i_M <GY o_% Gr%G |"G| V~}}cA
<oulJ "iM"liM"| GY G VoYYi@l% GVVlicG|io_ for G |ool Yuc" GY AMA  S"%
J%Ycri@%J G VG|ro_ of G rurGl Vu@lic li@rGr5 <"o coS%Y i_ %2%r5 JG5 o_
"iY lu_c" "our G_J li|%rGll5 r%GJY AM, S%|"oJicGll5 Moi_M |"rouM" |"%
coll%c|io_ iSGM% @5 iSGM%A  A| |"% %_J of "iY "our "% SG(%Y G_ %l%c|ro_ic
@oo(SGr(, Vu|Y i| i_ "iY Voc(%|, G_J r%|ur_Y |o <or(A  _"% _%x| JG5 "%
coS%Y i_ G_J r%YuS%Y <"%r% "% l%f| offA  c_|%r%Y|i_Ml5, |"iY SG_ "GJ
_%2%r @%%_ i_ |"% li@rGr5 @%for% "% uY%J AMA  c_ G_o|"%r YSGll, rurGl
li@rGr5, |"% coorJi_G|or r%Vor|Y |"G| AM iY G VoVulGr Gc|i2i|5 for YoS%
of |"% olJ%r, r%|ir%J V%oVl% i_ |"% coSSu_i|5, <"o orJi_Gril5 <oulJ _o|
uY% "|"oY% |"i_MY,"SScoSVu|%rYA  A_o|"%r %xGSVl% of GJul| l%Gr_i_M i_
Vu@lic li@rGri%Y iY @oo( MrouVY, o_% of <"ic", i_ VGr|iculGr, iY uYi_M AM
GY VGr| of i|Y r%GJi_M o_ i_JuY|riGli,G|io_, i_|%MrG|io_, G_J ur@G_i,G|io_
i_ |"% %Grl5 u}DDYA

i_% li@rGr5 r%Vor|Y |"G| G fGSil5 iY uYi_M AM |o "%lV %JucG|% |"%ir
c"ilJr%_A  c_ G_o|"%r i_Y|G_c%, i_Ji2iJuGlY froS G locGl SuY%uS cGS% i_
|o uY% AM |o Vr%VGr% G_ %x"i@i| o_ |o5Y of |"% VGY|A  _"%Y% |<o %xGSVl%Y
%SV"GYi,% |"% SiYYio_ of |"% Vu@lic li@rGr5 GY G cul|urGl i_Y|i|u|io_,
r%Gc"i_M ou| |o V%oVl% <"o Jo _o| "G2% |"% YGS% r%Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% |o
|"oY% <"o li2% i_ G S%|roVoli|G_ Gr%G or "G2% Gcc%YY |o G SGPor li@rGr5A
i_% rurGl li@rGr5 r%Vor|Y |"G| Pu_ior "iM" Yc"ool Y|uJ%_|Y i_ lGrM%
_uS@%rY cGS% i_ o_% Gf|%r_oo_ |o uY% AM for %_|%r|Gi_S%_|A  A _uS@%r of
Vu@lic li@rGri%Y r%Vor|%J Mr%G| i_|%r%Y| GSo_M VoY|cGrJ coll%c|orY i_ |"%
D%|roi| coll%c|io_, <"ic" <GY %YY%_|iGll5 G coll%c|io_ of iSGM%Y uY%J o_
VoY|cGrJY Grou_J |"% |ur_ of |"% c%_|ur5A  _rGi_ @uffY Gr% YiSilGrl5
i_|%r%Y|%J @%cGuY% |"G| <GY G |iS% of Mr%G| i_|%r%Y| i_ rGilroGJi_MA
P%oVl%, i| <GY fou_J, r%lG|% |o |"i_MY |"G| |"%5 (_o< of firY|"G_JA   or
%xGSVl%, i_ @o|" rurGl Vu@lic li@rGri%Y <"%r% AM <GY SGJ% G2GilG@l%,
o@Y%r2%rY r%Vor|%J |"G| |"% olJ%r V%oVl% <i|" V%rYo_Gl r%S%S@rG_c%Y of
|"% |ur_ of |"% c%_|ur5 <%r% MrG2i|G|i_M |o |"% D%|roi| coll%c|io_A
_"%Y% %xGSVl%Y Y%r2%J |o u_J%rYcor% Mc}@~fSi"MY o@Y%r2G|io_ r% |"%
i_|%MrG|io_ of %l%c|ro_ic |oolY G_J iJ%GYSS|"G| V%oVl% l%Gr_ @%Y| <"%_
|"% SG|%riGl r%lG|%Y |o YoS%|"i_M |"%5 (_o<A

V~}}cA SGJ% |"% fi_Gl Voi_| |"G| i_ SG_5 cGY%Y AM Y%r2%Y GY G
Vu@licSr%lG|io_Y |ool for |"% Vu@lic li@rGri%Y |"G| Gr% |%Y|i_M i|A  c_
o_% cGY%, AM iY @%i_M uY%J GY G 2%"icl% |o Y%cur% GJJi|io_Gl fu_Ji_M for
|"% li@rGr5A  c_ G_o|"%r cGY%, AM "GY Y%r2%J GY G_ i_YVirG|io_ |o |"%
Y|Gff of G SGPor locGl Vu@lic li@rGr5 i_ |"% Sou|" |o |"i_( G@ou| <G5Y |
