
LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments  i_ |%c"_oloM5 o2%r |"% VGY| J%cGJ% P _"% }fASS
ProP%c| P AJ2G_|GM%Y for |%c"_oloM5 G_J for |"% }fASS ProP%c| P
D%2%loVi_M G _%|<or( GVVlicG|io_ G_ u_J%rl5i_M GYYuSV|io_ of |"% VroP%c|
P D%|GilY of |"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY P Pri_|So_SJ%SG_J coVi%Y of @oo(Y P
 u|ur% VlG_Y i_cluJ% J%2%loVS%_| of G @ro<Yi_M |ool P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

f5__% P~lSi"coS, GYYiY|G_| Jir%c|or, }or_%ll c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y for
Sc"olGrl5 c_forSG|io_ S%r2ic%Y, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, firY| coSS%_|%J o_
|"% |r%S%_JouY iSVGc| |"G| J%2%loVS%_|Y i_ |%c"_oloM5 o2%r |"% VGY| |%_
5%GrYSS_%|<or(i_M, i_ VGr|iculGrSS"G2% "GJ o_ |"% <G5 i_forSG|io_ iY
"G_Jl%J, G_J "o<, i_ "%r o<_ cGY%, |"%Y% J%2%loVS%_|Y "G2% cou_|%r@GlG_c%J
}or_%llMY r%lG|i2% M%oMrGV"icGl iYolG|io_A  i|"%r YiM_ificG_| |%c"_oloMi%Y
i_cluJ% YcG__%rY, <"ic" Gr% Suc" Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J |"G_ |"%5 <%r% |%_ 5%GrY
GMo2 SGYY Y|orGM% G_J |"% JrGSG|ic YG2i_MY |"G| r%Yul| froS i| i_ |%rSY of
@o|" YVGc% G_J So_%5 r%lG|i2% |o |<%_|5 or |"ir|5 5%GrY GMo2 _%< G_J
iSVro2%J Vri_|i_M |%c"_oloMi%Y, <"ic" "G2% Mr%G|l5 Gff%c|%J |"% JiY|ri@u|io_
of i_forSG|io_2 G_J, of courY%, JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloMi%Y, <"oY% GVVlicG@ili|5 |o
li@rGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ r%SGi_Y G| iYYu%A

Gi2%_ |"G| co_|%x|, P~lSi"coS J%Ycri@%J |"% }oll%M% fi@rGr5 Acc%YY G_J
S|orGM% S5Y|%S (}fASSl ProP%c|, G li@rGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ VroP%c|,
VriSGril5, G_J <"G| "GY @%%_ GccoSVliY"%JA  Dir%c|l5 fu_J%J @5 |"%
}oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY G_J @5 |"% r%rox }orVorG|io_, <"ic"
"GY Vro2iJ%J G YiM_ificG_| GSou_| of "GrJ<Gr%, |"% }fASS ProP%c| "GY @%%_
<or(i_M <i|" G J%2%loVS%_| |%GS G| r%rox |o J%2%loV G Yof|<Gr%
GVVlicG|io_ |Gilor%J |o li@rGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ r%[uir%S%_|YA  [i|"i_
}or_%ll, VGr|iciVG_|Y i_ |"% VroP%c| "G2% @%%_ <or(i_M Poi_|l5 <i|" @o|"
li@rGr5 G_J i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloMi%YA  _"% focuY of |"% VroP%c| "GY @%%_
o_ r%forSG||i_M G_J YG2i_M @oo(Y |"G| Gr% i_ @ri||l% co_Ji|io_A
P~lSi"coS Y"o<%J [or(Y"oV VGr|iciVG_|Y G @ri||l% @oo(, G_J J%Ycri@%J "o<
Yuc" @oo(Y <%r% |"% r%Yul| of J%2%loVS%_|Y i_ VGV%rSG(i_M Grou_J |"%
@%Mi__i_M of |"% c_JuY|riGl l%2olu|io_A  _"% VGV%rSG(i_M Vroc%YY <GY
c"G_M%J Yo |"G| G YiM_ificG_| GSou_| of GciJ <GY i_|roJuc%J i_|o |"%
Gc|uGl VGV%r i|Y%lf, <"ic" J%|%riorG|%Y GY i| Yi|Y o_ li@rGr5 Y"%l2%YA

i_% of |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y for |%c"_oloM5 G_J for |"% }fASS ProP%c| iY |"G|
|"% i_forSG|io_ i_ @ri||l% @oo(Y iY SoY|l5 ou| of coV5riM"| G_J |"uY
off%rY G_ oVVor|u_i|5 |o <or( <i|" SG|%riGl |"G| r%[uir%Y li@rGr5
Vr%Y%r2G|io_, G_J |o cr%G|% G_J <or( o_ G_ i_frGY|ruc|ur% |o YG2% |"%
SG|%riGlA  Ac(_o<l%JMi_M |"% fGSiliGri|5 of |"oY% <or(i_M i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_
<i|" |"iY i_forSG|io_, P~lSi"coS _o|%J |"G| Y%2%rGl |"i_MY Gr% @%i_M
Jo_%u  |"% VriSGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ |%c"_oloM5 uY%J |oJG5 iY V"o|ocoV5i_M of
@ri||l% SG|%riGlA  SG2i_M |"% i_|%ll%c|uGl co_|%_| of |"% SG|%riGl iY |"%
SGi_ MoGlA  [i|" SicrofilS coV5, |"% i_|%ll%c|uGl co_|%_| iY Vr%Y%r2%J o_
|"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| i_ |"% fu|ur% |"% iSGM% cG_ @% r%forSG||%J i_ G_5
o|"%r <G5 |"G| |"%_ %xiY|YA

A_ u_J%rl5i_M GYYuSV|io_ of |"% }fASS ProP%c| froS |"% @%Mi__i_M <GY
|"G| i| <oulJ J%2%loV G _%|<or( GVVlicG|io_A  ProP%c| Y|Gff YcG_ @oo(Y
G| G <or(Y|G|io_ locG|%J i_ |"% li@rGr5, _%Gr |"% @ri||l% SG|%riGlA
A_ iSGM%SY%r2%r fili_M Y5Y|%S iY locG|%J G| G JiY|G_c% froS |"G|
<or(Y|G|io_, G_J G Vri_|%r iY locG|%J i_ G_o|"%r @uilJi_MA  All of |"%
SG|%riGlY JiMi|i,%J G_J Y|or%J o_ |"% iSGM%Sfili_M Y5Y|%S Gr% cG|GloM%J
i_ |"% o_Sli_% cG|GloMu%A  c_ fGc|, G r%corJ for %Gc" of |"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic
@oo(Y iY Y|or%J i_ |"% lfc" JG|G@GY% Yo |"G| G r%corJ %xiY|Y of <"G| iY
i_ |"% JiMi|Gl li@rGr5 |"rouM"ou| Y|G_JGrJ cG|GloMu% Vroc%Jur%YA  c_ |"%
fu|ur%, r%Y%Grc"%rY <or(i_M froS |"%ir o<_ <or(Y|G|io_Y i_ |"%ir offic%Y,
or |"%ir _%|<or(Y, <ill "G2% Gcc%YYSS<"%r%2%r |"%5 SiM"| @%SS|"rouM" G
r%[u%Y| Y%r2%r @%i_M @uil| i_|o |"% _%< JiMi|Gl li@rGr5A  A Y%co_J
GYYuSV|io_ iY |"G| |"% Vr%f%rr%J S%G_Y of fi_Ji_M |"% SG|%riGl <ill @% @5
loo(i_M |"rouM" G cG|GloMu%A  P~lSi"coS J%Ycri@%J |"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY,
<"ic" uY%Y G Vro|o|5V% YcG__%r @%i_M J%2%loV%J @5 r%rox G_J <"ic" YcG_Y G
2%r5 "iM" r%Yolu|io_ iSGM% G| Mr%G| YV%%JA  A_o|"%r YiM_ificG_| f%G|ur%,
@%cGuY% |"iY iY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ GVVlicG|io_, iY |"% VlGci_M of |"% VGM%Y
|"G| fGll GVGr| o_% for o_% o_ |"% VlG|%_A  irJi_Gril5, G YcG__%r coulJ
@% uY%J <i|" YoS% Yor| of G JocuS%_| f%%J%r, @u| @%cGuY% of |"iY
GVVlicG|io_ |"G| iY _o| f%GYi@l%A   ur|"%r, @%cGuY% }fASS iY G
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ GVVlicG|io_, Gf|%r |"% VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| iY SGJ% |"%r%, G
2%r5 cGr%ful [uGli|5 co_|rol c"%c( iY V%rforS%JA  A_ oriMi_Gl @oo( iY
coSVGr%J |o |"% Vri_|%J coV5 G_J 2%rificG|io_ iY SGJ%, @%for% Vroc%%Ji_M,
|"G| Gll of |"% iSGM%, Gll of |"% i_forSG|io_, "GY @%%_ cGV|ur%JA  _"%_,
G _%< li@rGr5 @oo( iY VroJuc%Ju  _"% Vri_|%J iSGM%Y Gr% r%@ou_J @5 G
coSS%rciGl @i_J%r G_J G _%< @oo( iY r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%lfA
SiM_ificG_|l5, |"% @oo(Y r%|ur_%J |o |"% li@rGr5 Y"%l2%Y Gr% @%Gu|iful
G_J uY%ful r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%r |"G| Y"oulJ lGY| G lo_M |iS%,
i_ %ff%c|, |"% %[ui2Gl%_| of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ V"o|ocoVi%YA  _"uY, |"% VroP%c|
"GY G li@rGr5 of JiMi|Gl @oo(YA  c_ %YY%_c%, }fASS iY YcG__i_M G_J
Y|ori_M @oo(Y GY ,DD Jo|SV%rSi_c" @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y, coSVr%YY%J uYi_M
GrouV x }}c__ (iA%A, |"%  r%_c" Gcro_5S for c_|%r_G|io_Gl }o_Yul|G|i2%
}oSSi||%% for _%l%MrGV" G_J _%l%V"o_%l coSVr%YYio_A  _"%5 Gr% Y|or%J GY
_c   fil%Y o_ G_ oV|icGl fili_M Y5Y|%S |"G| iY coSVoY%J of G JG|G@GY%
uY%J for Y%Grc"i_M G_J locG|i_M |"% @oo(Y G_J G_ oV|icGl Pu(%@ox |"G|