+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the aG2GilG@ili|5 of
|"r%% @GYic fu_c|io_Yu  %l%c|ro_ic SGil, fil% |rG_Yf%r (f|Vl, G_J r%So|%
loMSo_ (|%l_%|lA  fAlS~" GlYo r%2i%<%J |"% Mro<|" i_ |"% (i_J of |rGffic
|"G| occurY o_ |"% _%|<or(A  "%|<or( |rGffic r%fl%c|Y |"% Poi_| co_|ri@u|io_Y
of G lGrM%r VoVulG|io_ of uY%rY G_J i_cr%GYi_M uY% V%r uY%rA  _oJG5 o_% Y%%Y
Y%riouY GVVlicG|io_Y i_2ol2i_M So2i_M iSGM%Y GcroYY |"% _%|<or(SSG rGri|5
|%_ 5%GrY GMoA  fAlS~" r%cGll%J G_J co_curr%J <i|" 8~SS~lMY SGi_ Voi_|
|"G| |"% i_|%r%Y|i_M Vro@l%SY occur G| |"% GVVlicG|io_ l%2%lA

fAlS~" |"%_ illuY|rG|%J G SoJ%l of G li@rGr5MY rol%Y G_J fu_c|io_Y i_ G
_%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|A  @% _o|%J, i_ VGr|iculGr, |"% VlGc%S%_| of o_Sli_%
cG|GloMu%Y o_|o |"% _%|<or( G_J VG|ro_Y o@|Gi_i_M Gcc%YY |o |"% li@rGr5
i_cr%GYi_Ml5 |"rouM" locGl _%|<or(Y, cGSVuY _%|<or(Y, G_J |"% c_|%r_%|A
fAlS~" YuVVor|%J fY"}@MY %Grli%r YuMM%Y|io_ |"G| <% _%%J |o GJJr%YY
fu_JGS%_|Gl [u%Y|io_Y of _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ i_ orJ%r |o @uilJ
%_2iro_S%_|Y |"G| YcGl% i_ |"% i_forSG|io_ Y%_Y% GY <%ll GY i_ |"%
V"5YicGl Y%_Y%A
