film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.   i_ Gccou_| of |"% curr%_| Mr%G| Y"or|GM% of
JiMi|Gl JG|G |"G| iY @o|" GVV%Gli_M G_J u_%_cuS@%r%J @5 coSVl%x riM"|Y
Vro@l%SY, |"iY courY% of Gc|io_ coulJ "G2% G YiM_ificG_| %ff%c| o_ SG(i_M
_%|<or( Sul|iS%JiG G r%Gli|5A

c_ |"iY co__%c|io_,  f~cS}@@Ao~l r%Vor|%J o_ G frGMS%_|Gr5 Vro|o|5V% i_
f}MY iffic% of c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloM5 S%r2ic%Y |"G| G||%SV|Y |o GYYociG|%
JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y of V"o|oMrGV"Y <i|" cG|GloMui_M i_forSG|io_ i_ <G5Y |"G|
<or( <i|"i_ G locGl Gr%G _%|<or(SSG Y|%V, Yo |o YG5, |o<GrJ AMMY
co_Y|ruc|io_ of YoS% Yor| of GVVGrG|uY for Gcc%YYA   ur|"%r, AM "GY
G||%SV|%J |o uY% Y|G_JGrJ JG|G forSY i_ orJ%r |o "%lV SG(% |"G|
JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% Gcc%YY |oolY G_J |"% u_J%rl5i_M JG|G, G_J |"uY
@%li%2%Y |"G| |"% JG|G@GY% iY _%|<or(G@l%A

A J%licG|% G_J GMo_i,i_M Volic5 [u%Y|io_ for f}, "o<%2%r, <"ic" coS%Y
@Gc( |o r%Yourc%Y G_J u_for|u_G|%l5 "GY G_ iSVGc| o_ |"iY, iY |o fi_J
YoS% GVVroVriG|%, "o_orG@l%, G_J l%MGl coY|Sr%co2%r5 VoYYi@ili|i%YA  A
c%r|Gi_ Y(i||iY"_%YY co_c%r_i_M coY|Sr%co2%r5 "GY SGJ% V%oVl% u_Yur%
%xGc|l5 <"G| |o JoA  AM <oulJ @% "iM"l5 r%c%V|i2% |o JiYcuYYi_M fur|"%r
fY"}@MY off%r |o |%Y| or J%So_Y|rG|% i|Y JG|G@GY% i_ G _%|<or(
%_2iro_S%_|,  f~cS}@@Ao~l YGiJA

l%|ur_i_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ |o <"G| Y"% 2i%<%J GY |"% 2i|Gl iYYu% o
