process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not  Y%r2% GY G_
Grc"i2Gl coV5 for VurVoY%Y of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ i_ |"% cGY% of, YG5, |"% 8ill
of liM"|Y, i_ |"% Y%_Y% |"G| |"% YcG__%J iSGM%Y Gr% %ff%c|i2%l5 |"%
Grc"i2Gl coVi%Y for |"% }or_%ll SG|"%SG|icY @oo(YA


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                          AVV%_Jix cu  PliGlAM



                                [il%S@iP
                                   i"
                               ~f~}_li"c}
                                  _~r_S



                             }SuD Ju_% u}}2

                           fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
                            [GY"i_M|o_, DA}A



    SuVVor|%J @5 G GrG_| froS |"% DG2iJ G_J fucil% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_


_u%YJG5, } Ju_% u}}2

"A_ci"Af D~Mi"S_lA_ci" fA8, A_lcoM, fc8lAlY MADcSi"

8u<D AM   }off%% G_J DG_iY", r%MiY|rG|io_

}uDD AM   [%lcoS%

          ProYY%r GifforJ, Dir%c|or for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY, G_J }Grl
              l%iYc""Gu%r, }oorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of
             }o_Mr%YY

}ul5 AM   S%YYio_ cA  }o_|%_| i_ G "%<  orSu  ["o [ill oY% c| G_J ["G|
          [ill _"%5 Do8

          8roGJ J%YcriV|io_ of |"% rG_M% of %l%c|ro_ic i_forSG|io_A
          }"GrGc|%ri,G|io_ of <"o uY%Y i| G_J "o< i| iY or SG5 @% uY%JA
          c_ GJJi|io_ |o G loo( G| Yc"olGrl5 uY%Y, |"iY Y%YYio_ <ill
          i_cluJ% G Vr%Y%_|G|io_ o_ uY% @5 Y|uJ%_|Y (%Su2 G_J coll%M%l
          G_J |"% M%_%rGl Vu@licA

          MoJ%rG|oru  JGS%Y DGl5
          A2rG Mic"%lYo_, Arc"i2Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~2GluG|io_ S|Gff,
             "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y G_J l%corJY AJSi_iY|rG|io_ (i2%r2i%<l
          SuYG_ @A V%cciG, _%GS f%GJ%r, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, oY%r ~2GluG|io_,
             G_J
          JoG__%  r%%SG_, AYYociG|% }oorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5
             of }o_Mr%YY (8%5o_J |"% Yc"olGrl

uDu<DS
uuuDD AM  8r%G(

uuuDD AM  S%YYio_ ccA  S"o< G_J _%llA

          ~Gc" Vr%Y%_|G|io_ |o co_YiY| of G fif|%%_SSi_u|%
          Y|G|%S%_|YY"o<2 MrouV JiYcuYYio_ <ill follo< lu_c"A

          MoJ%rG|oru  JGc[u%li_% @%YY, Dir%c|or, "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_
             fG@

            uA  A clGYYicY VroP%c|, Y|r%YYi_M |%x|Y G_J |%x| r%|ri%2Gl
                Sor% |"G_ Sul|iS%JiGu  P%rY%uY ProP%c|, @Gr2GrJ
                o_i2%rYi|5
                ~lli M5lo_GY, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or

            2A  i|"%r "uSG_i|i%Y VroP%c|Y %SVlo5i_M |"% %S%rMi_M _orSY of
                |"% _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~clu  }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5MY
                _"% ~_MliY" Po%|r5  ull _%x| DG|G@GY% G_JYor PG|roloMiG
                fG|i_G DG|G@GY%
                ~ric MA }GlGlucG, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|, }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA

            <A  AS%ricG_ M%Sor5
                }Grl  l%iYc""Gu%r, }oorJi_G|or, G_J
                lic(5 ~r<G5, AYYociG|% }oorJi_G|or, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY

            xA   ou_Ji_M  G|"%rY %xGSVl% froS PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y
                c_Y|i|u|%u  _"% PGV%rY of G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_, o_i2%rYi|5
                of VirMi_iG
                Doro|"5 _<o"iM, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or, G_JYor
                DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ

            5A  A_ %l%c|ro_ic S%JicGl Pour_Gl off%ri_M MrGV"icY G_J
                fullS|%x| Y%Grc"G@ili|5u  _"% i_li_% Jour_Gl of }urr%_|
                }li_icGl _riGlY, AS%ricG_ AYYociG|io_ for |"% AJ2G_c%S%_|
                of Sci%_c%
                MGriG fA f%@ro_, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or

            ,A  A VroP%c| |"G| off%rY fGcYiSil% iSGM%Y of VGM%Y @u| oSi|Y
                Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|u  }or_%ll SG|" @oo(Y
                f5__% %A P%rYo_iuY, AYYiY|G_| Dir%c|or, }or_%ll
                   c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y for Sc"olGrl5 c_forSG|io_
                   Sourc%Y, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5

u2u<D PM  fu_c"  (Di_i_M looS A, fi@rGr5 MGJiYo_ ,2DA  ~x"i@i|Y
          G2GilG@l%Al

uu<D PM   S%YYio_ ccA  S"o< G_J _%ll (}o_|MJAlA

<uDDS
<u<D PM   8r%G(

<u<DS
5u<D PM   S%YYio_ cccA  DiY|ri@u|io_, "%|<or(Y, G_J "%|<or(i_Mu  iV|io_Y
          for DiYY%Si_G|io_A

          Pu@liY"%J JiY(Yu  o_i2%rYi|5 Vr%YY%Y G_J Vu@licSY%c|or
             Vu@liY"%rY, Vri2G|%SY%c|or Vu@liY"%rY
          }oSVu|%r _%|<or(Y

          MoJ%rG|oru  lo@%r| GA |ic", SV%ciGl AYYiY|G_| |o |"% AYYociG|%
             fi@rGriG_ for SV%ciGl ProP%c|Y, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
          }lifforJ AA f5_c", Dir%c|or, fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_, o_i2%rYi|5 of
             }Glifor_iG
          @o<GrJ 8%YY%r, Sc"ool of fi@rGr5 G_J c_forSG|io_ Sci%_c%,
             o_i2%rYi|5 of Pi||Y@urM"
          lo_GlJ fA fGrY%_, AYYociG|% Dir%c|or of fi@rGri%Y for
             c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloM5, o_i2%rYi|5 of MGr5lG_J G| }oll%M%
             PGr(
          ~J<i_ 8A 8ro<_riMM, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or, M%S%x l%Y%Grc"
             c_Y|i|u|%

,u<D PM   l%c%V|io_  (Mo_|V%li%r looS, fi@rGr5 MGJiYo_ ,u}Al

                                 PPPPPP

[%J_%YJG5, uD Ju_% u}}2

Dc"c"G liiM A, fc8lAlY MADcSi" ,2
