too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson,, JGS%Y MGJiYo_, G_J 8%_PGSi_  rG_(li_ <%r%
GVVroGc"%J @5 clGYYicY Yc"olGr DG2iJ PGc(GrJ o_ @%"Glf of |"% PGc(GrJ
@uSG_i|i%Y  ou_JG|io_ <i|" G VroVoYGl |o VroJuc% G }DSliM %Ji|io_ of |"%
coSVl%|% VGV%rY of %Gc" of |"%  ou_Ji_M  G|"%rYA  _"iY %l%c|ro_ic %Ji|io_
<ill YuVVl%S%_| |"% Vu@liY"%J 2oluS%Y, SG(i_M |"% JocuS%_|Y <iJ%l5
G2GilG@l% |o Y|uJ%_|Y G_J r%Y%Grc"%rY G| r%GYo_G@l% coY|A  [% %Y|iSG|%
|"G| our }DSliM %Ji|io_ of [GY"i_M|o_MY PGV%rY <ill @% Yu@Y|G_|iGll5
coSVl%|%J <i|"i_ |"% _%x| |<o 5%GrY G_J r%GJ5 for Vu@licG|io_A  [i|"i_
|"% _%x| |%_ 5%GrY or Yo, YiSilGr }DSliM %Ji|io_Y of |"%  rG_(li_, AJGSY,
J%ff%rYo_, G_J MGJiYo_ VGV%rY GlYo <ill @% G2GilG@l%A  A| |"% fi@rGr5 of
}o_Mr%YYMY Y%YYio_ o_ |%c"_oloM5, c <oulJ li(% |o JiYcuYY _o| o_l5 |"%
%xV%ri%_c% of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ PGV%rY i_ VroJuci_M |"% }DSliM %Ji|io_, @u|
|"% iSVGc| |%c"_oloM5 "GY "GJ o_ |"%Y% SGPor %Ji|oriGl VroP%c|YA
Alr%GJ5, <% Gr% %Ji|i_M our 2oluS%Y <i|" G_ %5% |o |"% SG|%riGl |"G| <ill
@% r%GJil5 G2GilG@l% i_ |"% }DSliM %Ji|io_A  _"% coSVl%|%J %l%c|ro_ic
%Ji|io_ <ill Vro2iJ% iSS%_Y% VoYYi@ili|i%Y for |"% Y%Grc"i_M of JocuS%_|Y
for i_forSG|io_ i_ G <G5 _%2%r VoYYi@l% @%for%A  _"% (i_J of |%c"_icGl
i__o2G|io_Y |"G| Gr% curr%_|l5 G2GilG@l% G_J o_ |"% JrG<i_M @oGrJ <ill
Yoo_ r%2olu|io_i,% "iY|oricGl r%Y%Grc" G_J |"% VroJuc|io_ of "iY|oricG
