like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Foundii_M  G|"%rY VGV%rY <oulJ @% G2GilG@l% o_ }DSliM |o Vu@lic G_J
coll%M% li@rGri%Y, %2%_ "iM" Yc"oolY, G| G frGc|io_ of |"% coY|SS
JuDDSJu5D for |"% G__uGl lic%_Y% f%%SS|o VroJuc% G liSi|%J u_i2%rYi|5
Vr%YY ru_ of u,DDD of %Gc" 2oluS% of |"% Vu@liY"%J VGV%rY G| Jx5SJu5D V%r
Vri_|%J 2oluS%A  Gi2%_ |"% curr%_| @uJM%| cru_c" i_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SY
G_J |"% corr%YVo_Ji_M co_Y|rGi_|Y o_ li@rGriG_Y i_ YSGll%r i_Y|i|u|io_Y
<"o <iY" |o GJJ |"%Y% 2oluS%Y |o |"%ir coll%c|io_Y, VroJuci_M |"%
JocuS%_|Y o_ }DSliM <oulJ li(%l5 oV%_ G Mr%G|l5 %xVG_J%J GuJi%_c% for |"%
VGV%rYA  _[i@cG Y|r%YY%J, "o<%2%r, |"G| J%2%loVS%_| of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY }DSliM iY Y|ill i_ i|Y i_fG_c5A  S%riouY Yof|<Gr% Vro@l%SY r%SGi_
|o @% r%Yol2%J @%for% |"% SG|%riGl cG_ @% Vu| i_|o r%GJG@l% forSA

 u_Ji_M froS |"% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ r%Yul|%J i_ G SGPor VuY" |o
|rG_Ycri@% |"% A5,DDD or Yo JocuS%_|Y of |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY r%SGi_i_
