trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A resYul| <oulJ @% |"G| uY%rY <i|" l%YY Vo<%rful
<or(Y|G|io_Y <oulJ YiSVl5 "G2% l%YY fu_c|io_Gli|5A  @% urM%J S%S@%rY of
|"% GuJi%_c% |o GJ2ocG|% Y|G_JGrJY G_J GccoSVG_5i_M Yof|<Gr% |"G| "G_Jl%
lG5%r%J fu_c|io_Gli|5 GcroYY G <iJ% 2Gri%|5 of VlG|forSYA

8~SS~l GlYo GJJr%YY%J Vro@l%SY i_ VlG|forS J%YiM_, _GS%l5, J%ciJi_M "o<
lGrM% G SGc"i_% |o J%YiM_ for Yi|uG|io_Y <"%_ |"% lGrM%Y| _uS@%r of uY%rY
"G2% |"% lo<%Y| l%2%l of |"% SGc"i_%, G_J o_% J%Yir%Y "iM"%r
fu_c|io_Gli|5A  8~SS~l |"%_ Vroc%%J%J |o |"% [u%Y|io_ of fil% Yi,% G_J
i|Y iSVlicG|io_Y for _%|<or(i_MA  @% JiYcuYY%J Y|ill iSGM%Y i_ |"% SGi_A
 or %xGSVl%, G JiMi|Gl color iSGM% |"G| fillY |"% Ycr%%_ of G Y|G_JGrJ
S%MGSV%l <or(Y|G|io_ (Su_ or "%x|l <ill r%[uir% o_% S%MG@5|% of Y|orGM%
for G_ %iM"|S@i| iSGM% or |"r%% S%MG@5|%Y of Y|orGM% for G |ru% color or
|<%_|5SfourS@i| iSGM%A  foYYl%YY coSVr%YYio_ GlMori|"SY (|"G| iY,
coSVu|G|io_Gl Vroc%Jur%Y i_ <"ic" _o JG|G iY loY| i_ |"% Vroc%YY o
