known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of differr%_|
VlG|forSYA  GGuMi_M |"% cGVG@ili|i%Y of Vo|%_|iGl uY%rY co_Y|i|u|%Y G
VriSGr5 MoGlA  8~SS~l GJ2ocG|%J lG5%ri_M or Y%VGrG|i_M |"% iSGM%Y froS
|"% GVVlicG|io_Y |"G| r%|ri%2% G_J JiYVlG5 |"%S, |o G2oiJ |5i_M |"%S |o
VGr|iculGr Yof|<Gr%A

8~SS~l J%|Gil%J Y%2%rGl l%YYo_Y l%Gr_%J froS "iY <or( G| 8%r(%l%5 <i|"
cSGM%[u%r5, %YV%ciGll5 |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y G_J JiYGJ2G_|GM%Y of uYi_M
rS[i_Jo<YA  c_ |"% lG||%r cG|%Mor5, for %xGSVl%, r%|ri%2Gl iY |i%J
Jir%c|l5 |o o_%MY JG|G, G_ i_|ol%rG@l% Yi|uG|io_ i_ |"% lo_M ru_ o_ G
_%|<or(%J Y5Y|%SA   i_Gll5, 8~SS~l J%Ycri@%J G VroP%c| of JiS [GllGc% G|
|"% SSi|"Yo_iG_ c_Y|i|u|io_, <"o iY Sou_|i_M iSGM%Y i_ G %x|r%S%l5
ruJiS%_|Gr5 <G5 o_ |"% }oSVuY%r2 G_J G%_i% _%|<or(Y G_J iY Vr%VGri_M |
