



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she% YG< SGVY G_J Vic|ur%Y "u_M uVo_ V%MYA  S"%
|oo( Jo<_ G PGr froS o_% of |"% Y"%l2%Y GY Y"% VGYY%J2 i| <GY
lG@%ll%J  ilA"G~ MAlMAfAD~M, @u| |o "%r Mr%G| JiYGVVoi_|S%_| i|
<GY %SV|5u  Y"% JiJ _o| li(% |o JroV |"% PGr for f%Gr of (illi_M
YoS%@oJ5, Yo SG_GM%J |o Vu| i| i_|o o_% of |"% cuV@oGrJY GY Y"%
f%ll VGY| i|A

   [%llGM |"ouM"| Alic% |o "%rY%lf,  Gf|%r Yuc" G fGll GY |"iY, c
Y"Gll |"i_( _o|"i_M of |uS@li_M Jo<_ Y|GirYG  @o< @rG2% |"%5Mll
Gll |"i_( S% G| "oS%G  ["5, c <oulJ_M| YG5 G_5|"i_M G@ou| i|,
%2%_ if c f%ll off |"% |oV of |"% "ouY%GM (["ic" <GY 2%r5 li(%l5
|ru%Al

  Do<_, Jo<_, Jo<_A  [oulJ |"% fGll "~V~l coS% |o G_ %_JG   c
<o_J%r "o< SG_5 Sil%Y cM2% fGll%_ @5 |"iY |iS%8M Y"% YGiJ GlouJA
 c SuY| @% M%||i_M YoS%<"%r% _%Gr |"% c%_|r% of |"% %Gr|"A  f%|
S% Y%%u  |"G| <oulJ @% four |"ouYG_J Sil%Y Jo<_, c |"i_(SSM (for,
5ou Y%%, Alic% "GJ l%Gr_| Y%2%rGl |"i_MY of |"iY Yor| i_ "%r
l%YYo_Y i_ |"% Yc"oolrooS, G_J |"ouM" |"iY <GY _o| G V~lY MooJ
oVVor|u_i|5 for Y"o<i_M off "%r (_o<l%JM%, GY |"%r% <GY _o o_% |o
liY|%_ |o "%r, Y|ill i| <GY MooJ VrGc|ic% |o YG5 i| o2%rl  SS5%Y,
|"G|MY G@ou| |"% riM"| JiY|G_c%SS@u| |"%_ c <o_J%r <"G| fG|i|uJ%
or fo_Mi|uJ% cM2% Mo| |o8M  (Alic% "GJ _o iJ%G <"G| fG|i|uJ% <GY,
or fo_Mi|uJ% %i|"%r, @u| |"ouM"| |"%5 <%r% _ic% MrG_J <orJY |o
YG5Al

  Pr%Y%_|l5 Y"% @%MG_ GMGi_A   c <o_J%r if c Y"Gll fGll riM"|
_@lioG@ |"% %Gr|"G  @o< fu__5 i|Mll Y%%S |o coS% ou| GSo_M |"%
V%oVl% |"G| <Gl( <i|" |"%ir "%GJY Jo<_<GrJG  _"% A_|iVG|"i%Y, c
|"i_(SSM (Y"% <GY rG|"%r MlGJ |"%r% [AS _o o_% liY|%_i_M, |"iY
|iS%, GY i| JiJ_M| You_J G| Gll |"% riM"| <orJl  SS@u| c Y"Gll
"G2% |o GY( |"%S <"G| |"% _GS% of |"% cou_|r5 iY, 5ou (_o<A
Pl%GY%, MGMGS, iY |"iY "%< |%GlG_J or AuY|rGliG8M (G_J Y"% |ri%J
|o cur|Y%5 GY Y"% YVo(%SSfG_c5 }ol_S~Yc"G GY 5ouMr% fGlli_M
|"rouM" |"% GirG  Do 5ou |"i_( 5ou coulJ SG_GM% i|8l   A_J <"G|
G_ iM_orG_| li||l% Mirl Y"%Mll |"i_( S% for GY(i_MG  "o, i|Mll
_%2%r Jo |o GY(u  V%r"GVY c Y"Gll Y%% i| <ri||%_ uV YoS%<"%r%AM

  Do<_, Jo<_, Jo<_A  _"%r% <GY _o|"i_M %lY% |o Jo, Yo Alic% Yoo_
@%MG_ |Gl(i_M GMGi_A   Di_G"Mll SiYY S% 2%r5 Suc" |oS_iM"|, c
Y"oulJ |"i_(GM  (Di_G" <GY |"% cG|Al   c "oV% |"%5Mll r%S%S@%r
"%r YGuc%r of Sil( G| |%GS|iS%A  Di_G" S5 J%GrG  c <iY" 5ou <%r%
Jo<_ "%r% <i|" S%G  _"%r% Gr% _o Sic% i_ |"% Gir, cMS GfrGiJ, @u|