  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw< |"%SY%l2%Y flG| uVo_
|"%ir fGc%YA  _"%r% <GY G You_J of SG_5 foo|Y|%VY, G_J Alic%
loo(%J rou_J, %GM%r |o Y%% |"% (u%%_A

   irY| cGS% |%_ YolJi%rY cGrr5i_M clu@Y2 |"%Y% <%r% Gll Y"GV%J
li(% |"% |"r%% MGrJ%_%rY, o@lo_M G_J flG|, <i|" |"%ir "G_JY G_J
f%%| G| |"% cor_%rYu  _%x| |"% |%_ cour|i%rY2 |"%Y% <%r%
or_GS%_|%J Gll o2%r <i|" JiGSo_JY, G_J <Gl(%J |<o G_J |<o, GY |"%
YolJi%rY JiJA  Af|%r |"%Y% cGS% |"% ro5Gl c"ilJr%_2 |"%r% <%r%
|%_ of |"%S, G_J |"% li||l% J%GrY cGS% PuSVi_M S%rril5 Glo_M "G_J
i_ "G_J, i_ couVl%Yu  |"%5 <%r% Gll or_GS%_|%J <i|" "%Gr|YA  "%x|
cGS% |"% Mu%Y|Y, SoY|l5 %i_MY G_J (u%%_Y, G_J GSo_M |"%S Alic%
r%coM_iY%J |"% ["i|% lG@@i|u  i| <GY |Gl(i_M i_ G "urri%J _%r2ouY
SG__%r, YSili_M G| %2%r5|"i_M |"G| <GY YGiJ, G_J <%_| @5 <i|"ou|
_o|ici_M "%rA  _"%_ follo<%J |"% %_G2% of @%Gr|Y, cGrr5i_M |"%
%i_MMY cro<_ o_ G criSYo_ 2%l2%| cuY"io_2 G_J, lGY| of Gll |"iY
MrG_J Vroc%YYio_, cGS% _@~ %c"G A"D (o~~" i  @~Al_SA

  Alic% <GY rG|"%r Jou@|ful <"%|"%r Y"% ouM"| _o| |o li% Jo<_ o_
"%r fGc% li(% |"% |"r%% MGrJ%_%rY, @u| Y"% coulJ _o| r%S%S@%r
%2%r5 "G2i_M "%GrJ of Yuc" G rul% G| Vroc%YYio_Y2  G_J @%YiJ%Y,
<"G| <oulJ @% |"% uY% of G Vroc%YYio_,M |"ouM"| Y"%,  if V%oVl%
"GJ Gll |o li% Jo<_ uVo_ |"%ir fGc%Y, Yo |"G| |"%5 coulJ_M| Y%%
i|8M  So Y"% Y|ooJ Y|ill <"%r% Y"% <GY, G_J <Gi|%JA

  ["%_ |"% Vroc%YYio_ cGS% oVVoYi|% |o Alic%, |"%5 Gll Y|oVV%J
G_J loo(%J G| "%r, G_J |"% (u%%_ YGiJ Y%2%r%l5  ["o iY |"iY8M
S"% YGiJ i| |o |"% %_G2% of @%Gr|Y, <"o o_l5 @o<%J G_J YSil%J i_
r%Vl5A

   cJio|GM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, |oYYi_M "%r "%GJ iSVG|i%_|l52 G_J,
|ur_i_M |o Alic%, Y"% <%_| o_,  ["G|MY 5our _GS%, c"ilJ8M

   M5 _GS% iY Alic%, Yo Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ Alic% 2%r5
Voli|%l52 @u| Y"% GJJ%J, |o "%rY%lf,  ["5, |"%5Mr% o_l5 G VGc( of
cGrJY, Gf|%r GllA  c _%%J_M| @% GfrGiJ of |"%SGM

   A_J <"o Gr% _@~S~8M YGiJ |"% (u%%_, Voi_|i_M |o |"% |"r%%
MGrJ%_%rY <"o <%r% l5i_M rou_J |"% roY%|r%%2 for, 5ou Y%%, GY
|"%5 <%r% l5i_M o_ |"%ir fGc%Y, G_J |"% VG||%r_ o_ |"%ir @Gc(Y
<GY |"% YGS% GY |"% r%Y| of |"% VGc(, Y"% coulJ _o| |%ll <"%|"%r
|"%5 <%r% MGrJ%_%rY, or YolJi%rY, or cour|i%rY, or |"r%% of "%r
o<_ c"ilJr%_A

   @o< Y"oulJ c (_o<8M YGiJ Alic%, YurVriY%J G| "%r o<_ courGM%A
 c|MY _o @uYi_%YY of Mc"~AM

  _"% (u%%_ |ur_%J criSYo_ <i|" fur5, G_J, Gf|%r MlGri_M G| "%r
for G SoS%_| li(% G <ilJ @%GY|, Ycr%GS%J  iff <i|" "%r "%GJG
iffSSM

   "o_Y%_Y%GM YGiJ Alic%, 2%r5 louJl5 G_J J%ciJ%Jl5, G_J |"%
(u%%_ <GY Yil%_|A

  _"% %i_M lGiJ "iY "G_J uVo_ "%r GrS, G_J |iSiJl5 YGiJ
 }o_YiJ%r, S5 J%Gru  Y"% iY o_l5 G c"ilJGM

  _"% (u%%_ |ur_%J G_Mril5 G<G5 froS "iS, G_J YGiJ |o |"% %_G2%
 _ur_ |"%S o2%rGM

  _"% %_G2% JiJ Yo, 2%r5 cGr%full5, <i|" o_% foo|A

   G%| uVGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, i_ G Y"rill, louJ 2oic%, G_J |"%
|"r%% MGrJ%_%rY i_Y|G_|l5 PuSV%J uV, G_J @%MG_ @o<i_M |o |"%
%i_M, |"% (u%%_, |"% ro5Gl c"ilJr%_, G_J %2%r5@oJ5 %lY%A

   f%G2% off |"G|GM Ycr%GS%J |"% (u%%_A   You SG(% S% MiJJ5AM
A_J |"%_, |ur_i_M |o |"% roY%S|r%%, Y"% <%_| o_,  ["G| @AV~ 5ou
@%%_ Joi_M "%r%8M

   MG5 i| Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ _<o, i_ G 2%r5 "uS@l% |o_%,
Moi_M Jo<_ o_ o_% (_%% GY "% YVo(%,  <% <%r% |r5i_MSSM

   c Y%%GM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, <"o "GJ S%G_<"il% @%%_ %xGSi_i_M |"%
roY%YA   iff <i|" |"%ir "%GJYGM G_J |"% Vroc%YYio_ So2%J o_,
|"r%% of |"% YolJi%rY r%SGi_i_M @%"i_J |o %x%cu|% |"% u_for|u_G|%
MGrJ%_%rY, <"o rG_ |o Alic% for Vro|%c|io_A

   You Y"G_M| @% @%"%GJ%JGM YGiJ Alic%, G_J Y"% Vu| |"%S i_|o G
lGrM% flo<%rSVo| |"G| Y|ooJ _%GrA  _"% |"r%% YolJi%rY <G_J%r%J
G@ou| for G Si_u|% or |<o, loo(i_M for |"%S, G_J |"%_ [ui%|l5
SGrc"%J off Gf|%r |"% o|"%rYA

   Ar% |"%ir "%GJY off8M Y"ou|%J |"% (u%%_
