`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very dilige%_|l5 |o <ri|%
ou| G "iY|or5 of |"% GcciJ%_|, Gll %xc%V| |"% fi,GrJ, <"o Y%%S%J
|oo Suc" o2%rcoS% |o Jo G_5|"i_M @u| Yi| <i|" i|Y Sou|" oV%_,
MG,i_M uV i_|o |"% roof of |"% cour|A

   ["G| Jo 5ou (_o< G@ou| |"iY @uYi_%YY8M |"% %i_M YGiJ |o
Alic%A

   "o|"i_M,M YGiJ Alic%A

   "o|"i_M [@A_~V~l8M V%rYiY|%J |"% %i_MA

   "o|"i_M <"G|%2%r,M YGiJ Alic%A

   _"G|MY 2%r5 iSVor|G_|,M |"% %i_M YGiJ, |ur_i_M |o |"% Pur5A
_"%5 <%r% PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o <ri|% |"iY Jo<_ o_ |"%ir YlG|%Y, <"%_
|"% ["i|% lG@@i| i_|%rruV|%Ju   o"iSVor|G_|, 5our MGP%Y|5 S%G_Y,
of courY%,M "% YGiJ i_ G 2%r5 r%YV%c|ful |o_%, @u| fro<_i_M G_J
SG(i_M fGc%Y G| "iS GY "% YVo(%A

   o"iSVor|G_|, of courY%, c S%G_|,M |"% %i_M "GY|il5 YGiJ, G_J
<%_| o_ |o "iSY%lf i_ G_ u_J%r|o_%,  iSVor|G_|SSu_iSVor|G_|SS
u_iSVor|G_|SSiSVor|G_|SSM GY if "% <%r% |r5i_M <"ic" <orJ
You_J%J @%Y|A

  SoS% of |"% Pur5 <ro|% i| Jo<_  iSVor|G_|,M G_J YoS%
 u_iSVor|G_|AM  Alic% coulJ Y%% |"iY, GY Y"% <GY _%Gr %_ouM" |o
loo( o2%r |"%ir YlG|%Y2  @u| i| Jo%Y_M| SG||%r G @i|,M Y"%
|"ouM"| |o "%rY%lfA

  A| |"iY SoS%_| |"% %i_M, <"o "GJ @%%_ for YoS% |iS% @uYil5
<ri|i_M i_ "iY _o|%S@oo(, cGc(l%J ou|  Sil%_c%GM G_J r%GJ ou|
froS "iY @oo(,  lul%  or|5S|<oA  Aff P~lSi"S Mil~ _@A" A Mcf~
@cG@ _i f~AV~ _@~ }iol_AM

  ~2%r5@oJ5 loo(%J G| Alic%A

   cMM _o| G Sil% "iM",M YGiJ Alic%A

   You Gr%,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   "%Grl5 |<o Sil%Y "iM",M GJJ%J |"% (u%%_A

   [%ll, c Y"G_M| Mo, G| G_5 rG|%,M YGiJ Alic%u   @%YiJ%Y,
|"G|MY _o| G r%MulGr rul%u  5ou i_2%_|%J i| PuY| _o<AM

   c|MY |"% olJ%Y| rul% i_ |"% @oo(,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   _"%_ i| ouM"| |o @% "uS@%r i_%,M YGiJ Alic%A

  _"% %i_M |ur_%J VGl%, G_J Y"u| "iY _o|%S@oo( "GY|il5A
 }o_YiJ%r 5our 2%rJic|,M "% YGiJ |o |"% Pur5, i_ G lo<, |r%S@li_M
2oic%A

   _"%r%MY Sor% %2iJ%_c% |o coS% 5%|, Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ
|"% ["i|% lG@@i|, PuSVi_M uV i_ G Mr%G| "urr52  |"iY VGV%r "GY
PuY| @%%_ Vic(%J uVAM

   ["G|MY i_ i|8M YGiJ |"% (u%%_A

   c "G2%_M| oV%_%J i| 5%|,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|,  @u| i| Y%%SY
|o @% G l%||%r, <ri||%_ @5 |"% VriYo_%r |oSS|o YoS%@oJ5AM

   c| SuY| "G2% @%%_ |"G|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  u_l%YY i| <GY
<ri||%_ |o _o@oJ5, <"ic" iY_M| uYuGl, 5ou (_o<AM

   ["o iY i| Jir%c|%J |o8M YGiJ o_% of |"% Pur5S%_A

   c| iY_M| Jir%c|%J G| Gll,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|2  i_ fGc|,
|"%r%MY _o|"i_M <ri||%_ o_ |"% io_ScD~AM  @% u_folJ%J |"% VGV%r
GY "% YVo(%, G_J GJJ%J  c| iY_M| G l%||%r, Gf|%r Gllu  i|MY G Y%|
of 2%rY%YAM

   Ar% |"%5 i_ |"% VriYo_%rMY "G_J<ri|i_M8M GY(%J G_o|"%r of
|"%5 Pur5S%_A

   "o, |"%5Mr% _o|,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|,  G_J |"G|MY |"%
[u%%r%Y| |"i_M G@ou| i|AM  (_"% Pur5 Gll loo(%J Vu,,l%JAl

   @% SuY| "G2% iSi|G|%J YoS%@oJ5 %lY%MY "G_J,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA
(_"% Pur5 Gll @riM"|%_%J uV GMGi_Al

   Pl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ |"% %_G2%,  c JiJ_M| <ri|% i|, G_J
|"%5 cG_M| Vro2% c JiJu  |"%r%MY _o _GS% YiM_%J G| |"% %_JAM

   cf 5ou JiJ_M| YiM_ i|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  |"G| o_l5 SG(%Y |"%
SG||%r <orY%A  You MoS_ "G2% S%G_| YoS% SiYc"i%f, or %lY% 5ouMJ
"G2% YiM_%J 5our _GS% li(% G_ "o_%Y| SG_AM

  _"%r% <GY G M%_%rGl clGVVi_M of "G_JY G| |"iYu  i| <GY |"%
firY| r%Gll5 cl%2%r |"i_M |"% %i_M "GJ YGiJ |"G| JG5A

   _"G| PliV~S "iY Muil|,M YGiJ |"% (u%%_A

   c| Vro2%Y _o|"i_M of |"% Yor|GM YGiJ Alic%A   ["5, 5ou Jo_M|
%2%_ (_o< <"G| |"%5Mr% G@ou|GM

   l%GJ |"%S,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  _"% ["i|% lG@@i| Vu| o_ "iY YV%c|Gcl%YA   ["%r% Y"Gll c @%Mi_,
Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|58M "% GY(%JA

   8%Mi_ G| |"% @%Mi__i_M,M |"% %i_M YGiJ MrG2%l5,  G_J Mo o_
|ill 5ou coS% |o |"% %_Ju  |"%_ Y|oVAM

  _"%Y% <%r% |"% 2%rY%Y |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%GJuSS

         _"%5 |olJ S% 5ou "GJ @%%_ |o "%r,
          A_J S%_|io_%J S% |o "iSu
        S"% MG2% S% G MooJ c"GrGc|%r,
          8u| YGiJ c coulJ _o| Y<iSA

        @% Y%_| |"%S <orJ c "GJ _o| Mo_%
          ([% (_o< i| |o @% |ru%lu
        cf Y"% Y"oulJ VuY" |"% SG||%r o_,
          ["G| <oulJ @%coS% of 5ou8

        c MG2% "%r o_%, |"%5 MG2% "iS |<o,
          You MG2% uY |"r%% or Sor%2
        _"%5 Gll r%|ur_%J froS "iS |o 5ou,
          _"ouM" |"%5 <%r% Si_% @%for%A

        cf c or Y"% Y"oulJ c"G_c% |o @%
          c_2ol2%J i_ |"iY GffGir,
        @% |ruY|Y |o 5ou |o Y%| |"%S fr%%,
          ~xGc|l5 GY <% <%r%A

        M5 _o|io_ <GY |"G| 5ou "GJ @%%_
          (8%for% Y"% "GJ |"iY fi|l
        A_ o@Y|Gcl% |"G| cGS% @%|<%%_
          @iS, G_J ourY%l2%Y, G_J i|A

        Do_M| l%| "iS (_o< Y"% li(%J |"%S @%Y|,
           or |"iY SuY| %2%r @%
        A Y%cr%|, (%V| froS Gll |"% r%Y|,
          8%|<%%_ 5ourY%lf G_J S%AM

   _"G|MY |"% SoY| iSVor|G_| Vi%c% of %2iJ%_c% <%M2% "%GrJ 5%|,M
YGiJ |"% %i_M, ru@@i_M "iY "G_JY2  Yo _o< l%| |"% Pur5SSM

   cf G_5 o_% of |"%S cG_ %xVlGi_ i|,M YGiJ Alic%, (Y"% "GJ
Mro<_ Yo lGrM% i_ |"% lGY| f%< Si_u|%Y |"G| Y"% <GY_M| G @i|
GfrGiJ of i_|%rruV|i_M "iS,l  cMll Mi2% "iS YixV%_c%A  _c_ Jo_M|
@%li%2% |"%r%MY G_ G|oS of S%G_i_M i_ i|AM

  _"% Pur5 Gll <ro|% Jo<_ o_ |"%ir YlG|%Y,  S@~ Jo%Y_M| @%li%2%
|"%r%MY G_ G|oS of S%G_i_M i_ i|,M @u| _o_% of |"%S G||%SV|%J |o
%xVlGi_ |"% VGV%rA

   cf |"%r%MY _o S%G_i_M i_ i|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  |"G| YG2%Y G
<orlJ of |rou@l%, 5ou (_o<, GY <% _%%J_M| |r5 |o fi_J G_5A  A_J
5%| c Jo_M| (_o<,M "% <%_| o_, YVr%GJi_M ou| |"% 2%rY%Y o_ "iY
(_%%, G_J loo(i_M G| |"%S <i|" o_% %5%2  c Y%%S |o Y%% YoS%
S%G_i_M i_ |"%S, Gf|%r GllA  "SSSAcD c }iofD "i_ S[cMSS" 5ou
cG_M| Y<iS, cG_ 5ou8M "% GJJ%J, |ur_i_M |o |"% %_G2%A

  _"% %_G2% Y"oo( "iY "%GJ YGJl5A   Do c loo( li(% i|8M "% YGiJA
(["ic" "% c%r|Gi_l5 JiJ "i_, @%i_M SGJ% %_|ir%l5 of cGrJ@oGrJAl

   All riM"|, Yo fGr,M YGiJ |"% %i_M, G_J "% <%_| o_ Su||%ri_M
o2%r |"% 2%rY%Y |o "iSY%lfu   "[~ %"i[ c_ _i 8~ _lo~SS" |"G|MY
|"% Pur5, of courY%SS "c GAV~ @~l i"~, _@~Y GAV~ @cM _[iSS" <"5,
|"G| SuY| @% <"G| "% JiJ <i|" |"% |Gr|Y, 5ou (_o<SSM

   8u|, i| Mo%Y o_ "_@~Y Aff l~_ol"~D  liM @cM _i Yio,"M YGiJ
Alic%A

   ["5, |"%r% |"%5 Gr%GM YGiJ |"% %i_M |riuSV"G_|l5, Voi_|i_M |o
|"% |Gr|Y o_ |"% |G@l%A   "o|"i_M cG_ @% cl%Gr%r |"G_ _@A_A
_"%_ GMGi_SS"8~ il~ S@~ @AD _@cS  c_SS"  5ou _%2%r "GJ fi|Y, S5
J%Gr, c |"i_(8M "% YGiJ |o |"% (u%%_A

   "%2%rGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_ furiouYl5, |"ro<i_M G_ i_(Y|G_J G| |"%
fi,GrJ GY Y"% YVo(%A  (_"% u_for|u_G|% li||l% 8ill "GJ l%f| off
<ri|i_M o_ "iY YlG|% <i|" o_% fi_M%r, GY "% fou_J i| SGJ% _o
SGr(2 @u| "% _o< "GY|il5 @%MG_ GMGi_, uYi_M |"% i_(, |"G| <GY
|ric(li_M Jo<_ "iY fGc%, GY lo_M GY i| lGY|%JAl

   _"%_ |"% <orJY Jo_M|  c_ 5ou,M YGiJ |"% %i_M, loo(i_M rou_J
|"% cour| <i|" G YSil%A  _"%r% <GY G J%GJ Yil%_c%A

   c|MY G Vu_GM |"% %i_M GJJ%J i_ G_ off%_J%J |o_%, G_J
%2%r5@oJ5 lGuM"%J,  f%| |"% Pur5 co_YiJ%r |"%ir 2%rJic|,M |"%
%i_M YGiJ, for G@ou| |"% |<%_|i%|" |iS% |"G| JG5A

   "o, _oGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_A   S%_|%_c% firY|SS2%rJic| Gf|%r<GrJYAM

   S|uff G_J _o_Y%_Y%GM YGiJ Alic% louJl5A   _"% iJ%G of "G2i_M
|"% Y%_|%_c% firY|GM

   @olJ 5our |o_Mu%GM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, |ur_i_M VurVl%A

   c <o_M|GM YGiJ Alic%A

   iff <i|" "%r "%GJGM |"% (u%%_ Y"ou|%J G| |"% |oV of "%r 2oic%A
"o@oJ5 So2%JA

   ["o cGr%Y for 5ou8M YGiJ Alic%, (Y"% "GJ Mro<_ |o "%r full
Yi,% @5 |"iY |iS%Al   YouMr% _o|"i_M @u| G VGc( of cGrJYGM

  A| |"iY |"% <"ol% VGc( roY% uV i_|o |"% Gir, G_J cGS% fl5i_M
Jo<_ uVo_ "%ru  Y"% MG2% G li||l% Ycr%GS, "Glf of friM"| G_J "Glf
of G_M%r, G_J |ri%J |o @%G| |"%S off, G_J fou_J "%rY%lf l5i_M o_
|"% @G_(, <i|" "%r "%GJ i_ |"% lGV of "%r YiY|%r, <"o <GY M%_|l5
@ruY"i_M G<G5 YoS% J%GJ l%G2%Y |"G| "GJ flu||%r%J Jo<_ froS |"%
|r%%Y uVo_ "%r fGc%A

   [G(% uV, Alic% J%GrGM YGiJ "%r YiY|%r2  ["5, <"G| G lo_
