     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is capturing an image that is of sufficient resolution to be
     subjected to OCR in the future.  Moreover, the system architecture
     and the system plan have a logical place to store an OCR image if it
     has been captured.  But that is not being done now.

                                 ******

SESSION III.  DISTRIBUTION, NETWORKS, AND NETWORKING:  OPTIONS FOR
DISSEMINATION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZICH * Issues pertaining to CD-ROMs * Options for publishing in CD-ROM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Robert ZICH, special assistant to the associate librarian for special
projects, Library of Congress, and moderator of this session, first noted
the blessed but somewhat awkward circumstance of having four very
distinguished people representing networks and networking or at least
leaning in that direction, while lacking anyone to speak from the
strongest possible background in CD-ROMs.  ZICH expressed the hope that
members of the audience would join the discussion.  He stressed the
subtitle of this particular session, "Options for Dissemination," and,
concerning CD-ROMs, the importance of determining when it would be wise
to consider dissemination in CD-ROM versus networks.  A shopping list of
issues pertaining to CD-ROMs included:  the grounds for selecting
commercial publishers, and in-house publication where possible versus
nonprofit or government publication.  A similar list for networks
included:  determining when one should consider dissemination through a
network, identifying the mechanisms or entities that exist to place items
on networks, identifying the pool of existing networks, determining how a
producer  would choose between networks, and identifying the elements of
a business arrangement in a network.

Options for publishing in CD-ROM:  an outside publisher versus
self-publication.  If an outside publisher is used, it can be nonprofit,
such as the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical
Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X  |%rSi_GlSSG_J |rG_YGc| <i|" G JG|G@GY% GcroYY |"%
_%|<or(A  Al|"ouM" |"iY oV%_Y uV Gcc%YY G li||l%, GYYuSi_M o_% "GY %_ouM"
_%|<or( |o "G_Jl% i|, i| Jo%Y _o| Vro2iJ% G_ i_|%rfGc% |o J%2%loV G
VroMrGS |"G| co_2%_i%_|l5 i_|%MrG|%Y i_forSG|io_ froS Sul|iVl% JG|G@GY%YA
r iY G 2i%<i_M |%c"_oloM5 |"G| "GY liSi|YA  c_ G r%Gl Y%_Y%, i| iY PuY| G
MrGV"icGl 2%rYio_ of r%So|% loMSi_ GcroYY |"% _%|<or(A  rS|5V% GVVlicG|io_Y
r%Vr%Y%_| o_l5 o_% Y|%V i_ |"% VroMr%YYio_ |o<GrJY r%Gl Gcc%YYA

fY"}@ _%x| JiYcuYY%J @Grri%rY |o |"% JiY|ri@u|io_ of _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG
i_forSG|io_A  _"% "%Gr| of |"% Vro@l%S iY G lGc( of Y|G_JGrJY |o Vro2iJ%
|"% G@ili|5 for coSVu|%rY |o |Gl( |o %Gc" o|"%r, r%|ri%2% i_forSG|io_,
G_J Y"uffl% i| Grou_J fGirl5 cGYuGll5A  A| |"% SoS%_|, li||l% VroMr%YY iY
@%i_M SGJ% o_ Y|G_JGrJY for _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_2 for %xGSVl%, Vr%Y%_|
Y|G_JGrJY Jo _o| co2%r iSGM%Y, JiMi|Gl 2oic%, G_J JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oA  A
uY%ful |ool (i| of %xc"G_M% forSG|Y for @GYic |%x|Y iY o_l5 _o< @%i_M
GYY%S@l%JA  _"% Y5_c"ro_i,G|io_ of co_|%_| Y|r%GSY (iA%A, Y5_c"ro_i,i_M G
2oic% |rGc( |o G 2iJ%o |rGc(, %Y|G@liY"i_M |%SVorGl r%lG|io_Y @%|<%%_
Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y i_ G Sul|iS%JiG o@P%c|l co_Y|i|u|%Y G_o|"%r iYYu%
for _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG |"G| iY PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o r%c%i2% G||%_|io_A

o_J%rl5i_M _%|<or( Vro|ocolY GlYo _%%J YoS% <or(2 MooJ, r%GlS|iS%
J%li2%r5 Vro|ocolY o_ |"% c_|%r_%| Jo _o| 5%| %xiY|A  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<,
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| i_ |"iY co_|%x| iY |"% _o|io_ of _%|<or(%J JiMi|Gl
o@P%c| cDY, |"% G@ili|5 of o_% o@P%c| o_ |"% _%|<or( |o Voi_| |o G_o|"%r
o@P%c| (or coSVo_%_| |"%r%ofl o_ |"% _%|<or(A  S%riouY @G_J<iJ|" iYYu%Y
GlYo %xiY|A  fY"}@ <GY u_c%r|Gi_ if @illio_S@i|SV%rSY%co_J _%|<or(Y <oulJ
Vro2% Yuffici%_| if _uS%rouY V%oVl% rG_ 2iJ%o i_ VGrGll%lA

fY"}@ co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G_ iYYu% for JG|G@GY% cr%G|orY |o co_YiJ%r,
GY <%ll GY Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y G@ou| <"G| SiM"| co_Y|i|u|% MooJ |riGl
Sul|iS%JiG %xV%riS%_|YA  c_ G _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <orlJ |"% JG|G@GY%
@uilJ%r or Y%r2ic% @uilJ%r (Vu@liY"%rl Jo%Y _o| %x%rciY% |"% YGS%
%x|%_Yi2% co_|rol o2%r |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_2 Y|rG_M%
VroMrGSY "Su_M%" <i|" o_%MY JG|G @%for% |"% uY%r Y%%Y i|A  S%riouY
|"ouM"| SuY| @% Mi2%_ |o <"G| MuGrG_|%%Y i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  PGr|
of |"G| iY r%lG|%J |o <"%r% o_% JrG<Y |"% @ou_JGri%Y Grou_J G _%|<or(%J
i_forSG|io_ Y%r2ic%A  _"iY [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_
cli%_|SY%r2%r coSVu|i_M "GY _o| @%%_ Y|r%YY%J %_ouM" i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic
<orlJ, fY"}@ GrMu%J, |"ouM" coSS%rciGl Y%r2ic% Vro2iJ%rY J%Gl <i|" i|
r%MulGrl5A

}o_c%r_i_M Sul|iS%JiG, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| MooJ Sul|iS%JiG G| |"% SoS%_|
iY "iJ%ouYl5 %xV%_Yi2% |o VroJuc%A  @% r%coSS%_J%J VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
<i|" %i|"%r 2%r5 "iM" YGl% 2Glu%, or Sul|iS%JiG <i|" G 2%r5 lo_M lif%
YVG_, or Sul|iS%JiG |"G| <ill "G2% G 2%r5 @roGJ uYGM% @GY% G_J <"oY%
coY|Y |"%r%for% cG_ @% GSor|i,%J GSo_M lGrM% _uS@%rY of uY%rYA  c_ |"iY
co__%c|io_, "iY|oricGl G_J "uSG_iY|icGll5 ori%_|%J SG|%riGl SG5 @% G MooJ
VlGc% |o Y|Gr|, @%cGuY% i| |%_JY |o "G2% G lo_M%r lif% YVG_ |"G_ Suc" of
|"% Yci%_|ific SG|%riGl, GY <%ll GY G <iJ%r uY%r @GY%A  fY"}@ _o|%J, for
%xGSVl%, |"G| AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 fi|Y SG_5 of |"% cri|%riG ou|li_%JA  @%
r%SGr(%J |"% %x|%_Yi2% JiYcuYYio_ G@ou| @ri_Mi_M |"% c_|%r_%| or |"%
"G|io_Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~JucG|io_ "%|<or( ("l~"l i_|o |"% %Su2 %_2iro_S%_|
GY G <G5 of "%lVi_M |"% AS%ricG_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SA

fY"}@ cloY%J @5 _o|i_M |"G| |"% (i_JY of GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J Y|ruc(
"iS GY %xc%ll%_| PuY|ificG|io_Y of @roGJSYcGl% _%|<or(i_M for %Su2, @u|
|"G| G| |"iY |iS% _o "(ill%r" GVVlicG|io_ %xiY|Y |o So@ili,% |"% %Su2
coSSu_i|5 |o o@|Gi_ co__%c|i2i|5A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P D%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5 i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(
G Ylo<Sc"G_Mi_M Yi|uG|io_ P _"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_
G _%|<or(%J %_2iro_S%_| P S%2%rGl r%GYo_Y <"5 }DSliM Yof|<Gr% Jo%Y _o|
_%|<or( P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J fY"}@MY Vr%Y%_|G|io_, Y%2%rGl
GJJi|io_Gl Voi_|Y <%r% SGJ%A

fY"}@ r%i|%rG|%J %2%_ Sor% Y|ro_Ml5 "iY co_|%_|io_ |"G|, "iY|oricGll5,
o_c% o_% Mo%Y ou|YiJ% "iM"S%_J Yci%_c% G_J |"% MrouV of |"oY% <"o _%%J
Gcc%YY |o YuV%rcoSVu|%rY, |"%r% iY G Mr%G| J%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5
i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(A  @% YG< |"iY Yi|uG|io_ c"G_Mi_M
Ylo<l5, <i|" YoS% of |"% Yci%_|ific JG|G@GY%Y G_J Yc"olGrl5 JiYcuYYio_
MrouVY G_J %l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY coSi_M o_ GY <%ll GY <i|" |"% G2GilG@ili|5
of [iJ% Ar%G c_forSG|io_ S%r2%rY ([AcSl G_J YoS% of |"% JG|G@GY%Y |"G|
Gr% @%i_M Sou_|%J |"%r%A  @o<%2%r, SG_5 of |"oY% |"i_MY Jo _o| Y%%S |o
"G2% Vi[u%J Mr%G| VoVulGr i_|%r%Y|A   or i_Y|G_c%, SoY| "iM" Yc"ool
Y|uJ%_|Y of fY"}@MY Gc[uGi_|G_c% <oulJ _o| [uGlif5 GY J%2o|%%Y of Y%riouY
Sol%culGr @ioloM5A

}o_c%r_i_M |"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_, fY"}@ @%li%2%J
|"G| G couVl% of i_forSG|io_ Vro2iJ%rY "G2% lGiJ Jo<_ |"% lG< G| l%GY| o_
c%r|Gi_ |"i_MYA   or %xGSVl%, "iY r%coll%c|io_ <GY |"G| |"% "G|io_Gl
fi@rGr5 of M%Jici_% f%%lY Y|ro_Ml5 |"G| o_% _%%JY |o %SVlo5 |"%
iJ%_|ifi%r fi%lJ if "% or Y"% iY |o Sou_| G JG|G@GY% coSS%rciGll5A  _"%
Vro@l%S <i|" G r%Gl _%|<or(%J %_2iro_S%_| iY |"G| o_% Jo%Y _o| (_o< <"o
iY r%forSG||i_M G_J r%Vroc%YYi_M o_%MY JG|G <"%_ o_% %_|%rY G cli%_|
Y%r2%r SoJ%A  c| @%coS%Y G_5@oJ5MY Mu%YY, for %xGSVl%, if |"% _%|<or(
uY%Y G |<}A5D Y%r2%r, or <"G| cli%_|Y Gr% Joi_M <i|" o_%MY JG|GA  A JG|G
Vro2iJ%r cG_ YG5 |"G| "iY co_|rGc| <ill o_l5 V%rSi| cli%_|Y |o "G2%
Gcc%YY |o "iY JG|G Gf|%r "% 2%|Y |"%S G_J |"%ir Vr%Y%_|G|io_ G_J SG(%Y
c%r|Gi_ i| Yui|Y "iSA  8u| fY"}@ "%lJ ou| li||l% %xV%c|G|io_ |"G| |"%
_%|<or( SGr(%|VlGc% <oulJ %2ol2% i_ |"G| <G5, @%cGuY% i| r%[uir%J |oo
Suc" Vrior _%Mo|iG|io_A
