He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the networr(, fAlS~"
r%2iYi|%J |"% iYYu% of |rG_YSi||i_M "iM"SJ%_Yi|5, "iM"Sr%Yolu|io_ color
iSGM%Y GcroYY |"% _%|<or( G_J |"% lGrM% GSou_|Y of @G_J<iJ|" |"%5
r%[uir%A  @% <%_| o_ |o GJJr%YY |"% @G_J<iJ|" G_J Y5_c"ro_i,G|io_
Vro@l%SY i_"%r%_| i_ Y%_Ji_M fullSSo|io_ 2iJ%o GcroYY |"% _%|<or(A

fAlS~" illuY|rG|%J |"% |rGJ%Soff @%|<%%_ 2oluS%Y of JG|G i_ @5|%Y or
orJ%rY of SGM_i|uJ% G_J |"% Vo|%_|iGl uYGM% of |"G| JG|GA  @% JiYcuYY%J
|rG_YSiYYio_ rG|%Y (VGr|iculGrl5, |"% |iS% i| |G(%Y |o So2% 2GriouY forSY
of i_forSG|io_l, G_J <"G| o_% coulJ Jo <i|" G _%|<or( YuVVor|i_M
Sul|iMiMG@i|SV%rSY%co_J |rG_YSiYYio_A  A| |"% SoS%_|, |"% _%|<or(
%_2iro_S%_| i_cluJ%Y G coSVoYi|% of JG|GS|rG_YSiYYio_ r%[uir%S%_|Y,
2oluS%Y G_J forSY, Moi_M froS Y|%GJ5 |o @urY|5 ("iM"S2oluS%l G_J froS
2%r5 Ylo< |o 2%r5 fGY|A  _"iY GMMr%MG|% SuY| @% co_YiJ%r%J i_ |"% J%YiM_,
co_Y|ruc|io_, G_J oV%rG|io_ of Sul|iMiMG@5|% _%|<or(YA

fAlS~"MY o@P%c|i2% iY |o uY% |"% _%|<or(Y G_J li@rGr5 Y5Y|%SY _o< @%i_M
co_Y|ruc|%J |o i_cr%GY% Gcc%YY |o r%Yourc%Y <"%r%2%r |"%5 %xiY|, G_J
|"uY, |o %2ol2% |o<GrJ G_ o_Sli_% %l%c|ro_ic 2ir|uGl li@rGr5A

fAlS~" co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G Y_GVY"o| of curr%_| |r%_JYu  co_|i_ui_M
M%oS%|ric Mro<|" i_ _%|<or( cGVGci|5 G_J _uS@%r of uY%rY2 Ylo<%r
J%2%loVS%_| of GVVlicG|io_Y2 G_J MlGciGl J%2%loVS%_| G_J GJoV|io_ of
Y|G_JGrJYA  _"% c"Gll%_M% iY |o J%YiM_ G_J J%2%loV %Gc" _%< GVVlicG|io_
Y5Y|%S <i|" _%|<or( Gcc%YY G_J YcGlG@ili|5 i_ Si_JA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
8li["lcGG P Acc%YY |o |"% c_|%r_%| cG__o| @% |G(%_ for MrG_|%J P PGc(%|
rGJio G_J |"% J%2%loVS%_| of M~fVYf i_ u}8DS8u i_ |"% Di2iYio_ of fi@rGr5
Au|oSG|io_ G| |"% o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG  P  D%YiM_ cri|%riG for VGc(%|
rGJio P A J%So_Y|rG|io_ VroP%c| i_ SG_ Di%Mo G_J fu|ur% VlG_Y P SVr%GJ
YV%c|ruS P  r%[u%_ci%Y G| <"ic" |"% rGJioY <ill ru_ G_J VlG_Y |o
r%iSVl%S%_| |"% [AcS Y%r2%r Yof|<Gr% i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi_ P "%%J for G_
i_frGY|ruc|ur% of rGJioY |"G| Jo _o| So2% Grou_J P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

~J<i_ 8li["lcGG, %x%cu|i2% Jir%c|or, M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|%, firY|
Voll%J |"% GuJi%_c% i_ orJ%r |o Y%%( ou| r%MulGr uY%rY of |"% c_|%r_%| GY
<%ll GY |"oY% VlG__i_M |o uY% i| YoS% |iS% i_ |"% fu|ur%A  [i|" _%Grl5
%2%r5@oJ5 i_ |"% rooS fGlli_M i_|o o_% cG|%Mor5 or |"% o|"%r, 8li["lcGG
SGJ% G Voi_| r% Gcc%YY, _GS%l5 |"G| _uS%rouY i_Ji2iJuGlY, %YV%ciGll5 |"oY%
<"o uY% |"% c_|%r_%| %2%r5 JG5, |G(% for MrG_|%J |"%ir Gcc%YY |o i|, |"%
YV%%JY <i|" <"ic" |"%5 Gr% co__%c|%J, G_J "o< <%ll i| Gll <or(YA
@o<%2%r, GY 8li["lcGG JiYco2%r%J @%|<%%_ u}8A G_J u}8} i_ AuY|rGliG,
if o_% <G_|Y Gcc%YY |o |"% c_|%r_%| @u| cG__o| GfforJ i| or "GY YoS%
V"5YicGl @ou_JGr5 |"G| Vr%2%_|Y "%r or "iS froS MGi_i_M Gcc%YY, i| cG_
@% %x|r%S%l5 fruY|rG|i_MA  @% YuMM%Y|%J |"G| @%cGuY% of %co_oSicY G_J
V"5YicGl @Grri%rY <% <%r% @%Mi__i_M |o cr%G|% G <orlJ of "G2%Y G_J "G2%S_o|Y
i_ |"% Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_, %2%_ i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA

8li["lcGG J%|Gil%J |"% J%2%loVS%_| of M~fVYf i_ GcGJ%Sic 5%Gr u}8DS8u i_
|"% Di2iYio_ of fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_ G| |"% o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG, i_
orJ%r |o u_J%rYcor% |"% iYYu% of Gcc%YY |o |"% Y5Y|%S, <"ic" G| |"%
ou|Y%| <GY %x|r%S%l5 liSi|%JA  c_ Y"or|, |"% VroP%c| _%%J%J |o @uilJ G
_%|<or(, <"ic" G| |"G| |iS% %_|Gil%J uY% of YG|%lli|% |%c"_oloM5, |"G| iY,
Vu||i_M %Gr|" Y|G|io_Y o_ cGSVuY G_J GlYo Gc[uiri_M YoS% |%rr%Y|riGl li_(Y
froS |"% S|G|% of }Glifor_iGMY Sicro<G2% Y5Y|%SA  _"% i_Y|GllG|io_ of
YG|%lli|% li_(Y, "o<%2%r, JiJ _o| Yol2% |"% Vro@l%S (<"ic" Gc|uGll5
forS%J VGr| of G lGrM%r Vro@l%S i_2ol2i_M Voli|icY G_J fi_G_ciGl r%Yourc%YlA
 or <"il% |"% VroP%c| |%GS coulJ M%| G YiM_Gl o_|o G cGSVuY, i| "GJ _o S%G_Y
of JiY|ri@u|i_M |"% YiM_Gl |"rouM"ou| |"% cGSVuYA  _"% Yolu|io_ i_2ol2%J
GJoV|i_M G r%c%_| J%2%loVS%_| i_ <ir%l%YY coSSu_icG|io_ cGll%J VGc(%| rGJio,
<"ic" coS@i_%J |"% @GYic _o|io_ of VGc(%|SY<i|c"i_M <i|" rGJioA  _"% VroP%c|
uY%J |"iY |%c"_oloM5 |o M%| |"% YiM_Gl froS G Voi_| o_ cGSVuY <"%r% i|
cGS% Jo<_, G_ %Gr|" Y|G|io_ for %xGSVl%, i_|o |"% li@rGri%Y, @%cGuY% i|
fou_J |"G| <iri_M |"% li@rGri%Y, %YV%ciGll5 |"% olJ%r SGr@l% @uilJi_MY,
<oulJ coY| J2,DDDSJ5,DDD V%r |%rSi_GlA

8li["lcGG _o|%J |"G|, |%_ 5%GrY GMo, |"% VroP%c| "GJ _%i|"%r |"% Vu@lic
Volic5 _or |"% |%c"_oloM5 |"G| <oulJ "G2% Gllo<%J i| |o uY% VGc(%| rGJio
i_ G_5 S%G_i_Mful <G5A  Si_c% |"%_ Suc" "GJ c"G_M%JA  @% Vroc%%J%J |o
J%|Gil r%Y%Grc" G_J J%2%loVS%_| of |"% |%c"_oloM5, "o< i| iY @%i_M
J%Vlo5%J i_ }Glifor_iG, G_J <"G| Jir%c|io_ "% |"ouM"| i| <oulJ |G(%A
_"% J%YiM_ cri|%riG Gr% |o VroJuc% G "iM"SYV%%J, o_%S|iS%, lo<ScoY|,
"iM"S[uGli|5, Y%cur%, lic%_Y%Sfr%% J%2ic% (VGc(%| rGJiol |"G| o_% cG_
VluM i_ G_J VlG5 |oJG5, forM%| G@ou| i|, G_J "G2% Gcc%YY |o |"% c_|%r_%|A
85 "iM" YV%%J, 8li["lcGG S%G_| u S%MG@5|% G_J uA5 S%MG@5|%YA  _"oY% u_i|Y
"G2% @%%_ @uil|, "% co_|i_u%J, G_J Gr% i_ |"% Vroc%YY of @%i_M
|5V%Sc%r|ifi%J @5 G_ i_J%V%_J%_| u_J%r<ri|i_M lG@orG|or5 Yo |"G| |"%5 cG_
@% |5V%Slic%_Y%J @5 |"%  %J%rGl }oSSu_icG|io_Y }oSSiYYio_A  AY iY |"%
cGY% <i|" ci|i,%_Y @G_J, o_% <ill @% G@l% |o Vurc"GY% G u_i| G_J _o| "G2%
|o <orr5 G@ou| GVVl5i_M for G lic%_Y%A

_"% @GYic iJ%G, 8li["lcGG %lG@orG|%J, iY |o |G(% "iM"SYV%%J rGJio JG|G
|rG_YSiYYio_ G_J cr%G|% G @Gc(@o_% _%|<or( |"G| G| c%r|Gi_ Y|rG|%Mic
Voi_|Y i_ |"% _%|<or( <ill "MG|%<G5" i_|o G S%JiuSSYV%%J VGc(%| rGJio
(iA%A, o_% |"G| ru_Y G| <8Ax (ilo@5|%Yl, Yo |"G| V%r"GVY @5 u}}xSu}}5
V%oVl%, li(% |"oY% i_ |"% GuJi%_c% for |"% Vric% of G V}l coulJ Vurc"GY%
G S%JiuSSYV%%J rGJio for |"% offic% or "oS%, "G2% full _%|<or( co__%c|i2i|5
|o |"% c_|%r_%|, G_J VGr|G(% of Gll i|Y Y%r2ic%Y, <i|" _o _%%J for G_  }}
lic%_Y% G_J _o r%MulGr @ill froS |"% locGl coSSo_ cGrri%rA  8li["lcGG
Vr%Y%_|%J Y%2%rGl J%|GilY of G J%So_Y|rG|io_ VroP%c| curr%_|l5 |G(i_M
VlGc% i_ SG_ Di%Mo G_J J%Ycri@%J VlG_Y, V%_Ji_M fu_Ji_M, |o i_Y|Gll G
fullS@or% _%|<or( i_ |"% SG_  rG_ciYco Gr%GA  _"iY _%|<or( <ill "G2% ,DD
_oJ%Y ru__i_M G| @Gc(@o_% YV%%JY, G_J uDD of |"%Y% _oJ%Y <ill @% li@rGri%Y,
<"ic" i_ |ur_ <ill @% |"% MG|%<G5 Vor|Y |o |"% <8Ax (ilo@5|% rGJioY |"G|
<ill Mi2% co2%rGM% for |"% _%iM"@or"ooJY Yurrou_Ji_M |"% li@rGri%YA

8li["lcGG _%x| %xVlGi_%J PGr| u5A2xA, G _%< rul% <i|"i_ _i|l% xA of |"%
}oJ% of  %J%rGl l%MulG|io_Y %_Gc|%J @5 |"%  }} i_ u}85A  _"iY rul%
c"Gll%_M%J |"% i_JuY|r5, <"ic" "GY o_l5 _o< riY%_ |o |"% occGYio_, |o
@uilJ G rGJio |"G| <oulJ ru_ G| _o Sor% |"G_ o_% <G|| of ou|Vu| Vo<%r G_J
uY% G fGirl5 %xo|ic S%|"oJ of SoJulG|i_M |"% rGJio <G2% cGll%J YVr%GJ
YV%c|ruSA  SVr%GJ YV%c|ruS i_ fGc| V%rSi|Y |"% @uilJi_M of _%|<or(Y Yo
|"G| _uS%rouY JG|G coSSu_icG|io_Y cG_ occur YiSul|G_%ouYl5, <i|"ou|
i_|%rf%ri_M <i|" %Gc" o|"%r, <i|"i_ |"% YGS% <iJ% rGJio c"G__%lA

8li["lcGG %xVlGi_%J |"G| |"% fr%[u%_ci%Y G| <"ic" |"% rGJioY <oulJ ru_
Gr% 2%r5 Y"or| <G2% YiM_GlYA  _"%5 Gr% <%ll G@o2% Y|G_JGrJ Sicro<G2% G_J
rGJGrA  [i|" G rGJio <G2% |"G| YSGll, o_% <G|| @%coS%Y G |r%S%_JouY Vu_c"
V%r @i| G_J |"uY SG(%Y |rG_YSiYYio_ G| r%GYo_G@l% YV%%J VoYYi@l%A  c_
orJ%r |o Si_iSi,% |"% Vo|%_|iGl for co_M%Y|io_, |"% VroP%c| iY
u_J%r|G(i_M |o r%iSVl%S%_| Yof|<Gr% <"ic" "GY @%%_ G2GilG@l% i_ |"%
_%|<or(i_M @uYi_%YY G_J iY |G(%_ for MrG_|%J _o<, for %xGSVl%, _}PYcP,
rou|i_M GlMori|"SY, @riJM%Y, G_J MG|%<G5YA  c_ GJJi|io_, |"% VroP%c|
VlG_Y |o |G(% |"% [AcS Y%r2%r Yof|<Gr% i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi_ G_J
r%iSVl%S%_| i| Yo |"G| o_% cG_ "G2% G [AcS Y%r2%r o_ G MGc i_Y|%GJ of G
o_ix SGc"i_%A  _"% M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|% @%li%2%Y |"G| li@rGri%Y, i_
VGr|iculGr, <ill <G_| |o uY% |"% [AcS Y%r2%rY <i|" VGc(%| rGJioA  _"iY
VroP%c|, <"ic" "GY G |%GS of G@ou| |<%l2% V%oVl%, <ill ru_ |"rouM" u}}<
G_J <ill i_cluJ% |"% uDD li@rGri%Y Glr%GJ5 S%_|io_%J GY <%ll GY o|"%r
Vrof%YYio_GlY Yuc" GY |"oY% i_ |"% S%JicGl Vrof%YYio_, %_Mi_%%ri_M, G_J
lG<A  _"uY, |"% _%%J iY |o cr%G|% G_ i_frGY|ruc|ur% of rGJioY |"G| Jo _o|
So2% Grou_J, <"ic", 8li["lcGG "oV%Y, <ill Yol2% G Vro@l%S _o| o_l5 for
li@rGri%Y @u| for i_Ji2iJuGlY <"o, @5 G_J lGrM% |oJG5, Jo _o| "G2% Gcc%YY
|o |"% c_|%r_%| froS |"%ir "oS%Y G_J offic%YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P ProP%c| oV%rG|i_M fr%[u%_ci%Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M G @ri%f JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ, <"ic" GlYo co_cluJ%J |"% JG5MY
Vroc%%Ji_MY, 8li["lcGG Y|G|%J |"G| |"% VroP%c| <GY oV%rG|i_M i_ four
fr%[u%_ci%YA  _"% Ylo< YV%%J iY oV%rG|i_M G| x<5 S%MG"%r|,, G_J i| <oulJ
lG|%r Mo uV |o }2D S%MG"%r|,A  [i|" |"% "iM"SYV%%J fr%[u%_c5, |"%
o_%SS%MG@5|% rGJioY <ill ru_ G| 2Ax MiMG@i|Y, G_J uA5 <ill ru_ G| 5AAA
A| 5AA, rGi_ cG_ @% G fGc|or, @u| i| <oulJ "G2% |o @% |roVicGl rGi_,
u_li(% <"G| fGllY i_ SoY| VGr|Y of |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cVA  cMAG~ }AP_ol~, _~r_ }AP_ol~, iV~lVc~[ i  _~r_ A"D
             cMAG~ S_ilAG~  ilMA_S

[illiGS @ii_i", 2ic% Vr%YiJ%_| of oV%rG|io_Y, cS"~_, SoJ%rG|%J |"iY Y%YYio_A

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
%~""~Y P  Gc|orY i_flu%_ci_M J%2%loVS%_| of }rP P AJ2G_|GM%Y of uYi_M
JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 2%rYuY V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS P A VriSGr5 MoGl of
}rP2 Vu@liY"i_M c"Gll%_M%Y P }"GrGc|%riY|icY of coVi%Y Vri_|%J P (uGli|5
of YGSVl%Y Gc"i%2%J i_ iSGM% cGV|ur% P S%2%rGl fGc|orY |o @% co_YiJ%r%J
i_ c"ooYi_M YcG__i_M P ~SV"GYiY of }rP o_ |iS%l5 G_J coY|S%ff%c|i2%
VroJuc|io_ of @lGc(SG_JS<"i|% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y P l%Yul|Y of VroJuci_M
SicrofilS froS JiMi|Gl fil%Y P AJ2G_|GM%Y of cr%G|i_M SicrofilS P D%|GilY
co_c%r_i_M VroJuc|io_ P }oY|Y P lol% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 i_ li@rGr5
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A__% %~""~Y, GYYociG|% Jir%c|or, D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J
}o_Y%r2G|io_, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, oV%_%J "%r |Gl( @5 o@Y%r2i_M |"G| |"%
}or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| (}rPl "GY @%%_ MuiJ%J @5 |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| |"%
G@ili|5 |o VroJuc% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y or |o r%VlGc% VGV%r <i|" VGV%r
<oulJ @% iSVor|G_|, G| l%GY| for |"% Vr%Y%_| M%_%rG|io_ of uY%rY G_J
%[uiVS%_|A  S"% J%Ycri@%J |"r%% fGc|orY |"G| i_flu%_c%J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% VroP%c|u  ul 8%cGuY% |"% VroP%c| "GY %SV"GYi,%J |"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of
J%|%riorG|i_M @ri||l% @oo(Y, |"% [uGli|5 of <"G| <GY VroJuc%J "GJ |o @%
Yuffici%_|l5 "iM" |o r%|ur_ G VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| |o |"% Y"%lfA  }rP <GY
o_l5 i_|%r%Y|%J i_ uYi_Mu  2l G Y5Y|%S |"G| <GY coY|S%ff%c|i2%, <"ic"
S%G_| |"G| i| "GJ |o @% coY|ScoSV%|i|i2% <i|" |"% Vroc%YY%Y curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l%, Vri_ciVGll5 V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS, G_J <l _%< or curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l% VroJuc| "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%A

%~""~Y J%Ycri@%J |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y |"G| uYi_M JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 off%rY o2%
