quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and desYiM_i_M J%YcriV|orY G_J o|"%r %_"G_c%S%_|Y |o @%
GJJ%J |o |"% JG|G |"G| <ill _o| @% cGV|ur%J froS |"% Vri_|%J Vu@licG|io_A
PGr| of |"iY Vroc%YY GlYo i_2ol2%Y J%|%rSi_i_M "A_DPMY fil% G_J Jir%c|or5
Y|ruc|ur%u  "A_DP G||%SV|Y |o G2oiJ Vu||i_M Sor% |"G_ GVVroxiSG|%l5 uDD
iSGM%Y i_ G Jir%c|or5, @%cGuY% VlGci_M Sor% |"G_ |"G| o_ G }DSliM <oulJ
r%Juc% |"% Gcc%YY YV%%JA

_"iY uVSfro_| Vroc%YY |G(%Y GVVroxiSG|%l5 |<o <%%(Y for G
,,DDDSA,DDDSVGM% JG|G@GY%A  _"% _%x| Y|%V iY |o cGV|ur% |"% VGM% iSGM%YA
@o< lo_M |"iY Vroc%YY |G(%Y iY J%|%rSi_%J @5 |"% J%ciYio_ <"%|"%r or _o|
|o V%rforS i}lA  "o| V%rforSi_M i}l YV%%JY |"% Vroc%YY, <"%r%GY |%x|
cGV|ur% r%[uir%Y Mr%G|%r cGr% @%cGuY% of |"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%u  i|
"GY |o @% Y|rGiM"|%r G_J Gllo<G_c% SuY| @% SGJ% for |%x| o_ G VGM%, _o|
PuY| for |"% cGV|ur% of V"o|oMrGV"YA

"A_DP (%5Y i_ |rGc(i_M JG|G, |"G| iY, G Y|G_JGrJ @i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJ
i_cluJi_M |"% |i|l% of |"% @oo( G_J |"% |i|l% of |"% c"GV|%r, <"ic" <ill
lG|%r %i|"%r @%coS% |"% Gcc%YY i_forSG|io_ or <ill @% G||Gc"%J |o |"%
fro_| of G fullS|%x| r%corJ Yo |"G| i| iY Y%Grc"G@l%A

cSGM%Y Gr% YcG__%J froS G @ou_J or u_@ou_J Vu@licG|io_, c"i%fl5 froS
@ou_J Vu@licG|io_Y i_ |"% cGY% of "A_DP, "o<%2%r, @%cGuY% of|%_ |"%5 Gr%
|"% o_l5 coVi%Y G_J |"% Vu@licG|io_Y Gr% r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%l2%YA  "A_DP
uYuGll5 YcG_Y o_% r%corJ G| G |iS%, @%cGuY% i|Y JG|G@GY% |rGc(i_M Y5Y|%S
|rGc(Y |"% JocuS%_| i_ |"G| <G5 G_J Jo%Y _o| r%[uir% fur|"%r loMicGl
Y%VGrG|i_M of |"% iSGM%YA  Af|%r V%rforSi_M oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r
r%coM_i|io_, "A_DP So2%Y |"% iSGM%Y off |"% "GrJ JiY( G_J SGi_|Gi_Y G
2oluS% Y"%%|A  _"ouM" |"% Y5Y|%S |rGc(Y %l%c|ro_icGll5, Gll |"%
Vroc%YYi_M Y|%VY Gr% GlYo |rGc(%J SG_uGll5 <i|" G loM Y"%%|A

|cDAl _%x| illuY|rG|%J |"% (i_JY of GJPuY|S%_|Y |"G| o_% cG_ SG(% <"%_
YcG__i_M froS VGV%r G_J SicrofilS, for %xGSVl%, r%Joi_M iSGM%Y |"G| _%%J
YV%ciGl "G_Jli_M, Y%||i_M for Ji|"%ri_M or MrG5 YcGl%, G_J GJPuY|i_M for
@riM"|_%YY or for |"% <"ol% @oo( G| o_% |iS%A

"A_DP iY YcG__i_M G| <DD Jo|Y V%r i_c", G Y|G_JGrJ YcG__i_M r%Yolu|io_A
_"ouM" GJ%[uG|% for cGV|uri_M |%x| |"G| iY Gll of G Y|G_JGrJ Yi,%, <DD
JVi iY u_Yui|G@l% for G_5 (i_J of V"o|oMrGV"ic SG|%riGl or for 2%r5 YSGll
|%x|A  MG_5 YcG__%rY Gllo< for Jiff%r%_| iSGM% forSG|Y, _c  , of courY%,
@%i_M G J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJA  8u| if o_% i_|%_JY |o %xc"G_M% iSGM%Y <i|"
o|"%r V%oVl%, |"% G@ili|5 |o YcG_ o|"%r iSGM% forSG|Y, %2%_ if |"%5 Gr%
l%YY coSSo_, @%coS%Y "iM"l5 J%YirG@l%A

}}c__ GrouV x iY |"% Y|G_JGrJ coSVr%YYio_ for _orSGl @lGc(SG_JS<"i|%
iSGM%Y, JP~G for MrG5 YcGl% or colorA   |cDAl r%coSS%_J%J ul uYi_M |"%
Y|G_JGrJ coSVr%YYio_Y, VGr|iculGrl5 if o_% G||%SV|Y |o SG(% SG|%riGl
G2GilG@l% G_J |o Gllo< uY%rY |o Jo<_loGJ iSGM%Y G_J r%uY% |"%S froS
}DSliMY2 G_J 2l SGi_|Gi_i_M |"% G@ili|5 |o ou|Vu| G_ u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%,
@%cGuY% i_ iSGM% %xc"G_M% u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%Y Gr% Sor% li(%l5 |o @% G@l%
|o croYY VlG|forSYA

|cDAl %SV"GYi,%J |"% iSVor|G_c% of J%SY(%<i_M G_J fil|%ri_M GY
r%[uir%S%_|Y o_ "A_DPMY uVMrGJ%J Y5Y|%SA   or i_Y|G_c%, YcG__i_M @ou_J
@oo(Y, VGr|iculGrl5 @oo(Y Vu@liY"%J @5 |"% f%J%rGl Mo2%r_S%_| <"oY% VGM%Y
Gr% Y(%<%J, G_J |r5i_M |o YcG_ |"%S Y|rGiM"| if i}l iY |o @% V%rforS%J,
iY %x|r%S%l5 |iS%Sco_YuSi_MA  _"% YGS% "olJY for fil|%ri_M of
VoorS[uGli|5 or olJ%r SG|%riGlYA

|cDAl J%Ycri@%J iSGM% cGV|ur% froS SicroforS, uYi_M GY G_ %xGSVl% |"r%%
r%%lY froS G Yix|5SY%2%_Sr%%l Y%| of |"% VGV%rY G_J l%||%rY of G%orM%
[GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r |"G| "GJ @%%_ VroJuc%J @5 _uY(%M%% o_i2%rYi|5A  _"%Y%
r%Yul|%J i_ GVVroxiSG|%l5 <,5DD iSGM%Y, <"ic" "A_DP "GJ "GJ YcG__%J @5
i|Y Y%r2ic% co_|rGc|or, Sci%_c% AVVlicG|io_Y c_|%r_G|io_Gl }orVorG|io_
(SAc}lA  "A_DP GlYo cr%G|%J @i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJY for Gcc%YYA  ("A_DP JiJ
_o| "G2% Yuc" YV%ciGli,%J %[uiVS%_| GY G SicrofilS YcG__%rA

o_for|u_G|%l5, |"% Vroc%YY of YcG__i_M froS SicrofilS <GY _o| G_
u_[uGlifi%J Yucc%YY, |cDAl r%Vor|%Ju  @%cGuY% SicrofilS frGS% Yi,%Y 2Gr5,
occGYio_Gll5 YoS% frGS%Y <%r% SiYY%J, <"ic" <i|"ou| YV%_Ji_M Suc" |iS%
G_J So_%5 coulJ _o| @% r%cGV|ur%JA

i}l coulJ _o| @% V%rforS%J froS |"% YcG__%J iSGM%Y of |"% frGS%YA  _"%
@l%%Ji_M i_ |"% |%x| YiSVl5 ou|Vu| |%x|, <"%_ i}l <GY ru_, |"G| coulJ _o|
%2%_ @% %Ji|%JA  "A_DP |%Y|%J for _%MG|i2% 2%rYuY VoYi|i2% iSGM%Y,
lG_JYcGV% 2%rYuY Vor|rGi| ori%_|G|io_, G_J Yi_Ml%S 2%rYuY JuGlSVGM%
SicrofilS, _o_% of <"ic" Y%%S%J |o Gff%c| |"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%2 @u|
GlYo o_ _o_% of |"%S coulJ i}l @% V%rforS%JA

c_ Y%l%c|i_M |"% SicrofilS |"%5 <oulJ uY%, |"%r%for%, "A_DP "GJ o|"%r
fGc|orY i_ Si_JA  |cDAl _o|%J |<o fGc|orY |"G| i_flu%_c%J |"% [uGli|5 of
|"% iSGM%Yu  ul |"% i_"%r%_| [uGli|5 of |"% oriMi_Gl G_J 2l |"% GSou_| of
Yi,% r%Juc|io_ o_ |"% VGM%YA

_"% }Gr2%r VGV%rY <%r% Y%l%c|%J @%cGuY% |"%5 Gr% i_forSG|i2% G_J 2iYuGll5
i_|%r%Y|i_M, |r%G| G Yi_Ml% Yu@P%c|, G_J Gr% 2GluG@l% i_ |"%ir o<_ riM"|A
_"% iSGM%Y <%r% YcG__%J G_J Ji2iJ%J i_|o loMicGl r%corJY @5 SAc}, |"%_
J%li2%r%J, G_J loGJ%J o_|o "A_DPMY Y5Y|%S, <"%r% @i@lioMrGV"ic
i_forSG|io_ |G(%_ Jir%c|l5 froS |"% iSGM%Y <GY GJJ%JA  ScG__i_M <GY
coSVl%|%J i_ YuSS%r u}}u G_J @5 |"% %_J of YuSS%r u}}2 |"% JiY( <GY
Yc"%Jul%J |o @% Vu@liY"%JA

Pro@l%SY %_cou_|%r%J Juri_M Vroc%YYi_M i_cluJ%J |"% follo<i_Mu  8%cGuY%
|"% SicrofilS YcG__i_M "GJ |o @% Jo_% i_ G @G|c", GJPuY|S%_| for
i_Ji2iJuGl VGM% 2GriG|io_Y <GY _o| VoYYi@l%A  _"% frGS% Yi,% 2Gri%J o_
Gccou_| of |"% _G|ur% of |"% SG|%riGl, G_J |"%r%for% YoS% of |"% frGS%Y
<%r% SiYY%J <"il% o|"%rY <%r% PuY| VGr|iGl frGS%YA  _"% o_l5 <G5 |o Mo
@Gc( G_J cGV|ur% |"iY SG|%riGl <GY |o Vri_| ou| |"% VGM% <i|" |"%
SicrofilS r%GJ%r froS |"% SiYYi_M frGS% G_J |"%_ YcG_ i| i_ froS |"%
VGM%, <"ic" <GY %x|r%S%l5 |iS%Sco_YuSi_MA  _"% [uGli|5 of |"% iSGM%Y
YcG__%J froS |"% Vri_|ou| of |"% SicrofilS coSVGr%J u_fG2orG@l5 <i|" |"G|
of |"% oriMi_Gl iSGM%Y cGV|ur%J Jir%c|l5 froS |"% SicrofilSA  _"%
i_G@ili|5 |o V%rforS i}l GlYo <GY G SGPor JiYGVVoi_|S%_|A  A| |"% |iS%,
coSVu|%r ou|Vu| SicrofilS <GY u_G2GilG@l% |o |%Y|A

_"% %[uiVS%_| uY%J for G YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S <GY |"% lGY| |oVic GJJr%YY%J @5
|cDAlA  _"% |5V% of %[uiVS%_| |"G| o_% <oulJ Vurc"GY% for G YcG__i_M
Y5Y|%S i_cluJ%Ju  G SicrocoSVu|%r, G| l%GY| G <8,, @u| Vr%f%rG@l5 G x8,2
G lGrM% "GrJ JiY(, <8D S%MG@5|% G| Si_iSuS2 G Sul|iS|GY(i_M oV%rG|i_M
Y5Y|%S |"G| Gllo<Y o_% |o ru_ YoS% |"i_MY i_ @G|c" i_ |"% @Gc(Mrou_J
<"il% YcG__i_M or Joi_M |%x| %Ji|i_M, for %xGSVl%, o_ix or iSY2 G_J,
|"%or%|icGll5, [i_Jo<Y2 G "iM"SYV%%J YcG__%r G_J YcG__i_M Yof|<Gr% |"G|
Gllo<Y o_% |o SG(% |"% 2GriouY GJPuY|S%_|Y S%_|io_%J %Grli%r2 G
"iM"Sr%Yolu|io_ So_i|or (u5D JVi l2 i}l Yof|<Gr% G_J "GrJ<Gr% |o V%rforS
|%x| r%coM_i|io_2 G_ oV|icGl JiY( Yu@Y5Y|%S o_ <"ic" |o Grc"i2% Gll |"%
iSGM%Y GY |"% Vroc%YYi_M iY Jo_%2 fil% SG_GM%S%_| G_J |rGc(i_M Yof|<Gr%A

|cDAl oVi_%J |"G| |"% Yof|<Gr% o_% Vurc"GY%Y <GY Sor% iSVor|G_| |"G_ |"%
"GrJ<Gr% G_J SiM"| GlYo coY| Sor% |"G_ |"% "GrJ<Gr%, @u| i| <GY li(%l5 |o
Vro2% cri|icGl |o |"% Yucc%YY or fGilur% of o_%MY Y5Y|%SA  c_ GJJi|io_ |o
G Y|G_JSGlo_% YcG__i_M <or(Y|G|io_ for iSGM% cGV|ur%, |"%_, |%x| cGV|ur%
r%[uir%Y o_% or |<o %Ji|i_M Y|G|io_Y _%|<or(%J |o |"iY YcG__i_M Y|G|io_
|o V%rforS %Ji|i_MA  ~Ji|i_M |"% |%x| |G(%Y |<o or |"r%% |iS%Y GY lo_M GY
cGV|uri_M |"% iSGM%YA

 i_Gll5, |cDAl Y|r%YY%J |"% iSVor|G_c% of @u5i_M G_ oV%_ Y5Y|%S |"G| Gllo<Y
for Sor% |"G_ o_% 2%_Jor, coSVli%Y <i|" Y|G_JGrJY, G_J cG_ @% uVMrGJ%JA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
[A_~lS PYGl% o_i2%rYi|5 fi@rGr5MY SGY|%r VlG_ |o co_2%r| SicrofilS |o
JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 (Pi8l P _"% VlGc% of %l%c|ro_ic |oolY i_ |"% li@rGr5 of
|"% fu|ur% P _"% uY%Y of iSGM%Y G_J G_ iSGM% li@rGr5 P PriSGr5 i_Vu| froS
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilS P  %G|ur%Y JiY|i_MuiY"i_M Pi8 froS }rP G_J (%5
"5Vo|"%Y%Y MuiJi_M Pi8 P oY% of 2%_Jor Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY |o fGcili|G|%
orMG_i,G|io_Gl <or( P }ri|%riG for Y%l%c|i_M 2%_Jor P  i_GliY|Y G_J
r%Yul|Y of Vroc%YY for YGl% P %%5 fGc|or JiY|i_MuiY"i_M 2%_JorY P
}oSVo_%_|Y, J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, G_J YoS% %Y|iSG|%J coY|Y of Pi8 P lol% of
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SG|%riGlY i_ J%2%loVi_M iSGMi_M SGr(%| P  Gc|orY Gff%c|i_M
[uGli|5 G_J coY| P  Gc|orY Gff%c|i_M |"% uYG@ili|5 of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y
i_ iSGM% forS P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Do_GlJ [A_~lS, "%GJ of |"% S5Y|%SY iffic%, YGl% o_i2%rYi|5 fi@rGr5,
r%Vor|%J o_ |"% VroMr%YY of G SGY|%r VlG_ for G VroP%c| G| YGl% |o
co_2%r| SicrofilS |o JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5, ProP%c| iV%_ 8oo( (Pi8lA  S|G|i_M
|"G| Pi8 <GY i_ G_ GJ2G_c%J Y|GM% of VlG__i_M, [A_~lS J%|Gil%J, i_
VGr|iculGr, |"% Vroc%YY of Y%l%c|i_M G 2%_Jor VGr|_%r G_J Y%2%rGl (%5
iYYu%Y u_J%r JiYcuYYio_ GY YGl% Vr%VGr%Y |o So2% i_|o |"% VroP%c| i|Y%lfA
@% coSS%_|%J firY| o_ |"% 2iYio_ |"G| Y%r2%Y GY |"% co_|%x| of Pi8 G_J
|"%_ J%Ycri@%J i|Y VurVoY% G_J YcoV%A

[A_~lS Y%%Y |"% li@rGr5 of |"% fu|ur% _o| _%c%YYGril5 GY G_ %l%c|ro_ic
li@rGr5 @u| GY G VlGc% |"G| M%_%rG|%Y, Vr%Y%r2%Y, G_J iSVro2%Y for i|Y
cli%_|Y r%GJ5 Gcc%YY |o @o|" i_|%ll%c|uGl G_J V"5YicGl r%corJ%J
(_o<l%JM%A  ~l%c|ro_ic |oolY SuY| fi_J G VlGc% i_ |"% li@rGr5 i_ |"%
co_|%x| of |"iY 2iYio_A  S%2%rGl rol%Y for %l%c|ro_ic |oolY i_cluJ%
Y%r2i_M GYu  i_Jir%c| Yourc%Y of %l%c|ro_ic (_o<l%JM% or GY "fi_Ji_M"
GiJY (|"% o_Sli_% cG|GloMu%Y, |"% Gr|icl%Sl%2%l i_Jic%Y, r%MiY|%rY for
JocuS%_|Y G_J Grc"i2%Yl2 Jir%c| Yourc%Y of r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM%2 fullS|%x|
iSGM%Y2 G_J 2GriouY (i_JY of coSVou_J Yourc%Y of r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM% (|"%
YoScGll%J coSVou_J JocuS%_|Y of @5V%r|%x|, Six%J |%x| G_J iSGM%,
Six%JS|%x| iSGM% forSG|, G_J Sul|iS%JiGlA

Pi8 iY loo(i_M VGr|iculGrl5 G| iSGM%Y G_J G_ iSGM% li@rGr5, |"% uY%Y |o
<"ic" iSGM%Y <ill @% Vu| (%AMA, Y|orGM%, Vri_|i_M, @ro<Yi_M, G_J |"%_ uY%
GY i_Vu| for o|"%r Vroc%YY%Yl, i}l GY G Yu@Y%[u%_| Vroc%YY |o iSGM%
cGV|ur%, or cr%G|i_M G_ iSGM% li@rGr5, G_J GlYo VoYYi@l5 M%_%rG|i_M
SicrofilSA

["il% i_Vu| <ill coS% froS G 2Gri%|5 of Yourc%Y, Pi8 iY co_YiJ%ri_M
%YV%ciGll5 i_Vu| froS Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilSA  A VoYYi@l% ou|coS% iY |"G|
|"% filS G_J VGV%r <"ic" Vro2iJ% |"% i_Vu| for |"% iSGM% li@rGr5
%2%_|uGll5 SG5 Mo off i_|o r%So|% Y|orGM%, G_J |"G| |"% iSGM% li@rGr5 SG5
@% |"% VriSGr5 Gcc%YY |oolA

_"% VurVoY% G_J YcoV% of Pi8 focuY o_ iSGMi_MA  _"ouM" r%lG|%J |o }rP,
Pi8 "GY |<o f%G|ur%Y <"ic" JiY|i_MuiY" i|u  ul YcGl%SSco_2%rYio_ of
uD,DDD 2oluS%Y i_|o JiMi|Gl iSGM% forS2 G_J 2l Yourc%SSco_2%rYio_ froS
SicrofilSA  Gi2%_ |"%Y% f%G|ur%Y, Y%2%rGl (%5 <or(i_M "5Vo|"%Y%Y MuiJ%
Pi8, i_cluJi_Mu  ul Si_c% Pi8 iY uYi_M SicrofilS, i| iY _o| co_c%r_%J <i|"
|"% iSGM% li@rGr5 GY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ S%JiuSA  2l DiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 cG_ iSVro2%
Gcc%YY |o r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM% |"rouM" Vri_|i_M G_J _%|<or( JiY|ri@u|io_ G|
G SoJ%Y| i_cr%S%_|Gl coY| of SicrofilSA  <l }GV|uri_M G_J Y|ori_M JocuS%_|Y
i_ G JiMi|Gl iSGM% forS iY _%c%YYGr5 |o fur|"%r iSVro2%S%_|Y i_ Gcc%YYA
(Pi8 JiY|i_MuiY"%Y @%|<%%_ |"% iSGMi_M, JiMi|i,i_M Vroc%YY G_J i}l,
<"ic" G| |"iY Y|GM% i| Jo%Y _o| VlG_ |o V%rforSAl

}urr%_|l5 i_ i|Y firY| or orMG_i,G|io_Gl V"GY%, Pi8 fou_J |"G| i| coulJ
uY% G 2%_Jor Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY |o fGcili|G|% G MooJ J%Gl of |"%
orMG_i,G|io_Gl <or( (%AMA, cr%G|i_M G VroP%c| |%GS G_J GJ2iYor5 @oGrJ,
co_firSi_M |"% 2GliJi|5 of |"% VlG_, %Y|G@liY"i_M |"% coY| of |"% VroP%c|
G_J G @uJM%|, Y%l%c|i_M |"% SG|%riGlY |o co_2%r|, G_J |"%_ rGiYi_M |"%
_%c%YYGr5 fu_JYlA

Pi8 J%2%loV%J _uS%rouY Y%l%c|io_ cri|%riG, i_cluJi_Mu  G firS coSSi||%J
|o iSGM%SJocuS%_| SG_GM%S%_|, |"% G@ili|5 |o Y%r2% GY Y5Y|%SY i_|%MrG|or
i_ G lGrM%SYcGl% VroP%c| o2%r Y%2%rGl 5%GrY, i_|%r%Y| i_ J%2%loVi_M |"%
r%[uiYi|% Yof|<Gr% GY G Y|G_JGrJ rG|"%r |"G_ G cuY|oS VroJuc|, G_J G
<illi_M_%YY |o i_2%Y| Yu@Y|G_|iGl r%Yourc%Y i_ |"% VroP%c| i|Y%lfA

_<o 2%_JorY, D~} G_J r%rox, <%r% Y%l%c|%J GY fi_GliY|Y i_ ic|o@%r u}}u,
G_J <i|" |"% YuVVor| of |"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY, %Gc"
<GY coSSiYYio_%J |o M%_%rG|% G J%|Gil%J r%[uir%S%_|Y G_Gl5YiY for |"%
VroP%c| G_J |"%_ |o Yu@Si| G forSGl VroVoYGl for |"% coSVl%|io_ of |"%
VroP%c|, <"ic" i_cluJ%J G @uJM%| G_J coY|YA _"% |%rSY <%r% |"G| Pi8 <oulJ
VG5 |"% loY%rA  _"% r%Yul|Y for YGl% of i_2ol2i_M G 2%_Jor i_cluJ%Ju
@roGJ i_2ol2%S%_| of YGl% Y|Gff GcroYY |"% @oGrJ G| G r%lG|i2%l5 lo<
coY|, <"ic" SG5 "G2% lo_MS|%rS YiM_ificG_c% i_ cGrr5i_M ou| |"% VroP%c|
(|<%_|5Sfi2% |o |"ir|5 u_i2%rYi|5 V%oVl% Gr% %_MGM%J i_ Pi8l2 @%||%r
u_J%rY|G_Ji_M of |"% fGc|orY |"G| Gff%c| corVorG|% r%YVo_Y% |o SGr(%|Y
for iSGMi_M VroJuc|Y2 G coSV%|i|i2% VroVoYGl2 G_J G Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
2i%< of |"% iSGMi_M SGr(%|YA

_"% SoY| iSVor|G_| fGc|or |"G| JiY|i_MuiY"%J |"% 2%_JorY u_J%r
co_YiJ%rG|io_ <GY |"%ir iJ%_|ificG|io_ <i|" |"% cuY|oS%rA  _"% Yi,% G_J
i_|%r_Gl coSVl%xi|5 of |"% coSVG_5 GlYo <GY G_ iSVor|G_| fGc|orA  Pi8 <GY
loo(i_M G| lGrM% coSVG_i%Y |"G| "GJ Yu@Y|G_|iGl r%Yourc%YA  c_ |"% %_J,
|"% Vroc%YY M%_%rG|%J for YGl% |<o coSV%|i|i2% VroVoYGlY, <i|" r%roxMY
|"% cl%Gr <i__%rA  [A_~lS |"%_ J%Ycri@%J |"% coSVo_%_|Y of |"% VroVoYGl,
|"% J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, G_J YoS% of |"% coY|Y %Y|iSG|%J for |"% Vroc%YYA

}oSVo_%_|Y Gr% %YY%_|iGll5 fouru  G co_2%rYio_ Yu@Y5Y|%S, G
_%|<or(SGcc%YYi@l% Y|orGM% Yu@Y5Y|%S for uD,DDD @oo(Y (G_J Pi8 %xV%c|Y
2DD |o ,DD JVi Y|orGM%l, @ro<Yi_M Y|G|io_Y JiY|ri@u|%J o_ |"% cGSVuY
_%|<or(, G_J _%|<or( Gcc%YY |o |"% iSGM% Vri_|%rYA

ASo_M |"% J%YiM_ Vri_ciVl%Y, Pi8 <G_|%J co_2%rYio_ G| |"% "iM"%Y|
VoYYi@l% r%Yolu|io_A  AYYuSi_M _c   fil%Y, _c   fil%Y <i|" GrouV x
coSVr%YYio_, _}PYcP, G_J %|"%r_%| _%|<or( o_ cGSVuY, Pi8 <G_|%J G
cli%_|SY%r2%r GVVroGc" <i|" iSGM% JocuS%_|Y JiY|ri@u|%J |o |"%
<or(Y|G|io_Y G_J SGJ% Gcc%YYi@l% |"rouM" _G|i2% <or(Y|G|io_ i_|%rfGc%Y
Yuc" GY [i_Jo<YA  Pi8 GlYo i_YiY|%J o_ G V"GY%J GVVroGc" |o
iSVl%S%_|G|io_u  ul G Y|G_JSGlo_%, Yi_Ml%SuY%r, lo<ScoY| %_|r5 i_|o |"%
@uYi_%YY <i|" G <or(Y|G|io_ focuY%J o_ co_2%rYio_ G_J Gllo<i_M Pi8 |o
%xVlor% uY%r Gcc%YY2 2l So2%S%_| i_|o G "iM"%rS2oluS% co_2%rYio_ <i|"
_%|<or(SGcc%YYi@l% Y|orGM% G_J Sul|iVl% Gcc%YY Y|G|io_Y2 G_J <l G
"iM"S2oluS% co_2%rYio_, fullScGVGci|5 Y|orGM%, G_J Sul|iVl% @ro<Yi_M
Y|G|io_Y JiY|ri@u|%J |"rouM"ou| |"% cGSVuYA

_"% coY|Y VroVoY%J for Y|Gr|SuV GYYuS%J |"% %xiY|%_c% of |"% YGl% _%|<or(
G_J i|Y |<o Docu_%c" iSGM% Vri_|%rYA  i|"%r Y|Gr|SuV coY|Y Gr% %Y|iSG|%J
G| Ju Sillio_ o2%r |"% |"r%% V"GY%YA  A| |"% %_J of |"% VroP%c|, |"% G__uGl
oV%rG|i_M coY|Y %Y|iSG|%J VriSGril5 for |"% Yof|<Gr% G_J "GrJ<Gr% VroVoY%J
coS% |o G@ou| J,D,DDD, @u| |"%Y% %xcluJ% coY|Y for lG@or _%%J%J i_ |"%
co_2%rYio_ Vroc%YY, _%|<or( G_J Vri_|%r uYGM%, G_J fGcili|i%Y SG_GM%S%_|A

 i_Gll5, |"% Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY VroJuc%J for YGl% G Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
2i%< of |"% iSGMi_M SGr(%|Yu  |"% SG_GM%S%_| of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_
iSGM% forS iY _o| G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Vro@l%S, _o| G li@rGr5 Vro@l%S, @u| G
M%_%rGl Vro@l%S i_ G @roGJ, M%_%rGl i_JuY|r5A  Pr%Y%r2G|io_ SG|%riGlY Gr%
uY%ful for J%2%loVi_M |"G| SGr(%| @%cGuY% of |"% [uGli|i%Y of |"%
SG|%riGlA   or %xGSVl%, Suc" of i| iY ou| of coV5riM"|A  _"% r%Yolu|io_
of (%5 iYYu%Y Yuc" GY |"% [uGli|5 of YcG__i_M G_J iSGM% @ro<Yi_M GlYo
<ill Gff%c| J%2%loVS%_| of |"G| SGr(%|A

_"% |%c"_oloM5 iY r%GJil5 G2GilG@l% @u| c"G_Mi_M rGViJl5A  c_ |"iY
co_|%x| of rGViJ c"G_M%, Y%2%rGl fGc|orY Gff%c| [uGli|5 G_J coY|, |o
<"ic" Pi8 i_|%_JY |o VG5 VGr|iculGr G||%_|io_, for %xGSVl%, |"% 2GriouY
l%2%lY of r%Yolu|io_ |"G| cG_ @% Gc"i%2%JA  Pi8 @%li%2%Y i| cG_ @ri_M
r%Yolu|io_ uV |o ,DD JVi, @u| G_ i_|%rVolG|io_ Vroc%YY froS xDD |o ,DD iY
Sor% li(%l5A  _"% 2GriG|io_ [uGli|5 i_ SicrofilS <ill Vro2% |o @% G
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| fGc|orA  Pi8 SG5 r%%xGSi_% |"% Y|G_JGrJY uY%J |o filS i_
|"% firY| VlGc% @5 loo(i_M G| |"iY Vroc%YY GY G follo<So_ |o SicrofilSi_MA

i|"%r iSVor|G_| fGc|orY i_cluJ%u  |"% |%c"_i[u%Y G2GilG@l% |o |"%
oV%rG|or for "G_Jli_M SG|%riGl, |"% <G5Y of i_|%MrG|i_M [uGli|5 co_|rol
i_|o |"% JiMi|i,i_M <or( flo<, G_J G <or( flo< |"G| i_cluJ%Y i_J%xi_M G_J
Y|orGM%A  Pi8MY r%[uir%S%_| <GY |o @% G@l% |o J%Gl <i|" [uGli|5 co_|rol
G| |"% Voi_| of YcG__i_MA  _"uY, |"G_(Y |o r%rox, Pi8 G_|iciVG|%Y "G2i_M
G S%c"G_iYS <"ic" <ill Gllo< i| _o| o_l5 |o YcG_ i_ @G|c" forS, @u| |o
r%2i%< |"% SG|%riGl GY i| Mo%Y |"rouM" |"% YcG__%r G_J co_|rol [uGli|5
froS |"% ou|Y%|A

_"% Y|G_JGrJY for S%GYuri_M [uGli|5 G_J coY|Y J%V%_J Mr%G|l5 o_ |"% uY%Y
of |"% SG|%riGl, i_cluJi_M Yu@Y%[u%_| i}l, Y|orGM%, Vri_|i_M, G_J
@ro<Yi_MA  8u| %YV%ciGll5 G| iYYu% for Pi8 iY |"% fGcili|5 for @ro<Yi_MA
_"iY fGcili|5, [A_~lS YGiJ, iY V%r"GVY |"% <%G(%Y| GYV%c| of iSGMi_M
|%c"_oloM5 G_J |"% SoY| i_ _%%J of J%2%loVS%_|A

A 2Gri%|5 of fGc|orY Gff%c| |"% uYG@ili|5 of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_ iSGM%
forS, GSo_M |"%Su  ul |"% G@ili|5 of |"% Y5Y|%S |o "G_Jl% |"% full rG_M%
of JocuS%_| |5V%Y, _o| PuY| So_oMrGV"Y @u| Y%riGlY, Sul|iSVGr|
So_oMrGV"Y, G_J SG_uYcriV|Y2 2l |"% locG|io_ of |"% JG|G@GY% of r%corJ
for @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ G@ou| |"% iSGM% JocuS%_|, <"ic" Pi8 <G_|Y
|o %_|%r o_c% G_J i_ |"% SoY| uY%ful VlGc%, |"% o_Sli_% cG|GloM2 <l G
JocuS%_| iJ%_|ifi%r for r%f%r%_ci_M |"% @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ i_ o_%
VlGc% G_J |"% iSGM%Y i_ G_o|"%r2 xl |"% |%c"_i[u% for SG(i_M |"% @GYic
i_|%r_Gl Y|ruc|ur% of |"% JocuS%_| Gcc%YYi@l% |o |"% r%GJ%r2 G_J fi_Gll5,
5l |"% V"5YicGl Vr%Y%_|G|io_ o_ |"% }l_ of |"oY% JocuS%_|YA  Pi8 iY r%GJ5
|o coSVl%|% |"iY V"GY% _o<A  i_% lGY| J%ciYio_ i_2ol2%Y J%ciJi_M <"ic"
SG|%riGl |o YcG_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P _c   fil%Y co_Y|i|u|% J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJ P "AlAMY %xV%ri%_c%
<i|" iSGM% co_2%rYio_ Yof|<Gr% G_J |%x| co_2%rYio_ P l } u<ux P
}o_YiJ%rG@l% flux co_c%r_i_M G2GilG@l% "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr% Yolu|io_Y P
"Af |"rouM"SVu| rG|% Juri_M YcG__i_M P [i_Jo< SG_GM%S%_| [u%Y|io_Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

c_ |"% [u%Y|io_SG_JSG_Y<%r V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J [A_~lSMY Vr%Y%_|G|io_,
|"% follo<i_M Voi_|Y %S%rM%Ju

     P |cDAlMY Y|G|%S%_| G@ou| uYi_M _c   fil%Y GY G Y|G_JGrJ S%G_| J%
     fGc|o Y|G_JGrJA  _"iY iY <"G| SoY| V%oVl% uY% G_J |5VicGll5 %xc"G_M%
     <i|" o|"%r MrouVY, GcroYY VlG|forSY, or %2%_ occGYio_Gll5 GcroYY
     JiYVlG5 Yof|<Gr%A

     P @ifM~S coSS%_|%J o_ |"% u_Yucc%YYful %xV%ri%_c% of "AlA i_
     G||%SV|i_M |o ru_ iSGM%Sco_2%rYio_ Yof|<Gr% or |o %xc"G_M% @%|<%%_
     GVVlicG|io_Yu  ["G| Gr% YuVVoY%Jl5 _c   fil%Y Mo i_|o o|"%r Yof|<Gr%
     |"G| iY YuVVoY%J |o @% G@l% |o Gcc%V| _c   @u| cG__o| r%coM_i,% |"%
     forSG| G_J cG__o| J%Gl <i|" i|, G_J |"uY r%_J%rY |"% %xc"G_M%
     uY%l%YYA  l% |%x| co_2%rYio_, "% _o|%J |"% Jiff%r%_| r%coM_i|io_
     rG|%Y o@|Gi_%J @5 Yu@Y|i|u|i_M |"% SG(% G_J SoJ%l of YcG__%rY i_
     "AlAMY r%c%_| |%Y| of G_ "i_|%lliM%_|" c"GrGc|%rSr%coM_i|io_ VroJuc|
     for G _%< coSVG_5A  c_ |"% Y%l%c|io_ of "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%,
     @ifM~S GrMu%J, Yof|<Gr% _o lo_M%r co_Y|i|u|%Y |"% o2%rriJi_M fGc|or
     i| JiJ u_|il G@ou| G 5%Gr GMo2 rG|"%r i| iY V%r"GVY iSVor|G_| |o
     loo( G| @o|" _o<A

     P DG__5 }o"%_ G_J AlG_ %G|, of |"% o_i2%rYi|5 of Sou|"%r_ }Glifor_iG
     c_forSG|io_ Sci%_c%Y c_Y|i|u|% @%MG_ circulG|i_M GY G_ c_|%r_%| l }
     (l } u<uxl G@ou| G So_|" GMo G Y|G_JGrJ for G _c   i_|%rc"G_M%
     forSG| for c_|%r_%| JiY|ri@u|io_ of So_oc"roS% @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y,
     <"ic" fY"}@ YGiJ "% @%li%2%J <oulJ @% uY%J GY G J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJA

     P  f~cS}@@Ao~lMY iSVr%YYio_ froS "%Gri_M |"%Y% r%Vor|Y G_J |"i_(i_M
     G@ou| AMMY %xV%ri%_c% <GY |"G| |"%r% iY co_YiJ%rG@l% flux co_c%r_i_M
     G2GilG@l% "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr% Yolu|io_YA  @ii_i" GMr%%J G_J
     coSS%_|%J G| |"% YGS% |iS% o_ |cDAlMY Y|G|%S%_| |"G| |"% %[uiVS%_|
     %SVlo5%J Gff%c|Y |"% r%Yul|Y VroJuc%JA  i_% cG__o| JrG< G coSVl%|%
     co_cluYio_ @5 YG5i_M i| iY Jifficul| or iSVoYYi@l% |o V%rforS i}l
     froS YcG__i_M SicrofilS, for %xGSVl%, <i|" |"G| J%2ic%,  |"G| Y%| of
     VGrGS%|%rY, G_J Y5Y|%S r%[uir%S%_|Y, @%cGuY% _uS%rouY o|"%r V%oVl%
     Gr% GccoSVliY"i_M PuY| |"G|, uYi_M o|"%r coSVo_%_|Y, V%r"GVYA
     @ii_i" oVi_%J |"G| @o|" |"% "GrJ<Gr% G_J |"% Yof|<Gr% <%r% "iM"l5
     iSVor|G_|A  MoY| of |"% Vro@l%SY JiYcuYY%J |oJG5 "G2% @%%_ Yol2%J i_
     _uS%rouY Jiff%r%_| <G5Y @5 o|"%r V%oVl%A  _"ouM" i| iY MooJ |o @%
     coM_i,G_| of 2GriouY %xV%ri%_c%Y, |"iY iY _o| |o YG5 |"G| i| <ill
     Gl<G5Y @% |"uYA

     P A| "Af, |"% |"rouM"SVu| rG|% of |"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY for VGV%r,
     VGM% @5 VGM%, V%rforSi_M i}l, rG_M%Y froS <DD |o ,DD VGM%Y V%r JG52
     _o| V%rforSi_M i}l iY co_YiJ%rG@l5 fGY|%r, Gl|"ouM" "o< Suc" fGY|%r
     iY _o| (_o<_A  _"iY iY for YcG__i_M froS @ou_J @oo(Y, <"ic" iY Suc"
     Ylo<%rA

     P [A_~lS coSS%_|%J o_ <i_Jo< SG_GM%S%_| [u%Y|io_Yu  D~} VroVoY%J G_
     rS[i_Jo<Y Yolu|io_ <"ic" <GY Vro@l%SG|icGl for |<o r%GYo_YA  i_% <GY
     Pi8MY r%[uir%S%_| |o @% G@l% |o SG_iVulG|% iSGM%Y o_ |"% <or(Y|G|io_
     G_J @ri_M |"%S Jo<_ |o |"% <or(Y|G|io_ i|Y%lf G_J |"% o|"%r <GY
     _%|<or( uYGM%A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
_@iMA P clluY|rG|io_ of J%fici%_ci%Y i_ YcG__i_M G_J Y|orGM% Vroc%YY P
cSGM% [uGli|5 i_ |"iY Vroc%YY P Diff%r%_| coY|Y %_|Gil%J @5 @%||%r iSGM%
[uGli|5 P _%c"_i[u%Y for o2%rcoSi_M 2GriouY J%Sfici%_ci%Yu  fix%J
|"r%Y"olJi_M, J5_GSic |"r%Y"olJi_M, Ji|"%ri_M, iSGM% S%rM% P PGM% %JM%
%ff%c|Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

G%orM% _@iMA, c"i%f, }oSSu_icG|io_Y ~_Mi_%%ri_M 8rG_c", "G|io_Gl fi@rGr5
of M%Jici_% ("fMl, illuY|rG|%J Y%2%rGl of |"% J%fici%_ci%Y JiYcuYY%J @5
|"% Vr%2iouY YV%G(%rYA  @% i_|roJuc%J |"% |oVic of YV%ciGl Vro@l%SY @5
_o|i_M |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y of %l%c|ro_ic iSGMi_MA   or %xGSVl%, i| iY r%M%_%rG@l%
@%cGuY% i| iY G coJ%J fil%, G_J r%GlS|iS% [uGli|5 co_|rol iY VoYYi@l% <i|"
%l%c|ro_ic cGV|ur%, <"%r%GY i_ V"o|oMrGV"ic cGV|ur% i| iY _o|A

i_% of |"% Jifficul|i%Y JiYcuYY%J i_ |"% YcG__i_M G_J Y|orGM% Vroc%YY <GY
iSGM% [uGli|5 <"ic", <i|"ou| @%lG@ori_M |"% o@2iouY, S%G_Y Jiff%r%_|
|"i_MY for SGVY, S%JicGl rSrG5Y, or @roGJcGY| |%l%2iYio_A  c_ |"% cGY% of
JocuS%_|Y, _@iMA YGiJ, iSGM% [uGli|5 @oilY Jo<_ |o l%Mi@ili|5 of |"%
|%x|uGl VGr|Y, G_J fiJ%li|5 i_ |"% cGY% of MrG5 or color V"o|o Vri_|S|5V%
SG|%riGlA  f%Mi@ili|5 @oilY Jo<_ |o YcG_ J%_Yi|5, |"% Y|G_JGrJ i_ SoY|
cGY%Y @%i_M <DD JViA  c_cr%GYi_M |"% r%Yolu|io_ <i|" YcG__%rY |"G|
V%rforS ,DD or u2DD JVi, "o<%2%r, coS%Y G| G coY|A

8%||%r iSGM% [uGli|5 %_|GilY G| l%GY| four Jiff%r%_| (i_JY of coY|Yu  ul
%[uiVS%_| coY|Y, @%cGuY% |"% }}D (iA%A, c"GrM%ScouVl% J%2ic%l <i|"
Mr%G|%r _uS@%r of %l%S%_|Y coY|Y Sor%2  2l |iS% coY|Y |"G| |rG_YlG|% |o
|"% Gc|uGl cGV|ur% coY|Y, @%cGuY% SG_uGl lG@or iY i_2ol2%J (|"% |iS% iY
GlYo J%V%_J%_| o_ |"% fGc| |"G| Sor% JG|G "GY |o @% So2%J Grou_J i_ |"%
SGc"i_% i_ |"% YcG__i_M or _%|<or( J%2ic%Y |"G| V%rforS |"% YcG__i_M GY
<%ll GY |"% Y|orGM%l2  <l S%JiG coY|Y, @%cGuY% G| "iM" r%Yolu|io_Y lGrM%r
fil%Y "G2% |o @% Y|or%J2 G_J xl |rG_YSiYYio_ coY|Y, @%cGuY% |"%r% iY PuY|
Sor% JG|G |o @% |rG_YSi||%JA

8u| <"il% r%Yolu|io_ |G(%Y cGr% of |"% iYYu% of l%Mi@ili|5 i_ iSGM%
[uGli|5, o|"%r J%fici%_ci%Y "G2% |o Jo <i|" co_|rGY| G_J %l%S%_|Y o_ |"%
VGM% YcG__%J or |"% iSGM% |"G| _%%J%J |o @% r%So2%J or clGrifi%JA  _"uY,
_@iMA Vroc%%J%J |o illuY|rG|% 2GriouY J%fici%_ci%Y, "o< |"%5 Gr%
SG_if%Y|%J, G_J Y%2%rGl |%c"_i[u%Y |o o2%rcoS% |"%SA

 ix%J |"r%Y"olJi_M <GY |"% firY| |%c"_i[u% J%Ycri@%J, Yui|G@l% for
@lGc(SG_JS<"i|% |%x|, <"%_ |"% co_|rGY| Jo%Y _o| 2Gr5 o2%r |"% VGM%A  i_%
cG_ "G2% SG_5 Jiff%r%_| |"r%Y"olJ l%2%lY i_ YcG__i_M J%2ic%YA  _"uY,
_@iMA off%r%J G_ %xGSVl% of %x|r%S%l5 Voor co_|rGY|, <"ic" r%Yul|%J froS
|"% fGc| |"G| |"% Y|oc( <GY G "%G25 r%JA  _"iY iY |"% Yor| of iSGM% |"G|
<"%_ SicrofilS%J fGilY |o Vro2iJ% G_5 l%Mi@ili|5 <"G|Yo%2%rA   ix%J
|"r%Y"olJi_M iY |"% <G5 |o c"G_M% |"% @lGc(S|oSr%J co_|rGY| |o |"%
J%Yir%J @lGc(S|oS<"i|% co_|rGY|A

i|"%r %xGSVl%Y i_cluJ%J SG|%riGl |"G| "GJ @%%_ @ro<_%J or 5%llo<%J @5
GM%A  _"iY <GY GlYo G cGY% of co_|rGY| J%fici%_c5, G_J corr%c|io_ <GY
Jo_% @5 fix%J |"r%Y"olJi_MA  A fi_Gl %xGSVl% @oilY Jo<_ |o |"% YGS%
|"i_M, YliM"| 2GriG@ili|5, @u| i| iY _o| YiM_ificG_|A   ix%J |"r%Y"olJi_M
Yol2%Y |"iY Vro@l%S GY <%llA  _"% SicrofilS %[ui2Gl%_| iY c%r|Gi_l5 l%Mi@l%,
@u| i| coS%Y <i|" JGr( Gr%GYA  _"ouM" _@iMA JiJ _o| "G2% G YliJ% of |"%
SicrofilS i_ |"iY cGY%, "% JiJ Y"o< |"% r%VroJuc%J %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%A

["%_ o_% "GY 2GriG@l% co_|rGY| o2%r G VGM% or |"% liM"|i_M o2%r |"% VGM%
Gr%G 2Gri%Y, %YV%ciGll5 i_ |"% cGY% <"%r% G @ou_J 2oluS% "GY liM"|
Y"i_i_M o_ i|, |"% iSGM% SuY| @% Vroc%YY%J @5 G J5_GSic |"r%Y"olJi_M
Yc"%S%A  i_% Yc"%S%, J5_GSic G2%rGMi_M, Gllo<Y |"% |"r%Y"olJ l%2%l _o| |o
@% fix%J @u| |o @% r%coSVu|%J for %2%r5 Vix%l froS |"% _%iM"@ori_M
c"GrGc|%riY|icYA  _"% _%iM"@orY of G Vix%l J%|%rSi_% <"%r% |"% |"r%Y"olJ
Y"oulJ @% Y%| for |"G| Vix%lA

_@iMA Y"o<%J G_ %xGSVl% of G VGM% |"G| "GJ @%%_ SGJ% J%fici%_| @5 G
2Gri%|5 of |%c"_i[u%Y, i_cluJi_M G @ur_ SGr(, coff%% Y|Gi_Y, G_J G 5%llo<
SGr(%rA  AVVlicG|io_ of G fix%JS|"r%Y"olJi_M Yc"%S%, _@iMA GrMu%J, SiM"|
|G(% cGr% of Y%2%rGl J%fici%_ci%Y o_ |"% VGM% @u| _o| Gll of |"%SA
P%rforSi_M |"% cGlculG|io_ for G J5_GSic |"r%Y"olJ Y%||i_M, "o<%2%r,
r%So2%Y SoY| of |"% J%fici%_ci%Y Yo |"G| G| l%GY| |"% |%x| iY l%Mi@l%A

A_o|"%r Vro@l%S iY r%Vr%Y%_|i_M G MrG5 l%2%l <i|" @lGc(SG_JS<"i|% Vix%lY
@5 G Vroc%YY (_o<_ GY Ji|"%ri_M or %l%c|ro_ic Ycr%%_i_MA  8u| Ji|"%ri_M
Jo%Y _o| Vro2iJ% MooJ iSGM% [uGli|5 for Vur% @lGc(SG_JS<"i|% |%x|uGl
SG|%riGlA  _@iMA illuY|rG|%J |"iY Voi_| <i|" %xGSVl%YA Al|"ouM" i|Y
Yui|G@ili|5 for V"o|oVri_| iY |"% r%GYo_ for %l%c|ro_ic Ycr%%_i_M or
Ji|"%ri_M, i| cG__o| @% uY%J for %2%r5 coSVou_J iSGM%A  c_ |"% JocuS%_|
|"G| <GY JiY|ri@u|%J @5 }rP, _@iMA _o|ic%J |"G| |"% Ji|"%r%J iSGM% of |"%
c~~~ |%Y| c"Gr| %2i_c%J YoS% J%|%riorG|io_ i_ |"% |%x|A  @% Vr%Y%_|%J G_
%x|r%S% %xGSVl% of J%|%riorG|io_ i_ |"% |%x| i_ <"ic" coSVou_J%J
JocuS%_|Y "GJ |o @% Y%| riM"| @5 o|"%r |%c"_i[u%YA  _"% |%c"_i[u%
illuY|rG|%J @5 |"% Vr%Y%_| %xGSVl% <GY G_ iSGM% S%rM% i_ <"ic" |"% VGM%
iY YcG__%J |<ic% G_J |"% Y%||i_MY Mo froS fix%J |"r%Y"olJ |o |"%
Ji|"%ri_M SG|rix2 |"% r%Yul|i_M iSGM%Y Gr% S%rM%J |o Mi2% |"% @%Y|
r%Yul|Y <i|" %Gc" |%c"_i[u%A

_@iMA illuY|rG|%J "o< Ji|"%ri_M iY GlYo uY%J i_ _o_V"o|oMrGV"ic or
_o_Vri_| SG|%riGlY <i|" G_ %xGSVl% of G MrG5iY" VGM% froS G S%JicGl |%x|,
<"ic" <GY r%VroJuc%J |o Y"o< Gll of |"% MrG5 |"G| GVV%Gr%J i_ |"%
oriMi_GlA  Di|"%ri_M Vro2iJ%J G r%VroJuc|io_ of Gll |"% MrG5 i_ |"%
oriMi_Gl of G_o|"%r %xGSVl% froS |"% YGS% |%x|A

_@iMA fi_Gll5 illuY|rG|%J |"% Vro@l%S of @orJ%ri_M, or VGM%S%JM%,
%ff%c|YA  8oo(Y G_J @ou_J 2oluS%Y |"G| Gr% VlGc%J o_ G V"o|ocoV5 SGc"i_%
or G YcG__%r VroJuc% VGM%S%JM% %ff%c|Y |"G| Gr% u_J%YirG@l% for |<o
r%GYo_Yu  ul |"% G%Y|"%|icY of |"% iSGM%2 Gf|%r Gll, if |"% iSGM% iY |o
@% Vr%Y%r2%J, o_% Jo%Y _o| _%c%YYGril5 <G_| |o (%%V Gll of i|Y
J%fici%_ci%Y2 2l coSVr%YYio_ (<i|" |"% @orJ%ri_M Vro@l%S _@iMA
illuY|rG|%J, |"% coSVr%YYio_ rG|io J%|%riorG|%J |r%S%_JouYl5lA  i_% <G5
|o %liSi_G|% |"iY Sor% Y%riouY Vro@l%S iY |o "G2% |"% oV%rG|or G| |"%
Voi_| of YcG__i_M <i_Jo< |"% VGr| of |"% iSGM% |"G| iY J%YirG@l% G_J
Gu|oSG|icGll5 |ur_ Gll of |"% Vix%lY ou| of |"G| Vic|ur% |o <"i|%A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 f~cS}@@Ao~l P AMMY %xV%ri%_c% <i|" YcG__i_M @ou_J SG|%riGlY P Di|"%ri_M
P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

}Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l, coorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
r%Vor|%J AMMY %xV%ri%_c% <i|" YcG__i_M @ou_J SG|%riGlY, <"ic" "% li(%_%J
|o |"% Vro@l%SY i_2ol2%J i_ uYi_M V"o|ocoV5i_M SGc"i_%YA  V%r5 f%<
J%2ic%Y i_ |"% i_JuY|r5 off%r @oo(S%JM% YcG__i_M, l%| Glo_% @oo( crGJl%YA
_"% Vro@l%S SG5 @% u_Yol2G@l%,  f~cS}@@Ao~l YGiJ, @%cGuY% G lGrM% %_ouM"
SGr(%| Jo%Y _o| %xiY| for G Vr%Y%r2G|io_S[uGli|5 YcG__%rA  AM iY uYi_M G
%ur,<%il YcG__%r, <"ic" iY G @oo(S%JM% YcG__%r _o< YolJ @5 r%roxA

D%2o|i_M |"% r%SGi_J%r of "iY @ri%f Vr%Y%_|G|io_ |o Ji|"%ri_M,
 f~cS}@@Ao~l r%lG|%J AMMY %xV%ri%_c% <i|" G co_|rGc|or <"o <GY uYi_M
u_YoV"iY|icG|%J %[uiVS%_| G_J Yof|<Gr% |o r%Juc% Soir% VG||%r_Y froS
Vri_|%J "Glf|o_%YA  AM |oo( |"% YGS% iSGM% G_J uY%J |"% Ji|"%ri_M
GlMori|"S |"G| forSY VGr| of |"% YGS% %ur,<%il r%rox YcG__%r2 i|
JiYMuiY%J Soir% VG||%r_Y Suc" Sor% %ff%c|i2%l5A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l GlYo o@Y%r2%J |"G| Ji|"%ri_M VroJuc%Y G @i_Gr5 fil% <"ic" iY
uY%ful for _uS%rouY VurVoY%Y, for %xGSVl%, Vri_|i_M i| o_ G lGY%r Vri_|%r
<i|"ou| "G2i_M |o "r%S"Glf|o_%" i|A  8u| i| |%_JY |o J%f%G| %ffici%_|
coSVr%YYio_, @%cGuY% |"% 2%r5 |"i_M |"G| Ji|"%rY |o r%Juc% Soir% VG||%r_Y
GlYo |%_JY |o <or( GMGi_Y| coSVr%YYio_ Yc"%S%YA  AM |"ouM"| |"%
Jiff%r%_c% i_ iSGM% [uGli|5 <GY <or|" i|A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P l%lG|i2% uY% GY G cri|%rio_ for Pi8MY Y%l%c|io_ of @oo(Y |o
@% co_2%r|%J i_|o JiMi|Gl forS P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ, [A_~lS _o|%J |"G| o_% of |"% cri|%riG for
Y%l%c|i_M @oo(Y GSo_M |"% uD,DDD |o @% co_2%r|%J i_|o JiMi|Gl iSGM% forS
<oulJ @% "o< Suc" r%lG|i2% uY% |"%5 <oulJ r%c%i2%SSG Yu@P%c| Y|il
