coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of  Vr%Y%r2i_M |%x| G_J iSGM% P G%_%rGl Vri_ciVl%Y |o @% GJoV|%J i_ G
<orlJ <i|"ou| Y|G_JGrJY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

PG|riciG 8A__c", Vr%YiJ%_|, |"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY
(}PAl, GJJr%YY%J |"% iSVlicG|io_Y of Y|G_JGrJY for Vr%Y%r2G|io_A  S"%
liY|%J Y%2%rGl Gr%GY <"%r% |"% li@rGr5 Vrof%YYio_ G_J |"% G_GloM <orlJ of
|"% Vri_|%J @oo( "GJ SGJ% %_orSouY co_|ri@u|io_Y o2%r |"% VGY| "u_Jr%J
5%GrYSSfor %xGSVl%, i_ @i@lioMrGV"ic forSG|Y, @i_Ji_M Y|G_JGrJY, G_J, SoY|
iSVor|G_|, i_ J%|%rSi_i_M <"G| co_Y|i|u|%Y lo_M%2i|5 or Grc"i2Gl [uGli|5A

Al|"ouM" Y|G_JGrJY "G2% liM"|%_%J |"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ @urJ%_ |"rouM" |"%
J%2%loVS%_| of _G|io_Gl G_J i_|%r_G|io_Gl collG@orG|i2% VroMrGSY,
_%2%r|"%l%YY, G V%r2GYi2% SiY|ruY| of o|"%r V%oVl%MY Y|G_JGrJY r%SGi_Y G
SGPor o@Y|Gcl% |o Yucc%YYful cooV%rG|io_, 8A__c" YGiJA

_"% ,%Gl |o Gc"i%2% V%rf%c|io_, r%MGrJl%YY of |"% coY|, "GY "i_J%r%J
rG|"%r |"G_ fGcili|G|%J Gcc%YY i_ YoS% i_Y|G_c%Y, G_J i_ |"% JiMi|Gl
%_2iro_S%_|, <"%r% _o r%Gl Y|G_JGrJY %xiY|, "GY @rouM"| G_ iro_icGll5
PuY| r%<GrJA

8A__c" GrMu%J |"G| Y|G_JGrJY Gr% G Jou@l%S%JM%J Y<orJ for |"oY% co_c%r_%J
<i|" |"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of |"% "uSG_ r%corJ, |"G| iY, |"% Vro2iYio_ of
Gcc%YY |o r%corJ%J (_o<l%JM% i_ G Sul|i|uJ% of S%JiG GY fGr i_|o |"%
fu|ur% GY VoYYi@l%A  S|G_JGrJY Gr% %YY%_|iGl |o fGcili|G|%
i_|%rco__%c|i2i|5 G_J Gcc%YY, @u|, 8A__c" YGiJ, GY fY"}@ Voi_|%J ou|
5%Y|%rJG5, if Y%| |oo Yoo_ |"%5 cG_ "i_J%r cr%G|i2i|5, %xVG_Yio_ of
cGVG@ili|5, G_J |"% @roGJ%_i_M of Gcc%YYA  _"% c"GrGc|%riY|icY of
Y|G_JGrJY for JiMi|Gl iSGM%r5 Jiff%r rGJicGll5 froS |"oY% for G_GloM
iSGM%r5A  A_J |"% _G|ur% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 iSVli%Y co_|i_ui_M
2olG|ili|5 G_J c"G_M%A  _o r%i|%rG|%, Vr%ciVi|ouY Y|G_JGrJSY%||i_M cG_
i_"i@i| cr%G|i2i|5, @u| J%lG5%J Y|G_JGrJSY%||i_M r%Yul|Y i_ c"GoYA

Si_c% i_ 8A__c"MS oVi_io_ |"% _%GrS|%rS VroM_oYiY for r%liG@l% Grc"i2Gl
Y|G_JGrJY, GY J%fi_%J @5 li@rGriG_Y i_ |"% G_GloM <orlJ, iY Voor, |<o
Gl|%r_G|i2%Y r%SGi_u  Y|G_Ji_M VG| <i|" |"% olJ |%c"_oloM5, or
r%co_c%V|uGli,i_MA

Pr%Y%r2G|io_ co_c%r_Y for %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG fGll i_|o |<o M%_%rGl JoSGi_YA
i_% iY |"% co_|i_ui_M GYYurG_c% of Gcc%YY |o (_o<l%JM% oriMi_Gll5
M%_%rG|%J, Y|or%J, JiYY%Si_G|%J, G_J uY%J i_ %l%c|ro_ic forSA  _"iY
JoSGi_ co_|Gi_Y Y%2%rGl Yu@Ji2iYio_Y, i_cluJi_M ul |"% cloY%J,
VroVri%|Gr5 Y5Y|%SY JiYcuYY%J |"% Vr%2iouY JG5, @u_Jl%J i_forSG|io_ Yuc"
GY %l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY G_J Mo2%r_S%_| GM%_c5 r%corJY, G_J %l%c|ro_icGll5
VroJuc%J or cGV|ur%J rG< JG|G2 G_J 2l |"% GVVlicG|io_ of JiMi|Gl
|%c"_oloMi%Y |o |"% r%forSG||i_M of SG|%riGlY oriMi_Gll5 Vu@liY"%J o_ G
J%|%riorG|i_M G_GloM S%JiuS Yuc" GY GciJ VGV%r or 2iJ%o|GV%A

_"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG r%[uir%Y G r%co_c%V|uGli,i_M of our
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Vri_ciVl%Y Juri_M G 2olG|il%, Y|G_JGrJl%YY |rG_Yi|io_ <"ic"
SG5 lGY| fGr lo_M%r |"G_ G_5 of uY %_2iYio_ |oJG5A  8A__c" urM%J |"%
_%c%YYi|5 of Y"if|i_M focuY froS GYY%YYi_M, S%GYuri_M, G_J Y%||i_M
Y|G_JGrJY for |"% V%rSG_%_c% of |"% S%JiuS |o |"% co_c%V| of SG_GMi_M
co_|i_ui_M Gcc%YY |o i_forSG|io_ Y|or%J o_ G 2Gri%|5 of S%JiG G_J
r%[uiri_M G 2Gri%|5 of %2%rSc"G_Mi_M "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr% for Gcc%YYSSG
fu_JGS%_|Gl Y"if| for |"% li@rGr5 Vrof%YYio_A

8A__c" off%r%J G VriS%r o_ "o< |o So2% for<GrJ <i|" r%GYo_G@l% co_fiJ%_c%
i_ G <orlJ <i|"ou| Y|G_JGrJYA  @%r coSS%_|Y f%ll rouM"l5 i_|o |<o Y%c|io_Yu
ul Y|G_JGrJY i_ |"% r%Gl <orlJ G_J 2l |"% Voli|icY of r%VroJuc|io_A

c_ r%MGrJ |o r%GlS<orlJ Y|G_JGrJY, 8A__c" GrMu%J |"% _%%J |o r%J%fi_% |"%
co_c%V| of Grc"i2% G_J |o @%Mi_ |o |"i_( i_ |%rSY of lif% c5cl%YA  c_
|"% VGY|, |"% _Gi2% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| VGV%r <oulJ lGY| for%2%r VroJuc%J G
cG2Gli%r G||i|uJ% |o<GrJ lif% c5cl%YA  _"% |rG_Yi%_| _G|ur% of |"%
%l%c|ro_ic S%JiG "GY coSV%ll%J V%oVl% |o r%coM_i,% G_J Gcc%V| uVfro_| |"%
co_c%V| of lif% c5cl%Y i_ VlGc% of V%rSG_%_c5A

DiMi|Gl Y|G_JGrJY "G2% |o @% J%2%loV%J G_J Y%| i_ G cooV%rG|i2% co_|%x|
|o %_Yur% %ffici%_| %xc"G_M% of i_forSG|io_A  Mor%o2%r, Juri_M |"iY
|rG_Yi|io_ V%rioJ, Mr%G|%r fl%xi@ili|5 co_c%r_i_M "o< co_c%V|Y Yuc" GY
@Gc(uV coVi%Y G_J Grc"i2Gl coVi%Y i_ |"% }rP Gr% J%fi_%J iY _%c%YYGr5,
or |"% oVVor|u_i|5 |o So2% for<GrJ <ill @% loY|A

c_ |%rSY of cooV%rG|io_, VGr|iculGrl5 i_ |"% u_i2%rYi|5 Y%||i_M, 8A__c"
GlYo GrMu%J |"% _%%J |o G2oiJ Moi_M off i_ G "u_Jr%J Jiff%r%_|
Jir%c|io_YA  _"% }PA "GY cG|Gl5,%J G YSGll MrouV of u_i2%rYi|i%Y cGll%J
|"% fG GuGrJiG ~iM"|SS@%cGuY% fG GuGrJiG AirVor| iY <"%r% S%%|i_MY |G(%
VlGc%SS@Gr2GrJ, YGl%, }or_%ll, Pri_c%|o_, P%__ S|G|%, _%__%YY%%,
S|G_forJ, G_J oS}, |o J%2%loV G JiMi|Gl Vr%Y%r2G|io_ co_Yor|iuS |o loo(
G| Gll |"%Y% iYYu%Y G_J J%2%loV J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJY GY <% So2% Glo_M,
i_Y|%GJ of <Gi|i_M for YoS%|"i_M |"G| iY officiGll5 @l%YY%JA  }o_|i_ui_M
|o GVVl5 G_GloM 2Glu%Y G_J J%fi_i|io_Y of Y|G_JGrJY |o |"% JiMi|Gl
%_2iro_S%_|, 8A__c" YGiJ, <ill %ff%c|i2%l5 l%GJ |o forf%i|ur% of |"%
@%_%fi|Y of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 |o r%Y%Grc" G_J Yc"olGrY"iVA

o_J%r |"% Y%co_J ru@ric, |"% Voli|icY of r%VroJuc|io_, 8A__c" r%i|%rG|%J
G_ of|SSGJ% GrMuS%_| co_c%r_i_M |"% %l%c|ro_ic li@rGr5, _GS%l5, |"G| i|
iY Sor% Jifficul| |o |rG_YforS |"G_ |o cr%G|%, G_J _o<"%r% iY |"G| @%li%f
%xVr%YY%J Sor% JrGSG|icGll5 |"G_ i_ |"% co_2%rYio_ of @ri||l% @oo(Y |o
_%< S%JiGA  Pr%Y%r2i_M i_forSG|io_ Vu@liY"%J i_ %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG i_2ol2%Y
SG(i_M Yur% |"% i_forSG|io_ r%SGi_Y Gcc%YYi@l% G_J |"G| JiMi|Gl
i_forSG|io_ iY _o| loY| |"rouM" r%VroJuc|io_A  c_ |"% G_GloM <orlJ of
V"o|ocoVi%Y G_J SicrofilS, |"% iYYu% of fiJ%li|5 |o |"% oriMi_Gl @%coS%Y
VGrGSou_|, GY Jo iYYu%Y of "["oY% fiJ%li|58" G_J "["oY% oriMi_Gl8"

8A__c" %lG@orG|%J |"%Y% GrMuS%_|Y <i|" G f%< %xGSVl%Y froS G r%c%_| Y|uJ5
co_Juc|%J @5 |"% }PA o_ |"% Vro@l%SY of Vr%Y%r2i_M |%x| G_J iSGM%
