This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann  fi@rGr5, 8%ll }oSSu_icG|io_Y l%Y%Grc" (8%llcor%l, |"% AS%ricG_
     }"%SicGl Soci%|5 (A}Sl, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic% (}ASl, G_J
     i}f}A

Mic"G%l f~S%                  _"% }il~ ~l%c|ro_ic }"%SiY|r5 fi@rGr5

A SGPor o_Sli_% fil% of c"%SicGl Pour_Gl li|%rG|ur% coSVl%|% <i|"
MrGV"icY iY @%i_M J%2%loV%J |o |%Y| |"% uYG@ili|5 of full5 %l%c|ro_ic
Gcc%YY |o JocuS%_|Y, GY G Poi_| VroP%c| of }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, |"%
AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic%, i}f}, G_J
8%llcor% (<i|" GJJi|io_Gl YuVVor| froS Su_ MicroY5Y|%SY, SVri_M%rSV%rlGM,
DiMi|Gc ~[uiVS%_| }orVorG|io_, So_5 }orVorG|io_ of AS%ricG, G_J AVVl%
}oSVu|%rYlA  iur fil% co_|Gi_Y |"% AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5MY o_Sli_%
Pour_GlY, YuVVl%S%_|%J <i|" |"% MrGV"icY froS |"% VGV%r Vu@licG|io_A  _"%
i_J%xi_M of |"% Gr|icl%Y froS }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y DocuS%_|Y iY G2GilG@l%
i_ @o|" iSGM% G_J |%x| forSG|, G_J Y%2%rGl Jiff%r%_| i_|%rfGc%Y cG_ @%
uY%JA  iur MoGlY Gr% (ul |o GYY%YY |"% %ff%c|i2%_%YY G_J Gcc%V|G@ili|5 of
%l%c|ro_ic Gcc%YY |o VriSGr5 Pour_GlY GY coSVGr%J <i|" VGV%r, G_J (2l |o
iJ%_|if5 |"% SoY| J%YirG@l% fu_c|io_Y of |"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% |o G_
%l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%S of Pour_GlY, i_cluJi_M i_ VGr|iculGr G coSVGriYo_ of
VGM%SiSGM% JiYVlG5 <i|" AS}cc JiYVlG5 i_|%rfGc%YA  ~Grl5 %xV%riS%_|Y <i|"
c"%SiY|r5 Y|uJ%_|Y o_ G 2Gri%|5 of |GY(Y YuMM%Y| |"G| Y%Grc"i_M |GY(Y Gr%
coSVl%|%J Suc" fGY|%r <i|" G_5 %l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%S |"G_ <i|" VGV%r, @u|
|"G| for r%GJi_M Gll 2%rYio_Y of |"% Gr|icl%Y Gr% rouM"l5 %[ui2Gl%_|A

PGS%lG A"Dl~ G_J JuJi|" |cDAl

_%x| co_2%rYio_ iY fGr Sor% %xV%_Yi2% G_J |iS%Sco_YuSi_M |"G_ iSGM%
cGV|ur% Glo_%A  "AfMY %xV%ri%_c% <i|" oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ (i}ll
<ill @% r%lG|%J G_J coSVGr%J <i|" |"% %xV%ri%_c% of "G2i_M |%x| r%(%5%JA
["G| fGc|orY Gff%c| i}l GccurGc58  @o< GccurG|% Jo%Y full |%x| "G2% |o @%
i_ orJ%r |o @% uY%ful8  @o< Jo Jiff%r%_| uY%rY r%Gc| |o iSV%rf%c| |%x|8
_"%Y% Gr% [u%Y|io_Y |"G| <ill @% %xVlor%JA   or SG_5, G Y%r2ic% @ur%Gu
SG5 @% G @%||%r Yolu|io_ |"G_ V%rforSi_M |"% <or( i_"ouY%2 |"iY <ill GlYo
@% JiYcuYY%JA

S~SSci" Vc

MGr5@%|" P~_~lS

}oV5riM"| lG< Vro|%c|Y cr%G|i2% <or(YA  Pro|%c|io_ MrG_|%J @5 |"% lG< |o
Gu|"orY G_J JiYY%Si_G|orY of <or(Y i_cluJ%Y |"% riM"| |o Jo or Gu|"ori,%
|"% follo<i_Mu  r%VroJuc% |"% <or(, Vr%VGr% J%ri2G|i2% <or(Y, JiY|ri@u|%
|"% <or( |o |"% Vu@lic, G_J Vu@licl5 V%rforS or JiYVlG5 |"% <or(A  c_
GJJi|io_, coV5riM"| o<_%rY of You_J r%corJi_MY G_J coSVu|%r VroMrGSY "G2%
|"% riM"| |o co_|rol r%_|Gl of |"%ir <or(YA  _"%Y% riM"|Y Gr% _o|
u_liSi|%J2 |"%r% Gr% G _uS@%r of %xc%V|io_Y G_J liSi|G|io_YA

A_ %l%c|ro_ic %_2iro_S%_| VlGc%Y Y|rGi_Y o_ |"% coV5riM"| Y5Y|%SA
}oV5riM"| o<_%rY <G_| |o co_|rol uY%Y of |"%ir <or( G_J @% VGiJ for G_5
uY%2 |"% Vu@lic <G_|Y [uic( G_J %GY5 Gcc%YY G| li||l% or _o coY|A  _"%
SGr(%|VlGc% iY <or(i_M i_ |"iY Gr%GA  }o_|rGc|Y, MuiJ%li_%Y o_ %l%c|ro_ic
uY%, G_J coll%c|i2% lic%_Yi_M Gr% i_ uY% G_J @%i_M r%fi_%JA

cYYu%Y co_c%r_i_M |"% G@ili|5 |o c"G_M% <or(Y <i|"ou| J%|%c|io_ Gr% Sor%
Jifficul| |o J%Gl <i|"A  (u%Y|io_Y co_c%r_i_M |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% <or(
G_J |"% Y|G|uY of |"% c"G_M%J 2%rYio_ u_J%r |"% coV5riM"| lG< Gr% |o @%
GJJr%YY%JA  _"%Y% Gr% Vu@lic Volic5 iYYu%Y <"ic" r%[uir% i_forS%J
JiGloMu%A


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                AVV%_Jix cccu  Dcl~}_ilY i  PAl_c}cPA"_S


Pl~S~"_~lSu

     PGS%lG (AJA A_Jr%
     AYYociG|% Dir%c|or, Au|oSG|io_
     "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5
     uD<Du 8Gl|iSor% 8oul%2GrJ
     8%l|Y2ill%, MD 2DAD5S2<5u
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 5DxS,8u<
      Gxu  (<Dul 5DxSAxA<
     ~SSGilu  c"_~l"~_u  PA"Dl~@ASllAAlSoSDAAGiV

     J%G_ 8Gro_GY, S%_ior MG_GM%r
     D%VGr|S%_| of S|G_JGrJY G_J _%c"_oloM5
     AYYociG|io_ for c_forSG|io_ G_J cSGM% MG_GM%S%_| (AccMl
     uuDD [G5_% A2%_u%, Sui|% uuDD
     Sil2%r SVri_M, MD 2D}uD
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 58AS82D2
      Gxu  (<Dul 58AS2Auu

     PG|riciG 8G||i_, Pr%YiJ%_|
     _"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY
     uxDD u,|" S|r%%|, "A[A
     Sui|% AxD
     [GY"i_M|o_, D} 2DD<,S22uA
     P"o_%u  (2D2l }<}S<xDD
      Gxu  (2D2l }<}S<xDA
     ~SSGilu  }PA@G[oVMA8c_"~_

     @o<GrJ 8%YY%r
     }%_|r% }G_GJi%_ JMArc"i|%c|ur%
     (}G_GJiG_ }%_|%r for Arc"i|%c|ur%l
     u}2D, ru% 8Gil%
     Mo_|r%Gl, (u%@%c @<@ 2S,
     }A"ADA
     P"o_%u  (5uxl }<}SADDu
      Gxu  (5uxl }<}SAD2D
     ~SSGilu  "o<GrJ@liYAVi||A%Ju

     ~J<i_ 8A 8ro<_riMM, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or
     M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|%
     x22 8o_i|G A2%_u%
     loY%2ill%, }A }5,A8
     P"o_%u  (}u,l A8xS22}8
      Gxu  (}u,l A8,SA55}
     ~SSGilu  8c_"~_u  M~M~r@}AfS_A_~A2

     ~ric MA }GlGlucG, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|
     }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA
     uuDu %i_M S|r%%|
     Al%xG_JriG, VA 22<lx
     P"o_%u  (8DDl A52SD5l5
      Gxu  (AD<l ,8<SA58}

     JGS%Y DGl5
     xDu5 D%%V<ooJ loGJ
     8Gl|iSor%, MD 2u2u8SuxDx
     P"o_%u  (xuDl 2<5SDA,<

     lic(5 ~r<G5, AYYociG|% }oorJi_G|or
     AS%ricG_ M%Sor5
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS,2<<
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS<A,x

     }Grl  l%iYc""Gu%r, }oorJi_G|or
     AS%ricG_ M%Sor5
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS,2<<
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS<A,x

     JoG__%  r%%SG_
     2DDD J%ff%rYo_ PGr( A2%_u%, "oA A
     }"Grlo||%Y2ill%, VA  22}D<

     ProYY%r GifforJ
     Dir%c|or for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADASu5uA
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS}8}8
     ~SSGilu  VMif@Y%[uAlocAMo2

     JGc[u%li_% @%YY, Dir%c|or
     "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@orG|or5
       for c_|%rGc|i2% c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADASxu5A
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS282}

     SuYG_ @oc(%5, Dir%c|or
     }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ |"% @uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@l
     Al%xG_J%r fi@rGr5
     lu|M%rY o_i2%rYi|5
     u,} }oll%M% A2%_u%
     "%< 8ru_Y<ic(, "J D8}D<
     P"o_%u  (}D8l }<2Su<8x
      Gxu  (}D8l }<2Su<8,
     ~SSGilu  "oc(%5@,oJiGcAru|M%rYA%Ju

     [illiGS fA @oo|o_, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|
     8uYi_%YY i _%c"_icGl D%2%loVS%_|
       cSGMi_M i c_forSG|io_ S5Y|%SY GrouV
     cS"~_
     ,x<D loc(l%JM% Dri2%, Sui|% xDD
     8%|"%YJG, MD 2D8lA
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 5,xS,A5D
      Gxu  (5u<l 5,xS,8,A

     A__% lA %%__%5, AYYociG|% Dir%c|or
     D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J }o_Y%r2G|io_
     ADu ili_ fi@rGr5
     }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5
     c|"GcG, "Y ux85<
     P"o_%u  (,DAl 255S,8A5
      Gxu  (,DAl 255S}<x,
     ~SSGilu  fYDY@}il"~ffAA8c_"~_

     lo_GlJ fA fGrY%_
     AYYociG|% Dir%c|or for c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloM5
     o_i2%rYi|5 of MGr5lG_J G| }oll%M% PGr(
     looS 8D22x, Mc%%lJi_ fi@rGr5
     }oll%M% PGr(, MD 2DAx2SADuu
     P"o_%u  (<Dul xD5S}u}x
      Gxu  (<Dul <uxS}8,5
     ~SSGilu  rlGrY%_@li@rAuSJA%Ju

     MGriG fA f%@ro_, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or
     _"% i_li_% Jour_Gl of }urr%_| }li_icGl _riGlY
     l<<< @ S|r%%|, "A[A
     [GY"i_M|o_, D} 2DDD5
     P"o_%u  (2D2l <2,S,A<5
      Gxu  (2D2l 8x2S28,8
     ~SSGilu  Po8SAAAS@G[oVMA8c_"~_

     Mic"G%l f%Y(, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or
     }oSVu|%r Sci%_c% l%Y%Grc"
     8%ll }oSSu_icG|io_Y l%Y%Grc", c_cA
     lS 2AS<85
     xx5 Sou|" S|r%%|
     MorriY|o<_, "J DA},DSl}lD
     P"o_%u  (2Dul 82}SxDAD
      Gxu  (2Dul 82}S5}8u
     ~SSGilu  l%Y(@@%llcor%AcoS (c_|%r_%|l or @%llcor%Gl%Y( (uucVl

     }lifforJ AA f5_c"
     Dir%c|or, fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_
     o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG,
        iffic% of |"% Pr%YiJ%_|
     <DD fG(%YiJ% Dri2%, 8|"  loor
     iG(lG_J, }A }x,u2S<<5D
     P"o_%u  (5uDl }8ASD522
      Gxu  (5uDl 8<}S<5A<
     ~SSGilu  cGlur@uccS2YG

     A2rG Mic"%lYo_
     "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y G_J l%corJY AJSi_iY|rG|io_
     "S| lSA ux"
     A|" i P%__Y5l2G_iG, "A[A
     [GY"i_M|o_, DA}A 2DxD8
     P"o_%u  (2D2l 5DuS55xx
      Gxu  (2D2l 5DuS55<<
     ~SSGilu  |Si@cuA_i"AMo2

     ~lli M5lo_GY, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or
     P%rY%uY ProP%c|
     D%VGr|S%_| of |"% }lGYYicY
     @Gr2GrJ o_i2%rYi|5
     <u} 8o5lY|o_ @Gll
     }GS@riJM%, MA D2u<8
     P"o_%u  (,uAl x}5S}D25, (,uAl x}5SDx5, (Jir%c|l
      Gxu  (,uAl x},S888,
     ~SSGilu  ~lli@c%AliSA@Gr2GrJA~Do or %lli@<P"u2A"Gr2GrJA%Ju

     DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ
     PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y c_Y|i|u|%
     <DD S%co_J S|r%%|, Sui|% 2Du
     foY Al|oY, }A }xDD2
     P"o_%u  (xu5l }x8SDu5D (P@cl
      Gxu  (xu5l }x8S5A}<

     f5__% %A P%rYo_iuY, AYYiY|G_| Dir%c|or
     }or_%ll c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y for
      Sc"olGrl5 c_forSG|io_ Sourc%Y
     5D2 ili_ fi@rGr5
     }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5
     c|"GcG, "Y ux85<
     P"o_%u  (,DAl 255S<<}<
      Gxu  (,DAl 255S}<x,
     ~SSGilu  Jl"@}il"~ff}A8c_"~_

     MGr5@%|" P%|%rY
     Polic5 PlG__i_M AJ2iY%r |o |"%
       l%MiY|%r of }oV5riM"|Y
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     iffic% fM xD<
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS8<5D
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS8<,,

     }A Mic"G%l SV%r@%rMSMc(u%%_
     ~Ji|or, _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2%
     }oSVu|%r }%_|%r (MY} u<5l
     o_i2%rYi|5 of clli_oiY G| }"icGMo
     8ox ,}}8
     }"icGMo, cf ,D,8D
     P"o_%u  (<u2l xu<SD<uA
      Gxu  (<u2l }},S,8<
