material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the prooJuc|io_ of SicrofilS froS JiMi|Gl
fil%Y, %~""~Y r%Vor|%J |"G| |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y for |"% YGS% l%%J l%c|ur%
<%r% uY%J |o VroJuc% YGSVl% filS uYi_M G_ %l%c|ro_ @%GS r%corJ%rA  _"%
r%Yul|i_M filS <GY fGi|"ful |o |"% iSGM% cGV|ur% of |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y,
G_J <"il% }rP f%l| |"G| |"% |%x| G_J iSGM% VGM%Y r%Vr%Y%_|%J i_ |"% l%%J
l%c|ur% <%r% YuV%rior |o |"G| of |"% liM"|Sl%_Y filS, |"% r%Yolu|io_
r%GJi_MY for |"% ,DD JVi <%r% _o| GY "iM" GY Y|G_JGrJ SicrofilSi_MA
%~""~Y GrMu%J |"G| |"% Y|G_JGrJY J%fi_%J for liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5 Gr%
_o| |o|Gll5 |rG_Yf%rG@l% |o G JiMi|Gl %_2iro_S%_|A  Mor%o2%r, |"%5 Gr%