              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she sYoo_ fou_J ou| |"G| |"%
cGuY% of |"iY <GY |"% fG_ Y"% <GY "olJi_M, G_J Y"% JroVV%J i|
"GY|il5, PuY| i_ |iS% |o G2oiJ Y"ri_(i_M G<G5 Gl|oM%|"%rA

 _"G| [AS G _Grro< %YcGV%GM YGiJ Alic%, G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J G|
|"% YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u| 2%r5 MlGJ |o fi_J "%rY%lf Y|ill i_
%xiY|%_c%2  G_J _o< for |"% MGrJ%_GM G_J Y"% rG_ <i|" Gll YV%%J
@Gc( |o |"% li||l% Jooru  @u|, GlGYG |"% li||l% Joor <GY Y"u|
GMGi_, G_J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 <GY l5i_M o_ |"% MlGYY |G@l% GY
@%for%,  G_J |"i_MY Gr% <orY% |"G_ %2%r,M |"ouM"| |"% Voor c"ilJ,
 for c _%2%r <GY Yo YSGll GY |"iY @%for%, _%2%rG  A_J c J%clGr%
i|MY |oo @GJ, |"G| i| iYGM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"%Y% <orJY "%r foo| YliVV%J, G_J i_ G_o|"%r
SoS%_|, YVlGY"G Y"% <GY uV |o "%r c"i_ i_ YGl| <G|%rA  @% firY|
iJ%G <GY |"G| Y"% "GJ YoS%"o< fGll%_ i_|o |"% Y%G,  G_J i_ |"G|
cGY% c cG_ Mo @Gc( @5 rGil<G5,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA  (Alic% "GJ
@%%_ |o |"% Y%GYiJ% o_c% i_ "%r lif%, G_J "GJ coS% |o |"% M%_%rGl
co_cluYio_, |"G| <"%r%2%r 5ou Mo |o o_ |"% ~_MliY" coGY| 5ou fi_J
G _uS@%r of @G|"i_M SGc"i_%Y i_ |"% Y%G, YoS% c"ilJr%_ JiMMi_M i_
|"% YG_J <i|" <ooJ%_ YVGJ%Y, |"%_ G ro< of loJMi_M "ouY%Y, G_J
@%"i_J |"%S G rGil<G5 Y|G|io_Al  @o<%2%r, Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
Y"% <GY i_ |"% Vool of |%GrY <"ic" Y"% "GJ <%V| <"%_ Y"% <GY _i_%
f%%| "iM"A

   c <iY" c "GJ_M| cri%J Yo Suc"GM YGiJ Alic%, GY Y"% Y<GS G@ou|,
|r5i_M |o fi_J "%r <G5 ou|A   c Y"Gll @% Vu_iY"%J for i| _o<, c
YuVVoY%, @5 @%i_M Jro<_%J i_ S5 o<_ |%GrYG  _"G| [cff @% G [u%%
