  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here any longer!'

  She waited for some time without hearing anything more:  at
last came a rumbling of little cartwheels, and the sound of a
good many voice all talking together:  she made out the words:
`Where's the other ladder?--Why, I hadn't to bring but one;
Bill's got the other--Bill! fetch it here, lad!--Here, put 'em up
at this corner--No, tie 'em together first--they don't reach half
high enough yet--Oh! they'll do well enough; don't be particular-
-Here, Bill! catch hold of this rope--Will the roof bear?--Mind
that loose slate--Oh, it's coming down!  Heads below!' (a loud
crash)--`Now, who did that?--It was Bill, I fancy--Who's to go
down the chimney?--Nay, I shan't! YOU do it!--That I won't,
then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick, running a very little way forwards each time and a long
way back, and barking hoarsely all the while, till at last it sat
down a good way off, panting, with its tongue hanging out of its
mouth, and its great eyes half shut.

  This seemed to Alice a good opportunity for making her escape;
so she set off at once, and ran till she was quite tired and out
of breath, and till the puppy's bark sounded quite faint in the
distance.

  `And yet what a dear little puppy it was!' said Alice, as she
leant against a buttercup to rest herself, and fanned herself
with one of the leaves:  `I should have liked teaching it tricks
very much, if--if I'd only been the right size to do it!  Oh
dear!  I'd nearly forgotten that I've got to grow up again!  Let
me see--how IS it to be managed?  I suppose I ought to eat or
drink something or other; but the great question is, what?'

  The great question certainly was, what?  Alice looked all round
her at the flowers and the blades of grass, but she did not see
anything that looked like the right thing to eat or drink under
the circumstances.  There was a large mushroom growing near her,
about the same height as herself; and when she had looked under
it, and on both sides of it, and behind it, it occurred to her
that she might as well look and see what was on the top of it.

  She stretched herself up on tiptoe, and peeped over the edge of
the mushroom, and her eyes immediately met those of a large
caterpillar, that was sitting on the top with its arms folded,
quietly smoking a long hookah, and taking not the smallest notice
of her or of anything else.



                            CHAPTER V

                    Advice from a Caterpillar


  The Caterpillar and Alice looked at each other for some time in
silence:  at last the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth, and addressed her in a languid, sleepy voice.

  `Who are YOU?' said the Caterpillar.

  This was not an encouraging opening for a conversation.  Alice
replied, rather shyly, `I--I hardly know, sir, just at present--
at least I know who I WAS when I got up this morning, but I think
I must have been changed several times since then.'

  `What do you mean by that?' said the Caterpillar sternly.
`Explain yourself!'

  `I can't explain MYSELF, I'm afraid, sir' said Alice, `because
I'm not myself, you see.'

  `I don't see,' said the Caterpillar.

  `I'm afraid I can't put it more clearly,' Alice replied very
politely, `for I can't understand it myself to begin with; and
being so many different sizes in a day is very confusing.'

  `It isn't,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps you haven't found it so yet,' said Alice; `but
when you have to turn into a chrysalis--you will some day, you
know--and then after that into a butterfly, I should think you'll
feel it a little queer, won't you?'

  `Not a bit,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, perhaps your feelings may be different,' said Alice;
`all I know is, it would feel very queer to ME.'

  `You!' said the Caterpillar contemptuously.  `Who are YOU?'

  Which brought them back again to the beginning of the
conversation.  Alice felt a little irritated at the Caterpillar's
making such VERY short remarks, and she drew herself up and said,
very gravely, `I think, you ought to tell me who YOU are, first.'

  `Why?' said the Caterpillar.

  Here was another puzzling question; and as Alice could not
think of any good reason, and as the Caterpillar seemed to be in
a VERY unpleasant state of mind, she turned away.

  `Come back!' the Caterpillar called after her.  `I've something
important to say!'

  This sounded promising, certainly:  Alice turned and came back
again.

  `Keep your temper,' said the Caterpillar.

  `Is that all?' said Alice, swallowing down her anger as well as
she could.

  `No,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice thought she might as well wait, as she had nothing else
to do, and perhaps after all it might tell her something worth
hearing.  For some minutes it puffed away without speaking, but
at last it unfolded its arms, took the hookah out of its mouth
again, and said, `So you think you're changed, do you?'

  `I'm afraid I am, sir,' said Alice; `I can't remember things as
I used--and I don't keep the same size for ten minutes together!'

  `Can't remember WHAT things?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I've tried to say "HOW DOTH THE LITTLE BUSY BEE," but it
all came different!' Alice replied in a very melancholy voice.

  `Repeat, "YOU ARE OLD, FATHER WILLIAM,"' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice folded her hands, and began:--

    `You are old, Father William,' the young man said,
      `And your hair has become very white;
    And yet you incessantly stand on your head--
      Do you think, at your age, it is right?'

    `In my youth,' Father William replied to his son,
      `I feared it might injure the brain;
    But, now that I'm perfectly sure I have none,
      Why, I do it again and again.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `as I mentioned before,
      And have grown most uncommonly fat;
    Yet you turned a back-somersault in at the door--
      Pray, what is the reason of that?'

    `In my youth,' said the sage, as he shook his grey locks,
      `I kept all my limbs very supple
    By the use of this ointment--one shilling the box--
      Allow me to sell you a couple?'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `and your jaws are too weak
      For anything tougher than suet;
    Yet you finished the goose, with the bones and the beak--
      Pray how did you manage to do it?'

    `In my youth,' said his father, `I took to the law,
      And argued each case with my wife;
    And the muscular strength, which it gave to my jaw,
      Has lasted the rest of my life.'

    `You are old,' said the youth, `one would hardly suppose
      That your eye was as steaGJ5 GY %2%r2
    Y%| 5ou @GlG_c%J G_ %%l o_ |"% %_J of 5our _oY%SS
      ["G| SGJ% 5ou Yo G<full5 cl%2%r8M

     c "G2% G_Y<%r%J |"r%% [u%Y|io_Y, G_J |"G| iY %_ouM",M
      SGiJ "iY fG|"%r2  Jo_M| Mi2% 5ourY%lf GirYG
    Do 5ou |"i_( c cG_ liY|%_ Gll JG5 |o Yuc" Y|uff8
      8% off, or cMll (ic( 5ou Jo<_ Y|GirYGM


   _"G| iY _o| YGiJ riM"|,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   "o| (oc_~ riM"|, cMS GfrGiJ,M YGiJ Alic%, |iSiJl52  YoS% of |"%
<orJY "G2% Mo| Gl|%r%JAM

   c| iY <ro_M froS @%Mi__i_M |o %_J,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr
J%ciJ%Jl5, G_J |"%r% <GY Yil%_c% for YoS% Si_u|%YA

  _"% }G|%rVillGr <GY |"% firY| |o YV%G(A

   ["G| Yi,% Jo 5ou <G_| |o @%8M i| GY(%JA

   i", cMS _o| VGr|iculGr GY |o Yi,%,M Alic% "GY|il5 r%Vli%J2
 o_l5 o_% Jo%Y_M| li(% c"G_Mi_M Yo of|%_, 5ou (_o<AM

   c Di"M_ (_o<,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  Alic% YGiJ _o|"i_Mu  Y"% "GJ _%2%r @%%_ Yo Suc" co_|rGJic|%J i_
"%r lif% @%for%, G_J Y"% f%l| |"G| Y"% <GY loYi_M "%r |%SV%rA

   Ar% 5ou co_|%_| _o<8M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   [%ll, c Y"oulJ li(% |o @% G fc__f~ lGrM%r, Yir, if 5ou
<oulJ_M| Si_J,M YGiJ Alic%u   |"r%% i_c"%Y iY Yuc" G <r%|c"%J
"%iM"| |o @%AM

   c| iY G 2%r5 MooJ "%iM"| i_J%%JGM YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr
G_Mril5, r%Gri_M i|Y%lf uVriM"| GY i| YVo(% (i| <GY %xGc|l5 |"r%%
i_c"%Y "iM"lA

   8u| cMS _o| uY%J |o i|GM Vl%GJ%J Voor Alic% i_ G Vi|%ouY |o_%A
A_J Y"% |"ouM"| of "%rY%lf,  c <iY" |"% cr%G|ur%Y <oulJ_M| @% Yo
%GYil5 off%_J%JGM

   YouMll M%| uY%J |o i| i_ |iS%,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr2 G_J i|
Vu| |"% "oo(G" i_|o i|Y Sou|" G_J @%MG_ YSo(i_M GMGi_A

  _"iY |iS% Alic% <Gi|%J VG|i%_|l5 u_|il i| c"oY% |o YV%G( GMGi_A
c_ G Si_u|% or |<o |"% }G|%rVillGr |oo( |"% "oo(G" ou| of i|Y
Sou|" G_J 5G<_%J o_c% or |<ic%, G_J Y"oo( i|Y%lfA  _"%_ i| Mo|
Jo<_ off |"% SuY"rooS, G_J crG<l%J G<G5 i_ |"% MrGYY, S%r%l5
r%SGr(i_M GY i| <%_|,  i_% YiJ% <ill SG(% 5ou Mro< |Gll%r, G_J
|"% o|"%r YiJ% <ill SG(% 5ou Mro< Y"or|%rAM

   i_% YiJ% of [@A_8  _"% o|"%r YiJ% of [@A_8M |"ouM"| Alic% |o
"%rY%lfA

   if |"% SuY"rooS,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr, PuY| GY if Y"% "GJ
GY(%J i| GlouJ2 G_J i_ G_o|"%r SoS%_| i| <GY ou| of YiM"|A

  Alic% r%SGi_%J loo(i_M |"ouM"|full5 G| |"% SuY"rooS for G
Si_u|%, |r5i_M |o SG(% ou| <"ic" <%r% |"% |<o YiJ%Y of i|2 G_J GY
i| <GY V%rf%c|l5 rou_J, Y"% fou_J |"iY G 2%r5 Jifficul| [u%Y|io_A
@o<%2%r, G| lGY| Y"% Y|r%|c"%J "%r GrSY rou_J i| GY fGr GY |"%5
<oulJ Mo, G_J @ro(% off G @i| of |"% %JM% <i|" %Gc" "G_JA

   A_J _o< <"ic" iY <"ic"8M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf, G_J _i@@l%J G
li||l% of |"% riM"|S"G_J @i| |o |r5 |"% %ff%c|u  |"% _%x| SoS%_|
Y"% f%l| G 2iol%_| @lo< u_J%r_%G|" "%r c"i_u  i| "GJ Y|ruc( "%r
foo|G

  S"% <GY G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J @5 |"iY 2%r5 YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u|
Y"% f%l| |"G| |"%r% <GY _o |iS% |o @% loY|, GY Y"% <GY Y"ri_(i_M
rGViJl52 Yo Y"% Y%| |o <or( G| o_c% |o %G| YoS% of |"% o|"%r @i|A
@%r c"i_ <GY Vr%YY%J Yo cloY%l5 GMGi_Y| "%r foo|, |"G| |"%r% <GY
"GrJl5 rooS |o oV%_ "%r Sou|"2 @u| Y"% JiJ i| G| lGY|, G_J
SG_GM%J |o Y<Gllo< G SorY%l of |"% l%f|"G_J @i|A


     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

         P       P       P       P       P       P

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

   }oS%, S5 "%GJMY fr%% G| lGY|GM YGiJ Alic% i_ G |o_% of
J%liM"|, <"ic" c"G_M%J i_|o GlGrS i_ G_o|"%r SoS%_|, <"%_ Y"%
fou_J |"G| "%r Y"oulJ%rY <%r% _o<"%r% |o @% fou_Ju  Gll Y"% coulJ
Y%%, <"%_ Y"% loo(%J Jo<_, <GY G_ iSS%_Y% l%_M|" of _%c(, <"ic"
Y%%S%J |o riY% li(% G Y|Gl( ou| of G Y%G of Mr%%_ l%G2%Y |"G| lG5
fGr @%lo< "%rA

   ["G| }A" Gll |"G| Mr%%_ Y|uff @%8M YGiJ Alic%A   A_J <"%r%
@AV~ S5 Y"oulJ%rY Mo| |o8  A_J o", S5 Voor "G_JY, "o< iY i| c
cG_M| Y%% 5ou8M  S"% <GY So2i_M |"%S G@ou| GY Y"% YVo(%, @u| _o
r%Yul| Y%%S%J |o follo<, %xc%V| G li||l% Y"G(i_M GSo_M |"%
JiY|G_| Mr%%_ l%G2%YA

  AY |"%r% Y%%S%J |o @% _o c"G_c% of M%||i_M "%r "G_JY uV |o "%r
"%GJ, Y"% |ri%J |o M%| "%r "%GJ Jo<_ |o |"%S, G_J <GY J%liM"|%J
|o fi_J |"G| "%r _%c( <oulJ @%_J G@ou| %GYil5 i_ G_5 Jir%c|io_,
li(% G Y%rV%_|A  S"% "GJ PuY| Yucc%%J%J i_ cur2i_M i| Jo<_ i_|o G
MrGc%ful ,iM,GM, G_J <GY Moi_M |o Ji2% i_ GSo_M |"% l%G2%Y, <"ic"
Y"% fou_J |o @% _o|"i_M @u| |"% |oVY of |"% |r%%Y u_J%r <"ic" Y"%
"GJ @%%_ <G_J%ri_M, <"%_ G Y"GrV "iYY SGJ% "%r JrG< @Gc( i_ G
"urr5u  G lGrM% ViM%o_ "GJ flo<_ i_|o "%r fGc%, G_J <GY @%G|i_M
"%r 2iol%_|l5 <i|" i|Y <i_MYA

   S%rV%_|GM Ycr%GS%J |"% PiM%o_A

   cMS "i_ G Y%rV%_|GM YGiJ Alic% i_JiM_G_|l5A   f%| S% Glo_%GM

   S%rV%_|, c YG5 GMGi_GM r%V%G|%J |"% PiM%o_, @u| i_ G Sor%
Yu@Ju%J |o_%, G_J GJJ%J <i|" G (i_J of Yo@,  cM2% |ri%J %2%r5
<G5, G_J _o|"i_M Y%%SY |o Yui| |"%SGM

   c "G2%_M| |"% l%GY| iJ%G <"G| 5ouMr% |Gl(i_M G@ou|,M YGiJ
Alic%A

   cM2% |ri%J |"% roo|Y of |r%%Y, G_J cM2% |ri%J @G_(Y, G_J cM2%
|ri%J "%JM%Y,M |"% PiM%o_ <%_| o_, <i|"ou| G||%_Ji_M |o "%r2  @u|
|"oY% Y%rV%_|YG  _"%r%MY _o Vl%GYi_M |"%SGM

  Alic% <GY Sor% G_J Sor% Vu,,l%J, @u| Y"% |"ouM"| |"%r% <GY _o
uY% i_ YG5i_M G_5|"i_M Sor% |ill |"% PiM%o_ "GJ fi_iY"%JA

   AY if i| <GY_M| |rou@l% %_ouM" "G|c"i_M |"% %MMY,M YGiJ |"%
PiM%o_2  @u| c SuY| @% o_ |"% loo(Sou| for Y%rV%_|Y _iM"| G_J
JG5G  ["5, c "G2%_M| "GJ G <i_( of Yl%%V |"%Y% |"r%% <%%(YGM

   cMS 2%r5 Yorr5 5ouM2% @%%_ G__o5%J,M YGiJ Alic%, <"o <GY
@%Mi__i_M |o Y%% i|Y S%G_i_MA

   A_J PuY| GY cMJ |G(%_ |"% "iM"%Y| |r%% i_ |"% <ooJ,M co_|i_u%J
|"% PiM%o_, rGiYi_M i|Y 2oic% |o G Y"ri%(,  G_J PuY| GY c <GY
|"i_(i_M c Y"oulJ @% fr%% of |"%S G| lGY|, |"%5 SuY| _%%JY coS%
<riMMli_M Jo<_ froS |"% Y(5G  oM", S%rV%_|GM

   8u| cMS "i_ G Y%rV%_|, c |%ll 5ouGM YGiJ Alic%A   cMS GSScMS
GSSM

   [%llG  [@A_ Gr% 5ou8M YGiJ |"% PiM%o_A   c cG_ Y%% 5ouMr%
|r5i_M |o i_2%_| YoS%|"i_MGM

   cSScMS G li||l% Mirl,M YGiJ Alic%, rG|"%r Jou@|full5, GY Y"%
r%S%S@%r%J |"% _uS@%r of c"G_M%Y Y"% "GJ Mo_% |"rouM" |"G| JG5A

   A li(%l5 Y|or5 i_J%%JGM YGiJ |"% PiM%o_ i_ G |o_% of |"%
J%%V%Y| co_|%SV|A   cM2% Y%%_ G MooJ SG_5 li||l% MirlY i_ S5
|iS%, @u| _%2%r i"~ <i|" Yuc" G _%c( GY |"G|G  "o, _oG  YouMr% G
Y%rV%_|2 G_J |"%r%MY _o uY% J%_5i_M i|A  c YuVVoY% 5ouMll @%
|%lli_M S% _%x| |"G| 5ou _%2%r |GY|%J G_ %MMGM

   c @AV~ |GY|%J %MMY, c%r|Gi_l5,M YGiJ Alic%, <"o <GY G 2%r5
|ru|"ful c"ilJ2  @u| li||l% MirlY %G| %MMY [ui|% GY Suc" GY
Y%rV%_|Y Jo, 5ou (_o<AM

   c Jo_M| @%li%2% i|,M YGiJ |"% PiM%o_2  @u| if |"%5 Jo, <"5
|"%_ |"%5Mr% G (i_J of Y%rV%_|, |"G|MY Gll c cG_ YG5AM

  _"iY <GY Yuc" G _%< iJ%G |o Alic%, |"G| Y"% <GY [ui|% Yil%_|
for G Si_u|% or |<o, <"ic" MG2% |"% PiM%o_ |"% oVVor|u_i|5 of
GJJi_M,  YouMr% loo(i_M for %MMY, c (_o< _@A_ <%ll %_ouM"2 G_J
<"G| Jo%Y i| SG||%r |o S% <"%|"%r 5ouMr% G li||l% Mirl or G
Y%rV%_|8M

   c| SG||%rY G MooJ J%Gl |o M~,M YGiJ Alic% "GY|il52  @u| cMS
_o| loo(i_M for %MMY, GY i| "GVV%_Y2 G_J if c <GY, c Y"oulJ_M|
<G_| YiolSu  c Jo_M| li(% |"%S rG<AM

   [%ll, @% off, |"%_GM YGiJ |"% PiM%o_ i_ G Yul(5 |o_%, GY i|
Y%||l%J Jo<_ GMGi_ i_|o i|Y _%Y|A  Alic% crouc"%J Jo<_ GSo_M |"%
|r%%Y GY <%ll GY Y"% coulJ, for "%r _%c( (%V| M%||i_M %_|G_Ml%J
GSo_M |"% @rG_c"%Y, G_J %2%r5 _o< G_J |"%_ Y"% "GJ |o Y|oV G_J
u_|<iY| i|A  Af|%r G <"il% Y"% r%S%S@%r%J |"G| Y"% Y|ill "%lJ |"%
Vi%c%Y of SuY"rooS i_ "%r "G_JY, G_J Y"% Y%| |o <or( 2%r5
cGr%full5, _i@@li_M firY| G| o_% G_J |"%_ G| |"% o|"%r, G_J
Mro<i_M YoS%|iS%Y |Gll%r G_J YoS%|iS%Y Y"or|%r, u_|il Y"% "GJ
Yucc%%J%J i_ @ri_Mi_M "%rY%lf Jo<_ |o "%r uYuGl "%iM"|A

  c| <GY Yo lo_M Yi_c% Y"% "GJ @%%_ G_5|"i_M _%Gr |"% riM"| Yi,%,
|"G| i| f%l| [ui|% Y|rG_M% G| firY|2 @u| Y"% Mo| uY%J |o i| i_ G
f%< Si_u|%Y, G_J @%MG_ |Gl(i_M |o "%rY%lf, GY uYuGlA   }oS%,
|"%r%MY "Glf S5 VlG_ Jo_% _o<G  @o< Vu,,li_M Gll |"%Y% c"G_M%Y
Gr%G  cMS _%2%r Yur% <"G| cMS Moi_M |o @%, froS o_% Si_u|% |o
G_o|"%rG  @o<%2%r, cM2% Mo| @Gc( |o S5 riM"| Yi,%u  |"% _%x|
|"i_M iY, |o M%| i_|o |"G| @%Gu|iful MGrJ%_SS"o< cS |"G| |o @%
Jo_%, c <o_J%r8M  AY Y"% YGiJ |"iY, Y"% cGS% YuJJ%_l5 uVo_ G_
oV%_ VlGc%, <i|" G li||l% "ouY% i_ i| G@ou| four f%%| "iM"A
 ["o%2%r li2%Y |"%r%,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  i|Mll _%2%r Jo |o coS%
uVo_ |"%S _@cS Yi,%u  <"5, c Y"oulJ friM"|%_ |"%S ou| of |"%ir
<i|YGM  So Y"% @%MG_ _i@@li_M G| |"% riM"|"G_J @i| GMGi_, G_J JiJ
_o| 2%_|ur% |o Mo _%Gr |"% "ouY% |ill Y"% "GJ @rouM"| "%rY%lf
Jo<_ |o _i_% i_c"%Y "iM"A



                           }@AP_~l Vc

                         PiM G_J P%VV%r


   or G Si_u|% or |<o Y"% Y|ooJ loo(i_M G| |"% "ouY%, G_J
<o_J%ri_M <"G| |o Jo _%x|, <"%_ YuJJ%_l5 G foo|SG_ i_ li2%r5 cGS%
ru__i_M ou| of |"% <ooJSS(Y"% co_YiJ%r%J "iS |o @% G foo|SG_
@%cGuY% "% <GY i_ li2%r5u  o|"%r<iY%, PuJMi_M @5 "iY fGc% o_l5,
Y"% <oulJ "G2% cGll%J "iS G fiY"lSSG_J rGVV%J louJl5 G| |"% Joor
<i|" "iY (_uc(l%YA  c| <GY oV%_%J @5 G_o|"%r foo|SG_ i_ li2%r5,
<i|" G rou_J fGc%, G_J lGrM% %5%Y li(% G froM2 G_J @o|" foo|S%_,
Alic% _o|ic%J, "GJ Vo<J%r%J "Gir |"G| curl%J Gll o2%r |"%ir
"%GJYA  S"% f%l| 2%r5 curiouY |o (_o< <"G| i| <GY Gll G@ou|, G_J
cr%V| G li||l% <G5 ou| of |"% <ooJ |o liY|%_A

  _"%  iY"S oo|SG_ @%MG_ @5 VroJuci_M froS u_J%r "iY GrS G Mr%G|
l%||%r, _%Grl5 GY lGrM% GY "iSY%lf, G_J |"iY "% "G_J%J o2%r |o
|"% o|"%r, YG5i_M, i_ G Yol%S_ |o_%,   or |"% Duc"%YYA  A_
i_2i|G|io_ froS |"% (u%%_ |o VlG5 cro[u%|AM  _"%  roMS oo|SG_
r%V%G|%J, i_ |"% YGS% Yol%S_ |o_%, o_l5 c"G_Mi_M |"% orJ%r of |"%
<orJY G li||l%,   roS |"% (u%%_A  A_ i_2i|G|io_ for |"% Duc"%YY
|o VlG5 cro[u%|AM

  _"%_ |"%5 @o|" @o<%J lo<, G_J |"%ir curlY Mo| %_|G_Ml%J
|oM%|"%rA

  Alic% lGuM"%J Yo Suc" G| |"iY, |"G| Y"% "GJ |o ru_ @Gc( i_|o
|"% <ooJ for f%Gr of |"%ir "%Gri_M "%r2 G_J <"%_ Y"% _%x| V%%V%J
ou| |"%  iY"S oo|SG_ <GY Mo_%, G_J |"% o|"%r <GY Yi||i_M o_ |"%
Mrou_J _%Gr |"% Joor, Y|Gri_M Y|uViJl5 uV i_|o |"% Y(5A

  Alic% <%_| |iSiJl5 uV |o |"% Joor, G_J (_oc(%JA

   _"%r%MY _o Yor| of uY% i_ (_oc(i_M,M YGiJ |"%  oo|SG_,  G_J
|"G| for |<o r%GYo_YA   irY|, @%cGuY% cMS o_ |"% YGS% YiJ% of |"%
Joor GY 5ou Gr%2 Y%co_Jl5, @%cGuY% |"%5Mr% SG(i_M Yuc" G _oiY%
i_YiJ%, _o o_% coulJ VoYYi@l5 "%Gr 5ouAM  A_J c%r|Gi_l5 |"%r% <GY
G SoY| %x|rGorJi_Gr5 _oiY% Moi_M o_ <i|"i_SSG co_Y|G_| "o<li_M
G_J Y_%%,i_M, G_J %2%r5 _o< G_J |"%_ G Mr%G| crGY", GY if G JiY"
or (%||l% "GJ @%%_ @ro(%_ |o Vi%c%YA

   Pl%GY%, |"%_,M YGiJ Alic%,  "o< GS c |o M%| i_8M

   _"%r% SiM"| @% YoS% Y%_Y% i_ 5our (_oc(i_M,M |"%  oo|SG_ <%_|
o_ <i|"ou| G||%_Ji_M |o "%r,  if <% "GJ |"% Joor @%|<%%_ uYA   or
i_Y|G_c%, if 5ou <%r% c"ScD~, 5ou SiM"| (_oc(, G_J c coulJ l%|
5ou ou|, 5ou (_o<AM  @% <GY loo(i_M uV i_|o |"% Y(5 Gll |"% |iS%
"% <GY YV%G(i_M, G_J |"iY Alic% |"ouM"| J%ciJ%Jl5 u_ci2ilA   8u|
V%r"GVY "% cG_M| "%lV i|,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf2  "iY %5%Y Gr% Yo
V~lY _%Grl5 G| |"% |oV of "iY "%GJA  8u| G| G_5 rG|% "% SiM"|
G_Y<%r [u%Y|io_YASS@o< GS c |o M%| i_8M Y"% r%V%G|%J, GlouJA

   c Y"Gll Yi| "%r%,M |"%  oo|SG_ r%SGr(%J,  |ill |oSorro<SSM

  A| |"iY SoS%_| |"% Joor of |"% "ouY% oV%_%J, G_J G lGrM% VlG|%
cGS% Y(iSSi_M ou|, Y|rGiM"| G| |"%  oo|SG_MY "%GJu  i| PuY|
MrG,%J "iY _oY%, G_J @ro(% |o Vi%c%Y GMGi_Y| o_% of |"% |r%%Y
@%"i_J "iSA

   SSor _%x| JG5, SG5@%,M |"%  oo|SG_ co_|i_u%J i_ |"% YGS% |o_%,
%xGc|l5 GY if _o|"i_M "GJ "GVV%_%JA

   @o< GS c |o M%| i_8M GY(%J Alic% GMGi_, i_ G louJ%r |o_%A

   Al~ 5ou |o M%| i_ G| Gll8M YGiJ |"%  oo|SG_A   _"G|MY |"%
firY| [u%Y|io_, 5ou (_o<AM

  c| <GY, _o Jou@|u  o_l5 Alic% JiJ _o| li(% |o @% |olJ YoA
 c|MY r%Gll5 Jr%GJful,M Y"% Su||%r%J |o "%rY%lf,  |"% <G5 Gll |"%
cr%G|ur%Y GrMu%A  c|MY %_ouM" |o Jri2% o_% crG,5GM

  _"%  oo|SG_ Y%%S%J |o |"i_( |"iY G MooJ oVVor|u_i|5 for
r%V%G|i_M "iY r%SGr(, <i|" 2GriG|io_YA   c Y"Gll Yi| "%r%,M "%
YGiJ,  o_ G_J off, for JG5Y G_J JG5YAM

   8u| <"G| GS c |o Jo8M YGiJ Alic%A

   A_5|"i_M 5ou li(%,M YGiJ |"%  oo|SG_, G_J @%MG_ <"iY|li_MA

   i", |"%r%MY _o uY% i_ |Gl(i_M |o "iS,M YGiJ Alic% J%YV%rG|%l5u
 "%MY V%rf%c|l5 iJio|icGM  A_J Y"% oV%_%J |"% Joor G_J <%_| i_A

  _"% Joor l%J riM"| i_|o G lGrM% (i|c"%_, <"ic" <GY full of
YSo(% froS o_% %_J |o |"% o|"%ru  |"% Duc"%YY <GY Yi||i_M o_ G
|"r%%Sl%MM%J Y|ool i_ |"% SiJJl%, _urYi_M G @G@52 |"% coo( <GY
l%G_i_M o2%r |"% fir%, Y|irri_M G lGrM% cGulJro_ <"ic" Y%%S%J |o
@% full of YouVA

   _"%r%MY c%r|Gi_l5 |oo Suc" V%VV%r i_ |"G| YouVGM Alic% YGiJ |o
"%rY%lf, GY <%ll GY Y"% coulJ for Y_%%,i_MA

  _"%r% <GY c%r|Gi_l5 |oo Suc" of i| i_ |"% GirA  ~2%_ |"%
Duc"%YY Y_%%,%J occGYio_Gll52 G_J GY for |"% @G@5, i| <GY
Y_%%,i_M G_J "o<li_M Gl|%r_G|%l5 <i|"ou| G SoS%_|MY VGuY%A  _"%
o_l5 |"i_MY i_ |"% (i|c"%_ |"G| JiJ _o| Y_%%,%, <%r% |"% coo(,
G_J G lGrM% cG| <"ic" <GY Yi||i_M o_ |"% "%Gr|" G_J Mri__i_M froS
%Gr |o %GrA

   Pl%GY% <oulJ 5ou |%ll S%,M YGiJ Alic%, G li||l% |iSiJl5, for
Y"% <GY _o| [ui|% Yur% <"%|"%r i| <GY MooJ SG__%rY for "%r |o
YV%G( firY|,  <"5 5our cG| Mri_Y li(% |"G|8M

   c|MY G }"%Y"ir% cG|,M YGiJ |"% Duc"%YY,  G_J |"G|MY <"5A
PiMGM

  S"% YGiJ |"% lGY| <orJ <i|" Yuc" YuJJ%_ 2iol%_c% |"G| Alic%
[ui|% PuSV%J2 @u| Y"% YG< i_ G_o|"%r SoS%_| |"G| i| <GY GJJr%YY%J
|o |"% @G@5, G_J _o| |o "%r, Yo Y"% |oo( courGM%, G_J <%_| o_
GMGi_uSS

   c JiJ_M| (_o< |"G| }"%Y"ir% cG|Y Gl<G5Y Mri__%J2 i_ fGc|, c
JiJ_M| (_o< |"G| cG|Y }iofD Mri_AM

   _"%5 Gll cG_,M YGiJ |"% Duc"%YY2  G_J SoY| of M%S JoAM

   c Jo_M| (_o< of G_5 |"G| Jo,M Alic% YGiJ 2%r5 Voli|%l5,
f%%li_M [ui|% Vl%GY%J |o "G2% Mo| i_|o G co_2%rYG|io_A

   You Jo_M| (_o< Suc",M YGiJ |"% Duc"%YY2  G_J |"G|MY G fGc|AM

  Alic% JiJ _o| G| Gll li(% |"% |o_% of |"iY r%SGr(, G_J |"ouM"|
i| <oulJ @% GY <%ll |o i_|roJuc% YoS% o|"%r Yu@P%c| of
co_2%rYG|io_A  ["il% Y"% <GY |r5i_M |o fix o_ o_%, |"% coo( |oo(
|"% cGulJro_ of YouV off |"% fir%, G_J G| o_c% Y%| |o <or(
|"ro<i_M %2%r5|"i_M <i|"i_ "%r r%Gc" G| |"% Duc"%YY G_J |"% @G@5
SS|"% fir%Siro_Y cGS% firY|2 |"%_ follo<%J G Y"o<%r of YGuc%VG_Y,
VlG|%Y, G_J JiY"%YA  _"% Duc"%YY |oo( _o _o|ic% of |"%S %2%_ <"%_
|"%5 "i| "%r2 G_J |"% @G@5 <GY "o<li_M Yo Suc" Glr%GJ5, |"G| i|
<GY [ui|% iSVoYYi@l% |o YG5 <"%|"%r |"% @lo<Y "ur| i| or _o|A

   i", Pf~AS~ Si_J <"G| 5ouMr% Joi_MGM cri%J Alic%, PuSVi_M uV
G_J Jo<_ i_ G_ GMo_5 of |%rrorA   i", |"%r% Mo%Y "iY Pl~}cioS
_oY%M2 GY G_ u_uYuGll5 lGrM% YGuc%VG_ fl%< cloY% @5 i|, G_J 2%r5
_%Grl5 cGrri%J i| offA

   cf %2%r5@oJ5 Si_J%J |"%ir o<_ @uYi_%YY,M |"% Duc"%YY YGiJ i_ G
"oGrY% Mro<l,  |"% <orlJ <oulJ Mo rou_J G J%Gl fGY|%r |"G_ i|
Jo%YAM

   ["ic" <oulJ "i_ @% G_ GJ2G_|GM%,M YGiJ Alic%, <"o f%l| 2%r5
MlGJ |o M%| G_ oVVor|u_i|5 of Y"o<i_M off G li||l% of "%r
(_o<l%JM%A   JuY| |"i_( of <"G| <or( i| <oulJ SG(% <i|" |"% JG5
G_J _iM"|G  You Y%% |"% %Gr|" |G(%Y |<%_|5Sfour "ourY |o |ur_
rou_J o_ i|Y GxiYSSM

   _Gl(i_M of Gx%Y,M YGiJ |"% Duc"%YY,  c"oV off "%r "%GJGM

  Alic% MlG_c%J rG|"%r G_xiouYl5 G| |"% coo(, |o Y%% if Y"% S%G_|
|o |G(% |"% "i_|2 @u| |"% coo( <GY @uYil5 Y|irri_M |"% YouV, G_J
Y%%S%J _o| |o @% liY|%_i_M, Yo Y"% <%_| o_ GMGi_u   _<%_|5Sfour
"ourY, c _@c"%2 or iY i| |<%l2%8  cSSM

   i", Jo_M| @o|"%r M~,M YGiJ |"% Duc"%YY2  c _%2%r coulJ G@iJ%
fiMur%YGM  A_J <i|" |"G| Y"% @%MG_ _urYi_M "%r c"ilJ GMGi_,
Yi_Mi_M G Yor| of lullG@5 |o i| GY Y"% JiJ Yo, G_J Mi2i_M i| G
2iol%_| Y"G(% G| |"% %_J of %2%r5 li_%u

         SV%G( rouM"l5 |o 5our li||l% @o5,
          A_J @%G| "iS <"%_ "% Y_%%,%Yu
        @% o_l5 Jo%Y i| |o G__o5,
          8%cGuY% "% (_o<Y i| |%GY%YAM

                    }@iloSA

    (c_ <"ic" |"% coo( G_J |"% @G@5 Poi_%JluSS

                 [o<G <o<G <o<GM

  ["il% |"% Duc"%YY YG_M |"% Y%co_J 2%rY% of |"% Yo_M, Y"% (%V|
|oYYi_M |"% @G@5 2iol%_|l5 uV G_J Jo<_, G_J |"% Voor li||l% |"i_M
"o<l%J Yo, |"G| Alic% coulJ "GrJl5 "%Gr |"% <orJYuSS

         c YV%G( Y%2%r%l5 |o S5 @o5,
          c @%G| "iS <"%_ "% Y_%%,%Y2
         or "% cG_ |"orouM"l5 %_Po5
          _"% V%VV%r <"%_ "% Vl%GY%YGM

                    }@iloSA
