
  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag my tail when I'm angry.  Therefore I'm mad.'

  `I call it purring, not growling,' said Alice.

  `Call it what you like,' said the Cat.  `Do you play croquet
with the Queen to-day?'

  `I should like it very much,' said Alice, `but I haven't been
invited yet.'

  `You'll see me there,' said the Cat, and vanished.

  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the thrr%%
MGrJ%_%rY <"o <%r% l5i_M rou_J |"% roY%|r%%2 for, 5ou Y%%, GY
|"%5 <%r% l5i_M o_ |"%ir fGc%Y, G_J |"% VG||%r_ o_ |"%ir @Gc(Y
<GY |"% YGS% GY |"% r%Y| of |"% VGc(, Y"% coulJ _o| |%ll <"%|"%r
|"%5 <%r% MGrJ%_%rY, or YolJi%rY, or cour|i%rY, or |"r%% of "%r
o<_ c"ilJr%_A

   @o< Y"oulJ c (_o<8M YGiJ Alic%, YurVriY%J G| "%r o<_ courGM%A
 c|MY _o @uYi_%YY of Mc"~AM

  _"% (u%%_ |ur_%J criSYo_ <i|" fur5, G_J, Gf|%r MlGri_M G| "%r
for G SoS%_| li(% G <ilJ @%GY|, Ycr%GS%J  iff <i|" "%r "%GJG
iffSSM

   "o_Y%_Y%GM YGiJ Alic%, 2%r5 louJl5 G_J J%ciJ%Jl5, G_J |"%
(u%%_ <GY Yil%_|A

  _"% %i_M lGiJ "iY "G_J uVo_ "%r GrS, G_J |iSiJl5 YGiJ
 }o_YiJ%r, S5 J%Gru  Y"% iY o_l5 G c"ilJGM

  _"% (u%%_ |ur_%J G_Mril5 G<G5 froS "iS, G_J YGiJ |o |"% %_G2%
 _ur_ |"%S o2%rGM

  _"% %_G2% JiJ Yo, 2%r5 cGr%full5, <i|" o_% foo|A

   G%| uVGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, i_ G Y"rill, louJ 2oic%, G_J |"%
|"r%% MGrJ%_%rY i_Y|G_|l5 PuSV%J uV, G_J @%MG_ @o<i_M |o |"%
%i_M, |"% (u%%_, |"% ro5Gl c"ilJr%_, G_J %2%r5@oJ5 %lY%A

   f%G2% off |"G|GM Ycr%GS%J |"% (u%%_A   You SG(% S% MiJJ5AM
A_J |"%_, |ur_i_M |o |"% roY%S|r%%, Y"% <%_| o_,  ["G| @AV~ 5ou
@%%_ Joi_M "%r%8M

   MG5 i| Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ _<o, i_ G 2%r5 "uS@l% |o_%,
Moi_M Jo<_ o_ o_% (_%% GY "% YVo(%,  <% <%r% |r5i_MSSM

   c Y%%GM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, <"o "GJ S%G_<"il% @%%_ %xGSi_i_M |"%
roY%YA   iff <i|" |"%ir "%GJYGM G_J |"% Vroc%YYio_ So2%J o_,
|"r%% of |"% YolJi%rY r%SGi_i_M @%"i_J |o %x%cu|% |"% u_for|u_G|%
MGrJ%_%rY, <"o rG_ |o Alic% for Vro|%c|io_A

   You Y"G_M| @% @%"%GJ%JGM YGiJ Alic%, G_J Y"% Vu| |"%S i_|o G
lGrM% flo<%rSVo| |"G| Y|ooJ _%GrA  _"% |"r%% YolJi%rY <G_J%r%J
G@ou| for G Si_u|% or |<o, loo(i_M for |"%S, G_J |"%_ [ui%|l5
SGrc"%J off Gf|%r |"% o|"%rYA

   Ar% |"%ir "%GJY off8M Y"ou|%J |"% (u%%_A

   _"%ir "%GJY Gr% Mo_%, if i| Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5GM |"% YolJi%rY
Y"ou|%J i_ r%Vl5A

   _"G|MY riM"|GM Y"ou|%J |"% (u%%_A   }G_ 5ou VlG5 cro[u%|8M

  _"% YolJi%rY <%r% Yil%_|, G_J loo(%J G| Alic%, GY |"% [u%Y|io_
<GY %2iJ%_|l5 S%G_| for "%rA

   Y%YGM Y"ou|%J Alic%A

   }oS% o_, |"%_GM roGr%J |"% (u%%_, G_J Alic% Poi_%J |"%
Vroc%YYio_, <o_J%ri_M 2%r5 Suc" <"G| <oulJ "GVV%_ _%x|A

   c|MYSSi|MY G 2%r5 fi_% JG5GM YGiJ G |iSiJ 2oic% G| "%r YiJ%A
S"% <GY <Gl(i_M @5 |"% ["i|% lG@@i|, <"o <GY V%%Vi_M G_xiouYl5
i_|o "%r fGc%A

   V%r5,M YGiJ Alic%u   SS<"%r%MY |"% Duc"%YY8M

   @uY"G  @uY"GM YGiJ |"% lG@@i| i_ G lo<, "urri%J |o_%A  @%
loo(%J G_xiouYl5 o2%r "iY Y"oulJ%r GY "% YVo(%, G_J |"%_ rGiY%J
"iSY%lf uVo_ |iV|o%, Vu| "iY Sou|" cloY% |o "%r %Gr, G_J
<"iYV%r%J  S"%MY u_J%r Y%_|%_c% of %x%cu|io_AM

   ["G| for8M YGiJ Alic%A

   DiJ 5ou YG5 "["G| G Vi|5G"8M |"% lG@@i| GY(%JA

   "o, c JiJ_M|,M YGiJ Alic%u   c Jo_M| |"i_( i|MY G| Gll G Vi|5A
c YGiJ "["G| for8"M

   S"% @ox%J |"% (u%%_MY %GrYSSM |"% lG@@i| @%MG_A  Alic% MG2% G
li||l% Ycr%GS of lGuM"|%rA   i", "uY"GM |"% lG@@i| <"iYV%r%J i_ G
friM"|%_%J |o_%A   _"% (u%%_ <ill "%Gr 5ouG  You Y%%, Y"% cGS%
rG|"%r lG|%, G_J |"% (u%%_ YGiJSSM

   G%| |o 5our VlGc%YGM Y"ou|%J |"% (u%%_ i_ G 2oic% of |"u_J%r,
G_J V%oVl% @%MG_ ru__i_M G@ou| i_ Gll Jir%c|io_Y, |uS@li_M uV
GMGi_Y| %Gc" o|"%r2 "o<%2%r, |"%5 Mo| Y%||l%J Jo<_ i_ G Si_u|% or
|<o, G_J |"% MGS% @%MG_A  Alic% |"ouM"| Y"% "GJ _%2%r Y%%_ Yuc" G
curiouY cro[u%|SMrou_J i_ "%r lif%2 i| <GY Gll riJM%Y G_J
furro<Y2 |"% @GllY <%r% li2% "%JM%"oMY, |"% SGll%|Y li2%
flGSi_Mo%Y, G_J |"% YolJi%rY "GJ |o Jou@l% |"%SY%l2%Y uV G_J |o
Y|G_J o_ |"%ir "G_JY G_J f%%|, |o SG(% |"% Grc"%YA

  _"% c"i%f Jifficul|5 Alic% fou_J G| firY| <GY i_ SG_GMi_M "%r
flGSi_Mou  Y"% Yucc%%J%J i_ M%||i_M i|Y @oJ5 |uc(%J G<G5,
coSfor|G@l5 %_ouM", u_J%r "%r GrS, <i|" i|Y l%MY "G_Mi_M Jo<_,
@u| M%_%rGll5, PuY| GY Y"% "GJ Mo| i|Y _%c( _ic%l5 Y|rGiM"|%_%J
ou|, G_J <GY Moi_M |o Mi2% |"% "%JM%"oM G @lo< <i|" i|Y "%GJ, i|
[iofD |<iY| i|Y%lf rou_J G_J loo( uV i_ "%r fGc%, <i|" Yuc" G
Vu,,l%J %xVr%YYio_ |"G| Y"% coulJ _o| "%lV @urY|i_M ou| lGuM"i_Mu
G_J <"%_ Y"% "GJ Mo| i|Y "%GJ Jo<_, G_J <GY Moi_M |o @%Mi_ GMGi_,
i| <GY 2%r5 Vro2o(i_M |o fi_J |"G| |"% "%JM%"oM "GJ u_roll%J
i|Y%lf, G_J <GY i_ |"% Gc| of crG<li_M G<G5u  @%YiJ%Y Gll |"iY,
|"%r% <GY M%_%rGll5 G riJM% or furro< i_ |"% <G5 <"%r%2%r Y"%
<G_|%J |o Y%_J |"% "%JM%"oM |o, G_J, GY |"% Jou@l%JSuV YolJi%rY
<%r% Gl<G5Y M%||i_M uV G_J <Gl(i_M off |o o|"%r VGr|Y of |"%
Mrou_J, Alic% Yoo_ cGS% |o |"% co_cluYio_ |"G| i| <GY G 2%r5
Jifficul| MGS% i_J%%JA

  _"% VlG5%rY Gll VlG5%J G| o_c% <i|"ou| <Gi|i_M for |ur_Y,
[uGrr%lli_M Gll |"% <"il%, G_J fiM"|i_M for |"% "%JM%"oMY2 G_J i_
G 2%r5 Y"or| |iS% |"% (u%%_ <GY i_ G furiouY VGYYio_, G_J <%_|
Y|GSVi_M G@ou|, G_J Y"ou|i_M  iff <i|" "iY "%GJGM or  iff <i|"
"%r "%GJGM G@ou| o_c% i_ G Si_u|%A

  Alic% @%MG_ |o f%%l 2%r5 u_%GY5u  |o @% Yur%, Y"% "GJ _o| GY
5%| "GJ G_5 JiYVu|% <i|" |"% (u%%_, @u| Y"% (_%< |"G| i| SiM"|
"GVV%_ G_5 Si_u|%,  G_J |"%_,M |"ouM"| Y"%,  <"G| <oulJ @%coS% of
S%8  _"%5Mr% Jr%GJfull5 fo_J of @%"%GJi_M V%oVl% "%r%2 |"% Mr%G|
<o_J%r iY, |"G| |"%r%MY G_5 o_% l%f| Gli2%GM

  S"% <GY loo(i_M G@ou| for YoS% <G5 of %YcGV%, G_J <o_J%ri_M
<"%|"%r Y"% coulJ M%| G<G5 <i|"ou| @%i_M Y%%_, <"%_ Y"% _o|ic%J G
curiouY GVV%GrG_c% i_ |"% Giru  i| Vu,,l%J "%r 2%r5 Suc" G|
firY|, @u|, Gf|%r <G|c"i_M i| G Si_u|% or |<o, Y"% SGJ% i| ou| |o
@% G Mri_, G_J Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf  c|MY |"% }"%Y"ir% }G|u  _o< c
Y"Gll "G2% YoS%@oJ5 |o |Gl( |oAM

   @o< Gr% 5ou M%||i_M o_8M YGiJ |"% }G|, GY Yoo_ GY |"%r% <GY
Sou|" %_ouM" for i| |o YV%G( <i|"A

  Alic% <Gi|%J |ill |"% %5%Y GVV%Gr%J, G_J |"%_ _oJJ%JA   c|MY _o
uY% YV%G(i_M |o i|,M Y"% |"ouM"|,  |ill i|Y %GrY "G2% coS%, or G|
l%GY| o_% of |"%SAM  c_ G_o|"%r Si_u|% |"% <"ol% "%GJ GVV%Gr%J,
G_J |"%_ Alic% Vu| Jo<_ "%r flGSi_Mo, G_J @%MG_ G_ Gccou_| of |"%
MGS%, f%%li_M 2%r5 MlGJ Y"% "GJ YoS%o_% |o liY|%_ |o "%rA  _"%
}G| Y%%S%J |o |"i_( |"G| |"%r% <GY %_ouM" of i| _o< i_ YiM"|, G_J
_o Sor% of i| GVV%Gr%JA

   c Jo_M| |"i_( |"%5 VlG5 G| Gll fGirl5,M Alic% @%MG_, i_ rG|"%r
G coSVlGi_i_M |o_%,  G_J |"%5 Gll [uGrr%l Yo Jr%GJfull5 o_% cG_M|
"%Gr o_%Y%lf YV%G(SSG_J |"%5 Jo_M| Y%%S |o "G2% G_5 rul%Y i_
VGr|iculGr2 G| l%GY|, if |"%r% Gr%, _o@oJ5 G||%_JY |o |"%SSSG_J
5ouM2% _o iJ%G "o< co_fuYi_M i| iY Gll |"% |"i_MY @%i_M Gli2%2
for i_Y|G_c%, |"%r%MY |"% Grc" cM2% Mo| |o Mo |"rouM" _%x|
<Gl(i_M G@ou| G| |"% o|"%r %_J of |"% Mrou_JSSG_J c Y"oulJ "G2%
cro[u%|%J |"% (u%%_MY "%JM%"oM PuY| _o<, o_l5 i| rG_ G<G5 <"%_ i|
YG< Si_% coSi_MGM

   @o< Jo 5ou li(% |"% (u%%_8M YGiJ |"% }G| i_ G lo< 2oic%A

   "o| G| Gll,M YGiJ Alic%u   Y"%MY Yo %x|r%S%l5SSM  JuY| |"%_
Y"% _o|ic%J |"G| |"% (u%%_ <GY cloY% @%"i_J "%r, liY|%_i_Mu  Yo
Y"% <%_| o_,  SSli(%l5 |o <i_, |"G| i|MY "GrJl5 <or|" <"il%
fi_iY"i_M |"% MGS%AM

  _"% (u%%_ YSil%J G_J VGYY%J o_A

   ["o Al~ 5ou |Gl(i_M |o8M YGiJ |"% %i_M, Moi_M uV |o Alic%, G_J
loo(i_M G| |"% }G|MY "%GJ <i|" Mr%G| curioYi|5A

   c|MY G fri%_J of Si_%SSG }"%Y"ir% }G|,M YGiJ Alic%u   Gllo< S%
|o i_|roJuc% i|AM

   c Jo_M| li(% |"% loo( of i| G| Gll,M YGiJ |"% %i_Mu   "o<%2%r,
i| SG5 (iYY S5 "G_J if i| li(%YAM

   cMJ rG|"%r _o|,M |"% }G| r%SGr(%JA

   Do_M| @% iSV%r|i_%_|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  G_J Jo_M| loo( G| S%
li(% |"G|GM  @% Mo| @%"i_J Alic% GY "% YVo(%A

   A cG| SG5 loo( G| G (i_M,M YGiJ Alic%A   cM2% r%GJ |"G| i_
YoS% @oo(, @u| c Jo_M| r%S%S@%r <"%r%AM

   [%ll, i| SuY| @% r%So2%J,M YGiJ |"% %i_M 2%r5 J%ciJ%Jl5, G_J
"% cGll%J |"% (u%%_, <"o <GY VGYYi_M G| |"% SoS%_|,  M5 J%GrG  c
<iY" 5ou <oulJ "G2% |"iY cG| r%So2%JGM

  _"% (u%%_ "GJ o_l5 o_% <G5 of Y%||li_M Gll Jifficul|i%Y, Mr%G|
or YSGllA   iff <i|" "iY "%GJGM Y"% YGiJ, <i|"ou| %2%_ loo(i_M
rou_JA

   cMll f%|c" |"% %x%cu|io_%r S5Y%lf,M YGiJ |"% %i_M %GM%rl5, G_J
"% "urri%J offA

  Alic% |"ouM"| Y"% SiM"| GY <%ll Mo @Gc(, G_J Y%% "o< |"% MGS%
<GY Moi_M o_, GY Y"% "%GrJ |"% (u%%_MY 2oic% i_ |"% JiY|G_c%,
Ycr%GSi_M <i|" VGYYio_A  S"% "GJ Glr%GJ5 "%GrJ "%r Y%_|%_c% |"r%%
of |"% VlG5%rY |o @% %x%cu|%J for "G2i_M SiYY%J |"%ir |ur_Y, G_
