
	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the  [or(Y"oV
_%2%r loY| YiM"| of |"% VurVoY%Y G_J uY%Y of %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_Y of
|%x|uGl SG|%riGlYA  AY _o|%J G@o2%, |"oY% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ iSGMi_M JiYcuYY%J
|"% Vro@l%SG|icGl SG||%r of JiMi|Gl Vr%Y%r2G|io_, <"il% |"% _~c VroVo_%_|Y
J%Ycri@%J "o< SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x|Y cG_ @% uY%J i_ r%Y%Grc"A  _"iY lG||%r
|oVic r%c%i2%J |"orouM" |r%G|S%_| i_ |"% VGV%r r%GJ @5 A2rG Mc}@~fSi"A
S"% VlGc%J |"% V"%_oS%_o_ of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y <i|"i_ |"% co_|%x| of
@roGJ%r |r%_JY i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 G_J Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A

ASo_M o|"%r |"i_MY, Mc}@~fSi" J%Ycri@%J o_Sli_% co_f%r%_c%Y |"G|
r%Vr%Y%_| G 2iMorouY G_J iSVor|G_| i_|%ll%c|uGl foruS for c%r|Gi_
JiYciVli_%YA  c_|%r_%| _o< cGrri%Y Sor% |"G_ ADD co_f%r%_c%Y, <i|" G@ou|
8D V%rc%_| of |"%Y% J%2o|%J |o |oVicY i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J |"%
"uSG_i|i%YA  i|"%r Yc"olGrY uY% o_Sli_% _%|<or(Y for "JiY|G_c% l%Gr_i_MA"
M%G_<"il%, |"%r% "GY @%%_ G |r%S%_JouY Mro<|" i_ %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M2
Vrof%YYorY |oJG5 Gr% l%YY li(%l5 |"G_ |"%ir Vr%J%c%YYorY |o GY( |"%
cGSVuY coSVu|%r c%_|%r |o Vroc%YY |"%ir JG|GA  ~l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y Gr% o_%
(%5 |o |"%Y% YoV"iY|icG|%J GVVlicG|io_Y, Mc}@~fSi" r%Vor|%J, G_J Sor% G_J
Sor% Yc"olGrY i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y _o< <or( i_ G_ o_Sli_% %_2iro_S%_|A
_o<GrJ |"% %_J of |"% [or(Y"oV, Mic"G%l f~S% Vr%Y%_|%J G corollGr5 |o
Mc}@~fSi"MY |Gl(, r%Vor|i_M |"% r%Yul|Y of G_ %xV%riS%_| |"G| coSVGr%J
|"% <or( of o_% MrouV of c"%SiY|r5 Y|uJ%_|Y uYi_M |rGJi|io_Gl Vri_|%J
|%x|Y G_J |<o MrouVY uYi_M %l%c|ro_ic Yourc%YA  _"% %xV%riS%_|
J%So_Y|rG|%J |"G| i_ |"% %2%_| o_% Jo%Y _o| (_o< <"G| |o r%GJ, o_% _%%JY
|"% %l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%SY2 |"% %l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%SY "olJ _o GJ2G_|GM% G| |"%
SoS%_| if o_% (_o<Y <"G| |o r%GJ, @u| _%i|"%r Jo |"%5 iSVoY% G V%_Gl|5A

DAfY Vro2iJ%J G_ G_%cJo|Gl Gccou_| of |"% r%2olu|io_i,i_M iSVGc| of |"%
_%< |%c"_oloM5 o_ "iY Vr%2iouY S%|"oJY of r%Y%Grc" i_ |"% fi%lJ of clGYYicYA
@iY Gccou_|, @5 %x|rGVolG|io_, Y%r2%J |o illuY|rG|% i_ VGr| |"% GrMuS%_|Y
SGJ% @5 Mc}@~fSi" co_c%r_i_M |"% VoYi|i2% %ff%c|Y of |"% YuJJ%_ G_J rGJicGl
|rG_YforSG|io_ @%i_M <rouM"| i_ |"% <G5Y Yc"olGrY <or(A

SuYG_ V~}}cA G_J JoG__%  l~~MA" J%li_%G|%J |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic
SG|%riGlY ou|YiJ% |"% u_i2%rYi|5A  _"% SoY| i_|%r%Y|i_M GYV%c| of |"%ir
uY%,  l~~MA" YGiJ, coulJ @% Y%%_ GY G VGrGJoxu  |%Gc"%rY i_ %l%S%_|Gr5
G_J Y%co_JGr5 Yc"oolY r%[u%Y|%J Gcc%YY |o VriSGr5 Yourc% SG|%riGlY @u|,
G| |"% YGS% |iS%, fou_J |"G| "VriSGri_%YY" i|Y%lf SGJ% |"%Y% SG|%riGlY
Jifficul| for |"%ir Y|uJ%_|Y |o uY%A


i_@~l _iPc}S

MGr5@%|" P~_~lS r%2i%<%J coV5riM"| lG< i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y G_J off%r%J
GJ2ic% Juri_M G li2%l5 JiYcuYYio_ of |"iY Yu@P%c|A  8u| u_c%r|Gi_|5
r%SGi_Y co_c%r_i_M |"% Vric% of coV5riM"| i_ G JiMi|Gl S%JiuS, @%cGuY% G
Yolu|io_ r%SGi_Y |o @% <or(%J ou| co_c%r_i_M SG_GM%S%_| G_J Y5_|"%YiY of
coV5riM"|%J G_J ou|SofScoV5riM"| Vi%c%Y of G JG|G@GY%A

AY SoJ%rG|or of |"% fi_Gl Y%YYio_ of |"% [or(Y"oV, ProYY%r Gc  ilD Jir%c|%J
JiYcuYYio_ |o fu|ur% courY%Y of Gc|io_ G_J |"% Vo|%_|iGl rol% of f} i_
GJ2G_ci_M |"%SA  ASo_M |"% r%coSS%_JG|io_Y |"G| %S%rM%J <%r% |"% follo<i_Mu

     P [or(Y"oV VGr|iciVG_|Y Y"oulJ ul @%Mi_ |o |"i_( G@ou| <or(i_M
     <i|" iSGM% SG|%riGl, @u| Y|ruc|ur% G_J JiMi|i,% i| i_ Yuc" G
     <G5 |"G| G| G lG|%r Y|GM% i| cG_ @% i_|%rVr%|%J i_|o |%x|, G_J
     2l fi_J G coSSo_ <G5 |o @uilJ |%x| G_J iSGM%Y |oM%|"%r Yo |"G|
     |"%5 cG_ @% uY%J Poi_|l5 G| YoS% Y|GM% i_ |"% fu|ur%, <i|"
     GVVroVriG|% _%|<or( YuVVor|, @%cGuY% |"G| iY "o< uY%rY <ill <G_|
     |o Gcc%YY |"%Y% SG|%riGlYA  _"% fi@rGr5 SiM"| %_courGM% G||%SV|Y
     |o @ri_M |oM%|"%r V%oVl% <"o Gr% <or(i_M o_ |%x|Y G_J iSGM%YA

     P A _%|<or( 2%rYio_ of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 Y"oulJ @% J%2%loV%J or
     co_YiJ%rG|io_ Y"oulJ @% Mi2%_ |o SG(i_M |"% JG|G i_ i|
     G2GilG@l% |o V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ Joi_M _%|<or( Sul|iS%JiGA
     Gi2%_ |"% curr%_| J%Gr|" of JiMi|Gl JG|G |"G| iY GVV%Gli_M G_J
     u_%_cuS@%r%J @5 %x|r%S%l5 coSVl%x riM"|Y Vro@l%SY, J%2%loVi_M G
     _%|<or( 2%rYio_ of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 coulJ Jo Suc" |o "%lV SG(%
     _%|<or( Sul|iS%JiG G r%Gli|5A

     P }o_c%r_i_M |"% |"or_5 iYYu% of %l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi|, f} Y"oulJ
     i_i|iG|% G cG|Gl5|ic Vroc%YY i_ |%rSY of JiY|ri@u|%J
     r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, |"G| iY, @ri_M |oM%|"%r |"% JiY|ri@u|%J
     orMG_i,G|io_Y G_J Y%| uV G Y|uJ5 MrouV |o loo( G| Gll |"%
     iYYu%Y r%lG|%J |o %l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi| G_J Y%% <"%r% <% GY G
     _G|io_ Y"oulJ So2%A   or %xGSVl%, f} SiM"| G||%SV| |o V%rYuGJ%
     o_% SGPor li@rGr5 i_ %Gc" Y|G|% |o J%Gl <i|" i|Y Y|G|%
     %[ui2Gl%_| Vu@liY"%r, <"ic" SiM"| VroJuc% G cooV%rG|i2% VroP%c|
     |"G| <oulJ @% %[ui|G@l5 JiY|ri@u|%J Grou_J |"% cou_|r5, G_J o_%
     i_ <"ic" f} <oulJ @% J%Gli_M <i|" G Si_iSGl _uS@%r of Vu@liY"%rY
     G_J Si_iSGl coV5riM"| Vro@l%SYA  f} SuY| GlYo J%Gl <i|" |"%
     co_c%V| of o_Sli_% Vu@liY"i_M, J%|%rSi_i_M, GSo_M o|"%r |"i_MY,
     "o< Y%riGlY Yuc" GY iJ}}_ SiM"| @% J%VoYi|%J for coV5riM"|A

     P Si_c% G _uS@%r of VroP%c|Y Gr% VlG__i_M |o cGrr5 ou|
     Vr%Y%r2G|io_ @5 cr%G|i_M JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y |"G| <ill %_J uV i_
     o_Sli_% or _%GrSli_% Y|orGM% G| YoS% i_Y|i|u|io_, f} SiM"| VlG5
     G "%lVful rol%, G| l%GY| i_ |"% _%Gr |%rS, @5 Gcc%l%rG|i_M "o<
     |o cG|GloM |"G| i_forSG|io_ i_|o |"% l%Y%Grc" fi@rGr5 c_forSG|io_
     "%|<or( (lfc"l G_J |"%_ i_|o i}f}, Yo |"G| i| <oulJ @% Gcc%YYi@l%A
     _"iY <oulJ r%Juc% |"% VoYYi@ili|5 of Sul|iVl% i_Y|i|u|io_Y JiMi|i,i_M
     |"% YGS% <or(A


}i"}foSci"

_"% [or(Y"oV <GY 2GluG@l% @%cGuY% i| @rouM"| |oM%|"%r VGr|iYG_Y froS
2GriouY MrouVY G_J Vro2iJ%J G_ occGYio_ |o coSVGr% MoGlY G_J S%|"oJYA
_"% Sor% coSSi||%J VGr|iYG_Y fr%[u%_|l5 coSSu_icG|% <i|" o|"%rY i_ |"%ir
MrouVY, @u| l%YY of|%_ GcroYY MrouV @ou_JGri%YA  _"% [or(Y"oV <GY GlYo
2GluG@l% |o G||%_J%%YSSi_cluJi_M |"oY% i_2ol2%J <i|" AS%ricG_ M%Sor5SS<"o
cGS% l%YY coSSi||%J |o VGr|iculGr GVVroGc"%Y or co_c%V|YA  _"%Y%
G||%_J%%Y l%Gr_%J G Mr%G| J%Gl, G_J VlG_ |o Y%l%c| G_J %SVlo5 %l%S%_|Y of
iSGMi_M, |%x|ScoJi_M, G_J _%|<or(%J JiY|ri@u|io_ |"G| Yui| |"%ir
r%YV%c|i2% VroP%c|Y G_J VurVoY%YA

S|ill, r%Gli|5 r%GrY i|Y uMl5 "%GJu  _o @r%G(|"rouM" "GY @%%_ Gc"i%2%JA
i_ |"% iSGMi_M YiJ%, o_% co_fro_|Y G Vrolif%rG|io_ of coSV%|i_M
JG|GSi_|%rc"G_M% Y|G_JGrJY G_J G lGc( of co_Y%_YuY o_ |"% rol% of JiMi|Gl
fGcYiSil%Y i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_A  c_ |"% r%GlS of SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x|Y, o_%
%_cou_|%rY G r%GYo_G@l5 SG|ur% Y|G_JGrJ @u| S%|"oJoloMicGl Jifficul|i%Y
G_J "iM" coY|YA  _"%Y% lG||%r Vro@l%SY, of courY%, r%Vr%Y%_| G YV%ciGl
iSV%JiS%_| |o |"% J%Yir%, GY i| iY YoS%|iS%Y %xVr%YY%J i_ |"% VoVulGr
Vr%YY, "|o Vu| |"% [co_|%_|Y of |"%r fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY o_ li_%A"  c_
|"% <orJY of o_% VGr|iciVG_|, |"%r% <GY "_o Yolu|io_ |o |"% %co_oSic
Vro@l%SYSS|"% VroP%c|Y |"G| Gr% ou| |"%r% Gr% Yur2i2i_M, @u| i| iY Moi_M
|o @% G lo| of <or( |o |rG_YforS |"% i_forSG|io_ i_JuY|r5, G_J Yo fGr |"%
i_2%Y|S%_| |o Jo |"G| iY _o| for|"coSi_M" (f~S%, V%r li||%rGYlA


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                               Pli}~~Dc"GS


[~f}iM~

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Gc  ilD P iriMi_ of [or(Y"oV i_ curr%_| fi@rGriG_MY J%Yir% |o SG(% f}MY
coll%c|io_Y Sor% <iJ%l5 G2GilG@l% P D%YiJ%rG|G GriYi_M froS |"% VroYV%c|
of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Af|%r <%lcoSi_M VGr|iciVG_|Y o_ @%"Glf of |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 (AMl, G_J |"% "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@, ProYY%r
Gc  ilD, Jir%c|or for Yc"olGrl5 VroMrGSY, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, locG|%J
|"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV o_ ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ G co_2%rYG|io_ "% "GJ
"GJ co_YiJ%rG@l5 Sor% |"G_ G 5%Gr GMo <i|" }Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%r_i_M
YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y fGc%J @5 AMA  i_ |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| _uS%rouY o|"%r
V%oVl% <%r% GY(i_M |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y, |"% J%ciYio_ <GY SGJ% |o @ri_M
|oM%|"%r GY SG_5 of |"%Y% V%oVl% GY VoYYi@l% |o GY( |"% YGS% [u%Y|io_Y
|oM%|"%rA  c_ G J%%V%r Y%_Y%, Gc  ilD YGiJ, |"% oriMi_ of |"% [or(Y"oV
lG5 i_ |"% J%Yir% of |"% curr%_| fi@rGriG_ of }o_Mr%YY, JGS%Y @A
8illi_M|o_, |o SG(% |"% coll%c|io_Y of |"% fi@rGr5, %YV%ciGll5 |"oY%
off%ri_M u_i[u% or u_uYuGl |%Y|iSo_5 o_ GYV%c|Y of |"% AS%ricG_
%xV%ri%_c%, G2GilG@l% |o G Suc" <iJ%r circl% of uY%rY |"G_ |"oY% f%<
V%oVl% <"o cG_ coS% |o [GY"i_M|o_ |o uY% |"%SA  _"iY S%G_| |"G| |"%
%SV"GYiY of AM, froS |"% ou|Y%|, "GY @%%_ o_ Grc"i2Gl coll%c|io_Y of |"%
@GYic SG|%riGl, G_J o_ SG(i_M |"%Y% coll%c|io_Y |"%SY%l2%Y G2GilG@l%,
rG|"%r |"G_ Y%l%c|%J or "%G2il5 %Ji|%J VroJuc|YA

 roS AMMY %SV"GYiY follo<%J |"% [u%Y|io_Y <i|" <"ic" |"% [or(Y"oV @%MG_u
<"o <ill uY% |"%Y% SG|%riGlY, G_J i_ <"G| forS <ill |"%5 <iY" |o uY%
|"%SA  8u| G_ %2%_ lGrM%r iYYu% J%Y%r2i_M S%_|io_, i_ Gc  ilDMY 2i%<, <GY
|"% V"%_oS%_Gl Mro<|" i_ c_|%r_%| co__%c|i2i|5A  @% %xVr%YY%J |"% "oV%
|"G| |"% VroYV%c| of Mr%G|%r i_|%rco__%c|%J_%YY |"G_ %2%r @%for% <oulJ
l%GJ |ou  ul Suc" Sor% cooV%rG|i2% G_J Su|uGll5 YuVVor|i2% %_J%G2orY2 2l
J%2%loVS%_| of Y5Y|%SY of Y"Gr%J G_J JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|i%Y |o
G2oiJ JuVlicG|io_ G_J |o %_Yur% GccurGc5 G_J Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of u_i[u%
SG|%riGlY2 G_J <l GMr%%S%_| o_ |"% _%c%YYGr5 Y|G_JGrJY G_J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% GVVroVriG|% Jir%c|ori%Y G_J i_Jic%Y |o SG(% _G2iMG|io_
Y|rGiM"|for<GrJ GSo_M |"% 2Gri%J r%Yourc%Y |"G| Gr%, G_J i_cr%GYi_Ml5
<ill @%, G2GilG@l%A  c_ |"iY co__%c|io_, Gc  ilD r%[u%Y|%J |"G|
VGr|iciVG_|Y r%fl%c| froS |"% ou|Y%| uVo_ |"% Yor|Y of ou|coS%Y |"%5
|"ouM"| |"% [or(Y"oV SiM"| "G2%A  DiJ |"oY% Vr%Y%_| co_Y|i|u|% G MrouV
<i|" Yuffici%_| coSSo_ i_|%r%Y|Y |o VroVoY% G _%x| Y|%V or _%x| Y|%VY,
G_J if Yo, <"G| SiM"| |"oY% @%8  _"%5 <oulJ r%|ur_ |o |"%Y% [u%Y|io_Y |"%
follo<i_M Gf|%r_oo_A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
 f~cS}@@Ao~l P }or% of [or(Y"oV co_c%r_Y Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_ of
SG|%riGlY P SV%ciGl c"Gll%_M% i_ co_2%rYio_ of |%x|uGl SG|%riGlY P
(uGli|5 2%rYuY [uG_|i|5 P Do |"% Y%2%rGl MrouVY r%Vr%Y%_|%J Y"Gr% coSSo_
i_|%r%Y|Y8 P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

}Grl  f~cS}@@Ao~l, coorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY,
%SV"GYi,%J |"G| "% <oulJ G||%SV| |o r%Vr%Y%_| |"% V%oVl% <"o V%rforS YoS%
of |"% <or( of co_2%r|i_M or Vr%VGri_M  SG|%riGlY G_J |"G| |"% cor% of
|"% [or(Y"oV "GJ |o Jo <i|" Vr%VGrG|io_ G_J VroJuc|io_A   f~cS}@@Ao~l
|"%_ Jr%< G JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% lo_M |%rS, <"%_ SG_5 |"i_MY <oulJ @%
G2GilG@l% G_J co__%c|%J i_ |"% <G5Y |"G| Gc  ilD J%Ycri@%J, G_J |"% Y"or|
|%rS, i_ <"ic" AM _o| o_l5 "GY <r%Y|l%J <i|" |"% iYYu% of <"G| iY |"%
@%Y| courY% |o VurYu% @u| GlYo "GY fGc%J G 2Gri%|5 of |%c"_icGl
c"Gll%_M%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l r%SGr(%J AMMY %_J%G2orY |o J%Gl <i|" G <iJ% rG_M% of li@rGr5
forSG|Y, Yuc" GY So|io_ Vic|ur% coll%c|io_Y, You_JSr%corJi_M coll%c|io_Y,
G_J Vic|oriGl coll%c|io_Y of 2GriouY Yor|Y, %YV%ciGll5 coll%c|io_Y of
V"o|oMrGV"YA  c_ |"% courY% of |"%Y% %ffor|Y, AM (%V| coSi_M @Gc( |o
|%x|uGl SG|%riGlYSSSG_uYcriV|Y or rGr% Vri_|%J SG||%r, @ou_J SG|%riGlY,
%|cA  _%x| VoY%J |"% Mr%G|%Y| co_2%rYio_ c"Gll%_M% of GllA  _"uY, |"%
M%_%YiY of |"% [or(Y"oV, <"ic" r%fl%c|Y |"% Vro@l%SY fGc%J @5 AMA  _"%Y%
Vro@l%SY i_cluJ% V"5YicGl Vro@l%SYA   or %xGSVl%, |"oY% i_ |"% li@rGr5
G_J Grc"i2% @uYi_%YY J%Gl <i|" coll%c|io_Y SGJ% uV of frGMil% G_J rGr%
SG_uYcriV| i|%SY, @ou_J SG|%riGlY, %YV%ciGll5 |"% _o|oriouYl5 @ri||l%
@ou_J SG|%riGlY of |"% lG|% _i_%|%%_|" c%_|ur5A  _"%Y% Gr% Vr%ciouY
cul|urGl Gr|ifGc|Y, "o<%2%r, GY <%ll GY i_|%r%Y|i_M Yourc%Y of
i_forSG|io_, G_J f} J%Yir%Y |o r%|Gi_ G_J co_Y%r2% |"%SA  AM _%%JY |o
"G_Jl% |"i_MY <i|"ou| JGSGMi_M |"%SA  Guillo|i_i_M G @oo( |o ru_ i|
|"rouM" G Y"%%| f%%J%r SuY| @% G2oiJ%J G| Gll coY|YA

8%5o_J V"5YicGl Vro@l%SY, iYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o [uGli|5 GroY%A   or
%xGSVl%, |"% J%Yir% |o Vro2iJ% uY%rY <i|" G Y%Grc"G@l% |%x| iY Gff%c|%J
@5 |"% [u%Y|io_ of Gcc%V|G@l% l%2%l of GccurGc5A  i_% "u_Jr%J V%rc%_|
GccurGc5 iY |r%S%_JouYl5 %xV%_Yi2%A  i_ |"% o|"%r "G_J, |"% ou|Vu| of
oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ (i}ll cG_ @% |r%S%_JouYl5 i_GccurG|%A
Al|"ouM" AM "GY G||%SV|%J |o fi_J G SiJJl% Mrou_J, u_c%r|Gi_|5 V%rYiY|Y
GY |o <"%|"%r or _o| i| "GY JiYco2%r%J |"% riM"| Yolu|io_A

(u%Y|io_Y of [uGli|5 GroY% co_c%r_i_M iSGM%Y GY <%llA   f~cS}@@Ao~l
co_|rGY|%J |"% %x|r%S%l5 "iM" l%2%l of [uGli|5 of |"% JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y i_
|"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| <i|" AMMY %ffor|Y |o Vro2iJ% G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5
or Gcc%YYS[uGli|5 iSGM%, GY oVVoY%J |o G_ Grc"i2Gl or Vr%Y%r2G|io_ iSGM%A
 f~cS}@@Ao~l |"%r%for% <%lcoS%J |"% oVVor|u_i|5 |o coSVGr% _o|%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J i_ VGYYi_M |"G| co_2%rYG|io_Y "% "GJ "GJ G@ou|
_%|<or(Y "G2% @%Mu_ |o YiM_Gl |"G| for 2GriouY forSY of S%JiG G
J%|%rSi_G|io_ SG5 @% SGJ% |"G| |"%r% iY G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5 i|%S, or G
JiY|ri@u|io_SG_JSGcc%YYS[uGli|5 i|%S |"G| SG5 co%xiY| i_ YoS% Y5Y|%SY
<i|" G "iM"%r [uGli|5 Grc"i2Gl i|%S |"G| <oulJ @% i_co_2%_i%_| |o Y%_J
|"rouM" |"% _%|<or( @%cGuY% of i|Y Yi,%A   f~cS}@@Ao~l r%f%rr%J, of
courY%, |o iSGM%Y Sor% |"G_ |o Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|A

AY AM co_YiJ%r%J |"oY% [u%Y|io_Y, Y%2%rGl co_c%V|uGl iYYu%Y GroY%u  ouM"|
AM occGYio_Gll5 |o r%VroJuc% SG|%riGlY %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G_ iSGM% Y%|, G|
o|"%r |iS%Y, %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G |%x| Y%|, G_J i_ YoS% cGY%Y, G Six8
_"%r% Vro@G@l5 <oulJ @% |iS%Y <"%_ |"% "iY|oricGl Gu|"%_|ici|5 of G_
Gr|ifGc| <oulJ r%[uir% |"G| i|Y iSGM% @% uY%JA  A_ iSGM% SiM"| @%
J%YirG@l% GY G r%courY% for uY%rY if o_% coulJ _o| Vro2iJ% uDDSV%rc%_|
GccurG|% |%x|A  AMGi_, AM <o_J%r%J, GY G VrGc|icGl SG||%r, if G
JiY|i_c|io_ coulJ @% JrG<_ @%|<%%_ rGr% Vri_|%J SG||%r |"G| SiM"| %xiY|
i_ Sul|iVl% coll%c|io_YSS|"G| iY, i_ |%_ or fif|%%_ li@rGri%YA  c_ Yuc"
cGY%Y, |"% _%%J for V%rf%c| r%VroJuc|io_ <oulJ @% l%YY |"G_ for u_i[u%
i|%SYA  cSVlici| i_ "iY r%SGr(Y,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, <GY |"% GJSiYYio_
|"G| AM "GY @%%_ |il|i_M Y|ro_Ml5 |o<GrJY [uG_|i|5 G_J JrG<i_M @Gc( G
li||l% froS V%rf%c| [uGli|5A  _"G| iY, i| Y%%S%J |o AM |"G| Yoci%|5 <oulJ
@% @%||%r Y%r2%J if Sor% |"i_MY <%r% JiY|ri@u|%J @5 f}SS%2%_ if |"%5 <%r%
_o| [ui|% V%rf%c|SS|"G_ if f%<%r |"i_MY, V%rf%c|l5 r%Vr%Y%_|%J, <%r%
JiY|ri@u|%JA  _"iY <GY Y|G|%J GY G VroVoYi|io_ |o @% |%Y|%J, <i|"
r%YVo_Y%Y |o @% MG|"%r%J froS uY%rYA

c_ |"i_(i_M G@ou| iYYu%Y r%lG|%J |o r%VroJuc|io_ of SG|%riGlY G_J Y%%i_M
o|"%r V%oVl% %_MGM%J i_ VGrGll%l Gc|i2i|i%Y, AM J%%S%J i| uY%ful |o
co_2%_% G co_f%r%_c%A  @%_c%, |"% [or(Y"oVA   f~cS}@@Ao~l |"%r%uVo_
Yur2%5%J |"% Y%2%rGl MrouVY r%Vr%Y%_|%Ju  ul |"% <orlJ of iSGM%Y (iSGM%
uY%rY G_J iSGM% SG(%rYl2 2l |"% <orlJ of |%x| G_J Yc"olGrY"iV G_J, <i|"i_
|"iY MrouV, |"oY% co_c%r_%J <i|" lG_MuGM%SS f~cS}@@Ao~l co_f%YY%J |o fi_Ji_M
J%liM"|ful iro_5 i_ |"% fGc| |"G| YoS% of |"% SoY| GJ2G_c%J |"i_(%rY o_
coSVu|%ri,%J |%x|Y Gr% |"oY% J%Gli_M <i|" G_ci%_| Gr%%( G_J loSG_ SG|%riGlY2
<l |"% _%|<or( <orlJ2 G_J xl |"% M%_%rGl <orlJ of li@rGr5 Yci%_c%, <"ic"
i_cluJ%Y V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J cG|GloMi_MA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l co_cluJ%J "iY r%SGr(Y <i|" YV%ciGl |"G_(Y |o |"% DG2iJ G_J
fucil% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ for i|Y YuVVor| of |"% S%%|i_M, |"% AS%ricG_
M%Sor5 MrouV, |"% iffic% for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY, |"% "G|io_Gl
D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@, G_J |"% iffic% of SV%ciGl ~2%_|YA  @% %xVr%YY%J |"%
"oV% |"G| DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ SiM"| @% G@l% |o G||%_J, _o|i_M |"G|
PGc(GrJMY <or( G_J |"% <or( of |"% fou_JG|io_ "GJ YVo_Yor%J G _uS@%r of
VroP%c|Y i_ |"% |%x| Gr%GA

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cA  }i"_~"_ c" A "~[  ilMu   [@i [cff oS~ c_ A"D [@A_ [cff _@~Y Di8

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DAfY P Ac(_o<l%JM%S%_|Y P A _%< fG|i_ Gu|"orY JiY( P  ~ff%c|Y of |"% _%<
|%c"_oloM5 o_ Vr%2iouY S%|"oJY of r%Y%Grc" P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

S%r2i_M GY SoJ%rG|or, JGS%Y DAfY Gc(_o<l%JM%J |"% M%_%roYi|5 of Gll |"%
Vr%Y%_|%rY for Mi2i_M of |"%ir |iS%, cou_Y%l, G_J VG|i%_c% i_ VlG__i_M
|"% [or(Y"oV, GY <%ll GY of S%S@%rY of |"% AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 VroP%c| G_J
o|"%r fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY Y|Gff, G_J |"% DG2iJ G_J fucil% PGc(GrJ
 ou_JG|io_ G_J i|Y %x%cu|i2% Jir%c|or, }ol@ur_ SA [il@urA

DAfY |"%_ r%cou_|%J "iY 2iYi| i_ MGrc" |o |"% }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y
i_ |"% @uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@l G_J |"% D%VGr|S%_| of }lGYYicY G| lu|M%rY
o_i2%rYi|5, <"%r% G_ olJ fri%_J, fo<%ll ~JSu_JY, i_|roJuc%J "iS |o |"%
J%VGr|S%_|MY c8Y}oS Yc"olGrl5 V%rYo_Gl coSVu|%r, G_J, i_ VGr|iculGr, |"%
_%< fG|i_ }DSliM, co_|Gi_i_M, GSo_M o|"%r |"i_MY, GlSoY| Gll clGYYicGl
fG|i_ li|%rGr5 |%x|Y |"rouM" AADA 2DDA  PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y c_Y|i|u|%
(P@cl, foY Al|oY, }Glifor_iG, r%l%GY%J |"iY JiY( lG|% i_ u}}u, <i|" G
_oSi_Gl |ri%__iGl lic%_Yi_M f%%A

PlG5i_M <i|" |"% JiY( for G_ "our or Yo G| lu|M%rY @rouM"| "oS% |o DAfY
G| o_c% |"% r%2olu|io_i,i_M iSVGc| of |"% _%< |%c"_oloM5 o_ "iY Vr%2iouY
S%|"oJY of r%Y%Grc"A  @GJ |"iY JiY( @%%_ G2GilG@l% |<o or |"r%% 5%GrY
%Grli%r, DAfY co_|%_J%J, <"%_ "% <GY %_MGM%J i_ Vr%VGri_M G coSS%_|Gr5 o_
8oo( uD of VirMilMY A%_%iJ for }GS@riJM% o_i2%rYi|5 Pr%YY, "% <oulJ _o|
"G2% r%[uir%J G for|5S%iM"|SY[uGr%Sfoo| |G@l% o_ <"ic" |o YVr%GJ |"%
_uS%rouY, SoY| fr%[u%_|l5 co_Yul|%J i|%SY, i_cluJi_M YoS% |%_ or |<%l2%
co_corJG_c%Y |o (%5 fG|i_ Gu|"orY, G_ GlSoY| %[uGl _uS@%r of l%xicG |o
Gu|"orY <"o lGc(%J co_corJG_c%Y, G_J <"%r% %i|"%r l%xicG or co_corJG_c%Y
<%r% lGc(i_M, _uS%rouY %Ji|io_Y of Gu|"orY G_|%JG|i_M G_J VoY|JG|i_M VirMilA

"or, <"%_ c"%c(i_M %Gc" of |"% G2%rGM% Yix |o Y%2%_ <orJY co_|Gi_%J i_
|"% VirMiliG_ "%xGS%|%r for i|Y uYGM% %lY%<"%r% i_ VirMilMY <or(Y or
o|"%r fG|i_ Gu|"orY, <oulJ DAfY "G2% "GJ |o SGi_|Gi_ |"% lG@oriouY
S%c"G_icGl Vroc%YY of fliVVi_M |"rouM" |"%Y% co_corJG_c%Y, l%xicG, G_J
%Ji|io_Y %Gc" |iS%A  "or <oulJ "% "G2% "GJ |o fr%[u%_| GY of|%_ |"%
Mil|o_ SA ~iY%_"o<%r fi@rGr5 G| |"% Jo"_Y @oV(i_Y o_i2%rYi|5 |o co_Yul|
|"% _"%YGuruY fi_MuG% fG|i_G%A  c_Y|%GJ of J%2o|i_M cou_|l%YY "ourY, or
|"% @ul( of "iY r%Y%Grc" |iS%, |o MG|"%ri_M JG|G co_c%r_i_M VirMilMY uY%
of <orJY, DAfYSS_o< fr%%J @5 P@cMY fG|i_ Gu|"orY JiY( froS |"%
|5rG__icGl, 5%| i_ YoS% <G5Y VGrGJoxicGll5 "GVV5 Yc"olGrl5 JruJM%r5SS
<oulJ "G2% @%%_ G@l% |o J%2o|% |"G| YGS% @ul( of |iS% |o G_Gl5,i_M G_J
i_|%rVr%|i_M VirMiliG_ 2%r@Gl uYGM%A

}i|i_M _"%oJor% 8ru__%r, Gr%Mor5 }rG_%, ~lli MYfi"AS, G_J A2rG Mc}@~fSi",
DAfY GrMu%J |"G| |"iY r%2%rYGl i_ "iY Y|5l% of <or(, SGJ% VoYYi@l% @5 |"%
_%< |%c"_oloM5, <oulJ V%r"GVY "G2% r%Yul|%J i_ @%||%r, Sor% VroJuc|i2%
r%Y%Grc"A  c_J%%J, %2%_ i_ |"% courY% of "iY @ro<Yi_M |"% fG|i_ Gu|"orY
JiY( G| lu|M%rY, i|Y Vo<%rful Y%Grc", r%|ri%2Gl, G_J "iM"liM"|i_M
cGVG@ili|i%Y YuMM%Y|%J |o "iS Y%2%rGl _%< G2%_u%Y of r%Y%Grc" i_|o
VirMilMY uY% of You_J %ff%c|YA  _"iY G_%cJo|Gl Gccou_|, DAfY SGi_|Gi_%J,
SG5 Y%r2% |o illuY|rG|% i_ VGr| |"% YuJJ%_ G_J rGJicGl |rG_YforSG|io_
@%i_M <rouM"| i_ |"% <G5Y Yc"olGrY <or(
