+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in ffGc|
o_% VGr|iculGr li@rGriG_ YGiJ Y"% <GY |%Gc"i_M "%r fif|" MrGJ%rYA
 l~~MA" co_cluJ%J |"G| i_|roJuci_M |"% iJ%G of follo<i_M o_%MY o<_ VG|"
of i_[uir5, <"ic" iY %YY%_|iGll5 <"G| r%Y%Grc" %_|GilY, i_2ol2%Y Sor%
|"G_ |%Gc"i_M YV%cific Y(illYA  _o |"%Y% coSS%_|Y V~}}cA GJJ%J |"%
o@Y%r2G|io_ |"G| |"% i_Ji2iJuGl |%Gc"%r G_J |"% uY% of G cr%G|i2%
r%Yourc%, rG|"%r |"G_ AM i|Y%lf, Y%%S%J |o SG(% |"% (%5 Jiff%r%_c%A
SoS% Yc"oolY G_J YoS% |%Gc"%rY Gr% SG(i_M %xc%ll%_| uY% of |"% _G|ur%
of cri|icGl |"i_(i_M G_J |%Gc"i_M Y(illY, Y"% YGiJA

}o_curri_M <i|" |"%Y% r%SGr(Y, DAfY cloY%J |"% Y%YYio_ <i|" |"% |"ouM"| |"G|
|"% Sor% |"G| VroJuc%rY VroJuc%J for |%Gc"%rY G_J for Yc"olGrY |o uY% <i|"
|"%ir Y|uJ%_|Y, |"% Sor% Yucc%YYful |"%ir %l%c|ro_ic VroJuc|Y <oulJ Vro2%A

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" ccA  S@i[ A"D _~ff

JGc[u%li_% @~SS, Jir%c|or, "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@orG|or5, Y%r2%J GY
SoJ%rG|or of |"% "Y"o<SG_JS|%ll" Y%YYio_A  S"% _o|%J |"G| G
[u%Y|io_SG_JSG_Y<%r V%rioJ <oulJ follo< %Gc" Vr%Y%_|G|io_A

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
MYfi"AS P i2%r2i%< G_J co_|%_| of P%rY%uY P P%rY%uYM VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY
%xiY| i_ G Y5Y|%SSi_J%V%_J%_|, Grc"i2Gl forS P A co_c%YYio_ P _%x|uGl
GYV%c|Y of P%rY%uY P _oolY |o uY% <i|" |"% Gr%%( |%x| P Pr%VGr%J i_Jic%Y
G_J fullS|%x| Y%Grc"%Y i_ P%rY%uY P ~_MliY"SGr%%( <orJ Y%Grc" l%GJY |o
cloY% Y|uJ5 of <orJY G_J co_c%V|Y P "G2iMG|i_M P%rY%uY @5 |rGci_M Jo<_
i_Jic%Y P oYi_M |"% ico_oMrGV"5 |o V%rforS r%Y%Grc" P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

~lli MYfi"AS, SG_GMi_M %Ji|or, P%rY%uY ProP%c|, @Gr2GrJ o_i2%rYi|5, firY|
MG2% G_ o2%r2i%< of P%rY%uY, G lGrM%, collG@orG|i2% %ffor| @GY%J G|
@Gr2GrJ o_i2%rYi|5 @u| <i|" co_|ri@u|orY G_J collG@orG|orY locG|%J G|
_uS%rouY u_i2%rYi|i%Y G_J coll%M%Y i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y (%AMA, 8o<Joi_,
MGr5lG_J, PoSo_G, }"icGMo, VirMi_iGlA   u_J%J VriSGril5 @5 |"%
A__%_@%rMY}P8 ProP%c|, <i|" GJJi|io_Gl fu_Ji_M froS AVVl%, @Gr2GrJ, G_J
|"% PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y c_Y|i|u|%, GSo_M o|"%rY, P%rY%uY iY G Sul|iS%JiG,
"5V%r|%x|uGl JG|G@GY% for |%Gc"i_M G_J r%Y%Grc" o_ clGYYicGl Gr%%(
ci2ili,G|io_, <"ic" <GY r%l%GY%J i_  %@ruGr5 u}}2 i_ 2%rYio_ uAD G_J
JiY|ri@u|%J @5 YGl% o_i2%rYi|5 Pr%YYA

}o_YiY|i_M %_|ir%l5 of VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY, P%rY%uY i_cluJ%Y G_ci%_| Gr%%(
|%x|Y G_J |rG_YlG|io_Y of |"oY% |%x|Y2 cG|GloM %_|ri%YSS|"G| iY, SuY%uS
cG|GloM %_|ri%Y, _o| li@rGr5 cG|GloM %_|ri%YSSo_ 2GY%Y, Yi|%Y, coi_Y,
YculV|ur%, G_J Grc"G%oloMicGl o@P%c|Y2 SGVY2 G_J G Jic|io_Gr5, GSo_M
o|"%r Yourc%YA  _"% _uS@%r of o@P%c|Y G_J |"% o@P%c|Y for <"ic" cG|GloM
%_|ri%Y %xiY| Gr% GccoSVG_i%J @5 |"ouYG_JY of color iSGM%Y, <"ic"
co_Y|i|u|% G SGPor f%G|ur% of |"% JG|G@GY%A  P%rY%uY co_|Gi_Y
GVVroxiSG|%l5 <D S%MG@5|%Y of |%x|, G_ GSou_| |"G| <ill Jou@l% i_
Yu@Y%[u%_| 2%rYio_YA  c_ GJJi|io_ |o |"%Y% VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY, |"% P%rY%uY
ProP%c| "GY @%%_ @uilJi_M |oolY for uYi_M |"%S, SG(i_M Gcc%YY G_J
_G2iMG|io_ %GYi%r, |"% MoGl @%i_M |o @uilJ VGr| of |"% %l%c|ro_ic
%_2iro_S%_| JiYcuYY%J %Grli%r i_ |"% Sor_i_M i_ <"ic" Y|uJ%_|Y or
Yc"olGrY cG_ <or( <i|" |"%ir Yourc%YA

_"% J%So_Y|rG|io_ of P%rY%uY <ill Y"o< o_l5 G frGc|io_ of |"% r%Gl <or(
|"G| "GY Mo_% i_|o i|, @%cGuY% |"% VroP%c| "GJ |o fGc% |"% Jil%SSG of
<"G| |o %_|%r <"%_ Vu||i_M YoS%|"i_M i_|o SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forSu  Y"oulJ
o_% GiS for 2%r5 "iM" [uGli|5 or SG(% co_c%YYio_Y i_ orJ%r |o M%| |"%
SG|%riGl i_8  Si_c% P%rY%uY J%ciJ%J |o oV| for 2%r5 "iM" [uGli|5, Gll of
i|Y VriSGr5 SG|%riGlY %xiY| i_ G Y5Y|%SSi_J%V%_J%_|SSi_YofGr GY i| iY
VoYYi@l% |o @% Y5Y|%SSi_J%V%_J%_|SSGrc"i2Gl forSA  D%ciJi_M <"G| |"G|
Grc"i2Gl forS <oulJ @% G_J G||Gi_i_M i| r%[uir%J Suc" <or( G_J |"ouM"|A
 or %xGSVl%, Gll |"% |%x|Y Gr% SGr(%J uV i_ SGMf, <"ic" <ill @% SGJ%
coSVG|i@l% <i|" |"% MuiJ%li_%Y of |"% _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~cl <"%_
|"%5 Gr% iYYu%JA

DrG<i_MY Gr% VoY|YcriV| fil%Y, _o| S%%|i_M i_|%r_G|io_Gl Y|G_JGrJY, @u|
G| l%GY| J%YiM_%J |o Mo GcroYY VlG|forSYA  cSGM%Y, or rG|"%r |"% r%Gl
Grc"i2Gl forSY, co_YiY| of |"% @%Y| G2GilG@l% YliJ%Y, <"ic" Gr% @%i_M
JiMi|i,%JA  Muc" of |"% cG|GloM SG|%riGl %xiY|Y i_ JG|G@GY% forSSSG forS
|"G| |"% G2%rGM% uY%r coulJ uY%, SG_iVulG|%, G_J JiYVlG5 o_ G V%rYo_Gl
coSVu|%r, @u| o_l5 G| Mr%G| coY|A  _"uY, |"iY iY <"%r% |"% co_c%YYio_
coS%Y i_u  All of |"iY ric", <%llSSGr(%JSuV i_forSG|io_ iY Y|riVV%J of
Suc" of i|Y co_|%_|2 |"% iSGM%Y Gr% co_2%r|%J i_|o @i|SSGVY G_J |"% |%x|
i_|o YSGll forSG||%J c"u_(YA  All |"iY i_forSG|io_ cG_ |"%_ @% iSVor|%J
i_|o @5V%r}GrJ G_J ru_ o_ G SiJSrG_M% MGci_|oY", <"ic" iY <"G| P%rY%uY
uY%rY "G2%A  _"iY fGc| "GY SGJ% i| VoYYi@l% for P%rY%uY |o G||Gi_ <iJ%
uY% fGirl5 rGViJl5A  [i|"ou| |"oY% Grc"i2Gl forSY |"% @5V%r}GrJ 2%rYio_
@%i_M J%So_Y|rG|%J coulJ _o| @% SGJ% %GYil5, G_J |"% VroP%c| coulJ _o|
"G2% |"% Vo|%_|iGl |o So2% |o o|"%r forSY G_J SGc"i_%Y G_J Yof|<Gr% GY
|"%5 GVV%Gr, _o_% of <"ic" i_forSG|io_ iY i_ P%rY%uY o_ |"% }DA

if |"% _uS%rouY Sul|iS%JiG GYV%c|Y of P%rY%uY, MYfi"AS focuY%J o_ |"%
|%x|uGlA  PGr| of <"G| SG(%Y P%rY%uY Yuc" G Vl%GYur% |o uY%, MYfi"AS
YGiJ, iY |"iY %ffor| G| Y%GSl%YY i_|%MrG|io_ G_J |"% G@ili|5 |o So2%
Grou_J @o|" 2iYuGl G_J |%x|uGl SG|%riGlA  P%rY%uY GlYo SGJ% |"% J%ciYio_
_o| |o G||%SV| |o i_|%rVr%| i|Y SG|%riGl G_5 Sor% |"G_ o_% i_|%rVr%|Y @5
Y%l%c|i_MA  8u|, MYfi"AS %SV"GYi,%J, P%rY%uY iY _o| courY%<Gr%u  "o
Y5llG@uY %xiY|YA  _"%r% iY _o %ffor| |o J%fi_% "o< o_% |%Gc"%Y G |oVic
uYi_M P%rY%uY, Gl|"ouM" |"% VroP%c| SG5 %2%_|uGll5 coll%c| VGV%rY @5
V%oVl% <"o "G2% uY%J i| |o |%Gc"A  lG|"%r, P%rY%uY GiSY |o Vro2iJ%
VriSGr5 SG|%riGl i_ G (i_J of %l%c|ro_ic li@rGr5, G_ %l%c|ro_ic YG_J@ox,
Yo |o YG5, i_ <"ic" Y|uJ%_|Y G_J Yc"olGrY <"o Gr% <or(i_M o_ |"iY
SG|%riGl cG_ %xVlor% @5 |"%SY%l2%YA  [i|" |"G|, MYfi"AS J%So_Y|rG|%J
P%rY%uY, @%Mi__i_M <i|" |"% P%rY%uY MG|%<G5, |"% firY| |"i_M o_% Y%%Y
uVo_ oV%_i_M P%rY%uYSSG_ %ffor| i_ VGr| |o Yol2% |"% co_|%x|uGli,i_M
Vro@l%SSS<"ic" |%llY |"% uY%r <"G| |"% Y5Y|%S co_|Gi_YA

MYfi"AS J%So_Y|rG|%J o_l5 G 2%r5 YSGll Vor|io_, @%Mi__i_M <i|" VriSGr5
|%x|Y G_J ru__i_M off |"% }DSliMA  @G2i_M Y%l%c|%J A%Yc"5luYM ProS%|"%uY
8ou_J, <"ic" <GY 2i%<G@l% i_ Gr%%( G_J ~_MliY" Vr%||5 Suc" i_ |"% YGS%
Y%MS%_|Y |oM%|"%r, MYfi"AS J%So_Y|rG|%J |oolY |o uY% <i|" |"% Gr%%( |%x|,
YoS%|"i_M _o| VoYYi@l% <i|" G @oo(u  loo(i_M uV |"% Jic|io_Gr5 %_|r5 forS
of G_ u_fGSiliGr <orJ i_ Gr%%( Gf|%r Yu@P%c|i_M i| |o P%rY%uYM
SorV"oloMicGl G_Gl5YiY for Gll |"% |%x|YA  Af|%r fi_Ji_M ou| G@ou| G
<orJ, G uY%r SG5 |"%_ J%ciJ% |o Y%% if i| iY uY%J G_5<"%r% %lY% i_ Gr%%(A
8%cGuY% 2GY| GSou_|Y of i_J%xi_M YuVVor| Gll of |"% VriSGr5 SG|%riGl, o_%
cG_ fi_J ou| <"%r% %lY% Gll forSY of G VGr|iculGr Gr%%( <orJ GVV%GrSS
of|%_ _o| G |ri2iGl SG||%r @%cGuY% Gr%%( iY "iM"l5 i_fl%c|%JA   ur|"%r,
Yi_c% |"% Y|or5 of ProS%|"%uY "GY |o Jo <i|" |"% oriMi_Y of YGcrific%, G
uY%r SG5 <iY" |o Y|uJ5 G_J %xVlor% YGcrific% i_ Gr%%( li|%rG|ur%2 @5
|5Vi_M YGcrific% i_|o G YSGll <i_Jo<, G uY%r Mo%Y |o |"% ~_MliY"SGr%%(
<orJ liY|SSYoS%|"i_M o_% cG__o| Jo <i|"ou| |"% coSVu|%r (P%rY%uY "GY
i_J%x%J |"% J%fi_i|io_Y of i|Y Jic|io_Gr5lSS|"% Y|ri_M YGcrific% GVV%GrY
i_ |"% J%fi_i|io_Y of |"%Y% Yix|5Sfi2% <orJYA  i_% SG5 |"%_ fi_J ou|
<"%r% G_5 of |"oY% <orJY iY uY%J i_ |"% <or((Yl of G VGr|iculGr Gu|"orA
_"% ~_MliY" J%fi_i|io_Y Gr% _o| l%SSG|i,%J
