great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and savii_M @oo(Y |"G| Gr% i_ @ri||l% co_Ji|io_A
P~lSi"coS Y"o<%J [or(Y"oV VGr|iciVG_|Y G @ri||l% @oo(, G_J J%Ycri@%J "o<
Yuc" @oo(Y <%r% |"% r%Yul| of J%2%loVS%_|Y i_ VGV%rSG(i_M Grou_J |"%
@%Mi__i_M of |"% c_JuY|riGl l%2olu|io_A  _"% VGV%rSG(i_M Vroc%YY <GY
c"G_M%J Yo |"G| G YiM_ificG_| GSou_| of GciJ <GY i_|roJuc%J i_|o |"%
Gc|uGl VGV%r i|Y%lf, <"ic" J%|%riorG|%Y GY i| Yi|Y o_ li@rGr5 Y"%l2%YA

i_% of |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y for |%c"_oloM5 G_J for |"% }fASS ProP%c| iY |"G|
|"% i_forSG|io_ i_ @ri||l% @oo(Y iY SoY|l5 ou| of coV5riM"| G_J |"uY
off%rY G_ oVVor|u_i|5 |o <or( <i|" SG|%riGl |"G| r%[uir%Y li@rGr5
Vr%Y%r2G|io_, G_J |o cr%G|% G_J <or( o_ G_ i_frGY|ruc|ur% |o YG2% |"%
SG|%riGlA  Ac(_o<l%JMi_M |"% fGSiliGri|5 of |"oY% <or(i_M i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_
<i|" |"iY i_forSG|io_, P~lSi"coS _o|%J |"G| Y%2%rGl |"i_MY Gr% @%i_M
Jo_%u  |"% VriSGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ |%c"_oloM5 uY%J |oJG5 iY V"o|ocoV5i_M of
@ri||l% SG|%riGlA  SG2i_M |"% i_|%ll%c|uGl co_|%_| of |"% SG|%riGl iY |"%
SGi_ MoGlA  [i|" SicrofilS coV5, |"% i_|%ll%c|uGl co_|%_| iY Vr%Y%r2%J o_
|"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| i_ |"% fu|ur% |"% iSGM% cG_ @% r%forSG||%J i_ G_5
o|"%r <G5 |"G| |"%_ %xiY|YA

A_ u_J%rl5i_M GYYuSV|io_ of |"% }fASS ProP%c| froS |"% @%Mi__i_M <GY
|"G| i| <oulJ J%2%loV G _%|<or( GVVlicG|io_A  ProP%c| Y|Gff YcG_ @oo(Y
G| G <or(Y|G|io_ locG|%J i_ |"% li@rGr5, _%Gr |"% @ri||l% SG|%riGlA
A_ iSGM%SY%r2%r fili_M Y5Y|%S iY locG|%J G| G JiY|G_c% froS |"G|
<or(Y|G|io_, G_J G Vri_|%r iY locG|%J i_ G_o|"%r @uilJi_MA  All of |"%
SG|%riGlY JiMi|i,%J G_J Y|or%J o_ |"% iSGM%Sfili_M Y5Y|%S Gr% cG|GloM%J
i_ |"% o_Sli_% cG|GloMu%A  c_ fGc|, G r%corJ for %Gc" of |"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic
@oo(Y iY Y|or%J i_ |"% lfc" JG|G@GY% Yo |"G| G r%corJ %xiY|Y of <"G| iY
i_ |"% JiMi|Gl li@rGr5 |"rouM"ou| Y|G_JGrJ cG|GloMu% Vroc%Jur%YA  c_ |"%
fu|ur%, r%Y%Grc"%rY <or(i_M froS |"%ir o<_ <or(Y|G|io_Y i_ |"%ir offic%Y,
or |"%ir _%|<or(Y, <ill "G2% Gcc%YYSS<"%r%2%r |"%5 SiM"| @%SS|"rouM" G
r%[u%Y| Y%r2%r @%i_M @uil| i_|o |"% _%< JiMi|Gl li@rGr5A  A Y%co_J
GYYuSV|io_ iY |"G| |"% Vr%f%rr%J S%G_Y of fi_Ji_M |"% SG|%riGl <ill @% @5
loo(i_M |"rouM" G cG|GloMu%A  P~lSi"coS J%Ycri@%J |"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY,
<"ic" uY%Y G Vro|o|5V% YcG__%r @%i_M J%2%loV%J @5 r%rox G_J <"ic" YcG_Y G
2%r5 "iM" r%Yolu|io_ iSGM% G| Mr%G| YV%%JA  A_o|"%r YiM_ificG_| f%G|ur%,
@%cGuY% |"iY iY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ GVVlicG|io_, iY |"% VlGci_M of |"% VGM%Y
|"G| fGll GVGr| o_% for o_% o_ |"% VlG|%_A  irJi_Gril5, G YcG__%r coulJ
@% uY%J <i|" YoS% Yor| of G JocuS%_| f%%J%r, @u| @%cGuY% of |"iY
GVVlicG|io_ |"G| iY _o| f%GYi@l%A   ur|"%r, @%cGuY% }fASS iY G
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ GVVlicG|io_, Gf|%r |"% VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| iY SGJ% |"%r%, G
2%r5 cGr%ful [uGli|5 co_|rol c"%c( iY V%rforS%JA  A_ oriMi_Gl @oo( iY
coSVGr%J |o |"% Vri_|%J coV5 G_J 2%rificG|io_ iY SGJ%, @%for% Vroc%%Ji_M,
|"G| Gll of |"% iSGM%, Gll of |"% i_forSG|io_, "GY @%%_ cGV|ur%JA  _"%_,
G _%< li@rGr5 @oo( iY VroJuc%Ju  _"% Vri_|%J iSGM%Y Gr% r%@ou_J @5 G
coSS%rciGl @i_J%r G_J G _%< @oo( iY r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%lfA
SiM_ificG_|l5, |"% @oo(Y r%|ur_%J |o |"% li@rGr5 Y"%l2%Y Gr% @%Gu|iful
G_J uY%ful r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%r |"G| Y"oulJ lGY| G lo_M |iS%,
i_ %ff%c|, |"% %[ui2Gl%_| of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ V"o|ocoVi%YA  _"uY, |"% VroP%c|
"GY G li@rGr5 of JiMi|Gl @oo(YA  c_ %YY%_c%, }fASS iY YcG__i_M G_J
Y|ori_M @oo(Y GY ,DD Jo|SV%rSi_c" @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y, coSVr%YY%J uYi_M
GrouV x }}c__ (iA%A, |"%  r%_c" Gcro_5S for c_|%r_G|io_Gl }o_Yul|G|i2%
}oSSi||%% for _%l%MrGV" G_J _%l%V"o_%l coSVr%YYio_A  _"%5 Gr% Y|or%J GY
_c   fil%Y o_ G_ oV|icGl fili_M Y5Y|%S |"G| iY coSVoY%J of G JG|G@GY%
uY%J for Y%Grc"i_M G_J locG|i_M |"% @oo(Y G_J G_ oV|icGl Pu(%@ox |"G|
Y|or%Y ,x |<%l2%Si_c" VlG||%rYA  A 2%r5S"iM"Sr%Yolu|io_ Vri_|%J coV5 of
|"%Y% @oo(Y G| ,DD Jo|Y V%r i_c" iY cr%G|%J, uYi_M G r%rox Docu_%c"
Vri_|%r |o SG(% |"% VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%rA

P~lSi"coS SGi_|Gi_%J |"G| |"% }fASS ProP%c| Vr%Y%_|Y G_ oVVor|u_i|5 |o
i_|roJuc% V%oVl% |o @oo(Y GY JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y @5 uYi_M G VGV%r S%JiuSA
8oo(Y Gr% r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%l2%Y <"il% V%oVl% Gr% GlYo Mi2%_ |"% G@ili|5
|o Vri_| o_ J%SG_JSS|o SG(% |"%ir o<_ coVi%Y of @oo(YA  (P~lSi"coS
JiY|ri@u|%J coVi%Y of G_ %_Mi_%%ri_M Pour_Gl Vu@liY"%J @5 %_Mi_%%ri_M
Y|uJ%_|Y G| }or_%ll Grou_J u}DD GY G_ %xGSVl% of <"G| G Vri_|So_SJ%SG_J
coV5 of SG|%riGl SiM"| @% li(%A  _"iY 2%r5 c"%GV coV5 <oulJ @% G2GilG@l%
|o V%oVl% |o uY% for |"%ir o<_ r%Y%Grc" VurVoY%Y G_J <oulJ @riJM% |"% MGV
@%|<%%_ G_ %l%c|ro_ic <or( G_J |"% VGV%r |"G| r%GJ%rY li(% |o "G2%Al
P~lSi"coS |"%_ G||%SV|%J |o illuY|rG|% G 2%r5 %Grl5 Vro|o|5V% of
_%|<or(%J Gcc%YY |o |"iY JiMi|Gl li@rGr5A  r%rox }orVorG|io_ "GY
J%2%loV%J G Vro|o|5V% of G 2i%< Y|G|io_ |"G| cG_ Y%_J iSGM%Y GcroYY |"%
_%|<or( |o @% 2i%<%JA

_"% VGr|iculGr li@rGr5 @rouM"| Jo<_ for J%So_Y|rG|io_ co_|Gi_%J |<o
SG|"%SG|icY @oo(YA  }fASS iY J%2%loVi_M G_J <ill YV%_J |"% _%x| 5%Gr
J%2%loVi_M G_ GVVlicG|io_ |"G| Gllo<Y V%oVl% G| <or(Y|G|io_Y |o @ro<Y%
|"% @oo(YA  _"uY, }fASS iY J%2%loVi_M G @ro<Yi_M |ool, o_ |"% GYYuSV|io_
|"G| uY%rY Jo _o| <G_| |o r%GJ G_ %_|ir% @oo( froS G <or(Y|G|io_, @u|
<oulJ Vr%f%r |o @% G@l% |o loo( |"rouM" G_J J%ciJ% if |"%5 <oulJ li(% |o
"G2% G Vri_|%J coV5 of i|A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P l% r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr% P "DiMi|Gl fil% coV5riM"|" P ScG__i_M
rG|% Juri_M VroJuc|io_ P Au|oY%MS%_|G|io_ P }ri|%riG %SVlo5%J i_
Y%l%c|i_M @oo(Y for YcG__i_M P }oSVr%YYio_ G_J J%coSVr%YYio_ of iSGM%Y P
i}l _o| Vr%cluJ%J P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% [u%Y|io_SG_JSG_Y<%r V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J "%r Vr%Y%_|G|io_,
P~lSi"coS SGJ% |"%Y% GJJi|io_Gl Voi_|Yu

     P l% r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr%, }or_%ll iY J%2%loVi_M G o_ixS@GY%J Y%r2%r
     GY <%ll GY cli%_|Y for |"% Y%r2%r |"G| YuVVor| Sul|iVl% VlG|forSY
     (MGci_|oY", c8M G_J Su_ <or(Y|G|io_Yl, i_ |"% "oV% |"G| V%oVl% froS
     G_5 of |"oY% VlG|forSY <ill r%|ri%2% @oo(Y2 G fur|"%r oV%rG|i_M
     GYYuSV|io_ iY |"G| Y|G_JGrJ i_|%rfGc%Y <ill @% uY%J GY Suc" GY
     VoYYi@l%, <"%r% Y|G_JGrJY cG_ @% Vu| i_ VlGc%, @%cGuY% }fASS
     co_YiJ%rY |"iY r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr% G li@rGr5 GVVlicG|io_ G_J <oulJ
     li(% |o @% G@l% |o loo( G| SG|%riGl _o| o_l5 G| }or_%ll @u| G| o|"%r
     i_Y|i|u|io_YA

     P _"% V"rGY% "JiMi|Gl fil% coV5riM"| @5 }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5" <GY
     GJJ%J G| |"% GJ2ic% of }or_%llMY l%MGl Y|Gff <i|" |"% cG2%G| |"G| i|
     Vro@G@l5 <oulJ _o| "olJ uV i_ cour|A  }or_%ll Jo%Y _o| <G_| V%oVl%
     |o coV5 i|Y @oo(Y G_J Y%ll |"%S @u| <oulJ li(% |o (%%V |"%S
     G2GilG@l% for uY% i_ G li@rGr5 %_2iro_S%_| for li@rGr5 VurVoY%YA

     P c_ VroJuc|io_ |"% YcG__%r cG_ YcG_ G@ou| <DD VGM%Y V%r "our,
     cGV|uri_M ,DD Jo|Y V%r i_c"A

     P _"% r%rox Yof|<Gr% "GY fil|%rY |o YcG_ "Glf|o_% SG|%riGl G_J G2oiJ
     |"% Soir% VG||%r_Y |"G| occur <"%_ "Glf|o_% SG|%riGl iY YcG__%JA
     r%rox "GY @%%_ <or(i_M o_ "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr% |"G| <oulJ %_G@l%
     |"% YcG__%r i|Y%lf |o r%coM_i,% |"iY Yi|uG|io_ G_J J%Gl <i|" i|
     GVVroVriG|%l5SSG (i_J of Gu|oY%MS%_|G|io_ |"G| <oulJ %_G@l% |"%
     YcG__%r |o "G_Jl% "Glf|o_% SG|%riGl GY <%ll GY |%x| o_ G Yi_Ml% VGM%A

     P _"% @oo(Y Yu@P%c|%J |o |"% %lG@orG|% Vroc%YY J%Ycri@%J G@o2% <%r%
     Y%l%c|%J @%cGuY% }fASS iY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ VroP%c|, <i|" |"% firY| 5DD
     @oo(Y Y%l%c|%J coSi_M froS }or_%llMY SG|"%SG|icY coll%c|io_, @%cGuY%
     |"%5 <%r% Y|ill @%i_M "%G2il5 uY%J G_J @%cGuY%, Gl|"ouM" |"%5 <%r%
     i_ _%%J of Vr%Y%r2G|io_, |"% SG|"%SG|icY li@rGr5 G_J |"% SG|"%SG|icY
     fGcul|5 <%r% u_coSfor|G@l% "G2i_M |"%S SicrofilS%JA  (_"%5 <G_|%J G
     Vri_|%J coV5Al  _"uY, |"%Y% @oo(Y @%cGS% G loMicGl c"oic% for |"iY
     VroP%c|A  i|"%r @oo(Y <%r% c"oY%_ @5 |"% VroP%c|MY Y%l%c|io_ coSSi||%%Y
     for %xV%riS%_|Y <i|" |"% |%c"_oloM5, GY <%ll GY |o S%%| G J%SG_J or _%%JA

     P cSGM%Y <ill @% J%coSVr%YY%J @%for% |"%5 Gr% Y%_| o2%r |"% li_%2 G|
     |"iY |iS% |"%5 Gr% coSVr%YY%J G_J Y%_| |o |"% iSGM% fili_M Y5Y|%S
     G_J |"%_ Y%_| |o |"% Vri_|%r GY coSVr%YY%J iSGM%Y2 |"%5 Gr% r%|ur_%J
     |o |"% <or(Y|G|io_ GY coSVr%YY%J ,DDSJVi iSGM%Y G_J |"% <or(Y|G|io_
     J%coSVr%YY%Y G_J YcGl%Y |"%S for JiYVlG5SSG_ i_%ffici%_| <G5 |o
     Gcc%YY |"% SG|%riGl |"ouM" i| <or(Y [ui|% <%ll for Vri_|i_M G_J
     o|"%r VurVoY%YA

     P }fASS iY GlYo J%coSVr%YYi_M o_ MGci_|oY" G_J c8M, G Ylo< Vroc%YY
     riM"| _o<A  ~2%_|uGll5, coSVr%YYio_ G_J J%coSVr%YYio_ <ill |G(%
     VlGc% o_ G_ iSGM% co_2%rYio_ Y%r2%rA  _rGJ%SoffY <ill @% SGJ%, @GY%J
     o_ fu|ur% V%rforSG_c% |%Y|i_M, co_c%r_i_M <"%r% |"% fil% iY
     coSVr%YY%J G_J <"G| r%Yolu|io_ iSGM% iY Y%_|A

     P i}l "GY _o| @%%_ Vr%cluJ%J2 iSGM%Y Gr% @%i_M Y|or%J |"G| "G2% @%%_
     YcG__%J G| G "iM" r%Yolu|io_, <"ic" Vr%YuSG@l5 <oulJ Yui| |"%S <%ll
     |o G_ i}l Vroc%YYA  8%cGuY% |"% SG|%riGl @%i_M YcG__%J iY G@ou| uDD
     5%GrY olJ G_J <GY Vri_|%J <i|" l%YYS|"G_SiJ%Gl |%c"_oloMi%Y, 2%r5
     %Grl5 G_J Vr%liSi_Gr5 |%Y|Y "G2% _o| VroJuc%J MooJ r%Yul|YA  8u| |"%
     VroP%c| iY cGV|uri_M G_ iSGM% |"G| iY of Yuffici%_| r%Yolu|io_ |o @%
     Yu@P%c|%J |o i}l i_ |"% fu|ur%A  Mor%o2%r, |"% Y5Y|%S Grc"i|%c|ur%
     G_J |"% Y5Y|%S VlG_ "G2% G loMicGl VlGc% |o Y|or% G_ i}l iSGM% if i|
     "GY @%%_ cGV|ur%JA  8u| |"G| iY _o| @%i_M Jo_% _o<A

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cccA  DcS_lc8o_ci", "~_[il%S, A"D "~_[il%c"Gu  iP_ci"S  il
DcSS~Mc"A_ci"

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
|c}@ P cYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o }DSliMY P iV|io_Y for Vu@liY"i_M i_ }DSliM P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

lo@%r| |c}@, YV%ciGl GYYiY|G_| |o |"% GYYociG|% li@rGriG_ for YV%ciGl
VroP%c|Y, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, G_J SoJ%rG|or of |"iY Y%YYio_, firY| _o|%J
|"% @l%YY%J @u| YoS%<"G| G<(<GrJ circuSY|G_c% of "G2i_M four 2%r5
JiY|i_MuiY"%J V%oVl% r%Vr%Y%_|i_M _%|<or(Y G_J _%|<or(i_M or G| l%GY|
l%G_i_M i_ |"G| Jir%c|io_, <"il% lGc(i_M G_5o_% |o YV%G( froS |"%
Y|ro_M%Y| VoYYi@l% @Gc(Mrou_J i_ }DSliMYA  |c}@ %xVr%YY%J |"% "oV% |"G|
S%S@%rY of |"% GuJi%_c% <oulJ Poi_ |"% JiYcuYYio_A  @% Y|r%YY%J |"%
Yu@|i|l% of |"iY VGr|iculGr Y%YYio_, "iV|io_Y for DiYY%Si_G|io_," G_J,
co_c%r_i_M }DSliMY, |"% iSVor|G_c% of J%|%rSi_i_M <"%_ i| <oulJ @% <iY%
|o co_YiJ%r JiYY%Si_G|io_ i_ }DSliM 2%rYuY _%|<or(YA  A Y"oVVi_M liY| of
iYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o }DSliMY i_cluJ%Ju  |"% Mrou_JY for Y%l%c|i_M
coSS%rciGl Vu@liY"%rY, G_J i_S"ouY% Vu@licG|io_ <"%r% VoYYi@l% 2%rYuY
_o_Vrofi| or Mo2%r_S%_| Vu@licG|io_A  A YiSilGr liY| for _%|<or(Y
i_cluJ%Ju  J%|%rSi_i_M <"%_ o_% Y"oulJ co_YiJ%r JiYY%Si_G|io_ |"rouM" G
_%|<or(, iJ%_|if5i_M |"% S%c"G_iYSY or %_|i|i%Y |"G| %xiY| |o VlGc% i|%SY
o_ _%|<or(Y, iJ%_|if5i_M |"% Vool of %xiY|i_M _%|<or(Y, J%|%rSi_i_M "o< G
VroJuc%r  <oulJ c"ooY% @%|<%%_ _%|<or(Y, G_J iJ%_|if5i_M |"% %l%S%_|Y of
G @uYi_%YY GrrG_M%S%_| i_ G _%|<or(A

iV|io_Y for Vu@liY"i_M i_ }DSliMu  G_ ou|YiJ% Vu@liY"%r 2%rYuY
Y%lfSVu@licG|io_A  cf G_ ou|YiJ% Vu@liY"%r iY uY%J, i| cG_ @% _o_Vrofi|,
Yuc" GY |"% Go2%r_S%_| Pri_|i_M iffic% (GPil or |"% "G|io_Gl _%c"_icGl
c_forSG|io_ S%r2ic% ("_cSl, i_ |"% cGY% of Mo2%r_S%_|A  _"% VroY G_J co_Y
GYYociG|%J <i|" %SVlo5i_M G_ ou|YiJ% Vu@liY"%r Gr% o@2iouYA  ASo_M |"%
VroY, |"%r% iY _o |rou@l% M%||i_M Gcc%V|%JA  i_% VG5Y |"% @ill G_J, i_
%ff%c|, Mo%Y o_%MY <G5A  ASo_M |"% co_Y, <"%_ o_% VG5Y G_ ou|YiJ%
Vu@liY"%r |o V%rforS |"% <or(, |"G| Vu@liY"%r <ill V%rforS |"% <or( i| iY
o@liM%J |o Jo, @u| V%r"GVY <i|"ou| |"% VroJuc|io_ %xV%r|iY% G_J Y(ill i_
SGr(%|i_M G_J JiYY%Si_G|io_ |"G| YoS% <oulJ Y%%(A  _"%r% iY |"% @oJ5 of
coSS%rciGl Vu@liY"%rY |"G| Jo VoYY%YY |"G| (i_J of %xV%r|iY% i_
JiY|ri@u|io_ G_J SGr(%|i_M @u| |"G| o@2iouYl5 Gr% Y%l%c|i2%A  c_
Y%lfSVu@licG|io_, o_% %x%rciY%Y full co_|rol, @u| |"%_ o_% SuY| "G_Jl%
SG||%rY Yuc" GY JiY|ri@u|io_ G_J SGr(%|i_MA  Suc" Gr% YoS% of |"% oV|io_Y
for Vu@liY"i_M i_ |"% cGY% of }DSliMA

c_ |"% cGY% of |%c"_icGl G_J J%YiM_ iYYu%Y, <"ic" Gr% GlYo iSVor|G_|,
|"%r% Gr% SG_5 SG||%rY <"ic" SG_5 G| |"% [or(Y"oV Glr%GJ5 (_%< G MooJ
J%Gl G@ou|u  r%|ri%2Gl Y5Y|%S r%[uir%S%_|Y G_J coY|Y, <"G| |o Jo G@ou|
iSGM%Y, |"% 2GriouY cGVG@ili|i%Y G_J VlG|forSY, |"% |rGJ%SoffY @%|<%%_
coY| G_J V%rforSG_c%, co_c%r_Y G@ou| locGlSGr%G _%|<or(G@ili|5,
i_|%roV%rG@ili|5, %|cA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
fY"}@ P }r%G|i_M _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ iY Jiff%r%_| froS uYi_M _%|<or(Y
GY G_ Gcc%YY or JiYY%Si_G|io_ 2%"icl% P "%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG o_ G lGrM%
YcGl% Jo%Y _o| 5%| <or( P _5VicGl }DSliM Vu@licG|io_ SoJ%l G |<oS%JM%J
Y<orJ P Pu@liY"i_M i_forSG|io_ o_ G }DSliM i_ |"% Vr%Y%_| <orlJ of
iSSG|ur% Y|G_JGrJY P }o_|rGY| @%|<%%_ }DSliM G_J _%|<or( Vrici_M P
~xGSVl%Y J%So_Y|rG|%J %Grli%r i_ |"% JG5 GY G Y%| of i_YulGr i_forSG|io_
M%SY P PGrGSou_| _%%J |o li_( JG|G@GY%Y P fG5%ri_M |o @%coS% i_cr%GYi_Ml5
_%c%YYGr5 P ProP%c| "~~DS G_J |"% iYYu%Y of i_forSG|io_ r%uY% G_J Gc|i2%
2%rYuY VGYYi2% uY% P rS[i_Jo<Y GY G <G5 of Jiff%r%_|iG|i_M @%|<%%_
_%|<or( Gcc%YY G_J _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ P 8Grri%rY |o |"% JiY|ri@u|io_
of _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG i_forSG|io_ P "%%J for MooJ, r%GlS|iS% J%li2%r5
Vro|ocolY P _"% [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_ cli%_|SY%r2%r
coSVu|i_M i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic <orlJ P l%coSS%_JG|io_Y for VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

}lifforJ fY"}@, Jir%c|or, fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_, o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG,
oV%_%J "iY |Gl( <i|" |"% M%_%rGl o@Y%r2G|io_ |"G| _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_
co_Y|i|u|%J G Jifficul| G_J %luYi2% |oVic @%cGuY% i| iY YoS%|"i_M PuY|
Y|Gr|i_M |o J%2%loV G_J _o| 5%| full5 u_J%rY|ooJA  fY"}@ co_|%_J%J |"G|
cr%G|i_M M%_ui_%l5 _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <GY Jiff%r%_| froS uYi_M
_%|<or(Y GY G_ Gcc%YY or JiYY%Si_G|io_ 2%"icl% G_J <GY Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
G_J Sor% Yu@|l%A  @% i_2i|%J |"% S%S@%rY of |"% GuJi%_c% |o %x|rGVolG|%,
froS <"G| |"%5 "%GrJ G@ou| |"% Vr%c%Ji_M J%So_Y|rG|io_ VroP%c|Y, |o <"G|
Yor| of G <orlJ of %l%c|ro_icY i_forSG|io_SSYc"olGrl5, Grc"i2Gl,
cul|urGl, %|cASS|"%5 <iY"%J |o %_J uV <i|" |%_ or fif|%%_ 5%GrY froS _o<A
fY"}@ YuMM%Y|%J |"G| |o %x|rGVolG|% Jir%c|l5 froS |"%Y% VroP%c|Y <oulJ
VroJuc% u_Vl%GYG_| r%Yul|YA

Pu||i_M |"% iYYu% of }DSliM i_ V%rYV%c|i2% @%for% M%||i_M i_|o
M%_%rGli|i%Y o_ _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"oY% %_MGM%J
i_ Sul|iS%JiG |oJG5 <"o <iY" |o Y"iV G VroJuc|, Yo |o YG5, Vro@G@l5 Jo
_o| "G2% Suc" c"oic% %xc%V| |o uY% }DSliMu  _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG o_ G
lGrM% YcGl% @GYicGll5 Jo%Y _o| 5%| <or( @%cGuY% |"% |%c"_oloM5 Jo%Y _o|
%xiY|A   or %xGSVl%, G_5@oJ5 <"o "GY |ri%J So2i_M iSGM%Y Grou_J o2%r |"%
c_|%r_%| (_o<Y |"G| |"iY iY G_ %xci|i_M |ouc"SG_JSMo Vroc%YY, G
fGYci_G|i_M G_J f%r|il% Gr%G for %xV%riS%_|G|io_, r%Y%Grc", G_J
J%2%loVS%_|, @u| _o| YoS%|"i_M |"G| o_% cG_ @%coS% J%%Vl5 %_|"uYiGY|ic
G@ou| coSSi||i_M |o VroJuc|io_ Y5Y|%SY G| |"iY |iS%A

_"iY Yi|uG|io_ <ill c"G_M%, fY"}@ YGiJA  @% Jiff%r%_|iG|%J }DSliM froS
|"% VrGc|ic%Y |"G| "G2% @%%_ follo<%J uV |o _o< i_ JiY|ri@u|i_M JG|G o_
}DSliMA   or fY"}@ |"% Vro@l%S <i|" }DSliM iY _o| i|Y Vor|G@ili|5 or i|Y
Ylo<_%YY @u| |"% |<oS%JM%J Y<orJ of "G2i_M |"% r%|ri%2Gl GVVlicG|io_ G_J
|"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% i_%x|ricG@l5 @ou_J uV <i|" |"% JG|G, <"ic" iY |"%
|5VicGl }DSliM Vu@licG|io_ SoJ%lA  c| iY _o| G cGY% of Vu@liY"i_M JG|G
@u| of JiY|ri@u|i_M G |5VicGll5 Y|G_JSGlo_%, |5VicGll5 cloY%J Y5Y|%S,
GllSSYof|<Gr%, uY%r i_|%rfGc%, G_J JG|GSSo_ G li||l% JiY(A  @%_c%, Gll
|"% @%|<%%_SJiY( _G2iMG|io_Gl iYYu%Y GY <%ll GY |"% iSVoYYi@ili|5 i_ SoY|
cGY%Y of i_|%MrG|i_M JG|G o_ o_% JiY( <i|" |"G| o_ G_o|"%rA  MoY| }DSliM
r%|ri%2Gl Yof|<Gr% Jo%Y _o| _%|<or( 2%r5 MrGc%full5 G| Vr%Y%_|A  @o<%2%r,
i_ |"% Vr%Y%_| <orlJ of iSSG|ur% Y|G_JGrJY G_J lGc( of u_J%rY|G_Ji_M of
<"G| _%|<or( i_forSG|io_ iY or <"G| |"% Mrou_J rul%Y Gr% for cr%G|i_M or
uYi_M i|, Vu@liY"i_M i_forSG|io_ o_ G }DSliM Jo%Y GJJ 2Glu% i_ G 2%r5
r%Gl Y%_Y%A

fY"}@ Jr%< G co_|rGY| @%|<%%_ }DSliM G_J _%|<or( Vrici_M G_J i_ Joi_M Yo
"iM"liM"|%J YoS%|"i_M @i,Grr% i_ i_forSG|io_ Vrici_MA  A lGrM%
i_Y|i|u|io_ Yuc" GY |"% o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG "GY 2%_JorY <"o <ill
off%r |o Y%ll i_forSG|io_ o_ }DSliM for G Vric% V%r 5%Gr i_ four JiMi|Y,
@u| for |"% YGS% JG|G (%AMA, G_ G@Y|rGc|i_M G_J i_J%xi_M JG|G@GY%l o_
SGM_%|ic |GV%, r%MGrJl%YY of "o< SG_5 V%oVl% SG5 uY% i| co_curr%_|l5,
<ill [uo|% G Vric% i_ Yix JiMi|YA

["G| iY VGc(GM%J <i|" |"% }DSliM i_ o_% Y%_Y% GJJY 2Glu%SSG coSVl%|%
Gcc%YY Y5Y|%S, _o| PuY| rG<, u_r%fi_%J i_forSG|io_SSGl|"ouM" i| iY _o|
M%_%rGll5 V%rc%i2%J |"G| <G5A  _"iY iY @%cGuY% |"% Gcc%YY Yof|<Gr%,
Gl|"ouM" i| GJJY 2Glu%, iY 2i%<%J @5 YoS% V%oVl%, VGr|iculGrl5 i_ |"%
u_i2%rYi|5 %_2iro_S%_| <"%r% |"%r% iY G 2%r5 "%G25 coSSi|S%_| |o
_%|<or(i_M, GY @%i_M J%2%loV%J i_ |"% <ro_M Jir%c|io_A

Gi2%_ |"G| co_|%x|, fY"}@ J%Ycri@%J |"% %xGSVl%Y J%So_Y|rG|%J GY G Y%| of
i_YulGr i_forSG|io_ M%SYSSP%rY%uY, for %xGSVl%, off%rY _ic%l5 li_(%J
i_forSG|io_, @u| <oulJ @% 2%r5 Jifficul| |o i_|%MrG|% <i|" o|"%r
JG|G@GY%Y, |"G| iY, |o li_( |oM%|"%r Y%GSl%YYl5 <i|" o|"%r Yourc% fil%Y
froS o|"%r Yourc%YA  c| r%Y%S@l%Y G_ iYlG_J, G_J i_ |"iY r%YV%c| iY
YiSilGr |o _uS%rouY Y|G_JSGlo_% VroP%c|Y |"G| Gr% @GY%J o_ 2iJ%oJiYcY,
|"G| iY, o_ |"% Yi_Ml%S<or(Y|G|io_ co_c%V|A

AY Yc"olGrY"iV %2ol2%Y i_ G _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|, |"% VGrGSou_| _%%J <ill
@% |o li_( JG|G@GY%YA  [% SuY| li_( V%rYo_Gl JG|G@GY%Y |o Vu@lic
JG|G@GY%Y, |o MrouV JG|G@GY%Y, i_ fGirl5 Y%GSl%YY <G5YSS<"ic" iY
%x|r%S%l5 Jifficul| i_ |"% %_2iro_S%_|Y u_J%r JiYcuYYio_ <i|" coVi%Y of
JG|G@GY%Y Vrolif%rG|i_M Gll o2%r |"% VlGc%A

_"% _o|io_ of lG5%ri_M GlYo Y|ruc( fY"}@ GY lur(i_M i_ Y%2%rGl of |"%
VroP%c|Y J%So_Y|rG|%JA  S%2%rGl JG|G@GY%Y i_ G Y%_Y% co_Y|i|u|%
i_forSG|io_ Grc"i2%Y <i|"ou| G YiM_ificG_| GSou_| of _G2iMG|io_ @uil| i_A
~JucG|orY, cri|icY, G_J o|"%rY <ill <G_| G lG5%r%J Y|ruc|ur%SSo_% |"G|
J%fi_%Y or li_(Y VG|"Y |"rouM" |"% lG5%rY |o Gllo< uY%rY |o r%Gc"
YV%cific Voi_|YA  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<, lG5%ri_M <ill @%coS% i_cr%GYi_Ml5
_%c%YYGr5, G_J _o| PuY| <i|"i_ G Yi_Ml% r%Yourc% @u| GcroYY r%Yourc%Y
(%AMA, |rGci_M S5|"oloM5 G_J cul|urGl |"%S%Y GcroYY Y%2%rGl clGYYicY
JG|G@GY%Y GY <%ll GY G JG|G@GY% of l%_GiYYG_c% cul|ur%lA  _"iY G@ili|5 |o
orMG_i,% r%Yourc%Y, |o @uilJ |"i_MY ou| of Sul|iVl% o|"%r |"i_MY o_ |"%
_%|<or( or Y%l%c| Vi%c%Y of i|, r%Vr%Y%_|%J for fY"}@ o_% of |"% (%5
GYV%c|Y of _%|<or( i_forSG|io_A

}o_|%_Ji_M |"G| i_forSG|io_ r%uY% co_Y|i|u|%J G_o|"%r YiM_ificG_| iYYu%,
fY"}@ coSS%_J%J |o |"% GuJi%_c%MY G||%_|io_ ProP%c| "~~DS (iA%A, "G|io_Gl
~_Mi_%%ri_M ~JucG|io_ D%li2%r5 S5Y|%SlA  _"iY VroP%c|MY o@P%c|i2% iY |o
VroJuc% G JG|G@GY% of %_Mi_%%ri_M courY%<Gr% GY <%ll GY |"% coSVo_%_|Y
|"G| cG_ @% uY%J |o J%2%loV _%< courY%<Gr%A  c_ G _uS@%r of |"% %xiY|i_M
GVVlicG|io_Y, fY"}@ YGiJ, |"% iYYu% of r%uY% ("o< Suc" o_% cG_ |G(% GVGr|
G_J r%uY% i_ o|"%r GVVlicG|io_Yl <GY _o| @%i_M <%ll co_YiJ%r%JA  @% GlYo
rGiY%J |"% iYYu% of Gc|i2% 2%rYuY VGYYi2% uY%, o_% GYV%c| of <"ic"  iY
"o< Suc" i_forSG|io_ <ill @% SG_iVulG|%J locGll5 @5 uY%rYA  MoY| V%oVl%,
"% GrMu%J, SG5 Jo G li||l% @ro<Yi_M G_J |"%_ <ill <iY" |o Vri_|A  fY"}@
<GY u_c%r|Gi_ "o< |"%Y% r%Yourc%Y <oulJ @% uY%J @5 |"% 2GY| SGPori|5 of
uY%rY i_ |"% _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|A

fY"}@ _%x| YGiJ G f%< <orJY G@ou| rS[i_Jo<Y GY G <G5 of Jiff%r%_|iG|i_M
@%|<%%_ _%|<or( Gcc%YY G_J _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_A  A _uS@%r of |"%
GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J G| |"% [or(Y"oV coulJ @% r%<ri||%_ |o uY% r
GcroYY |"% _%|<or(, Yo |"G| o_% coulJ ru_ |"%S froS G_5 rScGVG@l% J%2ic%S
SG <or(Y|G|io_, G_ r |%rSi_GlSSG_J |rG_YGc| <i|" G JG|G@GY% GcroYY |"%
_%|<or(A  Al|"ouM" |"iY oV%_Y uV Gcc%YY G li||l%, GYYuSi_M o_% "GY %_ouM"
_%|<or( |o "G_Jl% i|, i| Jo%Y _o| Vro2iJ% G_ i_|%rfGc% |o J%2%loV G
VroMrGS |"G| co_2%_i%_|l5 i_|%MrG|%Y i_forSG|io_ froS Sul|iVl% JG|G@GY%YA
r iY G 2i%<i_M |%c"_oloM5 |"G| "GY liSi|YA  c_ G r%Gl Y%_Y%, i| iY PuY| G
MrGV"icGl 2%rYio_ of r%So|% loMSi_ GcroYY |"% _%|<or(A  rS|5V% GVVlicG|io_Y
r%Vr%Y%_| o_l5 o_% Y|%V i_ |"% VroMr%YYio_ |o<GrJY r%Gl Gcc%YYA

fY"}@ _%x| JiYcuYY%J @Grri%rY |o |"% JiY|ri@u|io_ of _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG
i_forSG|io_A  _"% "%Gr| of |"% Vro@l%S iY G lGc( of Y|G_JGrJY |o Vro2iJ%
|"% G@ili|5 for coSVu|%rY |o |Gl( |o %Gc" o|"%r, r%|ri%2% i_forSG|io_,
G_J Y"uffl% i| Grou_J fGirl5 cGYuGll5A  A| |"% SoS%_|, li||l% VroMr%YY iY
@%i_M SGJ% o_ Y|G_JGrJY for _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_2 for %xGSVl%, Vr%Y%_|
Y|G_JGrJY Jo _o| co2%r iSGM%Y, JiMi|Gl 2oic%, G_J JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oA  A
uY%ful |ool (i| of %xc"G_M% forSG|Y for @GYic |%x|Y iY o_l5 _o< @%i_M
GYY%S@l%JA  _"% Y5_c"ro_i,G|io_ of co_|%_| Y|r%GSY (iA%A, Y5_c"ro_i,i_M G
2oic% |rGc( |o G 2iJ%o |rGc(, %Y|G@liY"i_M |%SVorGl r%lG|io_Y @%|<%%_
Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y i_ G Sul|iS%JiG o@P%c|l co_Y|i|u|%Y G_o|"%r iYYu%
for _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG |"G| iY PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o r%c%i2% G||%_|io_A

o_J%rl5i_M _%|<or( Vro|ocolY GlYo _%%J YoS% <or(2 MooJ, r%GlS|iS%
J%li2%r5 Vro|ocolY o_ |"% c_|%r_%| Jo _o| 5%| %xiY|A  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<,
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| i_ |"iY co_|%x| iY |"% _o|io_ of _%|<or(%J JiMi|Gl
o@P%c| cDY, |"% G@ili|5 of o_% o@P%c| o_ |"% _%|<or( |o Voi_| |o G_o|"%r
o@P%c| (or coSVo_%_| |"%r%ofl o_ |"% _%|<or(A  S%riouY @G_J<iJ|" iYYu%Y
GlYo %xiY|A  fY"}@ <GY u_c%r|Gi_ if @illio_S@i|SV%rSY%co_J _%|<or(Y <oulJ
Vro2% Yuffici%_| if _uS%rouY V%oVl% rG_ 2iJ%o i_ VGrGll%lA

fY"}@ co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G_ iYYu% for JG|G@GY% cr%G|orY |o co_YiJ%r,
GY <%ll GY Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y G@ou| <"G| SiM"| co_Y|i|u|% MooJ |riGl
Sul|iS%JiG %xV%riS%_|YA  c_ G _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <orlJ |"% JG|G@GY%
@uilJ%r or Y%r2ic% @uilJ%r (Vu@liY"%rl Jo%Y _o| %x%rciY% |"% YGS%
%x|%_Yi2% co_|rol o2%r |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_2 Y|rG_M%
VroMrGSY "Su_M%" <i|" o_%MY JG|G @%for% |"% uY%r Y%%Y i|A  S%riouY
|"ouM"| SuY| @% Mi2%_ |o <"G| MuGrG_|%%Y i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  PGr|
of |"G| iY r%lG|%J |o <"%r% o_% JrG<Y |"% @ou_JGri%Y Grou_J G _%|<or(%J
i_forSG|io_ Y%r2ic%A  _"iY [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_
cli%_|SY%r2%r coSVu|i_M "GY _o| @%%_ Y|r%YY%J %_ouM" i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic
<orlJ, fY"}@ GrMu%J, |"ouM" coSS%rciGl Y%r2ic% Vro2iJ%rY J%Gl <i|" i|
r%MulGrl5A

}o_c%r_i_M Sul|iS%JiG, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| MooJ Sul|iS%JiG G| |"% SoS%_|
iY "iJ%ouYl5 %xV%_Yi2% |o VroJuc%A  @% r%coSS%_J%J VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
<i|" %i|"%r 2%r5 "iM" YGl% 2Glu%, or Sul|iS%JiG <i|" G 2%r5 lo_M lif%
YVG_, or Sul|iS%JiG |"G| <ill "G2% G 2%r5 @roGJ uYGM% @GY% G_J <"oY%
coY|Y |"%r%for% cG_ @% GSor|i,%J GSo_M lGrM% _uS@%rY of uY%rYA  c_ |"iY
co__%c|io_, "iY|oricGl G_J "uSG_iY|icGll5 ori%_|%J SG|%riGl SG5 @% G MooJ
VlGc% |o Y|Gr|, @%cGuY% i| |%_JY |o "G2% G lo_M%r lif% YVG_ |"G_ Suc" of
|"% Yci%_|ific SG|%riGl, GY <%ll GY G <iJ%r uY%r @GY%A  fY"}@ _o|%J, for
%xGSVl%, |"G| AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 fi|Y SG_5 of |"% cri|%riG ou|li_%JA  @%
r%SGr(%J |"% %x|%_Yi2% JiYcuYYio_ G@ou| @ri_Mi_M |"% c_|%r_%| or |"%
"G|io_Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~JucG|io_ "%|<or( ("l~"l i_|o |"% %Su2 %_2iro_S%_
