
LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,
anything slower than a T-1 speed is impractical.  For example, on a
fifty-six-kilobaud line, it takes three minutes to transfer a
one-megabyte file, if it is not compressed; and this speed assumes ideal
circumstances (no other user contending for network bandwidth).  Thus,
questions of disk access, remote display, and current telephone
connection speed make transmission of megabyte-size images impractical.

BESSER then discussed ways to deal with these large images, for example,
compression and decompression at the user's end.  In this connection, the
issues of how much one is willing to lose in the compression process and
what image quality one needs in the first place are unknown.  But what is
known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a extremely
rudimentary way on the Compuserv and Genie networks and is preparing to
mount them on America On Line.  Although the average user takes over
thirty minutes to download these images (assuming a fairly fast modem),
nevertheless, images have been downloaded 25,000 times.

BESSER concluded his talk with several comments on the business
arrangement between the Smithsonian and Compuserv.  He contended that not
enough is known concerning the value of images.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating digitized photographic collections nearly
impossible except with large organizations like museums * Need for study
to determine quality of images users will tolerate *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief exchange between LESK and BESSER that followed, several
clarifications emerged.

LESK argued that the photographers were far ahead of BESSER:  It is
almost impossible to create such digitized photographic collections
except with large organizations like museums, because all the
photographic agencies have been going crazy about this and will not sign
licensing agreements on any sort of reasonable terms.  LESK had heard
that National Geographic, for example, had tried to buy the right to use
some image in some kind of educational production for $100 per image, but
the photographers will not touch it.  They want accounting and payment
for each use, which cannot be accomplished within the system.  BESSER
responded that a consortium of photographers, headed by a former National
Geographic photographer, had started assembling its own collection of
electronic reproductions of images, with the money going back to the
cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards in a PC through sophisticated
routers and gateways; and communication media range from 2,400-baud
dial-up facilities through 4.5-Mbps backbone links, and eventually to
multigigabit-per-second communication lines), and architecturally, the
components are organized to scale hierarchically from local area networks
to international-scale networks.  Such growth is made possible by
building layers of communication protocols, as BESSER pointed out.
By layering both physically and logically, a sense of scalability is
maintained from local area networks in offices, across campuses, through
bridges, routers, campus backbones, fiber-optic links, etc., up into
regional networks and ultimately into national and international
networks.

LARSEN then illustrated the geometric growth over a two-year period--
through September 1991--of the number of networks that comprise the
Internet.  This growth has been sustained largely by the availability of
three basic functions:  electronic mail, file transfer (ftp), and remote
log-on (telnet).  LARSEN also reviewed the growth in the kind of traffic
that occurs on the network.  Network traffic reflects the joint contributions
of a larger population of users and increasing use per user.  Today one sees
serious applications involving moving images across the network--a rarity
ten years ago.  LARSEN recalled and concurred with BESSER's main point
that the interesting problems occur at the application level.

LARSEN then illustrated a model of a library's roles and functions in a
network environment.  He noted, in particular, the placement of on-line
catalogues onto the network and patrons obtaining access to the library
increasingly through local networks, campus networks, and the Internet.
LARSEN supported LYNCH's earlier suggestion that we need to address
fundamental questions of networked information in order to build
environments that scale in the information sense as well as in the
physical sense.

LARSEN supported the role of the library system as the access point into
the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; slower
development of applications; and glacial development and adoption of
standards.  The challenge is to design and develop each new application
system with network access and scalability in mind.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BROWNRIGG * Access to the Internet cannot be taken for granted * Packet
radio and the development of MELVYL in 1980-81 in the Division of Library
Automation at the University of California  *  Design criteria for packet
radio * A demonstration project in San Diego and future plans * Spread
spectrum * Frequencies at which the radios will run and plans to
reimplement the WAIS server software in the public domain * Need for an
infrastructure of radios that do not move around *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Edwin BROWNRIGG, executive director, Memex Research Institute, first
polled the audience in order to seek out regular users of the Internet as
well as those planning to use it some time in the future.  With nearly
everybody in the room falling into one category or the other, BROWNRIGG
made a point re access, namely that numerous individuals, especially those
who use the Internet every day, take for granted their access to it, the
speeds with which they are connected, and how well it all works.
However, as BROWNRIGG discovered between 1987 and 1989 in Australia,
if one wants access to the Internet but cannot afford it or has some
physical boundary that prevents her or him from gainingM Gcc%YY, i| cG_
@% %x|r%S%l5 fruY|rG|i_MA  @% YuMM%Y|%J |"G| @%cGuY% of %co_oSicY G_J
V"5YicGl @Grri%rY <% <%r% @%Mi__i_M |o cr%G|% G <orlJ of "G2%Y G_J "G2%S_o|Y
i_ |"% Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_, %2%_ i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA

8li["lcGG J%|Gil%J |"% J%2%loVS%_| of M~fVYf i_ GcGJ%Sic 5%Gr u}8DS8u i_
|"% Di2iYio_ of fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_ G| |"% o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG, i_
orJ%r |o u_J%rYcor% |"% iYYu% of Gcc%YY |o |"% Y5Y|%S, <"ic" G| |"%
ou|Y%| <GY %x|r%S%l5 liSi|%JA  c_ Y"or|, |"% VroP%c| _%%J%J |o @uilJ G
_%|<or(, <"ic" G| |"G| |iS% %_|Gil%J uY% of YG|%lli|% |%c"_oloM5, |"G| iY,
Vu||i_M %Gr|" Y|G|io_Y o_ cGSVuY G_J GlYo Gc[uiri_M YoS% |%rr%Y|riGl li_(Y
froS |"% S|G|% of }Glifor_iGMY Sicro<G2% Y5Y|%SA  _"% i_Y|GllG|io_ of
YG|%lli|% li_(Y, "o<%2%r, JiJ _o| Yol2% |"% Vro@l%S (<"ic" Gc|uGll5
forS%J VGr| of G lGrM%r Vro@l%S i_2ol2i_M Voli|icY G_J fi_G_ciGl r%Yourc%YlA
 or <"il% |"% VroP%c| |%GS coulJ M%| G YiM_Gl o_|o G cGSVuY, i| "GJ _o S%G_Y
of JiY|ri@u|i_M |"% YiM_Gl |"rouM"ou| |"% cGSVuYA  _"% Yolu|io_ i_2ol2%J
GJoV|i_M G r%c%_| J%2%loVS%_| i_ <ir%l%YY coSSu_icG|io_ cGll%J VGc(%| rGJio,
<"ic" coS@i_%J |"% @GYic _o|io_ of VGc(%|SY<i|c"i_M <i|" rGJioA  _"% VroP%c|
uY%J |"iY |%c"_oloM5 |o M%| |"% YiM_Gl froS G Voi_| o_ cGSVuY <"%r% i|
cGS% Jo<_, G_ %Gr|" Y|G|io_ for %xGSVl%, i_|o |"% li@rGri%Y, @%cGuY% i|
fou_J |"G| <iri_M |"% li@rGri%Y, %YV%ciGll5 |"% olJ%r SGr@l% @uilJi_MY,
<oulJ coY| J2,DDDSJ5,DDD V%r |%rSi_GlA

8li["lcGG _o|%J |"G|, |%_ 5%GrY GMo, |"% VroP%c| "GJ _%i|"%r |"% Vu@lic
Volic5 _or |"% |%c"_oloM5 |"G| <oulJ "G2% Gllo<%J i| |o uY% VGc(%| rGJio
i_ G_5 S%G_i_Mful <G5A  Si_c% |"%_ Suc" "GJ c"G_M%JA  @% Vroc%%J%J |o
J%|Gil r%Y%Grc" G_J J%2%loVS%_| of |"% |%c"_oloM5, "o< i| iY @%i_M
J%Vlo5%J i_ }Glifor_iG, G_J <"G| Jir%c|io_ "% |"ouM"| i| <oulJ |G(%A
_"% J%YiM_ cri|%riG Gr% |o VroJuc% G "iM"SYV%%J, o_%S|iS%, lo<ScoY|,
"iM"S[uGli|5, Y%cur%, lic%_Y%Sfr%% J%2ic% (VGc(%| rGJiol |"G| o_% cG_
VluM i_ G_J VlG5 |oJG5, forM%| G@ou| i|, G_J "G2% Gcc%YY |o |"% c_|%r_%|A
85 "iM" YV%%J, 8li["lcGG S%G_| u S%MG@5|% G_J uA5 S%MG@5|%YA  _"oY% u_i|Y
"G2% @%%_ @uil|, "% co_|i_u%J, G_J Gr% i_ |"% Vroc%YY of @%i_M
|5V%Sc%r|ifi%J @5 G_ i_J%V%_J%_| u_J%r<ri|i_M lG@orG|or5 Yo |"G| |"%5 cG_
@% |5V%Slic%_Y%J @5 |"%  %J%rGl }oSSu_icG|io_Y }oSSiYYio_A  AY iY |"%
cGY% <i|" ci|i,%_Y @G_J, o_% <ill @% G@l% |o Vurc"GY% G u_i| G_J _o| "G2%
|o <orr5 G@ou| GVVl5i_M for G lic%_Y%A

_"% @GYic iJ%G, 8li["lcGG %lG@orG|%J, iY |o |G(% "iM"SYV%%J rGJio JG|G
|rG_YSiYYio_ G_J cr%G|% G @Gc(@o_% _%|<or( |"G| G| c%r|Gi_ Y|rG|%Mic
Voi_|Y i_ |"% _%|<or( <ill "MG|%<G5" i_|o G S%JiuSSYV%%J VGc(%| rGJio
(iA%A, o_% |"G| ru_Y G| <8Ax (ilo@5|%Yl, Yo |"G| V%r"GVY @5 u}}xSu}}5
V%oVl%, li(% |"oY% i_ |"% GuJi%_c% for |"% Vric% of G V}l coulJ Vurc"GY%
G S%JiuSSYV%%J rGJio for |"% offic% or "oS%, "G2% full _%|<or( co__%c|i2i|5
|o |"% c_|%r_%|, G_J VGr|G(% of Gll i|Y Y%r2ic%Y, <i|" _o _%%J for G_  }}
lic%_Y% G_J _o r%MulGr @ill froS |"% locGl coSSo_ cGrri%rA  8li["lcGG
Vr%Y%_|%J Y%2%rGl J%|GilY of G J%So_Y|rG|io_ VroP%c| curr%_|l5 |G(i_M
VlGc% i_ SG_ Di%Mo G_J J%Ycri@%J VlG_Y, V%_Ji_M fu_Ji_M, |o i_Y|Gll G
fullS@or% _%|<or( i_ |"% SG_  rG_ciYco Gr%GA  _"iY _%|<or( <ill "G2% ,DD
_oJ%Y ru__i_M G| @Gc(@o_% YV%%JY, G_J uDD of |"%Y% _oJ%Y <ill @% li@rGri%Y,
<"ic" i_ |ur_ <ill @% |"% MG|%<G5 Vor|Y |o |"% <8Ax (ilo@5|% rGJioY |"G|
<ill Mi2% co2%rGM% for |"% _%iM"@or"ooJY Yurrou_Ji_M |"% li@rGri%YA

8li["lcGG _%x| %xVlGi_%J PGr| u5A2xA, G _%< rul% <i|"i_ _i|l% xA of |"%
}oJ% of  %J%rGl l%MulG|io_Y %_Gc|%J @5 |"%  }} i_ u}85A  _"iY rul%
c"Gll%_M%J |"% i_JuY|r5, <"ic" "GY o_l5 _o< riY%_ |o |"% occGYio_, |o
@uilJ G rGJio |"G| <oulJ ru_ G| _o Sor% |"G_ o_% <G|| of ou|Vu| Vo<%r G_J
uY% G fGirl5 %xo|ic S%|"oJ of SoJulG|i_M |"% rGJio <G2% cGll%J YVr%GJ
YV%c|ruSA  SVr%GJ YV%c|ruS i_ fGc| V%rSi|Y |"% @uilJi_M of _%|<or(Y Yo
|"G| _uS%rouY JG|G coSSu_icG|io_Y cG_ occur YiSul|G_%ouYl5, <i|"ou|
i_|%rf%ri_M <i|" %Gc" o|"%r, <i|"i_ |"% YGS% <iJ% rGJio c"G__%lA

8li["lcGG %xVlGi_%J |"G| |"% fr%[u%_ci%Y G| <"ic" |"% rGJioY <oulJ ru_
Gr% 2%r5 Y"or| <G2% YiM_GlYA  _"%5 Gr% <%ll G@o2% Y|G_JGrJ Sicro<G2% G_J
rGJGrA  [i|" G rGJio <G2% |"G| YSGll, o_% <G|| @%coS%Y G |r%S%_JouY Vu_c"
V%r @i| G_J |"uY SG(%Y |rG_YSiYYio_ G| r%GYo_G@l% YV%%J VoYYi@l%A  c_
orJ%r |o Si_iSi,% |"% Vo|%_|iGl for co_M%Y|io_, |"% VroP%c| iY
u_J%r|G(i_M |o r%iSVl%S%_| Yof|<Gr% <"ic" "GY @%%_ G2GilG@l% i_ |"%
_%|<or(i_M @uYi_%YY G_J iY |G(%_ for MrG_|%J _o<, for %xGSVl%, _}PYcP,
rou|i_M GlMori|"SY, @riJM%Y, G_J MG|%<G5YA  c_ GJJi|io_, |"% VroP%c|
VlG_Y |o |G(% |"% [AcS Y%r2%r Yof|<Gr% i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi_ G_J
r%iSVl%S%_| i| Yo |"G| o_% cG_ "G2% G [AcS Y%r2%r o_ G MGc i_Y|%GJ of G
o_ix SGc"i_%A  _"% M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|% @%li%2%Y |"G| li@rGri%Y, i_
VGr|iculGr, <ill <G_| |o uY% |"% [AcS Y%r2%rY <i|" VGc(%| rGJioA  _"iY
VroP%c|, <"ic" "GY G |%GS of G@ou| |<%l2% V%oVl%, <ill ru_ |"rouM" u}}<
G_J <ill i_cluJ% |"% uDD li@rGri%Y Glr%GJ5 S%_|io_%J GY <%ll GY o|"%r
Vrof%YYio_GlY Yuc" GY |"oY% i_ |"% S%JicGl Vrof%YYio_, %_Mi_%%ri_M, G_J
lG<A  _"uY, |"% _%%J iY |o cr%G|% G_ i_frGY|ruc|ur% of rGJioY |"G| Jo _o|
So2% Grou_J, <"ic", 8li["lcGG "oV%Y, <ill Yol2% G Vro@l%S _o| o_l5 for
li@rGri%Y @u| for i_Ji2iJuGlY <"o, @5 G_J lGrM% |oJG5, Jo _o| "G2% Gcc%YY
|o |"% c_|%r_%| froS |"%ir "oS%Y G_J offic%YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P ProP%c| oV%rG|i_M fr%[u%_ci%Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M G @ri%f JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ, <"ic" GlYo co_cluJ%J |"% JG5MY
Vroc%%Ji_MY, 8li["lcGG Y|G|%J |"G| |"% VroP%c| <GY oV%rG|i_M i_ four
fr%[u%_ci%YA  _"% Ylo< YV%%J iY oV%rG|i_M G| x<5 S%MG"%r|,, G_J i| <oulJ
lG|%r Mo uV |o }2D S%MG"%r|,A  [i|" |"% "iM"SYV%%J fr%[u%_c5, |"%
o_%SS%MG@5|% rGJioY <ill ru_ G| 2Ax MiMG@i|Y, G_J uA5 <ill ru_ G| 5AAA
A| 5AA, rGi_ cG_ @% G fGc|or, @u| i| <oulJ "G2% |o @% |roVicGl rGi_,
u_li(% <"G| fGllY i_ SoY| VGr|Y of |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cVA  cMAG~ }AP_ol~, _~r_ }AP_ol~, iV~lVc~[ i  _~r_ A"D
             cMAG~ S_ilAG~  ilMA_S

[illiGS @ii_i", 2ic% Vr%YiJ%_| of oV%rG|io_Y, cS"~_, SoJ%rG|%J |"iY Y%YYio_A

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
%~""~Y P  Gc|orY i_flu%_ci_M J%2%loVS%_| of }rP P AJ2G_|GM%Y of uYi_M
JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 2%rYuY V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS P A VriSGr5 MoGl of
}rP2 Vu@liY"i_M c"Gll%_M%Y P }"GrGc|%riY|icY of coVi%Y Vri_|%J P (uGli|5
of YGSVl%Y Gc"i%2%J i_ iSGM% cGV|ur% P S%2%rGl fGc|orY |o @% co_YiJ%r%J
i_ c"ooYi_M YcG__i_M P ~SV"GYiY of }rP o_ |iS%l5 G_J coY|S%ff%c|i2%
VroJuc|io_ of @lGc(SG_JS<"i|% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y P l%Yul|Y of VroJuci_M
SicrofilS froS JiMi|Gl fil%Y P AJ2G_|GM%Y of cr%G|i_M SicrofilS P D%|GilY
co_c%r_i_M VroJuc|io_ P }oY|Y P lol% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 i_ li@rGr5
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A__% %~""~Y, GYYociG|% Jir%c|or, D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J
}o_Y%r2G|io_, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, oV%_%J "%r |Gl( @5 o@Y%r2i_M |"G| |"%
}or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| (}rPl "GY @%%_ MuiJ%J @5 |"% GYYuSV|io_ |"G| |"%
G@ili|5 |o VroJuc% Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y or |o r%VlGc% VGV%r <i|" VGV%r
<oulJ @% iSVor|G_|, G| l%GY| for |"% Vr%Y%_| M%_%rG|io_ of uY%rY G_J
%[uiVS%_|A  S"% J%Ycri@%J |"r%% fGc|orY |"G| i_flu%_c%J J%2%loVS%_| of
|"% VroP%c|u  ul 8%cGuY% |"% VroP%c| "GY %SV"GYi,%J |"% Vr%Y%r2G|io_ of
J%|%riorG|i_M @ri||l% @oo(Y, |"% [uGli|5 of <"G| <GY VroJuc%J "GJ |o @%
Yuffici%_|l5 "iM" |o r%|ur_ G VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| |o |"% Y"%lfA  }rP <GY
o_l5 i_|%r%Y|%J i_ uYi_Mu  2l G Y5Y|%S |"G| <GY coY|S%ff%c|i2%, <"ic"
S%G_| |"G| i| "GJ |o @% coY|ScoSV%|i|i2% <i|" |"% Vroc%YY%Y curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l%, Vri_ciVGll5 V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS, G_J <l _%< or curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l% VroJuc| "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%A

%~""~Y J%Ycri@%J |"% GJ2G_|GM%Y |"G| uYi_M JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 off%rY o2%r
@o|" V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilSu  ul _"% Vo|%_|iGl %xiY|Y |o cr%G|% G "iM"%r
[uGli|5 r%VroJuc|io_ of G J%|%riorG|i_M oriMi_Gl |"G_ co_2%_|io_Gl
liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5A  2l 8%cGuY% G JiMi|Gl iSGM% iY G_ %_coJ%J
r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_, i| cG_ @% r%VroJuc%J GMGi_ G_J GMGi_ <i|" _o r%Yul|i_M
loYY of [uGli|5, GY oVVoY%J |o |"% Yi|uG|io_ <i|" liM"|Sl%_Y Vroc%YY%Y,
i_ <"ic" |"%r% iY JiYc%r_i@l% Jiff%r%_c% @%|<%%_ G Y%co_J G_J G
Yu@Y%[u%_| M%_%rG|io_ of G_ iSGM%A  <l A JiMi|Gl iSGM% cG_ @% SG_iVulG|%J
i_ G _uS@%r of <G5Y |o iSVro2% iSGM% cGV|ur%2 for %xGSVl%, r%rox "GY
J%2%loV%J G <i_Jo<i_M GVVlicG|io_ |"G| %_G@l%Y o_% |o cGV|ur% G VGM%
co_|Gi_i_M @o|" |%x| G_J illuY|rG|io_Y i_ G SG__%r |"G| oV|iSi,%Y |"%
r%VroJuc|io_ of @o|"A  ([i|" liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5, o_% SuY| c"ooY% <"ic"
|o oV|iSi,%, |%x| or |"% illuY|rG|io_2 i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SicrofilSi_M, |"%
curr%_| VrGc|ic% iY |o Y"oo| G_ illuY|rG|%J VGM% |<ic%, o_c% |o "iM"liM"|
|"% |%x| G_J |"% Y%co_J |iS% |o Vro2iJ% |"% @%Y| cGV|ur% for |"%
illuY|rG|io_Al  xl A JiMi|Gl iSGM% cG_ GlYo @% %Ji|%J, J%_Yi|5 l%2%lY
GJPuY|%J |o r%So2% u_J%rli_i_M G_J Y|Gi_Y, G_J |o i_cr%GY% l%Mi@ili|5 for
fGi_| JocuS%_|YA  5l i_SYcr%%_ i_YV%c|io_ cG_ |G(% VlGc% G| |"% |iS% of
i_i|iGl Y%|uV G_J GJPuY|S%_|Y SGJ% Vrior |o YcG__i_M, fGc|orY |"G|
Yu@Y|G_|iGll5 r%Juc% |"% _uS@%r of r%|G(%Y r%[uir%J i_ [uGli|5 co_|rolA

A VriSGr5 MoGl of }rP "GY @%%_ |o %2GluG|% |"% VGV%r ou|Vu| Vri_|%J o_
|"% r%rox Docu_%c", G "iM"SYV%%J Vri_|%r |"G| VroJuc%Y ,DDSJVi VGM%Y froS
YcG__%J iSGM%Y G| G rG|% of u<5 VGM%Y G Si_u|%A  %~""~Y r%cou_|%J Y%2%rGl
Vu@liY"i_M c"Gll%_M%Y |o r%Vr%Y%_| fGi|"ful G_J l%Mi@l% r%VroJuc|io_Y of
|"% oriMi_GlY |"G| |"% ,DDSJVi coV5 for |"% SoY| VGr| Yucc%YYfull5
cGV|ur%JA   or %xGSVl%, SG_5 of |"% J%|%riorG|i_M 2oluS%Y i_ |"% VroP%c|
<%r% "%G2il5 illuY|rG|%J <i|" fi_% li_% JrG<i_MY or "Glf|o_%Y or cGS% i_
lG_MuGM%Y Yuc" GY JGVG_%Y%, i_ <"ic" |"% @uilJuV of c"GrGc|%rY coSVriY%J
of 2Gr5i_M Y|ro(%Y iY Jifficul| |o r%VroJuc% G| lo<%r r%Yolu|io_Y2 G
YurVriYi_M _uS@%r of |"%S cGS% <i|" G__o|G|io_Y G_J SG|"%SG|icGl
forSulGY, <"ic" i| <GY cri|icGl |o @% G@l% |o JuVlicG|% %xGc|l5A

%~""~Y _o|%J |"G| ul |"% coVi%Y Gr% @%i_M Vri_|%J o_ VGV%r |"G| S%%|Y |"%
A"Sc Y|G_JGrJY for V%rforSG_c%, 2l |"% Docu_%c" Vri_|%r S%%|Y |"% SGc"i_%
G_J |o_%r r%[uir%S%_|Y for VroV%r GJ"%Yio_ of Vri_| |o VGM%, GY J%Ycri@%J
@5 |"% "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y, G_J |"uY <l VGV%r VroJuc| iY co_YiJ%r%J |o @%
|"% Grc"i2Gl %[ui2Gl%_| of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ V"o|ocoV5A

%~""~Y |"%_ JiYcuYY%J Y%2%rGl YGSVl%Y of |"% [uGli|5 Gc"i%2%J i_ |"%
VroP%c| |"G| "GJ @%%_ JiY|ri@u|%J i_ G "G_Jou|, for %xGSVl%, G coV5 of G
Vri_|So_SJ%SG_J 2%rYio_ of |"% u}uu l%%J l%c|ur% o_ |"% Y|%GS |ur@i_%,
<"ic" co_|Gi_Y "Glf|o_%Y, li_% JrG<i_MY, G_J illuY|rG|io_Y %S@%JJ%J i_
|%x|2 |"% firY| four looY% VGM%Y i_ |"% 2oluS% coSVGr%J |"% cGV|ur%
cGVG@ili|i%Y of YcG__i_M |o V"o|ocoV5 for G Y|G_JGrJ |%Y| |GrM%|, |"%
c~~~ Y|G_JGrJ u,AA u}8A |%Y| c"Gr|A  c_ Gll i_Y|G_c%Y YcG__i_M Vro2%J
YuV%rior |o V"o|ocoV5, |"ouM" o_l5 YliM"|l5 Sor% Yo i_ o_%A

}o_c%Ji_M |"% YiSVliY|ic _G|ur% of "%r r%2i%< of |"% [uGli|5 of YcG__i_M
|o V"o|ocoV5, %~""~Y J%Ycri@%J i| GY o_% r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_ of |"% (i_JY of
Y%||i_MY |"G| coulJ @% uY%J <i|" YcG__i_M cGVG@ili|i%Y o_ |"% %[uiVS%_|
}rP uY%YA  %~""~Y GlYo Voi_|%J ou| |"G| }rP i_2%Y|iMG|%J |"% [uGli|5
Gc"i%2%J <i|" @i_Gr5 YcG__i_M o_l5, G_J _o|%J |"% Mr%G| VroSiY% i_ MrG5
YcGl% G_J color YcG__i_M, <"oY% GJ2G_|GM%Y G_J JiYGJ2G_|GM%Y _%%J |o @%
%xGSi_%JA  S"% GrMu%J fur|"%r |"G| YcG__i_M r%Yolu|io_Y G_J fil% forSG|Y
cG_ r%Vr%Y%_| G coSVl%x |rGJ%Soff @%|<%%_ |"% |iS% i| |G(%Y |o cGV|ur%
SG|%riGl, fil% Yi,%, fiJ%li|5 |o |"% oriMi_Gl, G_J o_SYcr%%_ JiYVlG52 G_J
Vri_|i_M G_J %[uiVS%_| G2GilG@ili|5A  All |"%Y% fGc|orY SuY| @% |G(%_
i_|o co_YiJ%rG|io_A

}rP VlGc%J VriSGr5 %SV"GYiY o_ |"% VroJuc|io_ i_ G |iS%l5 G_J
coY|S%ff%c|i2% SG__%r of Vri_|%J fGcYiSil%Y |"G| co_YiY|%J lGrM%l5 of
@lGc(SG_JS<"i|% |%x|A  [i|" @i_Gr5 YcG__i_M, lGrM% fil%Y SG5 @%
coSVr%YY%J %ffici%_|l5 G_J i_ G loYYl%YY SG__%r (iA%A, _o JG|G iY loY| i_
|"% Vroc%YY of coSVr%YYi_M [G_J J%coSVr%YYi_Mr G_ iSGM%SS|"% %xGc|
@i|Sr%Vr%Y%_|G|io_ iY SGi_|Gi_%Jl uYi_M GrouV x }}c__ (iA%A, |"%  r%_c"
Gcro_5S for c_|%r_G|io_Gl }o_Yul|G|i2% }oSSi||%% for _%l%MrGV" G_J
_%l%V"o_%l coSVr%YYio_A  }rP <GY M%||i_M coSVr%YYio_ rG|ioY of G@ou|
for|5 |o o_%A  GrG5SYcGl% coSVr%YYio_, <"ic" VriSGril5 uY%Y JP~G, iY Suc"
l%YY %co_oSicGl G_J cG_ r%Vr%Y%_| G loYY5 coSVr%YYio_ (iA%A, _o|
loYYl%YYl, Yo |"G| GY o_% coSVr%YY%Y G_J J%coSVr%YY%Y, |"% illuY|rG|io_
iY Yu@|l5 c"G_M%JA  ["il% @i_Gr5 fil%Y VroJuc% G "iM"S[uGli|5 Vri_|%J
2%rYio_, i| GVV%GrY ul |"G| o|"%r coS@i_G|io_Y of YVG|iGl r%Yolu|io_ <i|"
MrG5 G_JYor color "olJ Mr%G| VroSiY% GY <%ll, G_J 2l |"G| MrG5 YcGl% cG_
r%Vr%Y%_| G |r%S%_JouY GJ2G_|GM% for o_SYcr%%_ 2i%<i_MA  _"% [uGli|5
GYYociG|%J <i|" @i_Gr5 G_J MrG5 YcGl% GlYo J%V%_JY o_ |"% %[uiVS%_| uY%JA
 or i_Y|G_c%, @i_Gr5 YcG__i_M VroJuc%Y G Suc" @%||%r coV5 o_ G @i_Gr5
Vri_|%rA

ASo_M }rPMY fi_Ji_MY co_c%r_i_M |"% VroJuc|io_ of SicrofilS froS JiMi|Gl
fil%Y, %~""~Y r%Vor|%J |"G| |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y for |"% YGS% l%%J l%c|ur%
<%r% uY%J |o VroJuc% YGSVl% filS uYi_M G_ %l%c|ro_ @%GS r%corJ%rA  _"%
r%Yul|i_M filS <GY fGi|"ful |o |"% iSGM% cGV|ur% of |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y,
G_J <"il% }rP f%l| |"G| |"% |%x| G_J iSGM% VGM%Y r%Vr%Y%_|%J i_ |"% l%%J
l%c|ur% <%r% YuV%rior |o |"G| of |"% liM"|Sl%_Y filS, |"% r%Yolu|io_
r%GJi_MY for |"% ,DD JVi <%r% _o| GY "iM" GY Y|G_JGrJ SicrofilSi_MA
%~""~Y GrMu%J |"G| |"% Y|G_JGrJY J%fi_%J for liM"|Sl%_Y |%c"_oloM5 Gr%
_o| |o|Gll5 |rG_Yf%rG@l% |o G JiMi|Gl %_2iro_S%_|A  Mor%o2%r, |"%5 Gr%
@GY%J o_ J%fi_i|io_ of [uGli|5 for G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ coV5A  Al|"ouM" SG(i_M
|"iY cGY% <ill Vro2% |o @% G lo_M, uV"ill Y|ruMMl%, }rP VlG_Y |o co_|i_u%
|o i_2%Y|iMG|% |"% iYYu% o2%r |"% courY% of |"% _%x| 5%GrA

%~""~Y co_cluJ%J |"iY Vor|io_ of "%r |Gl( <i|" G JiYcuYYio_ of |"%
GJ2G_|GM%Y of cr%G|i_M filSu  i| cG_ Y%r2% GY G VriSGr5 @Gc(uV G_J GY G
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ SGY|%r |o |"% JiMi|Gl fil%2 i| coulJ |"%_ @%coS% |"% Vri_|
or VroJuc|io_ SGY|%r G_J Y%r2ic% coVi%Y coulJ @% VGV%r, filS, oV|icGl
JiY(Y, SGM_%|ic S%JiG, or o_SYcr%%_ JiYVlG5A

 i_Gll5, %~""~Y Vr%Y%_|%J J%|GilY r% VroJuc|io_u

     P D%2%loVS%_| G_J |%Y|i_M of G SoJ%rG|%l5S"iM" r%Yolu|io_ VroJuc|io_
     YcG__i_M <or(Y|G|io_ r%Vr%Y%_|%J G |"irJ MoGl of }rP2 |o JG|%, u,DDD
     2oluS%Y "G2% @%%_ YcG__%J, or G@ou| <DD,DDD iSGM%YA

     P _"% r%Yul|i_M JiMi|Gl fil%Y Gr% Y|or%J G_J uY%J |o VroJuc%
     "GrJScoV5 r%VlGc%S%_|Y for |"% oriMi_GlY G_J GJJi|io_Gl Vri_|Y o_
     J%SG_J2 Gl|"ouM" |"% i_i|iGl coY|Y Gr% "iM", YcG__i_M |%c"_oloM5
     off%rY G_ GfforJG@l% S%G_Y for r%forSG||i_M @ri||l% SG|%riGlA

     P A |%c"_iciG_ i_ VroJuc|io_ SoJ% cG_ YcG_ <DD VGM%Y V%r "our <"%_
     V%rforSi_M Yi_Ml%SY"%%| YcG__i_M, <"ic" iY G _%c%YYi|5 <"%_ <or(i_M
     <i|" |rul5 @ri||l% VGV%r2 |"iY fiMur% iY %xV%c|%J |o i_cr%GY%
     YiM_ificG_|l5 <i|" Yu@Y%[u%_| i|%rG|io_Y of |"% Yof|<Gr% froS r%rox2
     G |"r%%SSo_|" |iS%SG_JScoY| Y|uJ5 of YcG__i_M fou_J |"G| |"% G2%rGM%
     <DDSVGM% @oo( <oulJ |G(% G@ou| G_ "our G_J for|5 Si_u|%Y |o YcG_
     (|"iY fiMur% i_cluJ%J |"% |iS% for Y%|uV, <"ic" i_2ol2%Y (%5i_M i_
     VriSGr5 @i@lioMrGV"ic JG|G, Moi_M i_|o [uGli|5 co_|rol SoJ% |o
     J%fi_% VGM% Yi,%, %Y|G@liY"i_M fro_|S|oS@Gc( r%MiY|rG|io_, G_J
     YcG__i_M YGSVl% VGM%Y |o iJ%_|if5 G J%fGul| rG_M% of Y%||i_MY for
     |"% %_|ir% @oo(SSfu_c|io_Y _o| JiYYiSilGr |o |"oY% V%rforS%J @5
     filS%rY or |"oY% Vr%VGri_M G @oo( for V"o|ocoV5lA

     P _"% fi_Gl Y|%V i_ |"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY i_2ol2%J r%YcG_Y, <"ic"
     "GVVil5 <%r% f%< G_J fGr @%|<%%_, r%Vr%Y%_|i_M <%ll u_J%r u V%rc%_|
     of |"% |o|Gl VGM%Y YcG__%JA

c_ GJJi|io_ |o |%c"_iciG_ |iS%, }rP coY|%J ou| %[uiVS%_|, GSor|i,%J o2%r
four 5%GrY, |"% coY| of Y|ori_M G_J r%fr%Y"i_M |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y %2%r5
four 5%GrY, G_J |"% coY| of Vri_|i_M G_J @i_Ji_M, @oo(Sclo|" @i_Ji_M, G
VGV%r r%VroJuc|io_A  _"% |o|Gl GSou_|%J |o G li||l% u_J%r J,5 V%r Yi_Ml%
<DDSVGM% 2oluS%, <i|" <D V%rc%_| o2%r"%GJ i_cluJ%JSSG fiMur% coSV%|i|i2%
<i|" |"% Vric%Y curr%_|l5 c"GrM%J @5 V"o|ocoV5 2%_JorYA

if courY%, <i|" YcG__i_M, i_ GJJi|io_ |o |"% VGV%r fGcYiSil%, o_% iY l%f|
<i|" G JiMi|Gl fil% froS <"ic" Yu@Y%[u%_| coVi%Y of |"% @oo( cG_ @%
VroJuc%J for G frGc|io_ of |"% coY| of V"o|ocoV5, <i|" r%GJ%rY GfforJ%J
c"oic%Y i_ |"% forS of |"%Y% coVi%YA

%~""~Y co_cluJ%J |"G| JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 off%rY G_ %l%c|ro_ic S%G_Y for G
li@rGr5 Vr%Y%r2G|io_ %ffor| |o VG5 for i|Y%lfA  cf G @ri||l%S@oo( VroMrGS
i_cluJ%J |"% S%G_Y of JiYY%Si_G|i_M r%Vri_|Y of @oo(Y |"G| Gr% i_ J%SG_J
@5 li@rGri%Y G_J r%Y%Grc"%rY Gli(%, |"% i_i|iGl i_2%Y|S%_| i_ cGV|ur%
coulJ @% r%co2%r%J G_J uY%J |o Vr%Y%r2% GJJi|io_Gl @u| l%YY VoVulGr
@oo(YA  S"% JiYcloY%J |"G| G_ %co_oSic SoJ%l for G Y%lfSYuY|Gi_i_M
VroMrGS coulJ @% J%2%loV%J for }rPMY r%Vor| |o |"% }oSSiYYio_ o_
Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY (}PAlA

%~""~Y Y|r%YY%J |"G| |"% focuY of }rP "GY @%%_ o_ o@|Gi_i_M "iM" [uGli|5
i_ G VroJuc|io_ %_2iro_S%_|A  _"% uY% of JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 iY 2i%<%J GY
G_ GfforJG@l% Gl|%r_G|i2% |o o|"%r r%forSG||i_M oV|io_YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
A"Dl~ P i2%r2i%< G_J "iY|or5 of "A_DP P VGriouY GMricul|urGl }DSliM
VroJuc|Y cr%G|%J i_"ouY% G_J @5 Y%r2ic% @ur%GuY P Pilo| VroP%c| o_
c_|%r_%| |rG_YSiYYio_ P AJJi|io_Gl VroJuc|Y i_ VroMr%YY P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

PGS%lG A"Dl~, GYYociG|% Jir%c|or for Gu|oSG|io_, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl
_%x| DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS ("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5 ("Afl,
Vr%Y%_|%J G_ o2%r2i%< of "A_DP, <"ic" "GY @%%_ u_J%r<G5 G| "Af |"% lGY|
four 5%GrY, @%for% JuJi|" |cDAl JiYcuYY%J |"% |%c"_icGl J%|GilYA  A"Dl~
J%fi_%J GMricul|urGl i_forSG|io_ GY G @roGJ rG_M% of SG|%riGl Moi_M froS
@GYic G_J GVVli%J r%Y%Grc" i_ |"% "GrJ Yci%_c%Y |o |"% o_%SVGM% VGSV"l%|Y
|"G| Gr% JiY|ri@u|%J @5 |"% cooV%rG|i2% Y|G|% %x|%_Yio_ Y%r2ic%Y o_ Yuc"
|"i_MY GY "o< |o Mro< @lu%@%rri%YA

"A_DP @%MG_ i_ lG|% u}8, <i|" G S%%|i_M of r%Vr%Y%_|G|i2%Y froS |"%
lG_JSMrG_| li@rGr5 coSSu_i|5 |o J%Gl <i|" |"% iYYu% of %l%c|ro_ic
i_forSG|io_A  "Af G_J for|5Sfi2% of |"%Y% li@rGri%Y @G_J%J |oM%|"%r |o
%Y|G@liY" |"iY VroP%c|SS|o %2GluG|% |"% |%c"_oloM5 for co_2%r|i_M <"G|
<%r% |"%_ Yourc% JocuS%_|Y i_ VGV%r forS i_|o %l%c|ro_ic forS, |o Vro2iJ%
Gcc%YY |o |"G| JiMi|Gl i_forSG|io_, G_J |"%_ |o JiY|ri@u|% i|A
DiY|ri@u|i_M |"G| SG|%riGl |o |"% coSSu_i|5SS|"% u_i2%rYi|5 coSSu_i|5 GY
<%ll GY |"% %x|%_Yio_ Y%r2ic% coSSu_i|5, Vo|%_|iGll5 Jo<_ |o |"% cou_|5
l%2%lSSco_Y|i|u|%J |"% MrouVMY c"i%f co_c%r_A

Si_c% JG_uGr5 u}88 (<"%_ |"% SicrocoSVu|%rS@GY%J YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S <GY
i_Y|Gll%J G| "Afl, "A_DP "GY Jo_% G 2Gri%|5 of |"i_MY, co_c%r_i_M <"ic"
|cDAl <oulJ Vro2iJ% fur|"%r J%|GilYA   or %xGSVl%, |"% firY| |%c"_oloM5
co_YiJ%r%J i_ |"% VroP%c|MY JiYcuYYio_ V"GY% <GY JiMi|Gl 2iJ%oJiYc, <"ic"
i_JicG|%Y "o< lo_M GMo i| <GY co_c%i2%JA

i2%r |"% four 5%GrY of |"iY VroP%c|, four Y%VGrG|% }DSliM VroJuc|Y o_
four Jiff%r%_| GMricul|urGl |oVicY <%r% cr%G|%J, |<o G| G
YcG__i_MSG_JSi}l Y|G|io_ i_Y|Gll%J G| "Af, G_J |<o @5 Y%r2ic% @ur%GuYA
_"uY, "A_DP "GY MGi_%J coSVGrG|i2% i_forSG|io_ i_ |%rSY of |"oY% r%lG|i2%
coY|YA  ~Gc" of |"%Y% VroJuc|Y co_|Gi_%J |"% full AS}cc |%x| GY <%ll GY
VGM% iSGM%Y of |"% SG|%riGl, or @%|<%%_ x,DDD G_J ,,DDD VGM%Y of SG|%riGl
o_ |"%Y% JiY(YA  _oVicY i_cluJ%J G[uGcul|ur%, fooJ, GMricul|ur% G_J
Yci%_c% (iA%A, i_|%r_G|io_Gl GMricul|ur% G_J r%Y%Grc"l, GciJ rGi_, G_J
AM%_| irG_M%, <"ic" <GY |"% fi_Gl VroJuc| JiY|ri@u|%J (GVVroxiSG|%l5
%iM"|%%_ So_|"Y @%for% |"% [or(Y"oVlA

_"% |"irJ V"GY% of "A_DP focuY%J o_ J%li2%r5 S%c"G_iYSY o|"%r |"G_
}DSliMA  A| |"% YuMM%Y|io_ of }lifforJ fY"}@, <"o <GY G |%c"_icGl
co_Yul|G_| |o |"% VroP%c| G| |"iY Voi_|, "A_DP @%cGS% i_2ol2%J <i|" |"%
c_|%r_%| G_J i_i|iG|%J G VroP%c| <i|" |"% "%lV of "or|" }Groli_G S|G|%
o_i2%rYi|5, i_ <"ic" four|%%_ of |"% lG_JSMrG_| u_i2%rYi|5 li@rGri%Y Gr%
|rG_YSi||i_M JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y o2%r |"% c_|%r_%| i_ r%YVo_Y% |o i_|%rli@rGr5
loG_ r%[u%Y|YSSG |oVic for G_o|"%r S%%|i_MA  A| |"iY Voi_|, |"% Vilo|
VroP%c| "GJ @%%_ coSVl%|%J for G@ou| G 5%Gr G_J |"% fi_Gl r%Vor| <oulJ @%
G2GilG@l% Y"or|l5 Gf|%r |"% [or(Y"oVA  c_ |"% S%G_|iS%, |"% VroP%c|MY
Yucc%YY "GJ l%J |o i|Y %x|%_Yio_A  (A"Dl~ _o|%J |"G| o_% of |"% firY|
|"i_MY Jo_% u_J%r |"% VroMrGS |i|l% <GY |o Y%l%c| G r%|ri%2Gl VGc(GM% |o
uY% <i|" Yu@Y%[u%_| VroJuc|Y2 [i_Jo<Y P%rYo_Gl fi@rGriG_ <GY |"% VGc(GM%
of c"oic% Gf|%r G l%_M|"5 %2GluG|io_Al

_"r%% GJJi|io_Gl VroJuc|Y "GJ @%%_ VlG__%J G_J <%r% i_ VroMr%YYu

     ul A_ GrrG_M%S%_| <i|" |"% AS%ricG_ Soci%|5 of AMro_oS5SSG
     Vrof%YYio_Gl Yoci%|5 |"G| "GY Vu@liY"%J |"% AMro_oS5 Jour_Gl Yi_c%
     G@ou| u}D8SS|o YcG_ G_J cr%G|% @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y of i|Y Pour_GlA
     ASA MrG_|%J V%rSiYYio_ firY| |o Vu| G_J |"%_ |o JiY|ri@u|% |"iY
     SG|%riGl i_ %l%c|ro_ic forS, |o "olJ i| G| "Af, G_J |o uY% |"%Y%
     %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%Y GY G S%c"G_iYS |o J%li2%r JocuS%_|Y or Vri_| ou|
     SG|%riGl for VG|ro_Y, GSo_M o|"%r uY%YA  ~ff%c|i2%l5, "Af "GY |"%
     riM"| |o uY% |"iY SG|%riGl i_ YuVVor| of i|Y VroMrGSA
     (SiM_ificG_|l5, |"iY GrrG_M%S%_| off%rY G Vo|%_|iGl cooV%rG|i2%
     SoJ%l for <or(i_M <i|" o|"%r Vrof%YYio_Gl Yoci%|i%Y i_ GMricul|ur%
     |o |r5 |o Jo |"% YGS% |"i_MSSVu| |"% Pour_GlY of VGr|iculGr i_|%r%Y|
     |o GMricul|ur% r%Y%Grc" i_|o %l%c|ro_ic forSAl

     2l A_ %x|%_Yio_ of |"% %Grli%r VroJuc| o_ G[uGcul|ur%A

     <l _"% G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r PGV%rYSSG Poi_| VroP%c| <i|"
     _uY(%M%% o_i2%rYi|5 |o YcG_ G_J co_2%r| froS SicrofilS YoS% <,5DD
     iSGM%Y of }Gr2%rMY VGV%rY, l%||%rY, G_J JrG<i_MYA

c| <GY G_|iciVG|%J |"G| Gll of |"%Y% VroJuc|Y <oulJ GVV%Gr _o Sor% |"G_
Yix So_|"Y Gf|%r |"% [or(Y"oVA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
|cDAl P (A Y%VGrG|% Gr%_G for YcG__i_Ml P S|%VY i_ cr%G|i_M G JG|G@GY% P
cSGM% cGV|ur%, <i|" G_J <i|"ou| V%rforSi_M i}l P %%5i_M i_ |rGc(i_M JG|G
P ScG__i_M, <i|" %l%c|ro_ic G_J SG_uGl |rGc(i_M P AJPuY|S%_|Y Juri_M
YcG__i_M Vroc%YY P ScG__i_M r%Yolu|io_Y P }oSVr%YYio_ P D%SY(%<i_M G_J
fil|%ri_M P cSGM% cGV|ur% froS SicroforSu  |"% VGV%rY G_J l%||%rY of
G%orM% [GY"i_M|o_ }Gr2%r P ~[uiVS%_| uY%J for G YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

JuJi|" |cDAl, coorJi_G|or, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x| DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS
("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5 ("Afl, illuY|rG|%J |"% |%c"_icGl
J%|GilY of "A_DP, i_cluJi_M "%r VriSGr5 r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, YcG__i_M G_
