
(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard  coSVr%YYio_ for _orSGl @lGc(SG_JS<"i|%
iSGM%Y, JP~G for MrG5 YcGl% or colorA   |cDAl r%coSS%_J%J ul uYi_M |"%
Y|G_JGrJ coSVr%YYio_Y, VGr|iculGrl5 if o_% G||%SV|Y |o SG(% SG|%riGl
G2GilG@l% G_J |o Gllo< uY%rY |o Jo<_loGJ iSGM%Y G_J r%uY% |"%S froS
}DSliMY2 G_J 2l SGi_|Gi_i_M |"% G@ili|5 |o ou|Vu| G_ u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%,
@%cGuY% i_ iSGM% %xc"G_M% u_coSVr%YY%J iSGM%Y Gr% Sor% li(%l5 |o @% G@l
