loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture,, _%x| }GV|ur%, i2%r2i%< of _%x| G_J
          cSGM% S|orGM%  orSG|YA

          MoJ%rG|oru  [illiGS fA @oo|o_, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_| of iV%rG|io_Y,
             cS"~_

          Al Pri_ciVGl M%|"oJY for cSGM% }GV|ur% of _%x|u
             Dir%c| YcG__i_M
             oY% of SicroforS

          A__% lA %%__%5, AYYiY|G_| Dir%c|or, D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_
             G_J }o_Y%r2G|io_, }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5
          PGS%lG (AJA A_Jr%, AYYociG|% Dir%c|or, Au|oSG|io_, G_J
          JuJi|" AA |iJGr, }oorJi_G|or, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x|
             DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS ("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5
             ("Afl
          Do_GlJ JA [G|%rY, @%GJ, S5Y|%SY iffic%, YGl% o_i2%rYi|5 fi@rGr5

          8l SV%ciGl Pro@l%SYu
             8ou_J 2oluS%Y
             }o_Y%r2G|io_
             l%VroJuci_M Vri_|%J "Glf|o_%Y

          }Grl  l%iYc""Gu%r, }oorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of
             }o_Mr%YY
          G%orM% _"oSG, }"i%f, }oSSu_icG|io_Y ~_Mi_%%ri_M 8rG_c",
             "G|io_Gl fi@rGr5 of M%Jici_% ("fMl

uDu<DS
uuuDD AM  8r%G(

uuuDD AM  S%YYio_ cVA  cSGM% }GV|ur%, _%x| }GV|ur%, i2%r2i%< of _%x| G_J
          cSGM% S|orGM%  orSG|Y (}o_|MJAlA

          }l cSGM% S|G_JGrJY G_J cSVlicG|io_Y for Pr%Y%r2G|io_

          J%G_ 8Gro_GY, S%_ior MG_GM%r, D%VGr|S%_| of S|G_JGrJY G_J
             _%c"_oloM5, AYYociG|io_ for c_forSG|io_ G_J cSGM% MG_GM%S%_|
             (AccMl
          PG|riciG 8G||i_, Pr%YiJ%_|, _"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J
             Acc%YY (}PAl

          Dl _%x| }o_2%rYio_u
             i}l 2YA r%(%5i_M
             S|G_JGrJY of GccurGc5 G_J uY% of iSV%rf%c| |%x|Y
             S%r2ic% @ur%GuY

          S|uGr| [%i@%l, S%_ior l%Y%Grc" SV%ciGliY|, i_li_% }oSVu|%r
             fi@rGr5 }%_|%r, c_cA (i}f}l
          Mic"G%l f%Y(, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or, }oSVu|%r Sci%_c% l%Y%Grc",
             8%llcor%
          lic(5 ~r<G5, AYYociG|% }oorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of
             }o_Mr%YY
          PGS%lG (AJA A_Jr%, AYYociG|% Dir%c|or, Au|oSG|io_, G_J
          JuJi|" AA |iJGr, }oorJi_G|or, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x|
             DiMi|i,i_M ProMrGS ("A_DPl, "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5
             ("Afl

u2u<DS
uu<D PM   fu_c"

uu<D PM   S%YYio_ VA  AVVroGc"%Y |o Pr%VGri_M ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|YA

          DiYcuYYio_ of GVVroGc"%Y |o Y|ruc|uri_M |%x| for |"% coSVu|%r2
          VroY G_J co_Y of |%x| coJi_M, J%YcriV|io_ of S%|"oJY i_
          VrGc|ic%, G_J coSVGriYo_ of |%x|ScoJi_M S%|"oJYA

          MoJ%rG|oru  SuYG_ @oc(%5, Dir%c|or, }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y
             i_ |"% @uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@l, lu|M%rY G_J Pri_c%|o_ o_i2%rYi|i%Y
          DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ
          }AMA SV%r@%rMSMc(u%%_, ~Ji|or, _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~cl,
             o_i2%rYi|5 of clli_oiYS}"icGMo
          ~ric MA }GlGlucG, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|, }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA

<u<DS
xuDD PM   8r%G(

xuDD PM   S%YYio_ VcA  }oV5riM"| cYYu%YA

          MGr5@%|" P%|%rY, Polic5 PlG__i_M AJ2iY%r |o |"% l%MiY|%r of
             }oV5riM"|Y, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY

5uDD PM   S%YYio_ VccA }o_cluYio_A

          G%_%rGl JiYcuYYio_A
          ["G| |oVicY <%r% oSi||%J or Mi2%_ Y"or| Y"rif| |"G| G_5o_%
             <oulJ li(% |o |Gl( G@ou| _o<8
          cY |"%r% G "MrouV" "%r%8  ["G| Y"oulJ |"% MrouV Jo _%x|, if
             G_5|"i_M8  ["G| Y"oulJ |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY Jo _%x|, if
             G_5|"i_M8
          MoJ%rG|oru  ProYY%r GifforJ, Dir%c|or for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY,
             fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY

,uDD PM   AJPour_


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                         AVV%_Jix ccu  A8S_lA}_S


S~SSci" c

A2rG Mc}@~fSi"            or%cGY|i_M |"% oY% of ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y @5
                         SociGl Sci%_c%Y G_J @uSG_i|i%Y Sc"olGrY

_"iY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ %xVlor%Y |"% <G5Y i_ <"ic" %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y Gr% li(%l5
|o @% uY%J @5 |"% _o_SYci%_|ific Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_i|5A  MG_5 of |"%
r%SGr(Y Gr% JrG<_ froS G r%Vor| |"% YV%G(%r coGu|"or%J <i|" J%ff
lo|"%_@%rM, G coSVu|%r Yci%_|iY| G| _"% lA"D }orVorG|io_A

_"% YV%G(%r GYY%YY%Y ul curr%_| Yc"olGrl5 uY% of i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5
G_J 2l |"% (%5 |r%_JY i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 SoY| r%l%2G_| |o |"%
r%Y%Grc" Vroc%YY, i_ orJ%r |o Vr%Jic| "o< YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY Gr% GV| |o uY% %l%c|ro_ic |%x|YA  c_ i_|roJuci_M |"% |oVic,
curr%_| uY% of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y iY %xVlor%J @roGJl5 <i|"i_ |"% co_|%x| of
Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A   roS |"% V%rYV%c|i2% of Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_, |"% <or( of "uSG_i|i%Y G_J YociGl Yci%_c%Y Yc"olGrY
i_2ol2%Y fi2% Vroc%YY%Yu  ul iJ%_|ificG|io_ of Yourc%Y, 2l coSSu_icG|io_
<i|" coll%GMu%Y, <l i_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY of JG|G, xl JiYY%Si_G|io_
of r%Y%Grc" fi_Ji_MY, G_J 5l curriculuS J%2%loVS%_| G_J i_Y|ruc|io_A  _"%
%x|%_| |o <"ic" coSVu|G|io_ curr%_|l5 V%rS%G|%Y GYV%c|Y of Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_ r%Vr%Y%_|Y G 2iG@l% i_JicG|or of |"% VroYV%c|Y for
%l%c|ro_ic |%x|YA

_"% JiYcuYYio_ of curr%_| VrGc|ic% iY @GlG_c%J @5 G_ G_Gl5YiY of (%5
|r%_JY i_ |"% Yc"olGrl5 uY% of i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5A  _"%Y% i_cluJ% |"%
|r%_JY |o<GrJ %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M G_J co__%c|i2i|5, <"ic" Vro2iJ% G
frGS%<or( for for%cGY|i_M |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y |"rouM" |"iY
Sill%__iuSA  _"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_ co_cluJ%Y <i|" G YuSSGr5 of |"% <G5Y i_
<"ic" |"% _o_Yci%_|ific Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_i|5 cG_ @% %xV%c|%J |o uY%
%l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y, G_J |"% iSVlicG|io_Y of |"G| uY% for i_forSG|io_
Vro2iJ%rYA

SuYG_ V~}}cA G_J JoG__%  l~~MA"    ~l%c|ro_ic Arc"i2%Y for |"% Pu@licu
                                   oY% of AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 i_ Pu@lic G_J
                                   Sc"ool fi@rGri%Y

_"iY Poi_| JiYcuYYio_ focuY%Y o_ _o_Yc"olGrl5 GVVlicG|io_Y of %l%c|ro_ic
li@rGr5 SG|%riGlY, YV%cificGll5 GJJr%YYi_M uY% of |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 (AMl VroMrGS i_ G YSGll _uS@%r of Vu@lic G_J Yc"ool
li@rGri%Y |"rouM"ou| |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA  AM co_YiY|Y of Y%l%c|%J fi@rGr5
of }o_Mr%YY VriSGr5 Grc"i2Gl SG|%riGlY, Y|or%J o_ oV|icGl S%JiG
(}DSliMY2iJ%oJiYcl, G_J Vr%Y%_|%J <i|" li||l% or _o %Ji|i_MA  MG_5
coll%c|io_Y Gr% GccoSVG_i%J @5 %l%c|ro_ic i_|roJuc|io_Y G_J uY%rMY MuiJ%Y
off%ri_M @Gc(Mrou_J i_forSG|io_ G_J "iY|oricGl co_|%x|A  }oll%c|io_Y
r%Vr%Y%_| G 2Gri%|5 of forSG|Y i_cluJi_M V"o|oMrGV"Y, MrGV"ic Gr|Y,
So|io_ Vic|ur%Y, r%corJ%J You_J, SuYic, @roGJYiJ%Y G_J SG_uYcriV|Y,
@oo(Y, G_J VGSV"l%|YA

c_ u}}u, |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY @%MG_ G _G|io_<iJ% %2GluG|io_ of AM i_
Jiff%r%_| |5V%Y of i_Y|i|u|io_YA  _%Y| Yi|%Y i_cluJ% Vu@lic li@rGri%Y,
%l%S%_|Gr5 G_J Y%co_JGr5 Yc"ool li@rGri%Y, coll%M% G_J u_i2%rYi|5
li@rGri%Y, Y|G|% li@rGri%Y, G_J YV%ciGl li@rGri%YA  SuYG_ V~}}cA G_J
JoG__%  l~~MA" <ill JiYcuYY |"%ir o@Y%r2G|io_Y o_ |"% uY% of AM @5 |"%
_o_Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_i|5, uYi_M %2iJ%_c% Ml%G_%J froS |"iY o_Moi_M
%2GluG|io_ %ffor|A

V~}}cA <ill coSS%_| o_ |"% o2%rGll MoGlY of |"% %2GluG|io_ VroP%c|, G_J
|"% |5V%Y of Vu@lic G_J Yc"ool li@rGri%Y i_cluJ%J i_ |"iY Y|uJ5A  @%r
coSS%_|Y o_ _o_Yc"olGrl5 uY% of AM <ill focuY o_ |"% Vu@lic li@rGr5 GY G
cul|urGl G_J coSSu_i|5 i_Y|i|u|io_, of|%_ @riJMi_M |"% MGV @%|<%%_ forSGl
G_J i_forSGl %JucG|io_A   l~~MA" <ill JiYcuYY |"% uY% of AM i_ Yc"ool
li@rGri%YA  oY% @5 Y|uJ%_|Y G_J |%Gc"%rY "GY r%2%Gl%J YoS% @roGJ
[u%Y|io_Y G@ou| |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y, GY <%ll GY J%fi_i|%
@%_%fi|Y MGi_%J @5 |"% "_o_Yc"olGrA"  _oVicY <ill i_cluJ% |"% Vro@l%S of
MrGYVi_M co_|%_| G_J co_|%x| i_ G_ %l%c|ro_ic %_2iro_S%_|, |"% Y|uS@li_M
@loc(Y cr%G|%J @5 "_%<" |%c"_oloMi%Y, G_J |"% u_i[u% Y(illY G_J i_|%r%Y|Y
G<G(%_%J |"rouM" uY% of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%YA

S~SSci" cc

~lli MYfi"AS             _"% P%rY%uY ProP%c|u  c_|%rGc|i2% Sourc%Y G_J
                         S|uJi%Y i_ }lGYYicGl Gr%%c%

_"% P%rY%uY ProP%c| (5l "GY PuY| r%l%GY%J P%rY%uY uAD, |"% firY| Vu@licl5
G2GilG@l% 2%rYio_ of i|Y "5V%r|%x|uGl JG|G@GY% of Sul|iS%JiG SG|%riGlY o_
clGYYicGl Gr%%c%A  P%rY%uY iY J%YiM_%J |o @% uY%J @5 G <iJ% GuJi%_c%,
coSVriY%J of r%GJ%rY G| |"% Y|uJ%_| G_J Yc"olGr l%2%lYA  AY Yuc", i| SuY|
@% G@l% |o locG|% i_forSG|io_ uYi_M Jiff%r%_| Y|rG|%Mi%Y, G_J i| SuY|
co_|Gi_ %_ouM" J%|Gil |o Y%r2% |"% Jiff%r%_| _%%JY of i|Y uY%rYA  c_
GJJi|io_, i| SuY| @% J%li2%r%J Yo |"G| i| iY GfforJG@l% |o i|Y |GrM%|
GuJi%_c%A  [_"%Y% Vro@l%SY G_J |"% Yolu|io_Y <% c"oY% Gr% J%Ycri@%J i_
M5lo_GY, "A_ c_|%rfGc% |o }lGYYicGl Gr%%( }i2ili,G|io_," JAScS x<u2,
MGrc" u}}2Ar

c_ orJ%r |o Gc"i%2% i|Y o@P%c|i2%, |"% VroP%c| Y|Gff J%ciJ%J |o SG(% G
co_YciouY Y%VGrG|io_ @%|<%%_ Y%l%c|i_M G_J co_2%r|i_M |%x|uGl, JG|G@GY%,
G_J iSGM% JG|G o_ |"% o_% "G_J, G_J Vu||i_M i| i_|o G J%li2%r5 Y5Y|%S o_
|"% o|"%rA  _"G| <G5, i| iY VoYYi@l% |o cr%G|% |"% %l%c|ro_ic JG|G
<i|"ou| |"i_(i_M G@ou| |"% r%Y|ric|io_Y of |"% J%li2%r5 Y5Y|%SA  [% "G2%
SGJ% G Mr%G| %ffor| |o c"ooY% Y5Y|%SSi_J%V%_J%_| forSG|Y for our JG|G,
G_J |o Vu| GY Suc" |"ouM"| G_J <or( GY VoYYi@l% i_|o Y|ruc|uri_M i| Yo
|"G| |"% |rG_YlG|io_ froS VGV%r |o %l%c|ro_ic forS <ill %_"G_c% |"% 2Glu%
of |"% JG|GA [A JiYcuYYio_ of |"%Y% Yolu|io_Y GY of |<o 5%GrY GMo iY i_
~lli M5lo_GY, Gr%Mor5 }rG_%, %%__%|" Morr%ll, G_J DA "%%l SSi|", "_"%
P%rY%uY ProP%c|u  DG|G i_ |"% ~l%c|ro_ic AM%," i_ Acc%YYi_M A_|i[ui|5u
_"% }oSVu|%ri,G|io_ of }lGYYicGl DG|G@GY%Y, JA SoloSo_ G_J _A [or|"%_
(%JYAl,  o_i2%rYi|5 of Ari,o_G Pr%YY, i_ Vr%YYAr

Muc" of |"% <or( o_ P%rY%uY iY focuY%J o_ coll%c|i_M G_J co_2%r|i_M |"%
JG|G o_ <"ic" |"% VroP%c| iY @GY%JA  A| |"% YGS% |iS%, i| iY _%c%YYGr5 |o
Vro2iJ% S%G_Y of Gcc%YY |o |"% i_forSG|io_, i_ orJ%r |o SG(% i| uYG@l%,
G_J |"%S |o i_2%Y|iMG|% "o< i| iY uY%JA  AY <% l%Gr_ Sor% G@ou| <"G|
Y|uJ%_|Y G_J Yc"olGrY froS Jiff%r%_| @Gc(Mrou_JY Jo <i|" P%rY%uY, <% cG_
GJPuY| our JG|G coll%c|io_, G_J GlYo SoJif5 |"% Y5Y|%S |o GccoSSoJG|%
|"%SA  c_ cr%G|i_M G J%li2%r5 Y5Y|%S for M%_%rGl uY%, <% "G2% |ri%J |o
G2oiJ fG2ori_M G_5 o_% |5V% of uY% @5 Gllo<i_M Sul|iVl% forSY of Gcc%YY
|o G_J _G2iMG|io_ |"rouM" |"% Y5Y|%SA

_"% <G5 |%x| iY "G_Jl%J %x%SVlifi%Y YoS% of |"%Y% Vri_ciVl%YA  All |%x|
i_ P%rY%uY iY |GMM%J uYi_M SGMf, follo<i_M |"% MuiJ%li_%Y of |"% _%x|
~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~clA  _"iY SGr(uV iY uY%J |o i_J%x |"% |%x|, G_J
Vroc%YY i| Yo |"G| i| cG_ @% iSVor|%J i_|o @5V%r}GrJA  "o SGMf SGr(uV
r%SGi_Y i_ |"% |%x| |"G| r%Gc"%Y |"% uY%r, @%cGuY% curr%_|l5 i| <oulJ @%
|oo %xV%_Yi2% |o cr%G|% G Y5Y|%S |"G| Gc|Y o_ SGMf i_ r%Gl |iS%A
@o<%2%r, |"% r%MulGri|5 Vro2iJ%J @5 SGMf iY %YY%_|iGl for 2%rif5i_M |"%
co_|%_| of |"% |%x|Y, G_J Mr%G|l5 YV%%JY Gll |"% Vroc%YYi_M V%rforS%J o_
|"%SA  _"% fGc| |"G| |"% |%x|Y %xiY| i_ SGMf %_Yur%Y |"G| |"%5 <ill @%
r%lG|i2%l5 %GY5 |o Vor| |o Jiff%r%_| "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%, G_J Yo <ill
ou|lGY| |"% curr%_| J%li2%r5 VlG|forSA   i_Gll5, |"% SGMf SGr(uV
i_corVorG|%Y %xiY|i_M cG_o_icGl r%f%r%_c% Y5Y|%SY (c"GV|%r, 2%rY%, li_%,
%|cAl2 i_J%xi_M G_J _G2iMG|io_ Gr% @GY%J o_ |"%Y% f%G|ur%YA  _"iY %_Yur%Y
|"G| |"% YGS% cG_o_icGl r%f%r%_c% <ill Gl<G5Y r%Yol2% |o |"% YGS% Voi_|
<i|"i_ G |%x|, G_J |"G| Gll 2%rYio_Y of our |%x|Y, r%MGrJl%YY of J%li2%r5
VlG|forS (%2%_ VGV%r Vri_|ou|Yl <ill fu_c|io_ |"% YGS% <G5A

c_ orJ%r |o Vro2iJ% |oolY for uY%rY, |"% |%x| iY Vroc%YY%J @5 G
SorV"oloMicGl G_Gl5,%r, G_J |"% r%Yul|Y Gr% Y|or%J i_ G JG|G@GY%A
_oM%|"%r <i|" |"% i_J%x, |"% Gr%%(S~_MliY" f%xico_, G_J |"% i_J%x of Gll
|"% ~_MliY" <orJY i_ |"% J%fi_i|io_Y of |"% l%xico_, |"% SorV"oloMicGl
G_Gl5Y%Y coSVriY% G Y%| of li_MuiY|ic |oolY |"G| Gllo< uY%rY of Gll
l%2%lY |o <or( <i|" |"% |%x|uGl i_forSG|io_, G_J |o GccoSVliY" Jiff%r%_|
|GY(YA   or %xGSVl%, Y|uJ%_|Y <"o r%GJ _o Gr%%( SG5 %xVlor% G co_c%V| GY
i| GVV%GrY i_ Gr%%( |%x|Y @5 uYi_M |"% ~_MliY"SGr%%( i_J%x, G_J |"%_
loo(i_M uV <or(Y i_ |"% |%x|Y G_J |rG_YlG|io_Y, or Yc"olGrY SG5 Jo
J%|Gil%J SorV"oloMicGl Y|uJi%Y of <orJ uY% @5 uYi_M |"% SorV"oloMicGl
G_Gl5Y%Y of |"% |%x|YA  8%cGuY% |"%Y% |oolY <%r% _o| J%YiM_%J for G_5 o_%
uY%, |"% YGS% |oolY G_J |"% YGS% JG|G cG_ @% uY%J @5 @o|" Y|uJ%_|Y G_J
Yc"olGrYA

"i_~S
