files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was  GlYo G cGY% of co_|rGY| J%fici%_c5, G_J corr%c|io_ <GY
Jo_% @5 fix%J |"r%Y"olJi_MA  A fi_Gl %xGSVl% @oilY Jo<_ |o |"% YGS%
|"i_M, YliM"| 2GriG@ili|5, @u| i| iY _o| YiM_ificG_|A   ix%J |"r%Y"olJi_M
Yol2%Y |"iY Vro@l%S GY <%llA  _"% SicrofilS %[ui2Gl%_| iY c%r|Gi_l5 l%Mi@l%,
@u| i| coS%Y <i|" JGr( Gr%GYA  _"ouM" _@iMA JiJ _o| "G2% G YliJ% of |"%
SicrofilS i_ |"iY cGY%, "% JiJ Y"o< |"% r%VroJuc%J %l%c|ro_ic iSGM%A

["%_ o_% "GY 2GriG@l% co_|rGY| o2%r G VGM% or |"% liM"|i_M o2%r |"% VGM%
Gr%G 2Gri%Y, %YV%ciGll5 i_ |"% cGY% <"%r% G @ou_J 2oluS% "GY liM"|
Y"i_i_M o_ i|, |"% iSGM% SuY| @% Vroc%YY%J @5 G J5_GSic |"r%Y"olJi_M
Yc"%S%A  i_% Yc"%S%, J5_GSic G2%rGMi_M, Gllo<Y |"% |"r%Y"olJ l%2%l _o| |
