of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thought.  `I must be growing small again.'  She got up
and went to the table to measure herself by it, and found that,
as nearly as she could guess, she was now about two feet high,
and was going on shrinking rapidly:  she soon found out that the
cause of this was the fan she was holding, and she dropped it
hastily, just in time to avoid shrinking away altogether.

`That WAS a narrow escape!' said Alice, a good deal frightened at
the sudden change, but very glad to find herself still in
existence; `and now for the garden!' and she ran with all speed
back to the little door:  but, alas! the little door was shut
again, and the little golden key was lying on the glass table as
before, `and things are worse than ever,' thought the poor child,
`for I never was so small as this before, never!  And I declare
it's too bad, that it is!'

  As she said these words her foot slipped, and in another
moment, splash! she was up to her chin in salt water.  He first
idea was that she had somehow fallen into the sea, `and in that
case I can go back by railway,' she said to herself.  (Alice had
been to the seaside once in her life, and had come to the general
conclusion, that wherever you go to on the English coast you find
a number of bathing machines in the sea, some children digging in
the sand with wooden spades, then a row of lodging houses, and
behind them a railway station.)  However, she soon made out that
she was in the pool of tears which she had wept when she was nine
feet high.

  `I wish I hadn't cried so much!' said Alice, as she swam about,
trying to find her way out.  `I shall be punished for it now, I
suppose, by being drowned in my own tears!  That WILL be a queer
thing, to be sure!  However, everything is queer to-day.'

  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tone:  `don't be
angry about it.  And yet I wish I could show you our cat Dinah:
I think you'd take a fancy to cats if you could only see her.
She is such a dear quiet thing,' Alice went on, half to herself,
as she swam lazily about in the pool, `and she sits purring so
nicely by the fire, licking her paws and washing her face--and
she is such a nice soft thing to nurse--and she's such a capital
one for catching mice--oh, I beg your pardon!' cried Alice again,
for this time the Mouse was bristling all over, and she felt
certain it must be really offended.  `We won't talk about her any
more if you'd rather not.'

  `We indeed!' cried the Mouse, who was tre%S@li_M Jo<_ |o |"% %_J
of "iY |GilA   AY if c <oulJ |Gl( o_ Yuc" G Yu@P%c|G  iur fGSil5
Gl<G5Y @A_~D cG|Yu  _GY|5, lo<, 2ulMGr |"i_MYG  Do_M| l%| S% "%Gr
|"% _GS% GMGi_GM

   c <o_M| i_J%%JGM YGiJ Alic%, i_ G Mr%G| "urr5 |o c"G_M% |"%
Yu@P%c| of co_2%rYG|io_A   Ar% 5ouSSGr% 5ou fo_JSSofSSof JoMY8M
_"% MouY% JiJ _o| G_Y<%r, Yo Alic% <%_| o_ %GM%rl5u   _"%r% iY
Yuc" G _ic% li||l% JoM _%Gr our "ouY% c Y"oulJ li(% |o Y"o< 5ouG
A li||l% @riM"|S%5%J |%rri%r, 5ou (_o<, <i|" o", Yuc" lo_M curl5
@ro<_ "GirG  A_J i|Mll f%|c" |"i_MY <"%_ 5ou |"ro< |"%S, G_J
i|Mll Yi| uV G_J @%M for i|Y Ji__%r, G_J Gll Yor|Y of |"i_MYSSc
cG_M| r%S%S@%r "Glf of |"%SSSG_J i| @%lo_MY |o G fGrS%r, 5ou
(_o<, G_J "% YG5Y i|MY Yo uY%ful, i|MY <or|" G "u_Jr%J Vou_JYG
@% YG5Y i| (illY Gll |"% rG|Y G_JSSo" J%GrGM cri%J Alic% i_ G
Yorro<ful |o_%,  cMS GfrGiJ cM2% off%_J%J i| GMGi_GM   or |"%
MouY% <GY Y<iSSi_M G<G5 froS "%r GY "GrJ GY i| coulJ Mo, G_J
SG(i_M [ui|% G coSSo|io_ i_ |"% Vool GY i| <%_|A

  So Y"% cGll%J Yof|l5 Gf|%r i|,  MouY% J%GrG  Do coS% @Gc(
GMGi_, G_J <% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| cG|Y or JoMY %i|"%r, if 5ou Jo_M|
li(% |"%SGM  ["%_ |"% MouY% "%GrJ |"iY, i| |ur_%J rou_J G_J Y<GS
Ylo<l5 @Gc( |o "%ru  i|Y fGc% <GY [ui|% VGl% (<i|" VGYYio_, Alic%
|"ouM"|l, G_J i| YGiJ i_ G lo< |r%S@li_M 2oic%,  f%| uY M%| |o
|"% Y"or%, G_J |"%_ cMll |%ll 5ou S5 "iY|or5, G_J 5ouMll
u_J%rY|G_J <"5 i| iY c "G|% cG|Y G_J JoMYAM

  c| <GY "iM" |iS% |o Mo, for |"% Vool <GY M%||i_M [ui|% cro<J%J
<i|" |"% @irJY G_J G_iSGlY |"G| "GJ fGll%_ i_|o i|u  |"%r% <%r% G
Duc( G_J G DoJo, G for5 G_J G_ ~GMl%|, G_J Y%2%rGl o|"%r curiouY
cr%G|ur%YA  Alic% l%J |"% <G5, G_J |"% <"ol% VGr|5 Y<GS |o |"%
Y"or%A



                           }@AP_~l ccc

                  A }GucuYSlGc% G_J G fo_M _Gl%


  _"%5 <%r% i_J%%J G [u%%rSloo(i_M VGr|5 |"G| GYY%S@l%J o_ |"%
@G_(SS|"% @irJY <i|" JrGMMl%J f%G|"%rY, |"% G_iSGlY <i|" |"%ir
fur cli_Mi_M cloY% |o |"%S, G_J Gll JriVVi_M <%|, croYY, G_J
u_coSfor|G@l%A

  _"% firY| [u%Y|io_ of courY% <GY, "o< |o M%| Jr5 GMGi_u  |"%5
"GJ G co_Yul|G|io_ G@ou| |"iY, G_J Gf|%r G f%< Si_u|%Y i| Y%%S%J
[ui|% _G|urGl |o Alic% |o fi_J "%rY%lf |Gl(i_M fGSiliGrl5 <i|"
|"%S, GY if Y"% "GJ (_o<_ |"%S Gll "%r lif%A  c_J%%J, Y"% "GJ
[ui|% G lo_M GrMuS%_| <i|" |"% for5, <"o G| lGY| |ur_%J Yul(5,
G_J <oulJ o_l5 YG5,  c GS olJ%r |"G_ 5ou, G_J SuY| (_o< @%||%rM2
G_J |"iY Alic% <oulJ _o| Gllo< <i|"ou| (_o<i_M "o< olJ i| <GY,
G_J, GY |"% for5 VoYi|i2%l5 r%fuY%J |o |%ll i|Y GM%, |"%r% <GY _o
Sor% |o @% YGiJA

  A| lGY| |"% MouY%, <"o Y%%S%J |o @% G V%rYo_ of Gu|"ori|5 GSo_M
|"%S, cGll%J ou|,  Si| Jo<_, Gll of 5ou, G_J liY|%_ |o S%G  cMff
Yoo_ SG(% 5ou Jr5 %_ouM"GM  _"%5 Gll YG| Jo<_ G| o_c%, i_ G lGrM%
ri_M, <i|" |"% MouY% i_ |"% SiJJl%A  Alic% (%V| "%r %5%Y
G_xiouYl5 fix%J o_ i|, for Y"% f%l| Yur% Y"% <oulJ cG|c" G @GJ
colJ if Y"% JiJ _o| M%| Jr5 2%r5 Yoo_A

   A"%SGM YGiJ |"% MouY% <i|" G_ iSVor|G_| Gir,  Gr% 5ou Gll r%GJ58
_"iY iY |"% Jri%Y| |"i_M c (_o<A  Sil%_c% Gll rou_J, if 5ou Vl%GY%G
"[illiGS |"% }o_[u%ror, <"oY% cGuY% <GY fG2our%J @5 |"% VoV%, <GY
Yoo_ Yu@Si||%J |o @5 |"% ~_MliY", <"o <G_|%J l%GJ%rY, G_J "GJ @%%_
of lG|% Suc" GccuY|oS%J |o uYurVG|io_ G_J co_[u%Y|A  ~J<i_ G_J
MorcGr, |"% %GrlY of M%rciG G_J "or|"uS@riGSS"M

   oM"GM YGiJ |"% for5, <i|" G Y"i2%rA

   c @%M 5our VGrJo_GM YGiJ |"% MouY%, fro<_i_M, @u| 2%r5
Voli|%l5u   DiJ 5ou YV%G(8M

   "o| cGM YGiJ |"% for5 "GY|il5A

   c |"ouM"| 5ou JiJ,M YGiJ |"% MouY%A   SSc Vroc%%JA  "~J<i_ G_J
MorcGr, |"% %GrlY of M%rciG G_J "or|"uS@riG, J%clGr%J for "iSu
G_J %2%_ S|iMG_J, |"% VG|rio|ic Grc"@iY"oV of }G_|%r@ur5, fou_J
i| GJ2iYG@l%SS"M

    ou_J [@A_8M YGiJ |"% Duc(A

    ou_J c_,M |"% MouY% r%Vli%J rG|"%r croYYl5u   of courY% 5ou
(_o< <"G| "i|" S%G_YAM

   c (_o< <"G| "i|" S%G_Y <%ll %_ouM", <"%_ c fi_J G |"i_M,M YGiJ
|"% Duc(u   i|MY M%_%rGll5 G froM or G <orSA  _"% [u%Y|io_ iY,
<"G| JiJ |"% Grc"@iY"oV fi_J8M

  _"% MouY% JiJ _o| _o|ic% |"iY [u%Y|io_, @u| "urri%Jl5 <%_| o_,
 "SSfou_J i| GJ2iYG@l% |o Mo <i|" ~JMGr A|"%li_M |o S%%| [illiGS
G_J off%r "iS |"% cro<_A  [illiGSMY co_Juc| G| firY| <GY
SoJ%rG|%A  8u| |"% i_Yol%_c% of "iY "orSG_YSS"  @o< Gr% 5ou
M%||i_M o_ _o<, S5 J%Gr8M i| co_|i_u%J, |ur_i_M |o Alic% GY i|
YVo(%A

   AY <%| GY %2%r,M YGiJ Alic% i_ G S%lG_c"ol5 |o_%u   i| Jo%Y_M|
Y%%S |o Jr5 S% G| GllAM

   c_ |"G| cGY%,M YGiJ |"% DoJo Yol%S_l5, riYi_M |o i|Y f%%|,  c
So2% |"G| |"% S%%|i_M GJPour_, for |"% iSS%JiG|% GJoV|io_ of Sor%
%_%rM%|ic r%S%Ji%YSSM

   SV%G( ~_MliY"GM YGiJ |"% ~GMl%|A   c Jo_M| (_o< |"% S%G_i_M of
"Glf |"oY% lo_M <orJY, G_J, <"G|MY Sor%, c Jo_M| @%li%2% 5ou Jo
%i|"%rGM  A_J |"% ~GMl%| @%_| Jo<_ i|Y "%GJ |o "iJ% G YSil%u
YoS% of |"% o|"%r @irJY |i||%r%J GuJi@l5A

   ["G| c <GY Moi_M |o YG5,M YGiJ |"% DoJo i_ G_ off%_J%J |o_%,
 <GY, |"G| |"% @%Y| |"i_M |o M%| uY Jr5 <oulJ @% G }GucuYSrGc%AM

   ["G| cS G }GucuYSrGc%8M YGiJ Alic%2 _o| |"G| Y"% <G_|%J Suc"
|o (_o<, @u| |"% DoJo "GJ VGuY%J GY if i| |"ouM"| |"G| SiM~8iDY
ouM"| |o YV%G(, G_J _o o_% %lY% Y%%S%J i_cli_%J |o YG5 G_5|"i_MA

   ["5,M YGiJ |"% DoJo,  |"% @%Y| <G5 |o %xVlGi_ i| iY |o Jo i|AM
(A_J, GY 5ou SiM"| li(% |o |r5 |"% |"i_M 5ourY%lf, YoS% <i_|%r
JG5, c <ill |%ll 5ou "o< |"% DoJo SG_GM%J i|Al

   irY| i| SGr(%J ou| G rGc%ScourY%, i_ G Yor| of circl%, ( |"%
%xGc| Y"GV% Jo%Y_M| SG||%r,M i| YGiJ,l G_J |"%_ Gll |"% VGr|5
<%r% VlGc%J Glo_M |"% courY%, "%r% G_J |"%r%A  _"%r% <GY _o  i_%,
|<o, |"r%%, G_J G<G5,M @u| |"%5 @%MG_ ru__i_M <"%_ |"%5 li(%J,
G_J l%f| off <"%_ |"%5 li(%J, Yo |"G| i| <GY _o| %GY5 |o (_o<
<"%_ |"% rGc% <GY o2%rA  @o<%2%r, <"%_ |"%5 "GJ @%%_ ru__i_M "Glf
G_ "our or Yo, G_J <%r% [ui|% Jr5 GMGi_, |"% DoJo YuJJ%_l5 cGll%J
ou|  _"% rGc% iY o2%rGM G_J |"%5 Gll cro<J%J rou_J i|, VG_|i_M,
G_J GY(i_M,  8u| <"o "GY <o_8M

  _"iY [u%Y|io_ |"% DoJo coulJ _o| G_Y<%r <i|"ou| G Mr%G| J%Gl of
|"ouM"|, G_J i| YG| for G lo_M |iS% <i|" o_% fi_M%r Vr%YY%J uVo_
i|Y for%"%GJ (|"% VoYi|io_ i_ <"ic" 5ou uYuGll5 Y%% S"G(%YV%Gr%,
i_ |"% Vic|ur%Y of "iSl, <"il% |"% r%Y| <Gi|%J i_ Yil%_c%A  A|
lGY| |"% DoJo YGiJ,  ~V~lY8iDY "GY <o_, G_J Gll SuY| "G2%
Vri,%YAM

   8u| <"o iY |o Mi2% |"% Vri,%Y8M [ui|% G c"oruY of 2oic%Y
GY(%JA

   ["5, S@~, of courY%,M YGiJ |"% DoJo, Voi_|i_M |o Alic% <i|"
o_% fi_M%r2 G_J |"% <"ol% VGr|5 G| o_c% cro<J%J rou_J "%r,
cGlli_M ou| i_ G co_fuY%J <G5,  Pri,%YG Pri,%YGM

  Alic% "GJ _o iJ%G <"G| |o Jo, G_J i_ J%YVGir Y"% Vu| "%r "G_J
i_ "%r Voc(%|, G_J Vull%J ou| G @ox of coSfi|Y, (luc(il5 |"% YGl|
<G|%r "GJ _o| Mo| i_|o i|l, G_J "G_J%J |"%S rou_J GY Vri,%YA
_"%r% <GY %xGc|l5 o_% GSVi%c% Gll rou_JA

   8u| Y"% SuY| "G2% G Vri,% "%rY%lf, 5ou (_o<,M YGiJ |"% MouY%A

   if courY%,M |"% DoJo r%Vli%J 2%r5 MrG2%l5A   ["G| %lY% "G2%
5ou Mo| i_ 5our Voc(%|8M "% <%_| o_, |ur_i_M |o Alic%A

   i_l5 G |"iS@l%,M YGiJ Alic% YGJl5A

   @G_J i| o2%r "%r%,M YGiJ |"% DoJoA

  _"%_ |"%5 Gll cro<J%J rou_J "%r o_c% Sor%, <"il% |"% DoJo
Yol%S_l5 Vr%Y%_|%J |"% |"iS@l%, YG5i_M  [% @%M 5our Gcc%V|G_c% of
|"iY %l%MG_| |"iS@l%M2 G_J, <"%_ i| "GJ fi_iY"%J |"iY Y"or|
YV%%c", |"%5 Gll c"%%r%JA

  Alic% |"ouM"| |"% <"ol% |"i_M 2%r5 G@YurJ, @u| |"%5 Gll loo(%J
Yo MrG2% |"G| Y"% JiJ _o| JGr% |o lGuM"2 G_J, GY Y"% coulJ _o|
|"i_( of G_5|"i_M |o YG5, Y"% YiSVl5 @o<%J, G_J |oo( |"% |"iS@l%,
loo(i_M GY Yol%S_ GY Y"% coulJA

  _"% _%x| |"i_M <GY |o %G| |"% coSfi|Yu  |"iY cGuY%J YoS% _oiY%
G_J co_fuYio_, GY |"% lGrM% @irJY coSVlGi_%J |"G| |"%5 coulJ _o|
|GY|% |"%irY, G_J |"% YSGll o_%Y c"o(%J G_J "GJ |o @% VG||%J o_
|"% @Gc(A  @o<%2%r, i| <GY o2%r G| lGY|, G_J |"%5 YG| Jo<_ GMGi_
i_ G ri_M, G_J @%MM%J |"% MouY% |o |%ll |"%S YoS%|"i_M Sor%A

   You VroSiY%J |o |%ll S% 5our "iY|or5, 5ou (_o<,M YGiJ Alic%,
 G_J <"5 i| iY 5ou "G|%SS} G_J D,M Y"% GJJ%J i_ G <"iYV%r, "Glf
GfrGiJ |"G| i| <oulJ @% off%_J%J GMGi_A

   Mi_% iY G lo_M G_J G YGJ |Gl%GM YGiJ |"% MouY%, |ur_i_M |o
Alic%, G_J YiM"i_MA

   c| cS G lo_M |Gil, c%r|Gi_l5,M YGiJ Alic%, loo(i_M Jo<_ <i|"
<o_J%r G| |"% MouY%MY |Gil2  @u| <"5 Jo 5ou cGll i| YGJ8M  A_J
Y"% (%V| o_ Vu,,li_M G@ou| i| <"il% |"% MouY% <GY YV%G(i_M, Yo
|"G| "%r iJ%G of |"% |Gl% <GY YoS%|"i_M li(% |"iYuSS

                      ur5 YGiJ |o G
                   SouY%, _"G| "%
                 S%| i_ |"%
               "ouY%,
            "f%| uY
              @o|" Mo |o
                lG<u  c <ill
                  VroY%cu|%
                    YioA  SS}oS%,
                       cMll |G(% _o
                        J%_iGl2 [%
                     SuY| "G2% G
                 |riGlu   or
              r%Gll5 |"iY
           Sor_i_M cM2%
          _o|"i_M
         |o JoA"
           SGiJ |"%
             SouY% |o |"%
               cur, "Suc"
                 G |riGl,
                   J%Gr Sir,
                         [i|"
                     _o Pur5
                  or PuJM%,
                <oulJ @%
              <GY|i_M
             our
              @r%G|"A"
               "cMll @%
                 PuJM%, cMll
                   @% Pur5,"
                         SGiJ
                    cu__i_M
                      olJ  ur5u
                     "cMll
                      |r5 |"%
                         <"ol%
                          cGuY%,
                             G_J
                        co_J%S_
                       5ou
                      |o
                       J%G|"A"M


   You Gr% _o| G||%_Ji_MGM YGiJ |"% MouY% |o Alic% Y%2%r%l5A
 ["G| Gr% 5ou |"i_(i_M of8M

   c @%M 5our VGrJo_,M YGiJ Alic% 2%r5 "uS@l5u   5ou "GJ Mo| |o
|"% fif|" @%_J, c |"i_(8M

   c "GJ "i_GM cri%J |"% MouY%, Y"GrVl5 G_J 2%r5 G_Mril5A

   A (_o|GM YGiJ Alic%, Gl<G5Y r%GJ5 |o SG(% "%rY%lf uY%ful, G_J
loo(i_M G_xiouYl5 G@ou| "%rA   i", Jo l%| S% "%lV |o u_Jo i|GM

   c Y"Gll Jo _o|"i_M of |"% Yor|,M YGiJ |"% MouY%, M%||i_M uV
G_J <Gl(i_M G<G5A   You i_Yul| S% @5 |Gl(i_M Yuc" _o_Y%_Y%GM

   c JiJ_M| S%G_ i|GM Vl%GJ%J Voor Alic%A   8u| 5ouMr% Yo %GYil5
off%_J%J, 5ou (_o<GM

  _"% MouY% o_l5 Mro<l%J i_ r%Vl5A

   Pl%GY% coS% @Gc( G_J fi_iY" 5our Y|or5GM Alic% cGll%J Gf|%r
i|2 G_J |"% o|"%rY Gll Poi_%J i_ c"oruY,  Y%Y, Vl%GY% JoGM @u|
|"% MouY% o_l5 Y"oo( i|Y "%GJ iSVG|i%_|l5, G_J <Gl(%J G li||l%
[uic(%rA

   ["G| G Vi|5 i| <oulJ_M| Y|G5GM YiM"%J |"% for5, GY Yoo_ GY i|
<GY [ui|% ou| of YiM"|2 G_J G_ olJ }rG@ |oo( |"% oVVor|u_i|5 of
YG5i_M |o "%r JGuM"|%r  A", S5 J%GrG  f%| |"iY @% G l%YYo_ |o 5ou
_%2%r |o loY% Yiol |%SV%rGM   @olJ 5our |o_Mu%, MGGM YGiJ |"%
5ou_M }rG@, G li||l% Y_GVViY"l5A   YouMr% %_ouM" |o |r5 |"%
VG|i%_c% of G_ o5Y|%rGM

   c <iY" c "GJ our Di_G" "%r%, c (_o< c JoGM YGiJ Alic% GlouJ,
GJJr%YYi_M _o@oJ5 i_ VGr|iculGrA   S"%MJ Yoo_ f%|c" i| @Gc(GM

   A_J <"o iY Di_G", if c SiM"| 2%_|ur% |o GY( |"% [u%Y|io_8M
YGiJ |"% for5A

  Alic% r%Vli%J %GM%rl5, for Y"% <GY Gl<G5Y r%GJ5 |o |Gl( G@ou|
"%r V%|u   Di_G"MY our cG|A  A_J Y"%MY Yuc" G cGVi|Gl o_% for
cG|c"i_M Sic% 5ou cG_M| |"i_(G  A_J o", c <iY" 5ou coulJ Y%% "%r
Gf|%r |"% @irJYG  ["5, Y"%Mll %G| G li||l% @irJ GY Yoo_ GY loo(
G| i|GM

  _"iY YV%%c" cGuY%J G r%SGr(G@l% Y%_YG|io_ GSo_M |"% VGr|5A
SoS% of |"% @irJY "urri%J off G| o_c%u  o_% |"% olJ MGMVi% @%MG_
<rGVVi_M i|Y%lf uV 2%r5 cGr%full5, r%SGr(i_M,  c r%Gll5 SuY| @%
M%||i_M "oS%2 |"% _iM"|SGir Jo%Y_M| Yui| S5 |"roG|GM G_J G }G_Gr5
cGll%J ou| i_ G |r%S@li_M 2oic% |o i|Y c"ilJr%_,  }oS% G<G5, S5
J%GrYG  c|MY "iM" |iS% 5ou <%r% Gll i_ @%JGM  i_ 2GriouY Vr%|%x|Y
|"%5 Gll So2%J off, G_J Alic% <GY Yoo_ l%f| Glo_%A

   c <iY" c "GJ_M| S%_|io_%J Di_G"GM Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf i_ G
S%lG_c"ol5 |o_%A   "o@oJ5 Y%%SY |o li(% "%r, Jo<_ "%r%, G_J cMS
Yur% Y"%MY |"% @%Y| cG| i_ |"% <orlJG  i", S5 J%Gr Di_G"G  c
<o_J%r if c Y"Gll %2%r Y%% 5ou G_5 Sor%GM  A_J "%r% Voor Alic%
@%MG_ |o cr5 GMGi_, for Y"% f%l| 2%r5 lo_%l5 G_J lo<SYViri|%JA
c_ G li||l% <"il%, "o<%2%r, Y"% GMGi_ "%GrJ G li||l% VG||%ri_M of
foo|Y|%VY i_ |"% JiY|G_c%, G_J Y"% loo(%J uV %GM%rl5, "Glf "oVi_M
|"G| |"% MouY% "GJ c"G_M%J "iY Si_J, G_J <GY coSi_M @Gc( |o
fi_iY" "iY Y|or5A



                           }@AP_~l cV

                _"% lG@@i| S%_JY i_ G fi||l% 8ill


  c| <GY |"% ["i|% lG@@i|, |ro||i_M Ylo<l5 @Gc( GMGi_, G_J
loo(i_M G_xiouYl5 G@ou| GY i| <%_|, GY if i| "GJ loY| YoS%|"i_M2
G_J Y"% "%GrJ i| Su||%ri_M |o i|Y%lf  _"% Duc"%YYG  _"% Duc"%YYG
i" S5 J%Gr VG<YG  i" S5 fur G_J <"iY(%rYG  S"%Mll M%| S%
%x%cu|%J, GY Yur% GY f%rr%|Y Gr% f%rr%|YG  ["%r% }A" c "G2%
JroVV%J |"%S, c <o_J%r8M  Alic% Mu%YY%J i_ G SoS%_| |"G| i| <GY
loo(i_M for |"% fG_ G_J |"% VGir of <"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y, G_J Y"%
2%r5 MooJS_G|ur%Jl5 @%MG_ "u_|i_M G@ou| for |"%S, @u| |"%5 <%r%
_o<"%r% |o @% Y%%_SS%2%r5|"i_M Y%%S%J |o "G2% c"G_M%J Yi_c% "%r
Y<iS i_ |"% Vool, G_J |"% Mr%G| "Gll, <i|" |"% MlGYY |G@l% G_J
|"% li||l% Joor, "GJ 2G_iY"%J coSVl%|%l5A

  V%r5 Yoo_ |"% lG@@i| _o|ic%J Alic%, GY Y"% <%_| "u_|i_M G@ou|,
G_J cGll%J ou| |o "%r i_ G_ G_Mr5 |o_%,  ["5, MGr5 A__, <"G| Al~
5ou Joi_M ou| "%r%8  lu_ "oS% |"iY SoS%_|, G_J f%|c" S% G VGir of
Mlo2%Y G_J G fG_G  (uic(, _o<GM  A_J Alic% <GY Yo Suc" friM"|%_%J
|"G| Y"% rG_ off G| o_c% i_ |"% Jir%c|io_ i| Voi_|%J |o, <i|"ou|
|r5i_M |o %xVlGi_ |"% SiY|G(% i| "GJ SGJ%A

   @% |oo( S% for "iY "ouY%SGiJ,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf GY Y"% rG_A
 @o< YurVriY%J "%Mll @% <"%_ "% fi_JY ou| <"o c GSG  8u| cMJ
@%||%r |G(% "iS "iY fG_ G_J Mlo2%YSS|"G| iY, if c cG_ fi_J |"%SAM
AY Y"% YGiJ |"iY, Y"% cGS% uVo_ G _%G| li||l% "ouY%, o_ |"% Joor
of <"ic" <GY G @riM"| @rGYY VlG|% <i|" |"% _GS%  [A lA88c_M
%_MrG2%J uVo_ i|A  S"% <%_| i_ <i|"ou| (_oc(i_M, G_J "urri%J
uVY|GirY, i_ Mr%G| f%Gr l%Y| Y"% Y"oulJ S%%| |"% r%Gl MGr5 A__,
G_J @% |ur_%J ou| of |"% "ouY% @%for% Y"% "GJ fou_J |"% fG_ G_J
Mlo2%YA

   @o< [u%%r i| Y%%SY,M Alic% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf,  |o @% Moi_M
S%YYGM%Y for G rG@@i|G  c YuVVoY% Di_G"Mll @% Y%_Ji_M S% o_
S%YYGM%Y _%x|GM  A_J Y"% @%MG_ fG_c5i_M |"% Yor| of |"i_M |"G|
<oulJ "GVV%_u   "MiYY Alic%G  }oS% "%r% Jir%c|l5, G_J M%| r%GJ5
for 5our <Gl(G" "}oSi_M i_ G Si_u|%, _urY%G  8u| cM2% Mo| |o Y%%
|"G| |"% SouY% Jo%Y_M| M%| ou|A"  i_l5 c Jo_M| |"i_(,M Alic% <%_|
o_,  |"G| |"%5MJ l%| Di_G" Y|oV i_ |"% "ouY% if i| @%MG_ orJ%ri_M
V%oVl% G@ou| li(% |"G|GM

  85 |"iY |iS% Y"% "GJ fou_J "%r <G5 i_|o G |iJ5 li||l% rooS <i|"
G |G@l% i_ |"% <i_Jo<, G_J o_ i| (GY Y"% "GJ "oV%Jl G fG_ G_J |<o
or |"r%% VGirY of |i_5 <"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Yu  Y"% |oo( uV |"% fG_ G_J
G VGir of |"% Mlo2%Y, G_J <GY PuY| Moi_M |o l%G2% |"% rooS, <"%_
"%r %5% f%ll uVo_ G li||l% @o||l% |"G| Y|ooJ _%Gr |"% loo(i_MS
MlGYYA  _"%r% <GY _o lG@%l |"iY |iS% <i|" |"% <orJY  Dlc"% M~,M
@u| _%2%r|"%l%YY Y"% u_cor(%J i| G_J Vu| i| |o "%r liVYA   c (_o<
SiM~_@c"G i_|%r%Y|i_M iY Yur% |o "GVV%_,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf,
 <"%_%2%r c %G| or Jri_( G_5|"i_M2 Yo cMll PuY| Y%% <"G| |"iY
@o||l% Jo%YA  c Jo "oV% i|Mll SG(% S% Mro< lGrM% GMGi_, for
r%Gll5 cMS [ui|% |ir%J of @%i_M Yuc" G |i_5 li||l% |"i_MGM

  c| JiJ Yo i_J%%J, G_J Suc" Yoo_%r |"G_ Y"% "GJ %xV%c|%Ju
@%for% Y"% "GJ Jru_( "Glf |"% @o||l%, Y"% fou_J "%r "%GJ Vr%YYi_M
GMGi_Y| |"% c%ili_M, G_J "GJ |o Y|ooV |o YG2% "%r _%c( froS @%i_M
@ro(%_A  S"% "GY|il5 Vu| Jo<_ |"% @o||l%, YG5i_M |o "%rY%lf
 _"G|MY [ui|% %_ouM"SSc "oV% c Y"G_M| Mro< G_5 Sor%SSAY i| iY, c
cG_M| M%| ou| G| |"% JoorSSc Jo <iY" c "GJ_M| Jru_( [ui|% Yo
Suc"GM

  AlGYG i| <GY |oo lG|% |o <iY" |"G|G  S"% <%_| o_ Mro<i_M, G_J
Mro<i_M, G_J 2%r5 Yoo_ "GJ |o (_%%l Jo<_ o_ |"% flooru  i_
G_o|"%r Si_u|% |"%r% <GY _o| %2%_ rooS for |"iY, G_J Y"% |ri%J
|"% %ff%c| of l5i_M Jo<_ <i|" o_% %l@o< GMGi_Y| |"% Joor, G_J |"%
o|"%r GrS curl%J rou_J "%r "%GJA  S|ill Y"% <%_| o_ Mro<i_M, G_J,
GY G lGY| r%Yourc%, Y"% Vu| o_% GrS ou| of |"% <i_Jo<, G_J o_%
foo| uV |"% c"iS_%5, G_J YGiJ |o "%rY%lf  "o< c cG_ Jo _o Sor%,
<"G|%2%r "GVV%_YA  ["G| [cff @%coS% of S%8M

  fuc(il5 for Alic%, |"% li||l% SGMic @o||l% "GJ _o< "GJ i|Y full
%ff%c|, G_J Y"% Mr%< _o lGrM%ru  Y|ill i| <GY 2%r5 u_coSfor|G@l%,
G_J, GY |"%r% Y%%S%J |o @% _o Yor| of c"G_c% of "%r %2%r M%||i_M
ou| of |"% rooS GMGi_, _o <o_J%r Y"% f%l| u_"GVV5A

   c| <GY Suc" Vl%GYG_|%r G| "oS%,M |"ouM"| Voor Alic%,  <"%_ o_%
<GY_M| Gl<G5Y Mro<i_M lGrM%r G_J YSGll%r, G_J @%i_M orJ%r%J G@ou|
@5 Sic% G_J rG@@i|YA  c GlSoY| <iY" c "GJ_M| Mo_% Jo<_ |"G|
rG@@i|S"ol%SSG_J 5%|SSG_J 5%|SSi|MY rG|"%r curiouY, 5ou (_o<,
|"iY Yor| of lif%G  c Jo <o_J%r <"G| }A" "G2% "GVV%_%J |o S%G
["%_ c uY%J |o r%GJ fGir5S|Gl%Y, c fG_ci%J |"G| (i_J of |"i_M
_%2%r "GVV%_%J, G_J _o< "%r% c GS i_ |"% SiJJl% of o_%G  _"%r%
ouM"| |o @% G @oo( <ri||%_ G@ou| S%, |"G| |"%r% ouM"|G  A_J <"%_
c Mro< uV, cMll <ri|% o_%SS@u| cMS Mro<_ uV _o<,M Y"% GJJ%J i_ G
Yorro<ful |o_%2  G| l%GY| |"%r%MY _o rooS |o Mro< uV G_5 Sor%
@~l~AM
