observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlight|%J i_|o |"%
Y%Grc"A  _"uY, G uY%r cG_ r%fi_% |"% Y%Grc" GY "% or Y"% r%GJY,
r%S%x%cu|i_M |"% Y%Grc" G_J co_|i_ui_M |o fi_J |"i_MY i_ |"% [u%Y| for
SG|%riGlYA  _"iY Yof|<Gr% _o| o_l5 co_|Gi_Y r%l%2G_c% rG_(i_M, 8ool%G_
oV%rG|orY, G_J |ru_cG|io_, i| GlYo V%rSi|Y o_% |o V%rforS <orJ GlM%@rG,
Yo |o YG5, <"%r% o_% Vu|Y |<o or |"r%% <orJY i_ VGr%_|"%Y%Y G_J li_(Y
|"%S <i|" o_% 8ool%G_ oV%rG|or G_J |"%_ G couVl% of <orJY i_ G_o|"%r Y%|
of VGr%_|"%Y%Y G_J GY(Y for |"i_MY <i|"i_ Yo SG_5 <orJY of o|"%rYA

o_|il |"%5 @%cGS% Gc[uGi_|%J r%c%_|l5 <i|" YoS% of |"% <or( @%i_M Jo_% i_
clGYYicY, |"% AM Y|Gff "GJ _o| r%Gli,%J |"G| G lGrM% _uS@%r of |"%
VroP%c|Y |"G| i_2ol2% %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y <%r% @%i_M Jo_% @5 V%oVl% <i|" G
Vrofou_J i_|%r%Y| i_ lG_MuGM% G_J li_MuiY|icYA  _"%ir Y%Grc" Y|rG|%Mi%Y
G_J |"i_(i_M Gr% ori%_|%J |o |"oY% fi%lJY, GY iY Y"o<_ i_ VGr|iculGr @5
|"% P%rY%uY %xGSVl%A  AY GSG|%ur "iY|oriG_Y, |"% AM Y|Gff <%r% |"i_(i_M
Sor% of Y%Grc"i_M for co_c%V|Y G_J iJ%GY |"G_ for VGr|iculGr <orJYA
i@2iouYl5,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, Y%Grc"i_M for co_c%V|Y G_J iJ%GY G_J
Y%Grc"i_M for <orJY SG5 @% |<o rG|"%r cloY%l5 r%lG|%J |"i_MYA

["il% JiYVlG5i_M Y%2%rGl iSGM%Y,  f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"% MGci_|oY"
Vro|o|5V% @uil| @5 AM co_|Gi_Y G Mr%G|%r Ji2%rYi|5 of forSG|YA  ~c"oi_M G
Vr%2iouY YV%G(%r, "% YGiJ |"G| i| <GY %GYi%r |o Y|i|c" |"i_MY |oM%|"%r i_
|"% MGci_|oY", |"ouM" i| |%_J%J |o @% G li||l% Sor% G_%Sic i_ Y%Grc" G_J
r%|ri%2GlA  AM, |"%r%for%, i_cr%GYi_Ml5 "GY @%%_ i_2%Y|iMG|i_M
YoV"iY|icG|%J r%|ri%2Gl %_Mi_%Y i_ |"% c8M forSG|A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l J%So_Y|rG|%J Y%2%rGl GJJi|io_Gl %xGSVl%Y of |"% Vro|o|5V%
i_|%rfGc%Yu  i_% <GY AMMY S%|GV"or for |"% _%|<or( fu|ur%, i_ <"ic" G
(i_J of r%GJi_MSrooS MrGV"ic YuMM%Y|Y "o< o_% <oulJ @% G@l% |o Mo Grou_J
|o Jiff%r%_| SG|%riGlYA  AM co_|Gi_Y G lGrM% _uS@%r of V"o|oMrGV"Y i_
G_GloM 2iJ%o forS <or(%J uV froS G 2iJ%oJiYc, <"ic" %_G@l% uY%rY |o SG(%
coVi%Y |o Vri_| or i_corVorG|% i_ JiMi|Gl JocuS%_|YA  A frGS%SMrG@@%r iY
@uil| i_|o |"% Y5Y|%S, SG(i_M i| VoYYi@l% |o @ri_M G_ iSGM% i_|o G <i_Jo<
G_J JiMi|i,% or Vri_| i| ou|A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l _%x| J%So_Y|rG|%J You_J r%corJi_M, <"ic" i_cluJ%J |%x|YA
l%c5cl%J froS G Vr%2iouY VroP%c|, |"% coll%c|io_ i_cluJ%J Yix|5 A8SrVS
V"o_oMrGV" r%corJY of Voli|icGl YV%%c"%Y |"G| <%r% SGJ% Juri_M G_J
iSS%JiG|%l5 Gf|%r [orlJ [Gr cA  _"%Y% co_Y|i|u|%J GVVroxiSG|%l5 |"r%%
"ourY of GuJio, GY AM "GY JiMi|i,%J i|, <"ic" occuV5 u5D S%MG@5|%Y o_ G
}DA  _"uY, |"%5 Gr% co_YiJ%rG@l5 coSVr%YY%JA   roS |"% cG|GloMu% cGrJ,
 f~cS}@@Ao~l Vroc%%J%J |o G |rG_YcriV| of G YV%%c" <i|" |"% GuJio
G2GilG@l% G_J <i|" "iM"liM"|%J |%x| follo<i_M i| GY i| VlG5%JA
A V"o|oMrGV" "GY @%%_ GJJ%J G_J G |rG_YcriV|io_ SGJ%A

}o_YiJ%rG@l% 2Glu% "GY @%%_ GJJ%J @%5o_J <"G| |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
_orSGll5 <oulJ Jo i_ cG|GloMui_M G You_J r%corJi_M, <"ic" rGiY%Y Y%2%rGl
[u%Y|io_Y for AM co_c%r_i_M <"%r% |o JrG< li_%Y G@ou| "o< Suc" 2Glu% i| cG_
GfforJ |o GJJ G_J G| <"G| Voi_|, V%r"GVY, |"iY @%coS%Y Sor% |"G_ AM coulJ
r%GYo_G@l5 Jo or r%GYo_G@l5 <iY" |o JoA   f~cS}@@Ao~l GlYo J%So_Y|rG|%J
G So|io_ Vic|ur%A  AY  l~~MA" "GJ r%Vor|%J %Grli%r, |"% So|io_ Vic|ur%
SG|%riGlY "G2% Vro2%J |"% SoY| VoVulGr, _o| YurVriYi_Ml5A  _"iY YG5Y Sor%
G@ou| |"% S%JiuS, "% |"ouM"|, |"G_ G@ou| AMMY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ of i|A

8%cGuY% AMMY MoGl <GY |o @ri_M |oM%|"%r |"i_MY |"G| coulJ @% uY%J @5
"iY|oriG_Y or @5 V%oVl% <"o <%r% curiouY G@ou| "iY|or5,
|ur_SofS|"%Sc%_|ur5 foo|GM% Y%%S%J |o r%Vr%Y%_| |"% SoY| GVVroVriG|%
coll%c|io_Y froS |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY i_ So|io_ Vic|ur%YA _"%Y% <%r%
|"% 2%r5 firY| filSY SGJ% @5 _"oSGY ~JiYo_MY coSVG_5 G_J YoS% o|"%rY G|
|"G| |iS%A  _"% VGr|iculGr %xGSVl% illuY|rG|%J <GY G 8ioMrGV" filS,
@rouM"| i_ <i|" G frGS%SMrG@@%r i_|o G <i_Jo<A  A Yi_Ml% 2iJ%oJiYc
co_|Gi_Y G@ou| fif|5 |i|l%Y G_J Vi%c%Y of filS froS |"G| V%rioJ, Gll of
"%< Yor( }i|5A  _G(%_ |oM%|"%r, AM @%li%2%Y, |"%5 Vro2iJ% G_ i_|%r%Y|i_M
JocuS%_|Gr5 r%Yourc%A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P oYi_M |"% frGS%SMrG@@%r i_ AM P VoluS% of SG|%riGl Vroc%YY%J
G_J |o @% Vroc%YY%J P PurVoY% of AM <i|"i_ f} P }G|GloMui_M G_J |"%
_G|ur% of AMMY SG|%riGl P SGMf coJi_M G_J |"% [u%Y|io_ of [uGli|5 2%rYuY
[uG_|i|5 P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% [u%Y|io_SG_JSG_Y<%r V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J  f~cS}@@Ao~lMY
Vr%Y%_|G|io_, Y%2%rGl clGrificG|io_Y <%r% SGJ%A

AM iY @ri_Mi_M i_ So|io_ Vic|ur%Y froS G 2iJ%oJiYcA  _"% frGS%SMrG@@%r
J%2ic%Y cr%G|% G <i_Jo< o_ G coSVu|%r Ycr%%_, <"ic" V%rSi|Y uY%rY |o
JiMi|i,% G Yi_Ml% frGS% of |"% So2i% or o_% of |"% V"o|oMrGV"YA  c|
VroJuc%Y G cruJ%, rouM"SG_JSr%GJ5 iSGM% |"G| "iM" Yc"ool Y|uJ%_|Y cG_
i_corVorG|% i_|o VGV%rY, G_J |"G| "GY <or(%J 2%r5 _ic%l5 i_ |"iY <G5A

}oSS%_|i_M o_  f~cS}@@Ao~lMY GYY%r|io_ |"G| AM <GY loo(i_M Sor% G|
Y%Grc"i_M iJ%GY |"G_ <orJY, MYfi"AS GrMu%J |"G| <i|"ou| <orJY G_ iJ%G
Jo%Y _o| %xiY|A   f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J |"G| "% ouM"| |o "G2% Gr|iculG|%J
"iY Voi_| Sor% cl%Grl5A  MYfi"AS Y|G|%J |"G| |"%5 <%r% i_ fGc| @o|"
|Gl(i_M G@ou| |"% YGS% |"i_MA  85 Y%Grc"i_M for <orJY G_J @5 forci_M
V%oVl% |o focuY o_ |"% <orJ, |"% P%rY%uY ProP%c| f%l| |"G| |"%5 <oulJ M%|
|"%S |o |"% iJ%GA  _"% <G5 o_% r%2i%<Y r%Yul|Y iY |Gilor%J Sor% |o o_%
(i_J of uY%r |"G_ G_o|"%rA

}o_c%r_i_M |"% |o|Gl 2oluS% of SG|%riGl |"G| "GY @%%_ Vroc%YY%J i_ |"iY
<G5, AM G| |"iY Voi_| "GY i_ r%|ri%2G@l% forS Y%2%_ or %iM"| coll%c|io_Y,
Gll of |"%S V"o|oMrGV"icA  c_ |"% MGci_|oY" %_2iro_S%_|, for %xGSVl%,
|"%r% Vro@G@l5 Gr% <5,DDDSxD,DDD V"o|oMrGV"YA  _"% You_J r%corJi_MY
_uS@%r Yix|5 i|%SYA  _"% @roGJYiJ%Y _uS@%r G@ou| <DD i|%SYA  _"%r% Gr%
5DD Voli|icGl cGr|oo_Y i_ |"% forS of JrG<i_MYA  _"% So|io_ Vic|ur%Y, GY
i_Ji2iJuGl i|%SY, _uS@%r Yix|5 |o Y%2%_|5A

AM GlYo "GY G SG_uYcriV| coll%c|io_, |"% lif% "iY|or5 Vor|io_ of o_% of
|"% f%J%rGl VroP%c| Y%ri%Y, <"ic" <ill co_|Gi_ 2,}DD i_Ji2iJuGl
JocuS%_|Y, Gll firY|SV%rYo_ _GrrG|i2%YA  AM "GY i_ Vroc%YY G@ou| <5D
AfricG_SAS%ricG_ VGSV"l%|Y, or G@ou| u2,DDD Vri_|%J VGM%Y for |"% V%rioJ
u8ADSu}uDA  AlYo i_ |"% <or(Y Gr% YoS% x,DDD VG_orGSic V"o|oMrGV"YA  AM
"GY r%c5cl%J G fGir GSou_| of |"% <or( Jo_% @5 f}MY Pri_|Y G_J
P"o|oMrGV"Y Di2iYio_ Juri_M |"% fi@rGr5MY oV|icGl JiY( Vilo| VroP%c| i_
|"% u}8DYA   or %xGSVl%, G YV%ciGl Ji2iYio_ of f} "GY |ool%J uV G_J
|"ouM"| |"rouM" Gll |"% rGSificG|io_Y of %l%c|ro_ic Vr%Y%_|G|io_ of
V"o|oMrGV"YA  c_J%%J, |"%5 Gr% <"%%li_M |"%S ou| i_ Mr%G| @Grr%l loGJYA
_"% VurVoY% of AM <i|"i_ |"% fi@rGr5, i| iY "oV%J, iY |o cG|Gl5,% Y%2%rGl
of |"% o|"%r YV%ciGl coll%c|io_ Ji2iYio_Y <"ic" "G2% _o VGr|iculGr
%xV%ri%_c% <i|", i_ YoS% cGY%Y, Six%J f%%li_MY G@ou|, G_ Gc|i2i|5 Yuc" GY
AMA  Mor%o2%r, i_ SG_5 cGY%Y |"% Ji2iYio_Y SG5 @% c"GrGc|%ri,%J GY _o|
o_l5 lGc(i_M %xV%ri%_c% i_ "%l%c|ro_if5i_M" |"i_MY @u| GlYo i_ Gu|oSG|%J
cG|GloMui_MA  MAl} cG|GloMui_M GY VrGc|ic%J i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y iY
"%G2il5 <%iM"|%J |o<GrJ |"% J%YcriV|io_ of So_oMrGV" G_J Y%riGl
SG|%riGlY, @u| iY Suc" |"i__%r <"%_ o_% %_|%rY |"% <orlJ of SG_uYcriV|Y
G_J |"i_MY |"G| Gr% "%lJ i_ |"% fi@rGr5MY SuYic coll%c|io_ G_J o|"%r
u_i|YA  c_ r%YVo_Y% |o G coSS%_| @5 f~S%, |"G| AMMY SG|%riGl iY 2%r5
"%G2il5 V"o|oMrGV"ic, G_J iY Yo VriSGril5 @%cGuY% i_Ji2iJuGl r%corJY "G2%
@%%_ SGJ% for %Gc" V"o|oMrGV",  f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J |"G| G_ i|%SSl%2%l
cG|GloM r%corJ %xiY|Y, for %xGSVl%, for %Gc" V"o|oMrGV" i_ |"% D%|roi|
Pu@liY"i_M coll%c|io_ of 25,DDD Vic|ur%YA  c_ |"% cGY% of |"%  %J%rGl
[ri|%rY ProP%c|, for <"ic" _%Grl5 <,DDD JocuS%_|Y %xiY|, r%Vr%Y%_|i_M
i_forSG|io_ froS |<%_|5SYix Jiff%r%_| Y|G|%Y, AM <i|" |"% GYYiY|G_c% of
%Gr%_ S_oAl_ of |"% MG_uYcriV| Di2iYio_ <ill G||%SV| |o fi_J YoS% <G5 _o|
o_l5 |o "G2% G coll%c|io_Sl%2%l r%corJ @u| V%r"GVY G MAl} r%corJ for %Gc"
Y|G|%, <"ic" <ill |"%_ Y%r2% GY G_ uS@r%llG for |"% uDDS2DD JocuS%_|Y
|"G| coS% u_J%r i|A  8u| |"G| JrGSG r%SGi_Y |o @% %_Gc|%JA  _"% AM Y|Gff
iY co_Y%r2G|i2% G_J cli_MY |o cG|GloMui_M, |"ouM" of courY% 2iYi|orY |ou|
Gr|ificiGl i_|%lliM%_c% G_J _%urGl _%|<or(Y i_ G SG__%r |"G| YuMM%Y|Y |"G|
V%r"GVY o_% _%%J _o| "G2% cG|GloMui_M or |"G| Suc" of i| coulJ @% Vu| GYiJ%A

_"% SG||%r of SGMf coJi_M,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, r%|ur_%J |"% JiYcuYYio_
|o |"% %Grli%r |r%G|%J [u%Y|io_ of [uGli|5 2%rYuY [uG_|i|5 i_ |"% fi@rGr5
of }o_Mr%YYA  if courY%, |%x| co_2%rYio_ cG_ @% Jo_% <i|" uDDSV%rc%_|
GccurGc5, @u| i| S%G_Y |"G| <"%_ o_%MY "olJi_MY Gr% GY 2GY| GY f}MY o_l5
G |i_5 GSou_| <ill @% %xVoY%J, <"%r%GY V%rSi||i_M lo<%r l%2%lY of
GccurGc5 cG_ l%GJ |o %xVoYi_M or Y"Gri_M lGrM%r GSou_|Y, @u| <i|" |"%
[uGli|5 corr%YVo_Ji_Ml5 iSVGir%JA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
_[i@cG P A co_|rGr5 %xV%ri%_c% co_c%r_i_M %l%c|ro_ic oV|io_Y P VoluS% of
SG|%riGl i_ |"% [GY"i_M|o_ VGV%rY G_J G YuMM%Y|io_ of DG2iJ PGc(GrJ P
cSVlicG|io_Y of PGc(GrJMY YuMM%Y|io_ P _rG_Ycri@i_M |"% JocuS%_|Y for |"%
}DSliM P AccurGc5 of |rG_YcriV|io_Y P _"% }DSliM %Ji|io_ of |"%  ou_Ji_M
 G|"%rY JocuS%_|Y P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo