primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is t|"% VlGci_M of |"% VGM%Y
|"G| fGll GVGr| o_% for o_% o_ |"% VlG|%_A  irJi_Gril5, G YcG__%r coulJ
@% uY%J <i|" YoS% Yor| of G JocuS%_| f%%J%r, @u| @%cGuY% of |"iY
GVVlicG|io_ |"G| iY _o| f%GYi@l%A   ur|"%r, @%cGuY% }fASS iY G
Vr%Y%r2G|io_ GVVlicG|io_, Gf|%r |"% VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_| iY SGJ% |"%r%, G
2%r5 cGr%ful [uGli|5 co_|rol c"%c( iY V%rforS%JA  A_ oriMi_Gl @oo( iY
coSVGr%J |o |"% Vri_|%J coV5 G_J 2%rificG|io_ iY SGJ%, @%for% Vroc%%Ji_M,
|"G| Gll of |"% iSGM%, Gll of |"% i_forSG|io_, "GY @%%_ cGV|ur%JA  _"%_,
G _%< li@rGr5 @oo( iY VroJuc%Ju  _"% Vri_|%J iSGM%Y Gr% r%@ou_J @5 G
coSS%rciGl @i_J%r G_J G _%< @oo( iY r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%lfA
SiM_ificG_|l5, |"% @oo(Y r%|ur_%J |o |"% li@rGr5 Y"%l2%Y Gr% @%Gu|iful
G_J uY%ful r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%r |"G| Y"oulJ lGY| G lo_M |iS%,
i_ %ff%c|, |"% %[ui2Gl%_| of Vr%Y%r2G|io_ V"o|ocoVi%YA  _"uY, |"% VroP%c|
"GY G li@rGr5 of JiMi|Gl @oo(YA  c_ %YY%_c%, }fASS iY YcG__i_M G_J
Y|ori_M @oo(Y GY ,DD Jo|SV%rSi_c" @i|SSGVV%J iSGM%Y, coSVr%YY%J uYi_M
GrouV x }}c__ (iA%A, |"%  r%_c" Gcro_5S for c_|%r_G|io_Gl }o_Yul|G|i2%
}oSSi||%% for _%l%MrGV" G_J _%l%V"o_%l coSVr%YYio_A  _"%5 Gr% Y|or%J GY
_c   fil%Y o_ G_ oV|icGl fili_M Y5Y|%S |"G| iY coSVoY%J of G JG|G@GY%
uY%J for Y%Grc"i_M G_J locG|i_M |"% @oo(Y G_J G_ oV|icGl Pu(%@ox |"G|
Y|or%Y ,x |<%l2%Si_c" VlG||%rYA  A 2%r5S"iM"Sr%Yolu|io_ Vri_|%J coV5 of
|"%Y% @oo(Y G| ,DD Jo|Y V%r i_c" iY cr%G|%J, uYi_M G r%rox Docu_%c"
Vri_|%r |o SG(% |"% VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_|Y o_ GciJSfr%% VGV%rA

P~lSi"coS SGi_|Gi_%J |"G| |"% }fASS ProP%c| Vr%Y%_|Y G_ oVVor|u_i|5 |o
i_|roJuc% V%oVl% |o @oo(Y GY JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y @5 uYi_M G VGV%r S%JiuSA
8oo(Y Gr% r%|ur_%J |o |"% Y"%l2%Y <"il% V%oVl% Gr% GlYo Mi2%_ |"% G@ili|5
|o Vri_| o_ J%SG_JSS|o SG(% |"%ir o<_ coVi%Y of @oo(YA  (P~lSi"coS
JiY|ri@u|%J coVi%Y of G_ %_Mi_%%ri_M Pour_Gl Vu@liY"%J @5 %_Mi_%%ri_M
Y|uJ%_|Y G| }or_%ll Grou_J u}DD GY G_ %xGSVl% of <"G| G Vri_|So_SJ%SG_J
coV5 of SG|%riGl SiM"| @% li(%A  _"iY 2%r5 c"%GV coV5 <oulJ @% G2GilG@l%
|o V%oVl% |o uY% for |"%ir o<_ r%Y%Grc" VurVoY%Y G_J <oulJ @riJM% |"% MGV
@%|<%%_ G_ %l%c|ro_ic <or( G_J |"% VGV%r |"G| r%GJ%rY li(% |o "G2%Al
P~lSi"coS |"%_ G||%SV|%J |o illuY|rG|% G 2%r5 %Grl5 Vro|o|5V% of
_%|<or(%J Gcc%YY |o |"iY JiMi|Gl li@rGr5A  r%rox }orVorG|io_ "GY
J%2%loV%J G Vro|o|5V% of G 2i%< Y|G|io_ |"G| cG_ Y%_J iSGM%Y GcroYY |"%
_%|<or( |o @% 2i%<%JA

_"% VGr|iculGr li@rGr5 @rouM"| Jo<_ for J%So_Y|rG|io_ co_|Gi_%J |<o
SG|"%SG|icY @oo(YA  }fASS iY J%2%loVi_M G_J <ill YV%_J |"% _%x| 5%Gr
J%2%loVi_M G_ GVVlicG|io_ |"G| Gllo<Y V%oVl% G| <or(Y|G|io_Y |o @ro<Y%
|"% @oo(YA  _"uY, }fASS iY J%2%loVi_M G @ro<Yi_M |ool, o_ |"% GYYuSV|io_
|"G| uY%rY Jo _o| <G_| |o r%GJ G_ %_|ir% @oo( froS G <or(Y|G|io_, @u|
<oulJ Vr%f%r |o @% G@l% |o loo( |"rouM" G_J J%ciJ% if |"%5 <oulJ li(% |o
"G2% G Vri_|%J coV5 of i|A

                                 PPPPPP
