comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strategies that will allow us to provide access to this material
in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automSG|io_ of |"%ir orJ%r fil%Y
G_J cG|GloMY |o Gu|oSG|io_ of |"%ir coll%c|io_Y |"%SY%l2%YSSG_J i| iY
VoYYi@l% |o circuS2%_| |"% fiYcGl liSi|G|io_Y |"G| GVV%Gr |o o@|Gi_
|oJG5A

_"iY ~l%c|ro_ic fi@rGr5 S|rG|%Mic PlG_ r%coSS%_JY G VGrGJiMS Y"if| i_
li@rGr5 Y%r2ic%, G_J J%So_Y|rG|%Y |"% Y|%VY _%c%YYGr5 |o Vro2iJ% iSVro2%J
li@rGr5 Y%r2ic%Y <i|" liSi|%J cGVGci|i%Y G_J oV%rG|i_M i_2%Y|S%_|YA

S~SSci" cVSA

A__% %~""~Y

_"% }or_%llYr%rox Joi_| S|uJ5 i_ DiMi|Gl Pr%Y%r2G|io_ r%Yul|%J i_ |"%
r%corJi_M of u,DDD @ri||l% @oo(Y GY ,DDSJVi JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y G_J |"%
VroJuc|io_, o_ J%SG_J, of "iM"S[uGli|5 G_J Grc"i2Gll5 You_J VGV%r
r%VlGc%S%_|YA  _"% VroP%c|, <"ic" <GY YuVVor|%J @5 |"% }oSSiYYio_ o_
Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY, GlYo i_2%Y|iMG|%J YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y Yurrou_Ji_M
YcG__i_M, Y|ori_M, r%|ri%2i_M, G_J Vro2iJi_M Gcc%YY |o JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y i_
G _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|A

A__% %%__%5 <ill focuY o_ YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y Yurrou_Ji_M Jir%c| YcG__i_M
GY iJ%_|ifi%J i_ |"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c|A  ASo_M |"oY% |o @% JiYcuYY%J
Gr%u  iSGM% 2%rYuY |%x| cGV|ur%2 i_J%xi_M G_J Gcc%YY2 iSGM%ScGV|ur%
cGVG@ili|i%Y2 G coSVGriYo_ |o V"o|ocoV5 G_J SicrofilS2 VroJuc|io_ G_J
coY| G_Gl5YiY2 Y|orGM% forSG|Y, Vro|ocolY, G_J Y|G_JGrJY2 G_J |"% uY% of
|"iY YcG__i_M |%c"_oloM5 for Vr%Y%r2G|io_ VurVoY%YA

_"% ,DDSJVi JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y VroJuc%J i_ |"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| Vro2%J
"iM"l5 Gcc%V|G@l% for cr%G|i_M VGV%r r%VlGc%S%_|Y of J%|%riorG|i_M
oriMi_GlYA  _"% u,DDD YcG__%J 2oluS%Y Vro2iJ%J G_ GrrG5 of iSGM%ScGV|ur%
c"Gll%_M%Y |"G| Gr% coSSo_ |o _i_%|%%_|"Sc%_|ur5 Vri_|i_M |%c"_i[u%Y G_J
%S@ri||l%J SG|%riGl, G_J |"G| J%f5 |"% uY% of |%x|Sco_2%rYio_ Vroc%YY%YA
_"%Y% c"Gll%_M%Y i_cluJ% JiSi_iY"%J co_|rGY| @%|<%%_ |%x| G_J @Gc(Mrou_J,
frGMil% G_J J%|%riorG|%J VGM%Y, u_%2%_ Vri_|i_M, %lG@orG|% |5V% fGc%Y,
fGi_| G_J @olJ |%x| GJPGc%_c5, "G_J<ri||%_ |%x| G_J G__o|G|io_Y, _o_loSG_
lG_MuGM%Y, G_J G Vrolif%rG|io_ of illuY|rG|%J SG|%riGl %S@%JJ%J i_ |%x|A
_"% lG||%r cG|%Mor5 i_cluJ%J "iM"Sfr%[u%_c5 G_J lo<Sfr%[u%_c5 "Glf|o_%Y,
co_|i_uouY |o_% V"o|oMrGV"Y, i_|ricG|% SG|"%SG|icGl JrG<i_MY, SGVY,
%|c"i_MY, r%2%rY%SVolGri|5 JrG<i_MY, G_J %_MrG2i_MYA

_"% r%rox Vro|o|5V% YcG__i_M Y5Y|%S Vro2iJ%J G _uS@%r of iSVor|G_|
f%G|ur%Y for cGV|uri_M |"iY Ji2%rY% SG|%riGlA  _%c"_iciG_Y uY%J Sul|iVl%
|"r%Y"olJ Y%||i_MY, fil|%rY, li_% Gr| G_J "Glf|o_% J%fi_i|io_Y,
Gu|oY%MS%_|G|io_, <i_Jo<i_M, G_J Yof|<Gr%S%Ji|i_M VroMrGSY |o oV|iSi,%
iSGM% cGV|ur%A  A| |"% YGS% |iS%, |"iY VroP%c| focuY%J o_ VroJuc|io_A
_"% MoGl <GY |o SG(% YcG__i_M GY GfforJG@l% G_J Gcc%V|G@l% GY
V"o|ocoV5i_M G_J SicrofilSi_M for Vr%Y%r2G|io_ r%forSG||i_MA  A
|iS%SG_JScoY| Y|uJ5 co_Juc|%J Juri_M |"% lGY| |"r%% So_|"Y of |"iY
VroP%c| co_firS%J |"% %co_oSic 2iG@ili|5 of JiMi|Gl YcG__i_M, G_J |"%Y%
fi_Ji_MY <ill @% JiYcuYY%J "%r%A

 roS |"% ou|Y%|, |"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| <GY Vr%JicG|%J o_ |"% uY% of
_o_VroVri%|Gr5 Y|G_JGrJY G_J |"% uY% of coSSo_ Vro|ocolY <"%_ Y|G_JGrJY
JiJ _o| %xiY|A  DiMi|Gl fil%Y <%r% cr%G|%J GY _c   iSGM%Y <"ic" <%r%
coSVr%YY%J Vrior |o Y|orGM% uYi_M GrouV x }}c__ coSVr%YYio_A  _"% r%rox
Yof|<Gr% iY MS DiS @GY%J G_J u|ili,%Y offS|"% Y"%lf VroMrGSY Yuc" GY
MicroYof| [i_Jo<Y G_J [G_M cSGM% [i,GrJA  _"% JiMi|Gl li@rGr5 iY J%YiM_%J
|o @% "GrJ<Gr%Si_J%V%_J%_| G_J |o Vro2iJ% i_|%rc"G_M%G@ili|5 <i|" o|"%r
i_Y|i|u|io_Y |"rouM" _%|<or( co__%c|io_YA  Acc%YY |o |"% JiMi|Gl fil%Y
|"%SY%l2%Y iY |<oS|i%r%Ju  8i@lioMrGV"ic r%corJY for |"% coSVu|%r fil%Y
Gr% cr%G|%J i_ lfc" G_J }or_%llMY locGl Y5Y|%S G_J Gcc%YY i_|o |"% Gc|uGl
JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y coSVriYi_M G @oo( iY Vro2iJ%J |"rouM" G JocuS%_| co_|rol
Y|ruc|ur% G_J G _%|<or(%J iSGM% fil%SY%r2%r, @o|" of <"ic" <ill @%
J%Ycri@%JA

_"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_ <ill co_cluJ% <i|" G JiYcuYYio_ of YoS% of |"% iYYu%Y
Yurrou_Ji_M |"% uY% of |"iY |%c"_oloM5 GY G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ |ool (Y|orGM%,
r%fr%Y"i_M, @Gc(uVlA

PGS%lG A"Dl~ G_J JuJi|" |cDAl

_"% "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5 ("Afl "GY "GJ %x|%_Yi2% %xV%ri%_c% <i|"
rGY|%r YcG__i_M of Vri_|%J SG|%riGlYA  Si_c% u}8A, |"% fi@rGr5 "GY
VGr|iciVG|%J i_ |"% "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl _%x| DiMi|i,i_M ProP%c| ("A_DPl
G cooV%rG|i2% %ffor| @%|<%%_ "Af G_J for|5Sfi2% lG_J MrG_| u_i2%rYi|5
li@rGri%YA  A_ o2%r2i%< of |"% VroP%c| <ill @% Vr%Y%_|%J, Mi2i_M i|Y
"iY|or5 G_J "AfMY Y|rG|%M5 for |"% fu|ur%A

A_ i_SJ%V|" JiYcuYYio_ of "A_DP <ill follo<, i_cluJi_M G J%YcriV|io_ of
|"% YcG__i_M Vroc%YY, froS |"% MG|"%ri_M of |"% Vri_|%J SG|%riGlY |o |"%
Grc"i2i_M of |"% %l%c|ro_ic VGM%YA  _"% |5V% of %[uiVS%_| r%[uir%J for G
Y|G_JSGlo_% YcG__i_M <or(Y|G|io_ G_J |"% iSVor|G_c% of fil% SG_GM%S%_|
Yof|<Gr% <ill @% JiYcuYY%JA  cYYu%Y co_c%r_i_M |"% iSGM%Y |"%SY%l2%Y <ill
@% GJJr%YY%J @ri%fl5, Yuc" GY iSGM% forSG|2 @lGc( G_J <"i|% 2%rYuY color
