
Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers.

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery:

          * Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility.

          * Precipitous standard-setting not possible and probably not
          desirable.

          * Standards are a complex issue involving the medium, the
          hardware, the software, and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity.

          * The prognosis for reliable archival standards (as defined by
          librarians) in the foreseeable future is poor.

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism.

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition periodJu  @o< lo_M G_J <"G| |o Jo8

          P  l%J%fi_% "Grc"i2GlA"

          P  l%So2% |"% @urJ%_ of "Grc"i2Gl coV5" froS VGV%r Gr|ifGc|YA

          P  oY% JiMi|Gl |%c"_oloM5 for Y|orGM%, J%2%loV SG_GM%S%_|
          Y|rG|%Mi%Y for r%fr%Y"i_M S%JiuS, "GrJ<Gr% G_J Yof|<Gr%A

          P  }r%G|% GciJSfr%% VGV%r coVi%Y for |rG_Yi|io_ V%rioJ @Gc(uV
          u_|il <% J%2%loV r%liG@l% Vroc%Jur%Y for %_Yuri_M co_|i_ui_M
          Gcc%YY |o JiMi|Gl fil%YA

S~SSci" cVSD

S|uGr| [~c8~f            _"% lol% of SGMf MGr(uV i_ |"% }il~ ProP%c| (,l

_"% %S%rM%_c% of "iM"SYV%%J |%l%coSSu_icG|io_Y _%|<or(Y GY G @GYic
f%G|ur% of |"% Yc"olGrl5 <or(VlGc% iY Jri2i_M |"% J%SG_J for %l%c|ro_ic
JocuS%_| J%li2%r5A  _"r%% JiY|i_c| cG|%Mori%Y of %l%c|ro_ic
Vu@liY"i_MYr%Vu@liY"i_M Gr% _%c%YYGr5 |o YuVVor| Gcc%YY J%SG_JY i_ |"iY
%S%rMi_M %_2iro_S%_|u

     uAl  }o_2%rYio_ of VGV%r or SicrofilS Grc"i2%Y |o %l%c|ro_ic forSG|
     2Al  }o_2%rYio_ of %l%c|ro_ic fil%Y |o forSG|Y |Gilor%J |o
          %l%c|ro_ic r%|ri%2Gl G_J JiYVlG5
     <Al  PriSGr5 %l%c|ro_ic Vu@liY"i_M (SG|%riGlY for <"ic" |"%
          %l%c|ro_ic 2%rYio_ iY |"% VriSGr5 forSG|l

i}f} "GY %xV%riS%_|Gl or VroJuc| J%2%loVS%_| Gc|i2i|i%Y i_ %Gc" of |"%Y%
Gr%GYA  ASo_M |"% c"Gll%_M%Y |"G| li% G"%GJ iY |"% i_|%MrG|io_ of |"%Y%
|"r%% |5V%Y of i_forSG|io_ Y|or%Y i_ co"%r%_| JiY|ri@u|%J Y5Y|%SYA

_"% }il~ (}"%SiY|r5 i_li_% l%|ri%2Gl ~xV%riS%_|l ProP%c| iY G SoJ%l for
|"% co_2%rYio_ of lGrM% |%x| G_J MrGV"icY coll%c|io_Y for <"ic"
%l%c|ro_ic |5V%Y%||i_M fil%Y Gr% G2GilG@l% (cG|%Mor5 2lA  _"% AS%ricG_
}"%SicGl Soci%|5 "GY SGJ% G2GilG@l% coSVu|%r |5VoMrGV"5 fil%Y JG|i_M froS
u}8D for i|Y |<%_|5 Pour_GlYA  _"iY coll%c|io_ of YoS% 25D Pour_GlS5%GrY
iY @%i_M co_2%r|%J |o G_ %l%c|ro_ic forSG| |"G| <ill @% Gcc%YYi@l%
|"rouM" Y%2%rGl %_JSuY%r GVVlicG|io_YA

_"% uY% of S|G_JGrJ G%_%rGli,%J MGr(uV fG_MuGM% (SGMfl off%rY |"% S%G_Y
|o cGV|ur% |"% Y|ruc|urGl ric"_%YY of |"% oriMi_Gl Gr|icl%Y i_ G <G5 |"G|
<ill YuVVor| G 2Gri%|5 of r%|ri%2Gl, _G2iMG|io_, G_J JiYVlG5 oV|io_Y
_%c%YYGr5 |o _G2iMG|% %ff%c|i2%l5 i_ 2%r5 lGrM% |%x| JG|G@GY%YA

A_ SGMf JocuS%_| co_YiY|Y of |%x| |"G| iY SGr(%J uV <i|" J%YcriV|i2% |GMY
|"G| YV%cif5 |"% fu_c|io_ of G Mi2%_ %l%S%_| <i|"i_ |"% JocuS%_|A  AY G
forSGl lG_MuGM% co_Y|ruc|, G_ SGMf JocuS%_| cG_ @% VGrY%J GMGi_Y| G
JocuS%_|S|5V% J%fi_i|io_ (D_Dl |"G| u_GS@iMuouYl5 J%fi_%Y <"G| %l%S%_|Y
Gr% Gllo<%J G_J <"%r% i_ |"% JocuS%_| |"%5 cG_ (or SuY|l occurA  _"iY
forSGli,%J SGV of Gr|icl% Y|ruc|ur% Gllo<Y |"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% J%YiM_ |o
@% u_couVl%J froS |"% u_J%rl5i_M JG|G@GY% Y5Y|%S, G_ iSVor|G_| Y|%V
|o<GrJ i_|%roV%rG@ili|5A  D%So_Y|rG|io_ of |"iY Y%VGrG@ili|5 iY G VGr| of
|"% }il~ VroP%c|, <"%r%i_ uY%r i_|%rfGc% J%YiM_Y @or_ of 2%r5 Jiff%r%_|
V"iloYoV"i%Y <ill Gcc%YY |"% YGS% JG|G@GY%A

"i_~Su
     (,l  _"% }il~ VroP%c| iY G collG@orG|io_ GSo_M }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5MY
     MG__ fi@rGr5, 8%ll }oSSu_icG|io_Y l%Y%Grc" (8%llcor%l, |"% AS%ricG_
     }"%SicGl Soci%|5 (A}Sl, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic% (}ASl, G_J
     i}f}A

Mic"G%l f~S%                  _"% }il~ ~l%c|ro_ic }"%SiY|r5 fi@rGr5

A SGPor o_Sli_% fil% of c"%SicGl Pour_Gl li|%rG|ur% coSVl%|% <i|"
MrGV"icY iY @%i_M J%2%loV%J |o |%Y| |"% uYG@ili|5 of full5 %l%c|ro_ic
Gcc%YY |o JocuS%_|Y, GY G Poi_| VroP%c| of }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5, |"%
AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5, |"% }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y S%r2ic%, i}f}, G_J
8%llcor% (<i|" GJJi|io_Gl YuVVor| froS Su_ MicroY5Y|%SY, SVri_M%rSV%rlGM,
DiMi|Gc ~[uiVS%_| }orVorG|io_, So_5 }orVorG|io_ of AS%ricG, G_J AVVl%
}oSVu|%rYlA  iur fil% co_|Gi_Y |"% AS%ricG_ }"%SicGl Soci%|5MY o_Sli_%
Pour_GlY, YuVVl%S%_|%J <i|" |"% MrGV"icY froS |"% VGV%r Vu@licG|io_A  _"%
i_J%xi_M of |"% Gr|icl%Y froS }"%SicGl A@Y|rGc|Y DocuS%_|Y iY G2GilG@l%
i_ @o|" iSGM% G_J |%x| forSG|, G_J Y%2%rGl Jiff%r%_| i_|%rfGc%Y cG_ @%
uY%JA  iur MoGlY Gr% (ul |o GYY%YY |"% %ff%c|i2%_%YY G_J Gcc%V|G@ili|5 of
%l%c|ro_ic Gcc%YY |o VriSGr5 Pour_GlY GY coSVGr%J <i|" VGV%r, G_J (2l |o
iJ%_|if5 |"% SoY| J%YirG@l% fu_c|io_Y of |"% uY%r i_|%rfGc% |o G_
%l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%S of Pour_GlY, i_cluJi_M i_ VGr|iculGr G coSVGriYo_ of
VGM%SiSGM% JiYVlG5 <i|" AS}cc JiYVlG5 i_|%rfGc%YA  ~Grl5 %xV%riS%_|Y <i|"
c"%SiY|r5 Y|uJ%_|Y o_ G 2Gri%|5 of |GY(Y YuMM%Y| |"G| Y%Grc"i_M |GY(Y Gr%
coSVl%|%J Suc" fGY|%r <i|" G_5 %l%c|ro_ic Y5Y|%S |"G_ <i|" VGV%r, @u|
|"G| for r%GJi_M Gll 2%rYio_Y of |"% Gr|icl%Y Gr% rouM"l5 %[ui2Gl%_|A

PGS%lG A"Dl~ G_J JuJi|" |cDAl

_%x| co_2%rYio_ iY fGr Sor% %xV%_Yi2% G_J |iS%Sco_YuSi_M |"G_ iSGM%
cGV|ur% Glo_%A  "AfMY %xV%ri%_c% <i|" oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ (i}ll
<ill @% r%lG|%J G_J coSVGr%J <i|" |"% %xV%ri%_c% of "G2i_M |%x| r%(%5%JA
["G| fGc|orY Gff%c| i}l GccurGc58  @o< GccurG|% Jo%Y full |%x| "G2% |o @%
i_ orJ%r |o @% uY%ful8  @o< Jo Jiff%r%_| uY%rY r%Gc| |o iSV%rf%c| |%x|8
_"%Y% Gr% [u%Y|io_Y |"G| <ill @% %xVlor%JA   or SG_5, G Y%r2ic% @ur%Gu
SG5 @% G @%||%r Yolu|io_ |"G_ V%rforSi_M |"% <or( i_"ouY%2 |"iY <ill GlYo
@% JiYcuYY%JA

S~SSci" Vc

MGr5@%|" P~_~lS

}oV5riM"| lG< Vro|%c|Y cr%G|i2% <or(YA  Pro|%c|io_ MrG_|%J @5 |"% lG< |o
Gu|"orY G_J JiYY%Si_G|orY of <or(Y i_cluJ%Y |"% riM"| |o Jo or Gu|"ori,%
|"% follo<i_Mu  r%VroJuc% |"% <or(, Vr%VGr% J%ri2G|i2% <or(Y, JiY|ri@u|%
|"% <or( |o |"% Vu@lic, G_J Vu@licl5 V%rforS or JiYVlG5 |"% <or(A  c_
GJJi|io_, coV5riM"| o<_%rY of You_J r%corJi_MY G_J coSVu|%r VroMrGSY "G2%
|"% riM"| |o co_|rol r%_|Gl of |"%ir <or(YA  _"%Y% riM"|Y Gr% _o|
u_liSi|%J2 |"%r% Gr% G _uS@%r of %xc%V|io_Y G_J liSi|G|io_YA

A_ %l%c|ro_ic %_2iro_S%_| VlGc%Y Y|rGi_Y o_ |"% coV5riM"| Y5Y|%SA
}oV5riM"| o<_%rY <G_| |o co_|rol uY%Y of |"%ir <or( G_J @% VGiJ for G_5
uY%2 |"% Vu@lic <G_|Y [uic( G_J %GY5 Gcc%YY G| li||l% or _o coY|A  _"%
SGr(%|VlGc% iY <or(i_M i_ |"iY Gr%GA  }o_|rGc|Y, MuiJ%li_%Y o_ %l%c|ro_ic
uY%, G_J coll%c|i2% lic%_Yi_M Gr% i_ uY% G_J @%i_M r%fi_%JA

cYYu%Y co_c%r_i_M |"% G@ili|5 |o c"G_M% <or(Y <i|"ou| J%|%c|io_ Gr% Sor%
Jifficul| |o J%Gl <i|"A  (u%Y|io_Y co_c%r_i_M |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% <or(
G_J |"% Y|G|uY of |"% c"G_M%J 2%rYio_ u_J%r |"% coV5riM"| lG< Gr% |o @%
GJJr%YY%JA  _"%Y% Gr% Vu@lic Volic5 iYYu%Y <"ic" r%[uir% i_forS%J
JiGloMu%A


               PPP   PPP   PPP   PPPPPP   PPP   PPP   PPP


                AVV%_Jix cccu  Dcl~}_ilY i  PAl_c}cPA"_S


Pl~S~"_~lSu

     PGS%lG (AJA A_Jr%
     AYYociG|% Dir%c|or, Au|oSG|io_
     "G|io_Gl AMricul|urGl fi@rGr5
     uD<Du 8Gl|iSor% 8oul%2GrJ
     8%l|Y2ill%, MD 2DAD5S2<5u
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 5DxS,8u<
      Gxu  (<Dul 5DxSAxA<
     ~SSGilu  c"_~l"~_u  PA"Dl~@ASllAAlSoSDAAGiV

     J%G_ 8Gro_GY, S%_ior MG_GM%r
     D%VGr|S%_| of S|G_JGrJY G_J _%c"_oloM5
     AYYociG|io_ for c_forSG|io_ G_J cSGM% MG_GM%S%_| (AccMl
     uuDD [G5_% A2%_u%, Sui|% uuDD
     Sil2%r SVri_M, MD 2D}uD
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 58AS82D2
      Gxu  (<Dul 58AS2Auu

     PG|riciG 8G||i_, Pr%YiJ%_|
     _"% }oSSiYYio_ o_ Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J Acc%YY
     uxDD u,|" S|r%%|, "A[A
     Sui|% AxD
     [GY"i_M|o_, D} 2DD<,S22uA
     P"o_%u  (2D2l }<}S<xDD
      Gxu  (2D2l }<}S<xDA
     ~SSGilu  }PA@G[oVMA8c_"~_

     @o<GrJ 8%YY%r
     }%_|r% }G_GJi%_ JMArc"i|%c|ur%
     (}G_GJiG_ }%_|%r for Arc"i|%c|ur%l
     u}2D, ru% 8Gil%
     Mo_|r%Gl, (u%@%c @<@ 2S,
     }A"ADA
     P"o_%u  (5uxl }<}SADDu
      Gxu  (5uxl }<}SAD2D
     ~SSGilu  "o<GrJ@liYAVi||A%Ju

     ~J<i_ 8A 8ro<_riMM, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or
     M%S%x l%Y%Grc" c_Y|i|u|%
     x22 8o_i|G A2%_u%
     loY%2ill%, }A }5,A8
     P"o_%u  (}u,l A8xS22}8
      Gxu  (}u,l A8,SA55}
     ~SSGilu  8c_"~_u  M~M~r@}AfS_A_~A2

     ~ric MA }GlGlucG, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|
     }"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA
     uuDu %i_M S|r%%|
     Al%xG_JriG, VA 22<lx
     P"o_%u  (8DDl A52SD5l5
      Gxu  (AD<l ,8<SA58}

     JGS%Y DGl5
     xDu5 D%%V<ooJ loGJ
     8Gl|iSor%, MD 2u2u8SuxDx
     P"o_%u  (xuDl 2<5SDA,<

     lic(5 ~r<G5, AYYociG|% }oorJi_G|or
     AS%ricG_ M%Sor5
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS,2<<
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS<A,x

     }Grl  l%iYc""Gu%r, }oorJi_G|or
     AS%ricG_ M%Sor5
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS,2<<
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS<A,x

     JoG__%  r%%SG_
     2DDD J%ff%rYo_ PGr( A2%_u%, "oA A
     }"Grlo||%Y2ill%, VA  22}D<

     ProYY%r GifforJ
     Dir%c|or for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADASu5uA
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS}8}8
     ~SSGilu  VMif@Y%[uAlocAMo2

     JGc[u%li_% @%YY, Dir%c|or
     "G|io_Gl D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@orG|or5
       for c_|%rGc|i2% c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADASxu5A
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS282}

     SuYG_ @oc(%5, Dir%c|or
     }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ |"% @uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@l
     Al%xG_J%r fi@rGr5
     lu|M%rY o_i2%rYi|5
     u,} }oll%M% A2%_u%
     "%< 8ru_Y<ic(, "J D8}D<
     P"o_%u  (}D8l }<2Su<8x
      Gxu  (}D8l }<2Su<8,
     ~SSGilu  "oc(%5@,oJiGcAru|M%rYA%Ju

     [illiGS fA @oo|o_, Vic% Pr%YiJ%_|
     8uYi_%YY i _%c"_icGl D%2%loVS%_|
       cSGMi_M i c_forSG|io_ S5Y|%SY GrouV
     cS"~_
     ,x<D loc(l%JM% Dri2%, Sui|% xDD
     8%|"%YJG, MD 2D8lA
     P"o_%u  (<Dul 5,xS,A5D
      Gxu  (5u<l 5,xS,8,A

     A__% lA %%__%5, AYYociG|% Dir%c|or
     D%VGr|S%_| of Pr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J }o_Y%r2G|io_
     ADu ili_ fi@rGr5
     }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5
     c|"GcG, "Y ux85<
     P"o_%u  (,DAl 255S,8A5
      Gxu  (,DAl 255S}<x,
     ~SSGilu  fYDY@}il"~ffAA8c_"~_

     lo_GlJ fA fGrY%_
     AYYociG|% Dir%c|or for c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloM5
     o_i2%rYi|5 of MGr5lG_J G| }oll%M% PGr(
     looS 8D22x, Mc%%lJi_ fi@rGr5
     }oll%M% PGr(, MD 2DAx2SADuu
     P"o_%u  (<Dul xD5S}u}x
      Gxu  (<Dul <uxS}8,5
     ~SSGilu  rlGrY%_@li@rAuSJA%Ju

     MGriG fA f%@ro_, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or
     _"% i_li_% Jour_Gl of }urr%_| }li_icGl _riGlY
     l<<< @ S|r%%|, "A[A
     [GY"i_M|o_, D} 2DDD5
     P"o_%u  (2D2l <2,S,A<5
      Gxu  (2D2l 8x2S28,8
     ~SSGilu  Po8SAAAS@G[oVMA8c_"~_

     Mic"G%l f%Y(, ~x%cu|i2% Dir%c|or
     }oSVu|%r Sci%_c% l%Y%Grc"
     8%ll }oSSu_icG|io_Y l%Y%Grc", c_cA
     lS 2AS<85
     xx5 Sou|" S|r%%|
     MorriY|o<_, "J DA},DSl}lD
     P"o_%u  (2Dul 82}SxDAD
      Gxu  (2Dul 82}S5}8u
     ~SSGilu  l%Y(@@%llcor%AcoS (c_|%r_%|l or @%llcor%Gl%Y( (uucVl

     }lifforJ AA f5_c"
     Dir%c|or, fi@rGr5 Au|oSG|io_
     o_i2%rYi|5 of }Glifor_iG,
        iffic% of |"% Pr%YiJ%_|
     <DD fG(%YiJ% Dri2%, 8|"  loor
     iG(lG_J, }A }x,u2S<<5D
     P"o_%u  (5uDl }8ASD522
      Gxu  (5uDl 8<}S<5A<
     ~SSGilu  cGlur@uccS2YG

     A2rG Mic"%lYo_
     "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y G_J l%corJY AJSi_iY|rG|io_
     "S| lSA ux"
     A|" i P%__Y5l2G_iG, "A[A
     [GY"i_M|o_, DA}A 2DxD8
     P"o_%u  (2D2l 5DuS55xx
      Gxu  (2D2l 5DuS55<<
     ~SSGilu  |Si@cuA_i"AMo2

     ~lli M5lo_GY, MG_GMi_M ~Ji|or
     P%rY%uY ProP%c|
     D%VGr|S%_| of |"% }lGYYicY
     @Gr2GrJ o_i2%rYi|5
     <u} 8o5lY|o_ @Gll
     }GS@riJM%, MA D2u<8
     P"o_%u  (,uAl x}5S}D25, (,uAl x}5SDx5, (Jir%c|l
      Gxu  (,uAl x},S888,
     ~SSGilu  ~lli@c%AliSA@Gr2GrJA~Do or %lli@<P"u2A"Gr2GrJA%Ju

     DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ
     PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y c_Y|i|u|%
     <DD S%co_J S|r%%|, Sui|% 2Du
     foY Al|oY, }A }xDD2
     P"o_%u  (xu5l }x8SDu5D (P@cl
      Gxu  (xu5l }x8S5A}<

     f5__% %A P%rYo_iuY, AYYiY|G_| Dir%c|or
     }or_%ll c_forSG|io_ _%c"_oloMi%Y for
      Sc"olGrl5 c_forSG|io_ Sourc%Y
     5D2 ili_ fi@rGr5
     }or_%ll o_i2%rYi|5
     c|"GcG, "Y ux85<
     P"o_%u  (,DAl 255S<<}<
      Gxu  (,DAl 255S}<x,
     ~SSGilu  Jl"@}il"~ff}A8c_"~_

     MGr5@%|" P%|%rY
     Polic5 PlG__i_M AJ2iY%r |o |"%
       l%MiY|%r of }oV5riM"|Y
     fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY
     iffic% fM xD<
     P"o_%u  (2D2l ADAS8<5D
      Gxu  (2D2l ADAS8<,,

     }A Mic"G%l SV%r@%rMSMc(u%%_
     ~Ji|or, _%x| ~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2%
     }oSVu|%r }%_|%r (MY} u<5l
     o_i2%rYi|5 of clli_oiY G| }"icGMo
     8ox ,}}8
     }"icGMo, cf ,D,8D
     P"o_%u  (<u2l xu<SD<uA
      Gxu  (<u2l }},S,8<x
     ~SSGilu  u<5<}5@uic2SAAccAuicA%Ju or u<5<}5@uic2SA@i|_%
