Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarr(G@l5 %ff%c|i2% for |"%
Gc|uGl c"%SiY|YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
~l[AY P MoY| c"Gll%_Mi_M GYV%c| of <or(i_M o_ AM P AYYuSV|io_Y MuiJi_M
AMMY GVVroGc" P _%Y|i_M Jiff%r%_| |5V%Y of Y%r2ic% @ur%GuY P AMMY
r%[uir%S%_| for }}A}5 V%rc%_| GccurGc5 P l%[uir%S%_|Y for |%x|ScoJi_M P
AJJi|io_Gl fGc|orY i_flu%_ci_M AMMY GVVroGc" |o coJi_M P l%Yul|Y of AMMY
%xV%ri%_c% <i|" r%(%5i_M P i|"%r Vro@l%SY i_ J%Gli_M <i|" Y%r2ic% @ur%GuY
P (uGli|5 co_|rol |"% SoY| |iS%Sco_YuSi_M GYV%c| of co_|rGc|i_M ou|
co_2%rYio_ P fo_MS|%rS ou|loo( u_c%r|Gi_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

_o lic(5 ~l[AY, GYYociG|% coorJi_G|or, AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of
}o_Mr%YY, |"% co_Y|G_| 2Gri%|5 of co_2%rYio_ VroP%c|Y |G(i_M VlGc%
YiSul|G_%ouYl5 r%Vr%Y%_|%J V%r"GVY |"% SoY| c"Gll%_Mi_M GYV%c| of <or(i_
