
AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly

coSVGrG@l%u  for |"% SoY| VGr|, Gll |"r%% Y%r2ic% @ur%GuY Gc"i%2%J }}A}5
V%rc%_| GccurGc5A  AM <GY YG|iYfi%J <i|" |"% <or( @u| YurVriY%J G| |"% coY|A

AY AM @%MG_ co_2%r|i_M <"ol% coll%c|io_Y, i| r%|Gi_%J |"% r%[uir%S%_| for
}}A}5 V%rc%_| GccurGc5 G_J GJJ%J r%[uir%S%_|Y for |%x|ScoJi_MA  AM _%%J%J
|o @%Mi_ V%rforSi_M <or( Sor% |"G_ |"r%% 5%GrY GMo @%for% f} r%[uir%S%_|Y
for SGMf GVVlicG|io_Y "GJ @%%_ %Y|G@liY"%JA  Si_c% AMMY MoGl <GY YiSVl5
|o r%|Gi_ G_5 of |"% i_|%ll%c|uGl co_|%_| r%Vr%Y%_|%J @5 |"% forSG||i_M
of |"% JocuS%_| (<"ic" <oulJ @% loY| if o_% V%rforS%J G Y|rGiM"| AS}cc
co_2%rYio_l, AM uY%J "SGMfSli(%" coJ%YA  _"%Y% coJ%Y r%Y%S@l%J SGMf |GMY
@u| <%r% uY%J <i|"ou| |"% @%_%fi| of JocuS%_|S|5V% J%fi_i|io_YA  AM fou_J
|"G| SG_5 Y%r2ic% @ur%GuY <%r% _o| 5%| SGMfSVrofici%_|
