  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `That's the
judge,' she said to herself, `because of his great wig.'

  The judge, by the way, was the King; and as he wore his crown
over the wig, (look at the frontispiece if you want to see how he
did it,) he did not look at all comfortable, and it was certainly
not becoming.

  `And that's the jury-box,' thought Alice, `and those twelve
creatures,' (she was obliged to say `creatures,' you see, because
some of them were animals, and some were birds,) `I suppose they
are the jurors.'  She said this last word two or three times over
to herself, being rather proud of it:  for she thought, and
rightly too, that very few little girls of her age knew the
meaning of it at all.  However, `jury-men' would have done just
as well.

  The twelve jurors were all writing very busily on slates.
`What are they doing?'  Alice whispered to the Gryphon.  `They
can't have anything to put down yet, before the trial's begun.'

  `They're putting down their names,' the Gryphon whispered in
reply, `for fear they should forget them before the end of the
trial.'

  `Stupid things!' Alice began in a loud, indignant voice, but
she stopped hastily, for the White Rabbit cried out, `Silence in
the court!' and the King put on his spectacles and looked
anxiously round, to make out who was talking.

  Alice could see, as well as if she were looking over their
shoulders, that all the jurors were writing down `stupid things!'
on their slates, and she could even make out that one of them
didn't know how to spell `stupid,' and that he had to ask his
neighbour to tell him.  `A nice muddle their slates'll be in
before the trial's over!' thought Alice.

  One of the jurors had a pencil that squeaked.  This of course,
Alice could not stand, and she went round the court and got
behind him, and very soon found an opportunity of taking it
away.  She did it so quickly that the poor little juror (it was
Bill, the Lizard) could not make out at all what had become of
it; so, after hunting all about for it, he was obliged to write
with one finger for the rest of the day; and this was of very
little use, as it left no mark on the slate.

  `Herald, read the accusation!' said the King.

  On this the White Rabbit blew three blasts on the trumpet, and
then unrolled the parchment scroll, and read as follows:--

    `The Queen of Hearts, she made some tarts,
          All on a summer day:
      The Knave of Hearts, he stole those tarts,
          And took them quite away!'

  `Consider your verdict,' the King said to the jury.

  `Not yet, not yet!' the Rabbit hastily interrupted.  `There's
a great deal to come before that!'

  `Call the first witness,' said the King; and the White Rabbit
blew three blasts on the trumpet, and called out, `First
witness!'

  The first witness was the Hatter.  He came in with a teacup in
one hand and a piece of bread-and-butter in the other.  `I beg
pardon, your Majesty,' he began, `for bringing these in:  but I
hadn't quite finished my tea when I was sent for.'

  `You ought to have finished,' said the King.  `When did you
begin?'

  The Hatter looked at the March Hare, who had followed him into
the court, arm-in-arm with the Dormouse.  `Fourteenth of March, I
think it was,' he said.

  `Fifteenth,' said the March Hare.

  `Sixteenth,' added the Dormouse.

  `Write that down,' the King said to the jury, and the jury
eagerly wrote down all three dates on their slates, and then
added them up, and reduced the answer to shillings and pence.

  `Take off your hat,' the King said to the Hatter.

  `It isn't mine,' said the Hatter.

  `Stolen!' the King exclaimed, turning to the jury, who
instantly made a memorandum of the fact.

  `I keep them to sell,' the Hatter added as an explanation;
`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her  G MooJ J%Gl u_|il Y"% SGJ% ou| <"G| i| <GYu  Y"% <GY
@%Mi__i_M |o Mro< lGrM%r GMGi_, G_J Y"% |"ouM"| G| firY| Y"%
<oulJ M%| uV G_J l%G2% |"% cour|2 @u| o_ Y%co_J |"ouM"|Y Y"%
J%ciJ%J |o r%SGi_ <"%r% Y"% <GY GY lo_M GY |"%r% <GY rooS for
"%rA

   c <iY" 5ou <oulJ_M| Y[u%%,% YoAM YGiJ |"% DorSouY%, <"o <GY
Yi||i_M _%x| |o "%rA   c cG_ "GrJl5 @r%G|"%AM

   c cG_M| "%lV i|,M YGiJ Alic% 2%r5 S%%(l5u   cMS Mro<i_MAM

   YouM2% _o riM"| |o Mro< "%r%,M YGiJ |"% DorSouY%A

   Do_M| |Gl( _o_Y%_Y%,M YGiJ Alic% Sor% @olJl5u   5ou (_o<
5ouMr% Mro<i_M |ooAM

   Y%Y, @u| c Mro< G| G r%GYo_G@l% VGc%,M YGiJ |"% DorSouY%u
 _o| i_ |"G| riJiculouY fGY"io_AM  A_J "% Mo| uV 2%r5 Yul(il5
G_J croYY%J o2%r |o |"% o|"%r YiJ% of |"% cour|A

  All |"iY |iS% |"% (u%%_ "GJ _%2%r l%f| off Y|Gri_M G| |"%
@G||%r, G_J, PuY| GY |"% DorSouY% croYY%J |"% cour|, Y"% YGiJ |o
o_% of |"% offic%rY of |"% cour|,  8ri_M S% |"% liY| of |"%
Yi_M%rY i_ |"% lGY| co_c%r|GM o_ <"ic" |"% <r%|c"%J @G||%r
|r%S@l%J Yo, |"G| "% Y"oo( @o|" "iY Y"o%Y offA

   Gi2% 5our %2iJ%_c%,M |"% %i_M r%V%G|%J G_Mril5,  or cMll "G2%
5ou %x%cu|%J, <"%|"%r 5ouMr% _%r2ouY or _o|AM

   cMS G Voor SG_, 5our MGP%Y|5,M |"% @G||%r @%MG_, i_ G
|r%S@li_M 2oic%,  SSG_J c "GJ_M| @%Mu_ S5 |%GSS_o| G@o2% G <%%(
or YoSSG_J <"G| <i|" |"% @r%GJSG_JS@u||%r M%||i_M Yo |"i_SSG_J
|"% |<i_(li_M of |"% |%GSSM

   _"% |<i_(li_M of |"% <"G|8M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   c| @%MG_ <i|" |"% |%G,M |"% @G||%r r%Vli%JA

   if courY% |<i_(li_M @%Mi_Y <i|" G _GM YGiJ |"% %i_M Y"GrVl5A
 Do 5ou |G(% S% for G Ju_c%8  Go o_GM

   cMS G Voor SG_,M |"% @G||%r <%_| o_,  G_J SoY| |"i_MY
|<i_(l%J Gf|%r |"G|SSo_l5 |"% MGrc" @Gr% YGiJSSM

   c JiJ_M|GM |"% MGrc" @Gr% i_|%rruV|%J i_ G Mr%G| "urr5A

   You JiJGM YGiJ |"% @G||%rA

   c J%_5 i|GM YGiJ |"% MGrc" @Gr%A

   @% J%_i%Y i|,M YGiJ |"% %i_Mu   l%G2% ou| |"G| VGr|AM

   [%ll, G| G_5 rG|%, |"% DorSouY% YGiJSSM |"% @G||%r <%_| o_,
loo(i_M G_xiouYl5 rou_J |o Y%% if "% <oulJ J%_5 i| |oou  @u| |"%
DorSouY% J%_i%J _o|"i_M, @%i_M fGY| GYl%%VA

   Af|%r |"G|,M co_|i_u%J |"% @G||%r,  c cu| YoS% Sor% @r%GJS
G_JS@u||%rSSM

   8u| <"G| JiJ |"% DorSouY% YG58M o_% of |"% Pur5 GY(%JA

   _"G| c cG_M| r%S%S@%r,M YGiJ |"% @G||%rA

   You MoS_ r%S%S@%r,M r%SGr(%J |"% %i_M,  or cMll "G2% 5ou
%x%cu|%JAM

  _"% SiY%rG@l% @G||%r JroVV%J "iY |%GcuV G_J @r%GJSG_JS@u||%r,
G_J <%_| Jo<_ o_ o_% (_%%A   cMS G Voor SG_, 5our MGP%Y|5,M "%
@%MG_A

   YouMr% G 2%r5 Voor YV%G(%r,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  @%r% o_% of |"% Mui_%GSViMY c"%%r%J, G_J <GY iSS%JiG|%l5
YuVVr%YY%J @5 |"% offic%rY of |"% cour|A  (AY |"G| iY rG|"%r G
"GrJ <orJ, c <ill PuY| %xVlGi_ |o 5ou "o< i| <GY Jo_%A  _"%5 "GJ
G lGrM% cG_2GY @GM, <"ic" |i%J uV G| |"% Sou|" <i|" Y|ri_MYu
i_|o |"iY |"%5 YliVV%J |"% Mui_%GSViM, "%GJ firY|, G_J |"%_ YG|
uVo_ i|Al

   cMS MlGJ cM2% Y%%_ |"G| Jo_%,M |"ouM"| Alic%A   cM2% Yo of|%_
r%GJ i_ |"% _%<YVGV%rY, G| |"% %_J of |riGlY, "_"%r% <GY YoS%
G||%SV|Y G| GVVlGuY%, <"ic" <GY iSS%JiG|%l5 YuVVr%YY%J @5 |"%
offic%rY of |"% cour|," G_J c _%2%r u_J%rY|ooJ <"G| i| S%G_|
|ill _o<AM

   cf |"G|MY Gll 5ou (_o< G@ou| i|, 5ou SG5 Y|G_J Jo<_,M
co_|i_u%J |"% %i_MA

   c cG_M| Mo _o lo<%r,M YGiJ |"% @G||%ru   cMS o_ |"% floor, GY
i| iYAM

   _"%_ 5ou SG5 Sc_ Jo<_,M |"% %i_M r%Vli%JA

  @%r% |"% o|"%r Mui_%GSViM c"%%r%J, G_J <GY YuVVr%YY%JA

   }oS%, |"G| fi_iY"%J |"% Mui_%GSViMYGM |"ouM"| Alic%A   "o< <%
Y"Gll M%| o_ @%||%rAM

   cMJ rG|"%r fi_iY" S5 |%G,M YGiJ |"% @G||%r, <i|" G_ G_xiouY
loo( G| |"% (u%%_, <"o <GY r%GJi_M |"% liY| of Yi_M%rYA

   You SG5 Mo,M YGiJ |"% %i_M, G_J |"% @G||%r "urri%Jl5 l%f| |"%
cour|, <i|"ou| %2%_ <Gi|i_M |o Vu| "iY Y"o%Y o_A

   SSG_J PuY| |G(% "iY "%GJ off ou|YiJ%,M |"% (u%%_ GJJ%J |o o_%
of |"% offic%rYu  @u| |"% @G||%r <GY ou| of YiM"| @%for% |"%
offic%r coulJ M%| |o |"% JoorA

   }Gll |"% _%x| <i|_%YYGM YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  _"% _%x| <i|_%YY <GY |"% Duc"%YYMY coo(A  S"% cGrri%J |"%
V%VV%rS@ox i_ "%r "G_J, G_J Alic% Mu%YY%J <"o i| <GY, %2%_ @%for%
Y"% Mo| i_|o |"% cour|, @5 |"% <G5 |"% V%oVl% _%Gr |"% Joor @%MG_
Y_%%,i_M Gll G| o_c%A

   Gi2% 5our %2iJ%_c%,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   S"G_M|,M YGiJ |"% coo(A

  _"% %i_M loo(%J G_xiouYl5 G| |"% ["i|% lG@@i|, <"o YGiJ i_ G
lo< 2oic%,  Your MGP%Y|5 SuY| croYYS%xGSi_% _@cS <i|_%YYAM

   [%ll, if c SuY|, c SuY|,M |"% %i_M YGiJ, <i|" G S%lG_c"ol5
Gir, G_J, Gf|%r folJi_M "iY GrSY G_J fro<_i_M G| |"% coo( |ill
"iY %5%Y <%r% _%Grl5 ou| of YiM"|, "% YGiJ i_ G J%%V 2oic%,  ["G|
Gr% |Gr|Y SGJ% of8M

   P%VV%r, SoY|l5,M YGiJ |"% coo(A

   _r%Gcl%,M YGiJ G Yl%%V5 2oic% @%"i_J "%rA

   }ollGr |"G| DorSouY%,M |"% (u%%_ Y"ri%(%J ou|A   8%"%GJ |"G|
DorSouY%G  _ur_ |"G| DorSouY% ou| of cour|G  SuVVr%YY "iSG  Pi_c"
"iSG  iff <i|" "iY <"iY(%rYGM

   or YoS% Si_u|%Y |"% <"ol% cour| <GY i_ co_fuYio_, M%||i_M |"%
DorSouY% |ur_%J ou|, G_J, @5 |"% |iS% |"%5 "GJ Y%||l%J Jo<_
GMGi_, |"% coo( "GJ JiYGVV%Gr%JA

   "%2%r Si_JGM YGiJ |"% %i_M, <i|" G_ Gir of Mr%G| r%li%fA
 }Gll |"% _%x| <i|_%YYAM  A_J "% GJJ%J i_ G_ u_J%r|o_% |o |"%
(u%%_,  l%Gll5, S5 J%Gr, Yio SuY| croYYS%xGSi_% |"% _%x| <i|_%YYA
c| [ui|% SG(%Y S5 for%"%GJ Gc"%GM

  Alic% <G|c"%J |"% ["i|% lG@@i| GY "% fuS@l%J o2%r |"% liY|,
f%%li_M 2%r5 curiouY |o Y%% <"G| |"% _%x| <i|_%YY <oulJ @% li(%,
 SSfor |"%5 "G2%_M| Mo| Suc" %2iJ%_c% Y~_,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA
cSGMi_% "%r YurVriY%, <"%_ |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%GJ ou|, G| |"% |oV
of "iY Y"rill li||l% 2oic%, |"% _GS%  Alic%GM



                           }@AP_~l rcc

                        Alic%MY ~2iJ%_c%


   @%r%GM cri%J Alic%, [ui|% forM%||i_M i_ |"% flurr5 of |"%
SoS%_| "o< lGrM% Y"% "GJ Mro<_ i_ |"% lGY| f%< Si_u|%Y, G_J Y"%
PuSV%J uV i_ Yuc" G "urr5 |"G| Y"% |iVV%J o2%r |"% Pur5S@ox <i|"
|"% %JM% of "%r Y(ir|, uVY%||i_M Gll |"% Pur5S%_ o_ |o |"% "%GJY
of |"% cro<J @%lo<, G_J |"%r% |"%5 lG5 YVrG<li_M G@ou|, r%Si_Ji_M
"%r 2%r5 Suc" of G Mlo@% of MolJfiY" Y"% "GJ GcciJ%_|Gll5 uVY%|
|"% <%%( @%for%A

   i", c 8~G 5our VGrJo_GM Y"% %xclGiS%J i_ G |o_% of Mr%G|
JiYSG5, G_J @%MG_ Vic(i_M |"%S uV GMGi_ GY [uic(l5 GY Y"% coulJ,
for |"% GcciJ%_| of |"% MolJfiY" (%V| ru__i_M i_ "%r "%GJ, G_J
Y"% "GJ G 2GMu% Yor| of iJ%G |"G| |"%5 SuY| @% coll%c|%J G| o_c%
G_J Vu| @Gc( i_|o |"% Pur5S@ox, or |"%5 <oulJ Ji%A

   _"% |riGl cG__o| Vroc%%J,M YGiJ |"% %i_M i_ G 2%r5 MrG2%
2oic%,  u_|il Gll |"% Pur5S%_ Gr% @Gc( i_ |"%ir VroV%r VlGc%YSS
Aff,M "% r%V%G|%J <i|" Mr%G| %SV"GYiY, loo(i_M "GrJ G| Alic% GY
"% YGiJ JoA

  Alic% loo(%J G| |"% Pur5S@ox, G_J YG< |"G|, i_ "%r "GY|%, Y"%
"GJ Vu| |"% fi,GrJ i_ "%GJ Jo<_<GrJY, G_J |"% Voor li||l% |"i_M
<GY <G2i_M i|Y |Gil G@ou| i_ G S%lG_c"ol5 <G5, @%i_M [ui|% u_G@l%
|o So2%A  S"% Yoo_ Mo| i| ou| GMGi_, G_J Vu| i| riM"|2  _o| |"G|
i| YiM_ifi%Y Suc",M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf2  c Y"oulJ |"i_( i|
<oulJ @% (oc_~ GY Suc" uY% i_ |"% |riGl o_% <G5 uV GY |"% o|"%rAM

  AY Yoo_ GY |"% Pur5 "GJ G li||l% r%co2%r%J froS |"% Y"oc( of
@%i_M uVY%|, G_J |"%ir YlG|%Y G_J V%_cilY "GJ @%%_ fou_J G_J
"G_J%J @Gc( |o |"%S, |"%5 Y%| |o <or( 2%r5 JiliM%_|l5 |o <ri|%
ou| G "iY|or5 of |"% GcciJ%_|, Gll %xc%V| |"% fi,GrJ, <"o Y%%S%J
|oo Suc" o2%rcoS% |o Jo G_5|"i_M @u| Yi| <i|" i|Y Sou|" oV%_,
MG,i_M uV i_|o |"% roof of |"% cour|A

   ["G| Jo 5ou (_o< G@ou| |"iY @uYi_%YY8M |"% %i_M YGiJ |o
Alic%A

   "o|"i_M,M YGiJ Alic%A

   "o|"i_M [@A_~V~l8M V%rYiY|%J |"% %i_MA

   "o|"i_M <"G|%2%r,M YGiJ Alic%A

   _"G|MY 2%r5 iSVor|G_|,M |"% %i_M YGiJ, |ur_i_M |o |"% Pur5A
_"%5 <%r% PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o <ri|% |"iY Jo<_ o_ |"%ir YlG|%Y, <"%_
|"% ["i|% lG@@i| i_|%rruV|%Ju   o"iSVor|G_|, 5our MGP%Y|5 S%G_Y,
of courY%,M "% YGiJ i_ G 2%r5 r%YV%c|ful |o_%, @u| fro<_i_M G_J
SG(i_M fGc%Y G| "iS GY "% YVo(%A

   o"iSVor|G_|, of courY%, c S%G_|,M |"% %i_M "GY|il5 YGiJ, G_J
<%_| o_ |o "iSY%lf i_ G_ u_J%r|o_%,  iSVor|G_|SSu_iSVor|G_|SS
u_iSVor|G_|SSiSVor|G_|SSM GY if "% <%r% |r5i_M <"ic" <orJ
You_J%J @%Y|A

  SoS% of |"% Pur5 <ro|% i| Jo<_  iSVor|G_|,M G_J YoS%
 u_iSVor|G_|AM  Alic% coulJ Y%% |"iY, GY Y"% <GY _%Gr %_ouM" |o
loo( o2%r |"%ir YlG|%Y2  @u| i| Jo%Y_M| SG||%r G @i|,M Y"%
|"ouM"| |o "%rY%lfA

  A| |"iY SoS%_| |"% %i_M, <"o "GJ @%%_ for YoS% |iS% @uYil5
<ri|i_M i_ "iY _o|%S@oo(, cGc(l%J ou|  Sil%_c%GM G_J r%GJ ou|
froS "iY @oo(,  lul%  or|5S|<oA  Aff P~lSi"S Mil~ _@A" A Mcf~
@cG@ _i f~AV~ _@~ }iol_AM

  ~2%r5@oJ5 loo(%J G| Alic%A

   cMM _o| G Sil% "iM",M YGiJ Alic%A

   You Gr%,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   "%Grl5 |<o Sil%Y "iM",M GJJ%J |"% (u%%_A

   [%ll, c Y"G_M| Mo, G| G_5 rG|%,M YGiJ Alic%u   @%YiJ%Y,
|"G|MY _o| G r%MulGr rul%u  5ou i_2%_|%J i| PuY| _o<AM

   c|MY |"% olJ%Y| rul% i_ |"% @oo(,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

   _"%_ i| ouM"| |o @% "uS@%r i_%,M YGiJ Alic%A

  _"% %i_M |ur_%J VGl%, G_J Y"u| "iY _o|%S@oo( "GY|il5A
 }o_YiJ%r 5our 2%rJic|,M "% YGiJ |o |"% Pur5, i_ G lo<, |r%S@li_M
2oic%A

   _"%r%MY Sor% %2iJ%_c% |o coS% 5%|, Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ
|"% ["i|% lG@@i|, PuSVi_M uV i_ G Mr%G| "urr52  |"iY VGV%r "GY
PuY| @%%_ Vic(%J uVAM

   ["G|MY i_ i|8M YGiJ |"% (u%%_A

   c "G2%_M| oV%_%J i| 5%|,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|,  @u| i| Y%%SY
|o @% G l%||%r, <ri||%_ @5 |"% VriYo_%r |oSS|o YoS%@oJ5AM

   c| SuY| "G2% @%%_ |"G|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  u_l%YY i| <GY
<ri||%_ |o _o@oJ5, <"ic" iY_M| uYuGl, 5ou (_o<AM

   ["o iY i| Jir%c|%J |o8M YGiJ o_% of |"% Pur5S%_A

   c| iY_M| Jir%c|%J G| Gll,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|2  i_ fGc|,
|"%r%MY _o|"i_M <ri||%_ o_ |"% io_ScD~AM  @% u_folJ%J |"% VGV%r
GY "% YVo(%, G_J GJJ%J  c| iY_M| G l%||%r, Gf|%r Gllu  i|MY G Y%|
of 2%rY%YAM

   Ar% |"%5 i_ |"% VriYo_%rMY "G_J<ri|i_M8M GY(%J G_o|"%r of
|"%5 Pur5S%_A

   "o, |"%5Mr% _o|,M YGiJ |"% ["i|% lG@@i|,  G_J |"G|MY |"%
[u%%r%Y| |"i_M G@ou| i|AM  (_"% Pur5 Gll loo(%J Vu,,l%JAl

   @% SuY| "G2% iSi|G|%J YoS%@oJ5 %lY%MY "G_J,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA
(_"% Pur5 Gll @riM"|%_%J uV GMGi_Al

   Pl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|5,M YGiJ |"% %_G2%,  c JiJ_M| <ri|% i|, G_J
|"%5 cG_M| Vro2% c JiJu  |"%r%MY _o _GS% YiM_%J G| |"% %_JAM

   cf 5ou JiJ_M| YiM_ i|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  |"G| o_l5 SG(%Y |"%
SG||%r <orY%A  You MoS_ "G2% S%G_| YoS% SiYc"i%f, or %lY% 5ouMJ
"G2% YiM_%J 5our _GS% li(% G_ "o_%Y| SG_AM

  _"%r% <GY G M%_%rGl clGVVi_M of "G_JY G| |"iYu  i| <GY |"%
firY| r%Gll5 cl%2%r |"i_M |"% %i_M "GJ YGiJ |"G| JG5A

   _"G| PliV~S "iY Muil|,M YGiJ |"% (u%%_A

   c| Vro2%Y _o|"i_M of |"% Yor|GM YGiJ Alic%A   ["5, 5ou Jo_M|
%2%_ (_o< <"G| |"%5Mr% G@ou|GM

   l%GJ |"%S,M YGiJ |"% %i_MA

  _"% ["i|% lG@@i| Vu| o_ "iY YV%c|Gcl%YA   ["%r% Y"Gll c @%Mi_,
Vl%GY% 5our MGP%Y|58M "% GY(%JA

   8%Mi_ G| |"% @%Mi__i_M,M |"% %i_M YGiJ MrG2%l5,  G_J Mo o_
|ill 5ou coS% |o |"% %_Ju  |"%_ Y|oVAM

  _"%Y% <%r% |"% 2%rY%Y |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%GJuSS

         _"%5 |olJ S% 5ou "GJ @%%_ |o "%r,
          A_J S%_|io_%J S% |o "iSu
        S"% MG2% S% G MooJ c"GrGc|%r,
          8u| YGiJ c coulJ _o| Y<iSA

        @% Y%_| |"%S <orJ c "GJ _o| Mo_%
          ([% (_o< i| |o @% |ru%lu
        cf Y"% Y"oulJ VuY" |"% SG||%r o_,
          ["G| <oulJ @%coS% of 5ou8

        c MG2% "%r o_%, |"%5 MG2% "iS |<o,
          You MG2% uY |"r%% or Sor%2
        _"%5 Gll r%|ur_%J froS "iS |o 5ou,
          _"ouM" |"%5 <%r% Si_% @%for%A

        cf c or Y"% Y"oulJ c"G_c% |o @%
          c_2ol2%J i_ |"iY GffGir,
        @% |ruY|Y |o 5ou |o Y%| |"%S fr%%,
          ~xGc|l5 GY <% <%r%A

        M5 _o|io_ <GY |"G| 5ou "GJ @%%_
          (8%for% Y"% "GJ |"iY fi|l
        A_ o@Y|Gcl% |"G| cGS% @%|<%%_
          @iS, G_J ourY%l2%Y, G_J i|A

        Do_M| l%| "iS (_o< Y"% li(%J |"%S @%Y|,
           or |"iY SuY| %2%r @%
        A Y%cr%|, (%V| froS Gll |"% r%Y|,
          8%|<%%_ 5ourY%lf G_J S%AM

   _"G|MY |"% SoY| iSVor|G_| Vi%c% of %2iJ%_c% <%M2% "%GrJ 5%|,M
YGiJ |"% %i_M, ru@@i_M "iY "G_JY2  Yo _o< l%| |"% Pur5SSM

   cf G_5 o_% of |"%S cG_ %xVlGi_ i|,M YGiJ Alic%, (Y"% "GJ
Mro<_ Yo lGrM% i_ |"% lGY| f%< Si_u|%Y |"G| Y"% <GY_M| G @i|
GfrGiJ of i_|%rruV|i_M "iS,l  cMll Mi2% "iS YixV%_c%A  _c_ Jo_M|
@%li%2% |"%r%MY G_ G|oS of S%G_i_M i_ i|AM

  _"% Pur5 Gll <ro|% Jo<_ o_ |"%ir YlG|%Y,  S@~ Jo%Y_M| @%li%2%
|"%r%MY G_ G|oS of S%G_i_M i_ i|,M @u| _o_% of |"%S G||%SV|%J |o
%xVlGi_ |"% VGV%rA

   cf |"%r%MY _o S%G_i_M i_ i|,M YGiJ |"% %i_M,  |"G| YG2%Y G
<orlJ of |rou@l%, 5ou (_o<, GY <% _%%J_M| |r5 |o fi_J G_5A  A_J
5%| c Jo_M| (_o<,M "% <%_| o_, YVr%GJi_M ou| |"% 2%rY%Y o_ "iY
(_%%, G_J loo(i_M G| |"%S <i|" o_% %5%2  c Y%%S |o Y%% YoS%
S%G_i_M i_ |"%S, Gf|%r GllA  "SSSAcD c }iofD "i_ S[cMSS" 5ou
cG_M| Y<iS, cG_ 5ou8M "% GJJ%J, |ur_i_M |o |"% %_G2%A

  _"% %_G2% Y"oo( "iY "%GJ YGJl5A   Do c loo( li(% i|8M "% YGiJA
(["ic" "% c%r|Gi_l5 JiJ "i_, @%i_M SGJ% %_|ir%l5 of cGrJ@oGrJAl

   All riM"|, Yo fGr,M YGiJ |"% %i_M, G_J "% <%_| o_ Su||%ri_M
o2%r |"% 2%rY%Y |o "iSY%lfu   "[~ %"i[ c_ _i 8~ _lo~SS" |"G|MY
|"% Pur5, of courY%SS "c GAV~ @~l i"~, _@~Y GAV~ @cM _[iSS" <"5,
|"G| SuY| @% <"G| "% JiJ <i|" |"% |Gr|Y, 5ou (_o<SSM

   8u|, i| Mo%Y o_ "_@~Y Aff l~_ol"~D  liM @cM _i Yio,"M YGiJ
Alic%A

   ["5, |"%r% |"%5 Gr%GM YGiJ |"% %i_M |riuSV"G_|l5, Voi_|i_M |o
|"% |Gr|Y o_ |"% |G@l%A   "o|"i_M cG_ @% cl%Gr%r |"G_ _@A_A
_"%_ GMGi_SS"8~ il~ S@~ @AD _@cS  c_SS"  5ou _%2%r "GJ fi|Y, S5
J%Gr, c |"i_(8M "% YGiJ |o |"% (u%%_A

   "%2%rGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_ furiouYl5, |"ro<i_M G_ i_(Y|G_J G| |"%
fi,GrJ GY Y"% YVo(%A  (_"% u_for|u_G|% li||l% 8ill "GJ l%f| off
<ri|i_M o_ "iY YlG|% <i|" o_% fi_M%r, GY "% fou_J i| SGJ% _o
SGr(2 @u| "% _o< "GY|il5 @%MG_ GMGi_, uYi_M |"% i_(, |"G| <GY
|ric(li_M Jo<_ "iY fGc%, GY lo_M GY i| lGY|%JAl

   _"%_ |"% <orJY Jo_M|  c_ 5ou,M YGiJ |"% %i_M, loo(i_M rou_J
|"% cour| <i|" G YSil%A  _"%r% <GY G J%GJ Yil%_c%A

   c|MY G Vu_GM |"% %i_M GJJ%J i_ G_ off%_J%J |o_%, G_J
%2%r5@oJ5 lGuM"%J,  f%| |"% Pur5 co_YiJ%r |"%ir 2%rJic|,M |"%
%i_M YGiJ, for G@ou| |"% |<%_|i%|" |iS% |"G| JG5A

   "o, _oGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_A   S%_|%_c% firY|SS2%rJic| Gf|%r<GrJYAM

   S|uff G_J _o_Y%_Y%GM YGiJ Alic% louJl5A   _"% iJ%G of "G2i_M
|"% Y%_|%_c% firY|GM

   @olJ 5our |o_Mu%GM YGiJ |"% (u%%_, |ur_i_M VurVl%A

   c <o_M|GM YGiJ Alic%A

   iff <i|" "%r "%GJGM |"% (u%%_ Y"ou|%J G| |"% |oV of "%r 2oic%A
"o@oJ5 So2%JA

   ["o cGr%Y for 5ou8M YGiJ Alic%, (Y"% "GJ Mro<_ |o "%r full
Yi,% @5 |"iY |iS%Al   YouMr% _o|"i_M @u| G VGc( of cGrJYGM

  A| |"iY |"% <"ol% VGc( roY% uV i_|o |"% Gir, G_J cGS% fl5i_M
Jo<_ uVo_ "%ru  Y"% MG2% G li||l% Ycr%GS, "Glf of friM"| G_J "Glf
of G_M%r, G_J |ri%J |o @%G| |"%S off, G_J fou_J "%rY%lf l5i_M o_
|"% @G_(, <i|" "%r "%GJ i_ |"% lGV of "%r YiY|%r, <"o <GY M%_|l5
@ruY"i_M G<G5 YoS% J%GJ l%G2%Y |"G| "GJ flu||%r%J Jo<_ froS |"%
|r%%Y uVo_ "%r fGc%A

   [G(% uV, Alic% J%GrGM YGiJ "%r YiY|%r2  ["5, <"G| G lo_M
Yl%%V 5ouM2% "GJGM

   i", cM2% "GJ Yuc" G curiouY Jr%GSGM YGiJ Alic%, G_J Y"% |olJ
"%r YiY|%r, GY <%ll GY Y"% coulJ r%S%S@%r |"%S, Gll |"%Y% Y|rG_M%
AJ2%_|ur%Y of "%rY |"G| 5ou "G2% PuY| @%%_ r%GJi_M G@ou|2 G_J
<"%_ Y"% "GJ fi_iY"%J, "%r YiY|%r (iYY%J "%r, G_J YGiJ,  c| [AS G
curiouY Jr%GS, J%Gr, c%r|Gi_l5u  @u| _o< ru_ i_ |o 5our |%G2 i|MY
M%||i_M lG|%AM  So Alic% Mo| uV G_J rG_ off, |"i_(i_M <"il% Y"%
rG_, GY <%ll Y"% SiM"|, <"G| G <o_J%rful Jr%GS i| "GJ @%%_A

  8u| "%r YiY|%r YG| Y|ill PuY| GY Y"% l%f| "%r, l%G_i_M "%r
"%GJ o_ "%r "G_J, <G|c"i_M |"% Y%||i_M Yu_, G_J |"i_(i_M of
li||l% Alic% G_J Gll "%r <o_J%rful AJ2%_|ur%Y, |ill Y"% |oo @%MG_
Jr%GSi_M Gf|%r G fGY"io_, G_J |"iY <GY "%r Jr%GSuSS

   irY|, Y"% Jr%GS%J of li||l% Alic% "%rY%lf, G_J o_c% GMGi_ |"%
|i_5 "G_JY <%r% clGYV%J uVo_ "%r (_%%, G_J |"% @riM"| %GM%r %5%Y
<%r% loo(i_M uV i_|o "%rYSSY"% coulJ "%Gr |"% 2%r5 |o_%Y of "%r
2oic%, G_J Y%% |"G| [u%%r li||l% |oYY of "%r "%GJ |o (%%V @Gc(
|"% <G_J%ri_M "Gir |"G| [iofD Gl<G5Y M%| i_|o "%r %5%YSSG_J
Y|ill GY Y"% liY|%_%J, or Y%%S%J |o liY|%_, |"% <"ol% VlGc%
Grou_J "%r @%cGS% Gli2% |"% Y|rG_M% cr%G|ur%Y of "%r li||l%
YiY|%rMY Jr%GSA

  _"% lo_M MrGYY ruY|l%J G| "%r f%%| GY |"% ["i|% lG@@i| "urri%J
@5SS|"% friM"|%_%J MouY% YVlGY"%J "iY <G5 |"rouM" |"%
_%iM"@ouri_M VoolSSY"% coulJ "%Gr |"% rG||l% of |"% |%GcuVY GY
|"% MGrc" @Gr% G_J "iY fri%_JY Y"Gr%J |"%ir _%2%rS%_Ji_M S%Gl,
G_J |"% Y"rill 2oic% of |"% (u%%_ orJ%ri_M off "%r u_for|u_G|%
Mu%Y|Y |o %x%cu|io_SSo_c% Sor% |"% ViMS@G@5 <GY Y_%%,i_M o_ |"%
Duc"%YYMY (_%%, <"il% VlG|%Y G_J JiY"%Y crGY"%J Grou_J i|SSo_c
