systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get| froS o_% |o |"% o|"%r8  i_% cG_ SGV froS |"% Y|ruc|ur% |o
|"% |5VoMrGV"ic r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l YuMM%Y|%J |"G|, Mi2%_ |"% uDD Sillio_ i|%SY |"% fi@rGr5
"olJY, i| SG5 _o| @% VoYYi@l% for f} |o Jo Sor% |"G_ r%Vor| |"G| G |"i_M
<GY i_ i|GlicY GY oVVoY%J |o <"5 i| <GY i|GlicY, Gl|"ouM" |"G| SG5 @%
J%YirG@l% i_ YoS% co_|%x|YA  ProSiYi_M |o |Gl( G @i| Juri_M |"% Gf|%r_oo_
Y%YYio_ G@ou| Y%2%rGl %xV%riS%_|Y i}f} V%rforS%J o_ Gu|oSG|ic r%coM_i|io_
of JocuS%_| %l%S%_|Y, G_J <"ic" |"%5 "oV%J |o %x|%_J, [~c8~f YGiJ |"G| i_
fGc| o_% cG_ r%coM_i,% |"% SGPor %l%S%_|Y of G JocuS%_| <i|" G fGirl5
"iM" J%Mr%% of r%liG@ili|5, G| l%GY| GY MooJ GY i}lA  S_~V~"S Jr%< G
uY%ful JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ Y|G_JGrJ, M%_%rGli,%J SGr(uV (iA%A, J%fi_i_M
for G JocuS%_|S|5V% J%fi_i|io_ |"% Y|ruc|ur% of |"% JocuS%_|l, G_J <"G|
"% |%rS%J G Y|5l% Y"%%|, <"ic" "GJ |o Jo <i|" i|GlicY, @olJi_M, G_J o|"%r
forSY of %SV"GYiYA  _"uY, |<o Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y Gr% G| <or(, o_% @%i_M
|"% Y|ruc|ur% of |"% JocuS%_| i|Y%lf (i|Y loMicl, G_J |"% o|"%r @%i_M i|Y
r%Vr%Y%_|G|io_ <"%_ i| iY Vu| o_ |"% Ycr%%_ or Vri_|%JA
