interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable levell of GccurGc5A  i_% "u_Jr%J V%rc%_|
GccurGc5 iY |r%S%_JouYl5 %xV%_Yi2%A  i_ |"% o|"%r "G_J, |"% ou|Vu| of
oV|icGl c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ (i}ll cG_ @% |r%S%_JouYl5 i_GccurG|%A
Al|"ouM" AM "GY G||%SV|%J |o fi_J G SiJJl% Mrou_J, u_c%r|Gi_|5 V%rYiY|Y
GY |o <"%|"%r or _o| i| "GY JiYco2%r%J |"% riM"| Yolu|io_A

(u%Y|io_Y of [uGli|5 GroY% co_c%r_i_M iSGM%Y GY <%llA   f~cS}@@Ao~l
co_|rGY|%J |"% %x|r%S%l5 "iM" l%2%l of [uGli|5 of |"% JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y i_
|"% }or_%ll r%rox ProP%c| <i|" AMMY %ffor|Y |o Vro2iJ% G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5
or Gcc%YYS[uGli|5 iSGM%, GY oVVoY%J |o G_ Grc"i2Gl or Vr%Y%r2G|io_ iSGM%A
 f~cS}@@Ao~l |"%r%for% <%lcoS%J |"% oVVor|u_i|5 |o coSVGr% _o|%YA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l o@Y%r2%J i_ VGYYi_M |"G| co_2%rYG|io_Y "% "GJ "GJ G@ou|
_%|<or(Y "G2% @%Mu_ |o YiM_Gl |"G| for 2GriouY forSY of S%JiG G
J%|%rSi_G|io_ SG5 @% SGJ% |"G| |"%r% iY G @ro<Y%S[uGli|5 i|%S, or G
JiY|ri@u|io_SG_JSGcc%YYS[uGli|5 i|%S |"G| SG5 co%xiY| i_ YoS% Y5Y|%SY
<i|" G "iM"%r [uGli|5 Grc"i2Gl i|%S |"G| <oulJ @% i_co_2%_i%_| |o Y%_J
|"rouM" |"% _%|<or( @%cGuY% of i|Y Yi,%A   f~cS}@@Ao~l r%f%rr%J, of
courY%, |o iSGM%Y Sor% |"G_ |o Y%Grc"G@l% |%x|A

AY AM co_YiJ%r%J |"oY% [u%Y|io_Y, Y%2%rGl co_c%V|uGl iYYu%Y GroY%u  ouM"|
AM occGYio_Gll5 |o r%VroJuc% SG|%riGlY %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G_ iSGM% Y%|, G|
o|"%r |iS%Y, %_|ir%l5 |"rouM" G |%x| Y%|, G_J i_ YoS% cGY%Y, G Six8
_"%r% Vro@G@l5 <oulJ @% |iS%Y <"%_ |"% "iY|oricGl Gu|"%_|ici|5 of G_
Gr|ifGc| <oulJ r%[uir% |"G| i|Y iSGM% @% uY%JA  A_ iSGM% SiM"| @%
J%YirG@l% GY G r%courY% for uY%rY if o_% coulJ _o| Vro2iJ% uDDSV%rc%_|
GccurG|% |%x|A  AMGi_, AM <o_J%r%J, GY G VrGc|icGl SG||%r, if G
JiY|i_c|io_ coulJ @% JrG<_ @%|<%%_ rGr% Vri_|%J SG||%r |"G| SiM"| %xiY|
i_ Sul|iVl% coll%c|io_YSS|"G| iY, i_ |%_ or fif|%%_ li@rGri%YA  c_ Yuc"
cGY%Y, |"% _%%J for V%rf%c| r%VroJuc|io_ <oulJ @% l%YY |"G_ for u_i[u%
i|%SYA  cSVlici| i_ "iY r%SGr(Y,  f~cS}@@Ao~l co_c%J%J, <GY |"% GJSiYYio_
|"G| AM "GY @%%_ |il|i_M Y|ro_Ml5 |o<GrJY [uG_|i|5 G_J JrG<i_M @Gc( G
li||l% froS V%rf%c| [uGli|5A  _"G| iY, i| Y%%S%J |o AM |"G| Yoci%|5 <oulJ
@% @%||%r Y%r2%J if Sor% |"i_MY <%r% JiY|ri@u|%J @5 f}SS%2%_ if |"%5 <%r%
_o| [ui|% V%rf%c|SS|"G_ if f%<%r |"i_MY, V%rf%c|l5 r%Vr%Y%_|%J, <%r%
JiY|ri@u|%JA  _"iY <GY Y|G|%J GY G VroVoYi|io_ |o @% |%Y|%J, <i|"
r%YVo_Y%Y |o @% MG|"%r%J froS uY%rYA

c_ |"i_(i_M G@ou| iYYu%Y r%lG|%J |o r%VroJuc|io_ of SG|%riGlY G_J Y%%i_M
o|"%r V%oVl% %_MGM%J i_ VGrGll%l Gc|i2i|i%Y, AM J%%S%J i| uY%ful |o
co_2%_% G co_f%r%_c%A  @%_c%, |"% [or(Y"oVA   f~cS}@@Ao~l |"%r%uVo_
Yur2%5%J |"% Y%2%rGl MrouVY r%Vr%Y%_|%Ju  ul |"% <orlJ of iSGM%Y (iSGM%
uY%rY G_J iSGM% SG(%rYl2 2l |"% <orlJ of |%x| G_J Yc"olGrY"iV G_J, <i|"i_
|"iY MrouV, |"oY% co_c%r_%J <i|" lG_MuGM%SS f~cS}@@Ao~l co_f%YY%J |o fi_Ji_M
J%liM"|ful iro_5 i_ |"% fGc| |"G| YoS% of |"% SoY| GJ2G_c%J |"i_(%rY o_
coSVu|%ri,%J |%x|Y Gr% |"oY% J%Gli_M <i|" G_ci%_| Gr%%( G_J loSG_ SG|%riGlY2
<l |"% _%|<or( <orlJ2 G_J xl |"% M%_%rGl <orlJ of li@rGr5 Yci%_c%, <"ic"
i_cluJ%Y V%oVl% i_|%r%Y|%J i_ Vr%Y%r2G|io_ G_J cG|GloMi_MA

 f~cS}@@Ao~l co_cluJ%J "iY r%SGr(Y <i|" YV%ciGl |"G_(Y |o |"% DG2iJ G_J
fucil% PGc(GrJ  ou_JG|io_ for i|Y YuVVor| of |"% S%%|i_M, |"% AS%ricG_
M%Sor5 MrouV, |"% iffic% for Sc"olGrl5 ProMrGSY, |"% "G|io_Gl
D%So_Y|rG|io_ fG@, G_J |"% iffic% of SV%ciGl ~2%_|YA  @% %xVr%YY%J |"%
"oV% |"G| DG2iJ [ooJl%5 PGc(GrJ SiM"| @% G@l% |o G||%_J, _o|i_M |"G|
PGc(GrJMY <or( G_J |"% <or( of |"% fou_JG|io_ "GJ YVo_Yor%J G _uS@%r of
VroP%c|Y i_ |"% |%x| Gr%GA

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cA  }i"_~"_ c" A "~[  ilMu   [@i [cff oS~ c_ A"D [@A_ [cff _@~Y Di8

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DAfY P Ac(_o<l%JM%S%_|Y P A _%< fG|i_ Gu|"orY JiY( P  ~ff%c|Y of |"% _%<
|%c"_oloM5 o_ Vr%2iouY S%|"oJY of r%Y%Grc" P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

S%r2i_M GY SoJ%rG|or, JGS%Y DAfY Gc(_o<l%JM%J |"% M%_%roYi|5 of Gll |"%
Vr%Y%_|%rY for Mi2i_M of |"%ir |iS%, cou_Y%l, G_J VG|i%_c% i_ VlG__i_M
|"% [or(Y"oV, GY <%ll GY of S%S@%rY of |"% AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 VroP%c| G_J
o|"%r fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY Y|Gff, G_J |"% DG2iJ G_J fucil% PGc(GrJ
 ou_JG|io_ G_J i|Y %x%cu|i2% Jir%c|or, }ol@ur_ SA [il@urA

DAfY |"%_ r%cou_|%J "iY 2iYi| i_ MGrc" |o |"% }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y
i_ |"% @uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@l G_J |"% D%VGr|S%_| of }lGYYicY G| lu|M%rY
o_i2%rYi|5, <"%r% G_ olJ fri%_J, fo<%ll ~JSu_JY, i_|roJuc%J "iS |o |"%
J%VGr|S%_|MY c8Y}oS Yc"olGrl5 V%rYo_Gl coSVu|%r, G_J, i_ VGr|iculGr, |"%
_%< fG|i_ }DSliM, co_|Gi_i_M, GSo_M o|"%r |"i_MY, GlSoY| Gll clGYYicGl
fG|i_ li|%rGr5 |%x|Y |"rouM" AADA 2DDA  PGc(GrJ @uSG_i|i%Y c_Y|i|u|%
(P@cl, foY Al|oY, }Glifor_iG, r%l%GY%J |"iY JiY( lG|% i_ u}}u, <i|" G
_oSi_Gl |ri%__iGl lic%_Yi_M f%%A

PlG5i_M <i|" |"% JiY( for G_ "our or Yo G| lu|M%rY @rouM"| "oS% |o DAfY
G| o_c% |"% r%2olu|io_i,i_M iSVGc| of |"% _%< |%c"_oloM5 o_ "iY Vr%2iouY
S%|"oJY of r%Y%Grc"A  @GJ |"iY JiY( @%%_ G2GilG@l% |<o or |"r%% 5%GrY
%Grli%r, DAfY co_|%_J%J, <"%_ "% <GY %_MGM%J i_ Vr%VGri_M G coSS%_|Gr5 o_
8oo( uD of VirMilMY A%_%iJ for }GS@riJM% o_i2%rYi|5 Pr%YY, "% <oulJ _o|
"G2% r%[uir%J G for|5S%iM"|SY[uGr%Sfoo| |G@l% o_ <"ic" |o YVr%GJ |"%
_uS%rouY, SoY| fr%[u%_|l5 co_Yul|%J i|%SY, i_cluJi_M YoS% |%_ or |<%l2%
co_corJG_c%Y |o (%5 fG|i_ Gu|"orY, G_ GlSoY| %[uGl _uS@%r of l%xicG |o
Gu|"orY <"o lGc(%J co_corJG_c%Y, G_J <"%r% %i|"%r l%xicG or co_corJG_c%Y
<%r% lGc(i_M, _uS%rouY %Ji|io_Y of Gu|"orY G_|%JG|i_M G_J VoY|JG|i_M VirMilA

"or, <"%_ c"%c(i_M %Gc" of |"% G2%rGM% Yix |o Y%2%_ <orJY co_|Gi_%J i_
|"% VirMiliG_ "%xGS%|%r for i|Y uYGM% %lY%<"%r% i_ VirMilMY <or(Y or
o|"%r fG|i_ Gu|"orY, <oulJ DAfY "G2% "GJ |o SGi_|Gi_ |"% lG@oriouY
S%c"G_icGl Vroc%YY of fliVVi_M |"rouM" |"%Y% co_corJG_c%Y, l%xicG, G_J
%Ji|io_Y %Gc" |iS%A  "or <oulJ "% "G2% "GJ |o fr%[u%_| GY of|%_ |"%
Mil|o_ SA ~iY%_"o<%r fi@rGr5 G| |"% Jo"_Y @oV(i_Y o_i2%rYi|5 |o co_Yul|
|"% _"%YGuruY fi_MuG% fG|i_G%A  c_Y|%GJ of J%2o|i_M cou_|l%YY "ourY, or
|"% @ul( of "iY r%Y%Grc" |iS%, |o MG|"%ri_M JG|G co_c%r_i_M VirMilMY uY%
of <orJY, DAfYSS_o< fr%%J @5 P@cMY fG|i_ Gu|"orY JiY( froS |"%
|5rG__icGl, 5%| i_ YoS% <G5Y VGrGJoxicGll5 "GVV5 Yc"olGrl5 JruJM%r5SS
<oulJ "G2% @%%_ G@l% |o J%2o|% |"G| YGS% @ul( of |iS% |o G_Gl5,i_M G_J
i_|%rVr%|i_M VirMiliG_ 2%r@Gl uYGM%A

}i|i_M _"%oJor% 8ru__%r, Gr%Mor5 }rG_%, ~lli MYfi"AS, G_J A2rG Mc}@~fSi",
DAfY GrMu%J |"G| |"iY r%2%rYGl i_ "iY Y|5l% of <or(, SGJ% VoYYi@l% @5 |"%
_%< |%c"_oloM5, <oulJ V%r"GVY "G2% r%Yul|%J i_ @%||%r, Sor% VroJuc|i2%
r%Y%Grc"A  c_J%%J, %2%_ i_ |"% courY% of "iY @ro<Yi_M |"% fG|i_ Gu|"orY
JiY( G| lu|M%rY, i|Y Vo<%rful Y%Grc", r%|ri%2Gl, G_J "iM"liM"|i_M
cGVG@ili|i%Y YuMM%Y|%J |o "iS Y%2%rGl _%< G2%_u%Y of r%Y%Grc" i_|o
VirMilMY uY% of You_J %ff%c|YA  _"iY G_%cJo|Gl Gccou_|, DAfY SGi_|Gi_%J,
SG5 Y%r2% |o illuY|rG|% i_ VGr| |"% YuJJ%_ G_J rGJicGl |rG_YforSG|io_
@%i_M <rouM"| i_ |"% <G5Y Yc"olGrY <or(A

                                 PPPPPP

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
Mc}@~fSi" P ~l%S%_|Y r%lG|%J |o Yc"olGrY"iV G_J |%c"_oloM5 P ~l%c|ro_ic
|%x|Y <i|"i_ |"% co_|%x| of @roGJ%r |r%_JY <i|"i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5
G_J Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ P ~2GluG|io_ of |"% VroYV%c|Y for |"% uY% of
%l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y P l%lG|io_Y"iV of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y |o Vroc%YY%Y of
Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ i_ "uSG_i|i%Y r%Y%Grc" P "%< %xc"G_M% forSG|Y
cr%G|%J @5 Yc"olGrY P ProP%c|Y i_i|iG|%J |o i_cr%GY% Yc"olGrl5 Gcc%YY |o
co_2%r|%J |%x| P _r%_J |o<GrJ SG(i_M %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y G2GilG@l%
|"rouM" r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y P }"G_M%Y |G(i_M VlGc% i_
Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ GSo_M "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY P "%|<or(SS%JiG|%J
Yc"olGrY"iV |rG_YforSi_M |rGJi|io_Gl Yc"olGrl5 VrGc|ic%Y P %%5
i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 |r%_JY Gff%c|i_M |"% co_Juc| of Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_ o2%r |"% _%x| J%cGJ% P _"% |r%_J |o<GrJ %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M
P _"% |r%_J |o<GrJ Mr%G|%r co__%c|i2i|5 P ~ff%c|Y of |"%Y% |r%_JY P %%5
|rG_YforSG|io_Y |G(i_M VlGc% P SuSSGr5 of Vri_ciVGl GrMuS%_|Y P
oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

A2rG Mc}@~fSi", Arc"i2Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~2GluG|io_ S|Gff, "G|io_Gl Arc"i2%Y
G_J l%corJY AJSi_iY|rG|io_ ("AlAl, GrMu%J |"G| %Y|G@liY"i_M <"o <ill uY%
%l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y G_J <"G| |"%5 <ill uY% |"%S for i_2ol2%Y G co_YiJ%rG|io_
of @o|" i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 G_J Yc"olGrY"iV |r%_JYA  _"iY
co_YiJ%rG|io_ i_cluJ%Y Y%2%rGl %l%S%_|Y r%lG|%J |o Yc"olGrY"iV G_J
|%c"_oloM5u  ul |"% (%5 |r%_JY i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 |"G| Gr% SoY|
r%l%2G_| |o Yc"olGrY"iV2 2l |"% (%5 |r%_JY i_ |"% uY% of curr%_|l5
G2GilG@l% |%c"_oloM5 @5 Yc"olGrY i_ |"% _o_Yci%_|ific coSSu_i|52 G_J <l
|"% r%lG|io_Y"iV @%|<%%_ |"%Y% |<o 2%r5 JiY|i_c| @u| i_|%rr%lG|%J |r%_JYA
_"% i_2%Y|S%_| i_ u_J%rY|G_Ji_M |"iY r%lG|io_Y"iV @%i_M SGJ% @5
i_forSG|io_ Vro2iJ%rY, |%c"_oloMiY|Y, G_J Vu@lic Volic5 J%2%loV%rY, GY
<%ll GY @5 Yc"olGrY |"%SY%l2%Y, Y%%SY |o @% V%r2GYi2% G_J Mro<i_M,
Mc}@~fSi" co_|%_J%JA  S"% Jr%< o_ collG@orG|i2% <or( <i|" J%ff lo|"%_@%rM
o_ |"% Yc"olGrl5 uY% of |%c"_oloM5A

Mc}@~fSi" YouM"| |o VlGc% |"% V"%_oS%_o_ of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y <i|"i_ |"%
co_|%x| of @roGJ%r |r%_JY <i|"i_ i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 G_J Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_A  S"% GrMu%J |"G| %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y Gr% of SoY| uY% |o
r%Y%Grc"%rY |o |"% %x|%_| |"G| |"% r%Y%Grc"%rYM <or(i_M co_|%x| (iA%A,
|"%ir r%l%2G_| @i@lioMrGV"ic Yourc%Y, coll%MiGl f%%J@Gc(, G_Gl5|ic |oolY,
_o|%Y, JrGf|Y, %|cAl, Glo_M <i|" |"%ir fi%lJMY VriSGr5 G_J Y%co_JGr5
Yourc%Y, GlYo iY Gcc%YYi@l% i_ %l%c|ro_ic forS G_J cG_ @% i_|%MrG|%J i_
<G5Y |"G| Gr% u_i[u% |o |"% o_Sli_% %_2iro_S%_|A

~2GluG|io_ of |"% VroYV%c|Y for |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y i_cluJ%Y |<o
%l%S%_|Yu  ul G_ %xGSi_G|io_ of |"% <G5Y i_ <"ic" r%Y%Grc"%rY curr%_|l5
Gr% uYi_M %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y Glo_M <i|" o|"%r %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y, G_J 2l
G_ G_Gl5YiY of (%5 i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 |r%_JY |"G| Gr% Gff%c|i_M |"%
lo_MS|%rS co_Juc| of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A  Mc}@~fSi" liSi|%J "%r
JiYcuYYio_ of |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y |o |"% VrGc|ic%Y of "uSG_iY|Y
G_J _o|%J |"G| |"% Yci%_|ific coSSu_i|5 <GY ou|YiJ% |"% VG_%lMY o2%r2i%<A

Mc}@~fSi" %xGSi_%J |"% _G|ur% of |"% curr%_| r%lG|io_Y"iV of %l%c|ro_ic
|%x|Y i_ VGr|iculGr, G_J %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y i_ M%_%rGl, |o <"G| Y"%
SGi_|Gi_%J <%r%, %YY%_|iGll5, fi2% Vroc%YY%Y of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_
i_ "uSG_i|i%Y r%Y%Grc"A  l%Y%Grc"%rY ul iJ%_|if5 Yourc%Y, 2l coSSu_icG|%
<i|" |"%ir coll%GMu%Y, <l i_|%rVr%| G_J G_Gl5,% JG|G, xl JiYY%Si_G|%
|"%ir r%Y%Grc" fi_Ji_MY, G_J 5l Vr%VGr% curriculG |o i_Y|ruc| |"% _%x|
M%_%rG|io_ of Yc"olGrY G_J Y|uJ%_|YA  _"iY %xGSi_G|io_ <oulJ VroJuc% G
cl%Gr%r u_J%rY|G_Ji_M of |"% Y5_%rM5 GSo_M |"%Y% fi2% Vroc%YY%Y |"G|
fu%lY |"% |%_J%_c5 of |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y for o_% Vroc%YY |o
Y|iSulG|% i|Y uY% for o|"%r Vroc%YY%Y of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A

 or |"% firY| Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_, |"% iJ%_|ificG|io_ of
Yourc%Y, Mc}@~fSi" r%SGr(%J |"% oVVor|u_i|5 Yc"olGrY _o< %_Po5 |o
YuVVl%S%_| |rGJi|io_Gl <orJSofSSou|" Y%Grc"%Y for Yourc%Y GSo_M |"%ir
coll%GMu%Y <i|" _%< forSY of %l%c|ro_ic Y%Grc"i_MA  So, for %xGSVl%,
i_Y|%GJ of "G2i_M |o 2iYi| |"% li@rGr5, r%Y%Grc"%rY Gr% G@l% |o %xVlor%
J%YcriV|io_Y of "olJi_MY i_ |"%ir offic%YA   ur|"%rSor%, if |"%ir o<_
i_Y|i|u|io_YM "olJi_MY Vro2% i_Yuffici%_|, Yc"olGrY cG_ Gcc%YY Sor% |"G_
2DD SGPor AS%ricG_ li@rGr5 cG|GloMu%Y o2%r c_|%r_%|, i_cluJi_M |"%
u_i2%rYi|i%Y of }Glifor_iG, Mic"iMG_, P%__Y5l2G_iG, G_J [iYco_Yi_A
Dir%c| Gcc%YY |o |"% @i@lioMrGV"ic JG|G@GY%Y off%rY i_|%ll%c|uGl
%SVo<%rS%_| |o Yc"olGrY @5 Vr%Y%_|i_M G coSVr%"%_Yi2% S%G_Y of @ro<Yi_M
|"rouM" li@rGri%Y froS |"%ir "oS%Y G_J offic%Y G| |"%ir co_2%_i%_c%A

_"% Y%co_J Vroc%YY of coSSu_icG|io_ i_2ol2%Y coSSu_icG|io_ GSo_M
Yc"olGrYA  8%5o_J |"% SoY| coSSo_ S%|"oJY of coSSu_icG|io_, Yc"olGrY Gr%
uYi_M ~SSGil G_J G 2Gri%|5 of _%< %l%c|ro_ic coSSu_icG|io_Y forSG|Y
J%ri2%J froS i| for fur|"%r GcGJ%Sic i_|%rc"G_M%A  ~SSGil %xc"G_M%Y Gr%
Mro<i_M G| G_ GY|o_iY"i_M rG|%, r%Vor|%Jl5 u5 V%rc%_| G So_|"A  _"%5
curr%_|l5 co_Y|i|u|% GVVroxiSG|%l5 "Glf |"% |rGffic o_ r%Y%Grc" G_J
%JucG|io_ _%|<or(YA  Mor%o2%r, |"% Mlo@Gl YVr%GJ of ~SSGil "GY @%%_ Yo
rGViJ |"G| i| iY _o< VoYYi@l% for AS%ricG_ Yc"olGrY |o uY% i| |o
coSSu_icG|% <i|" coll%GMu%Y i_ cloY% |o uxD o|"%r cou_|ri%YA

i|"%r _%< %xc"G_M% forSG|Y cr%G|%J @5 Yc"olGrY G_J oV%rG|i_M o_ c_|%r_%|
i_cluJ% Sor% |"G_ ADD co_f%r%_c%Y, <i|" G@ou| 8D V%rc%_| of |"%Y% J%2o|%J
|o |oVicY i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J "uSG_i|i%YA  _"% rG|% of Mro<|" of
|"%Y% Yc"olGrl5 %l%c|ro_ic co_f%r%_c%Y GlYo iY GY|o_iY"i_MA   roS l}}D |o
l}}u, 2DD _%< co_f%r%_c%Y <%r% iJ%_|ifi%J o_ c_|%r_%|A   roS ic|o@%r u}}u
|o Ju_% u}}2, G_ GJJi|io_Gl u5D co_f%r%_c%Y i_ |"% YociGl Yci%_c%Y G_J
"uSG_i|i%Y <%r% GJJ%J |o |"iY Jir%c|or5 of liY|i_MYA  Sc"olGrY "G2%
%Y|G@liY"%J co_f%r%_c%Y i_ 2ir|uGll5 %2%r5 fi%lJ, <i|"i_ %2%r5 Jiff%r%_|
JiYciVli_%A   or %xGSVl%, |"%r% Gr% curr%_|l5 cloY% |o ,DD Gc|i2% YociGl
Yci%_c% G_J "uSG_i|i%Y  co_f%r%_c%Y o_ |oVicY Yuc" GY Gr| G_J
Grc"i|%c|ur%, %|"_oSuYicoloM5, fol(lor%, JGVG_%Y% cul|ur%, S%JicGl
%JucG|io_, G_J Mif|%J G_J |Gl%_|%J %JucG|io_A  _"% GVV%Gl |o Yc"olGrY of
coSSu_icG|i_M |"rouM" |"%Y% co_f%r%_c%Y iY |"G|, u_li(% G_5 o|"%r S%JiuS,
%l%c|ro_ic co_f%r%_c%Y |oJG5 Vro2iJ% G foruS for Mlo@Gl coSSu_icG|io_
<i|" V%%rY G| |"% fro_| %_J of |"% r%Y%Grc" Vroc%YYA

c_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY of Yourc%Y co_Y|i|u|%Y |"% |"irJ Vroc%YY of
Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ |"G| Mc}@~fSi" JiYcuYY%J i_ |%rSY of |%x|Y G_J
|%x|uGl r%Yourc%YA  _"% S%|"oJY uY%J |o G_Gl5,% Yourc%Y fGll YoS%<"%r% o_
G co_|i_uuS froS [uG_|i|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY |o [uGli|G|i2% G_Gl5YiYA
_5VicGll5, %2iJ%_c% iY cull%J G_J %2GluG|%J uYi_M S%|"oJY JrG<_ froS @o|"
%_JY of |"iY co_|i_uuSA  A| o_% %_J, [uG_|i|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY i_2ol2%Y |"%
uY% of SG|"%SG|icGl Vroc%YY%Y Yuc" GY G cou_| of fr%[u%_ci%Y G_J
JiY|ri@u|io_Y of occurr%_c%Y or, o_ G "iM"%r l%2%l, r%Mr%YYio_ G_Gl5YiYA
A| |"% o|"%r %_J of |"% co_|i_uuS, [uGli|G|i2% G_Gl5YiY |5VicGll5
i_2ol2%Y _o_SG|"%SG|icGl Vroc%YY%Y ori%_|%J |o<GrJ lG_MuGM%
i_|%rVr%|G|io_ or |"% @uilJi_M of |"%or5A  AYV%c|Y of |"iY <or( i_2ol2%
|"% Vroc%YYi_MSS%i|"%r SG_uGl or coSVu|G|io_GlSSof lGrM% G_J YoS%|iS%Y
SGYYi2% GSou_|Y of |%x|uGl Yourc%Y, Gl|"ouM" |"% uY% of _o_|%x|uGl
Yourc%Y GY %2iJ%_c%, Yuc" GY V"o|oMrGV"Y, You_J r%corJi_MY, filS foo|GM%,
G_J Gr|ifGc|Y, iY YiM_ificG_| GY <%llA

Sc"olGrY "G2% JiYco2%r%J |"G| SG_5 of |"% S%|"oJY of i_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J
G_Gl5YiY |"G| Gr% r%lG|%J |o @o|" [uG_|i|G|i2% G_J [uGli|G|i2% S%|"oJY
Gr% Vroc%YY%Y |"G| cG_ @% V%rforS%J @5 coSVu|%rYA   or %xGSVl%, coSVu|%rY
cG_ cou_|A  _"%5 cG_ cou_| @ruY" Y|ro(%Y uY%J i_ G l%S@rG_J| VGi_|i_M or
V%rforS r%Mr%YYio_ G_Gl5YiY for u_J%rY|G_Ji_M cGuY% G_J %ff%c|A  85 S%G_Y
of GJ2G_c%J |%c"_oloMi%Y, coSVu|%rY cG_ r%coM_i,% VG||%r_Y, G_Gl5,% |%x|,
G_J SoJ%l co_c%V|YA   ur|"%rSor%, coSVu|%rY cG_ coSVl%|% |"%Y% Vroc%YY%Y
fGY|%r <i|" Sor% Yourc%Y G_J <i|" Mr%G|%r Vr%ciYio_ |"G_ Yc"olGrY <"o
SuY| r%l5 o_ SG_uGl i_|%rVr%|G|io_ of JG|GA  8u| if Yc"olGrY Gr% |o uY%
coSVu|%rY for |"%Y% Vroc%YY%Y, Yourc% SG|%riGlY SuY| @% i_ G forS
GS%_G@l% |o coSVu|%rSGYYiY|%J G_Gl5YiYA   or |"iY r%GYo_ SG_5 Yc"olGrY,
o_c% |"%5 "G2% iJ%_|ifi%J |"% Yourc%Y |"G| Gr% (%5 |o |"%ir r%Y%Grc", Gr%
co_2%r|i_M |"%S |o SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forSA  _"uY, G r%Vr%Y%_|G|i2% %xGSVl%
of |"% _uS%rouY |%x|uGl co_2%rYio_ VroP%c|Y orMG_i,%J @5 Yc"olGrY Grou_J
|"% <orlJ i_ r%c%_| 5%GrY |o YuVVor| coSVu|G|io_Gl |%x| G_Gl5YiY iY |"%
_fG, |"% _"%YGuruY fi_MuG% GrG%cG%A  _"iY VroP%c| iY J%2o|%J |o
co_2%r|i_M |"% %x|G_| G_ci%_| |%x|Y of clGYYicGl Gr%%c%A  (~Ji|orMY _o|%u
GccorJi_M |o |"% _fG "%<Yl%||%r of MG5 l}}2, _fG <GY i_ uY% i_ |"ir|5S|<o
Jiff%r%_| cou_|ri%YA  _"iY fiMur% uVJG|%Y Mc}@~fSi"MY Vr%2iouY cou_| @5 o_%Al

_"% Yc"olGrY V%rforSi_M |"%Y% co_2%rYio_Y "G2% @%%_ GY(%J |o r%coM_i,%
|"G| |"% %l%c|ro_ic Yourc%Y |"%5 Gr% co_2%r|i_M for o_% uY% VoYY%YY 2Glu%
for o|"%r r%Y%Grc" VurVoY%Y GY <%llA  AY G r%Yul|, Juri_M |"% VGY| f%<
5%GrY, "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY "G2% i_i|iG|%J G _uS@%r of VroP%c|Y |o
i_cr%GY% Yc"olGrl5 Gcc%YY |o co_2%r|%J |%x|A  So, for %xGSVl%, |"% _%x|
~_coJi_M c_i|iG|i2% (_~cl, G@ou| <"ic" Sor% iY YGiJ lG|%r i_ |"% VroMrGS,
<GY %Y|G@liY"%J GY G_ %ffor| @5 Yc"olGrY |o J%|%rSi_% Y|G_JGrJ %l%S%_|Y
G_J S%|"oJY for %_coJi_M SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% |%x| for %l%c|ro_ic %xc"G_M%A
c_ G Y%co_J %ffor| |o fGcili|G|% |"% Y"Gri_M of co_2%r|%J |%x|, Yc"olGrY
"G2% cr%G|%J G _%< i_Y|i|u|io_, |"% }%_|%r for ~l%c|ro_ic _%x|Y i_ |"%
@uSG_i|i%Y (}~_@lA  _"% c%_|%r %Y|iSG|%Y |"G| |"%r% Gr% 8,DDD Y%ri%Y of
Yourc% |%x|Y i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y |"G| "G2% @%%_ co_2%r|%J |o
SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% forS <orlJ<iJ%A  }~_@ iY u_J%r|G(i_M G_ i_|%r_G|io_Gl
Y%Grc" for co_2%r|%J |%x| i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y, coSVili_M i| i_|o G_
%l%c|ro_ic li@rGr5, G_J Vr%VGri_M @i@lioMrGV"ic J%YcriV|io_Y of |"%
Yourc%Y for |"% l%Y%Grc" fi@rGri%Y c_forSG|io_ "%|<or(MY (lfc"l
SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% JG|G fil%A  _"% li@rGr5 Vrof%YYio_ "GY @%Mu_ |o i_i|iG|%
lGrM% co_2%rYio_ VroP%c|Y GY <%ll, Yuc" GY AS%ricG_ M%Sor5A

["il% Yc"olGrY "G2% @%%_ SG(i_M co_2%r|%J |%x| G2GilG@l% |o o_% G_o|"%r,
|5VicGll5 o_ JiY( or o_ }DSliM, |"% cl%Gr |r%_J iY |o<GrJ SG(i_M |"%Y%
r%Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% |"rouM" r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(YA  _"uY, |"%
AS%ricG_ G_J  r%_c" l%Y%Grc" o_ |"% _r%GYur5 of |"%  r%_c" fG_MuGM%
(Al_ fl G_J |"% DG_|% ProP%c| Gr% Glr%GJ5 G2GilG@l% o_ c_|%r_%|A
Mc}@~fSi" YuSSGri,%J |"iY Y%c|io_ o_ i_|%rVr%|G|io_ G_J G_Gl5YiY @5
_o|i_M |"G|u  ul i_cr%GYi_M _uS@%rY of "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY i_ |"% li@rGr5
coSSu_i|5 Gr% r%coM_i,i_M |"% iSVor|G_c% |o |"% GJ2G_c%S%_| of
Yc"olGrY"iV of r%|roYV%c|i2% co_2%rYio_ of Yourc% SG|%riGlY i_ |"% Gr|Y
G_J "uSG_i|i%Y2 G_J 2l |"%r% iY G Mro<i_M r%Gli,G|io_ |"G| SG(i_M |"%
Yourc%Y G2GilG@l% o_ r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y SGxiSi,%Y |"%ir
uY%ful_%YY for |"% G_Gl5YiY V%rforS%J @5 "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrYA

_"% four|" Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ iY JiYY%Si_G|io_ of
r%Y%Grc" fi_Ji_MY, |"G| iY, Vu@licG|io_A  Sc"olGrY Gr% uYi_M %xiY|i_M
r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y |o %_Mi_%%r G _%< |5V% of Vu@licG|io_u
Yc"olGrl5Sco_|roll%J Pour_GlY |"G| Gr% %l%c|ro_icGll5 VroJuc%J G_J
JiYY%Si_G|%JA  Al|"ouM" Yuc" Pour_GlY Gr% Y|ill %S%rMi_M GY G
coSSu_icG|io_ forSG|, |"%ir _uS@%r "GY Mro<_, froS GVVroxiSG|%l5 |<%l2%
|o |"ir|5SYix Juri_M |"% VGY| 5%Gr (Jul5 u}}u |o Ju_% u}}2lA  MoY| of
|"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic Yc"olGrl5 Pour_GlY Gr% J%2o|%J |o |oVicY i_ |"%
"uSG_i|i%YA  AY <i|" _%|<or( co_f%r%_c%Y, Yc"olGrl5 %_|"uYiGYS for |"%Y%
%l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY Y|%SY froS |"% S%JiuSMY u_i[u% G@ili|5 |o GJ2G_c%
Yc"olGrY"iV i_ G <G5 |"G| _o o|"%r S%JiuS cG_ Jo @5 YuVVor|i_M Mlo@Gl
f%%J@Gc( G_J i_|%rc"G_M%, VrGc|icGll5 i_ r%Gl |iS%, %Grl5 i_ |"% r%Y%Grc"
Vroc%YYA  8%5o_J Yc"olGrl5 Pour_GlY, Mc}@~fSi" r%SGr(%J |"% J%li2%r5 of
coSS%rciGl fullS|%x| VroJuc|Y, Yuc" GY Gr|icl%Y i_ Vrof%YYio_Gl Pour_GlY,
_%<Yl%||%rY, SGMG,i_%Y, <ir% Y%r2ic%Y, G_J r%f%r%_c% Yourc%YA  _"%Y% Gr%
@%i_M J%li2%r%J 2iG o_Sli_% locGl li@rGr5 cG|GloMu%Y, %YV%ciGll5 |"rouM"
}DSliMYA   ur|"%rSor%, GccorJi_M |o Mc}@~fSi", |"%r% iY M%_%rGl oV|iSiYS
|"G| |"% coV5riM"| G_J f%%Y iYYu%Y iSV%Ji_M |"% J%li2%r5 of full |%x| o_
%xiY|i_M r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y Yoo_ <ill @% r%Yol2%JA

_"% fi_Gl Vroc%YY of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ iY curriculuS J%2%loVS%_|
G_J i_Y|ruc|io_, G_J |"iY i_2ol2%Y |"% uY% of coSVu|%r i_forSG|io_
|%c"_oloMi%Y i_ |<o Gr%GYA  _"% firY| iY |"% J%2%loVS%_| of
coSVu|%rSori%_|%J i_Y|ruc|io_Gl |oolY, <"ic" i_cluJ%Y YiSulG|io_Y,
Sul|iS%JiG GVVlicG|io_Y, G_J coSVu|%r |oolY |"G| Gr% uY%J |o GYYiY| i_
|"% G_Gl5YiY of Yourc%Y i_ |"% clGYYrooS, %|cA  _"% P%rY%uY ProP%c|, G
JG|G@GY% |"G| Vro2iJ%Y G Sul|iS%JiG curriculuS o_ clGYYicGl Gr%%(
ci2ili,G|io_, iY G MooJ %xGSVl% of |"% <G5 i_ <"ic" %_|ir% curriculG Gr%
@%i_M r%cGY| uYi_M i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloMi%YA  c| iY G_|iciVG|%J |"G| |"%
curr%_| Jifficul|5 i_ %xc"G_Mi_M %l%c|ro_icGll5 coSVu|%rS@GY%J
i_Y|ruc|io_Gl Yof|<Gr%, <"ic" i_ |ur_ SG(%Y i| Jifficul| for o_% Yc"olGr
|o @uilJ uVo_ |"% <or( of o|"%rY, <ill @% r%Yol2%J @%for% |oo lo_MA
S|G_JSGlo_% curriculGr GVVlicG|io_Y |"G| i_2ol2% %l%c|ro_ic |%x| <ill @%
Y"GrG@l% |"rouM" _%|<or(Y, r%i_forci_M |"%ir YiM_ificG_c% GY i_|%ll%c|uGl
VroJuc|Y GY <%ll GY i_Y|ruc|io_Gl |oolYA

_"% Y%co_J GYV%c| of %l%c|ro_ic l%Gr_i_M i_2ol2%Y |"% uY% of r%Y%Grc" G_J
%JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y for JiY|G_c% %JucG|io_ VroMrGSYA  Suc" VroMrGSY
i_|%rGc|i2%l5 li_( |%Gc"%rY <i|" Y|uJ%_|Y i_ M%oMrGV"icGll5 YcG||%r%J
locG|io_Y G_J r%l5 o_ |"% G2GilG@ili|5 of %l%c|ro_ic i_Y|ruc|io_Gl
r%Yourc%YA  DiY|G_c% %JucG|io_ VroMrGSY Gr% MGi_i_M <iJ% GVV%Gl GSo_M
Y|G|% J%VGr|S%_|Y of %JucG|io_ @%cGuY% of |"%ir J%So_Y|rG|%J cGVGci|5 |o
@ri_M GJ2G_c%J YV%ciGli,%J courY% <or( G_J G_ GrrG5 of %xV%r|Y |o SG_5
clGYYrooSYA  A r%c%_| r%Vor| fou_J |"G| G| l%GY| <2 Y|G|%Y oV%rG|%J G|
l%GY| o_% Y|G|%<iJ% _%|<or( for %JucG|io_ i_ u}}u, <i|" _%|<or(Y u_J%r
J%2%loVS%_| i_ SG_5 of |"% r%SGi_i_M Y|G|%YA

Mc}@~fSi" YuSSGri,%J |"iY Y%c|io_ @5 _o|i_M |<o Y|ri(i_M c"G_M%Y |G(i_M
VlGc% i_ Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ GSo_M "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrYA   irY| iY |"%
%x|%_| |o <"ic" %l%c|ro_ic |%x| i_ VGr|iculGr, G_J %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y
i_ M%_%rGl, Gr% @%i_M i_fuY%J i_|o %Gc" of |"% fi2% Vroc%YY%Y J%Ycri@%J
G@o2%A  AY S%_|io_%J %Grli%r, |"%r% iY G c%r|Gi_ Y5_%rM5 G| <or( "%r%A
_"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y for o_% Vroc%YY |%_JY |o Y|iSulG|% i|Y
uY% for o|"%r Vroc%YY%Y, @%cGuY% |"% c"i%f courY% of So2%S%_| iY |o<GrJ G
coSVr%"%_Yi2% o_Sli_% <or(i_M co_|%x| for "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY |"G|
i_cluJ%Y o_Sli_% G2GilG@ili|5 of (%5 @i@lioMrGV"i%Y, Yc"olGrl5 f%%J@Gc(,
Yourc%Y, G_Gl5|icGl |oolY, G_J Vu@licG|io_YA  Mc}@~fSi" _o|%J fur|"%r
|"G| |"% So2%S%_| |o<GrJ G coSVr%"%_Yi2% o_Sli_% <or(i_M co_|%x| for
"uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrY iY _o| _%<A  c_ fGc|, i| "GY @%%_ u_J%r<G5 for Sor%
|"G_ for|5 5%GrY i_ |"% "uSG_i|i%Y, Yi_c%  G|"%r lo@%r|o 8uYG @%MG_
J%2%loVi_M G_ %l%c|ro_ic co_corJG_c% of |"% <or(Y of SGi_| _"oSGY A[ui_GY
i_ u}x}A  ["G| <% Gr% <i|_%YYi_M |oJG5, Mc}@~fSi" co_|%_J%J, iY _o| |"%
@%Mi__i_M of |"iY o_Sli_% |rG_Yi|io_ @u|, for G| l%GY| YoS% "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY, |"% |ur_i_M Voi_| i_ |"% |rG_Yi|io_ froS G Vri_| |o G_
%l%c|ro_ic <or(i_M co_|%x|A  }oi_ciJi_M <i|" |"% o_Sli_% |rG_Yi|io_, |"%
Y%co_J Y|ri(i_M c"G_M% iY |"% %x|%_| |o <"ic" r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_
_%|<or(Y Gr% @%coSi_M |"% _%< S%JiuS of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A  _"%
%xiY|i_M c_|%r_%| G_J |"% V%_Ji_M "G|io_Gl ~JucG|io_ G_J l%Y%Grc" "%|<or(
("l~"l r%Vr%Y%_| |"% _%< S%%|i_M Mrou_J <"%r% Yc"olGrY Gr% Moi_M for
@i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_, Yc"olGrl5 JiGloMu% G_J f%%J@Gc(, |"% SoY|
curr%_| Vu@licG|io_Y i_ |"%ir fi%lJ, G_J "iM"Sl%2%l %JucG|io_Gl
off%ri_MYA  _rGJi|io_Gl Yc"olGrl5 VrGc|ic%Y Gr% u_J%rMoi_M |r%S%_JouY
|rG_YforSG|io_Y GY G r%Yul| of |"% %S%rM%_c% G_J Mro<i_M VroSi_%_c% of
<"G| iY cGll%J _%|<or(SS%JiG|%J Yc"olGrY"iVA

Mc}@~fSi" _%x| |ur_%J |o |"% Y%co_J %l%S%_| of |"% frGS%<or( Y"% VroVoY%J
G| |"% ou|Y%| of "%r |Gl( for %2GluG|i_M |"% VroYV%c|Y for %l%c|ro_ic
|%x|, _GS%l5 |"% (%5 i_forSG|io_ |%c"_oloM5 |r%_JY Gff%c|i_M |"% co_Juc|
of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ o2%r |"% _%x| J%cGJ%u  ul %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M
G_J 2l co__%c|i2i|5A

~_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M S%G_Y |"G| |"% V%rYo_ |ouc"i_M |"% (%5@oGrJ, or
V%rforSi_M coSVu|G|io_Y, iY |"% YGS% GY |"% V%rYo_ <"o i_i|iG|%Y or
co_YuS%Y |"% coSVu|G|io_A  _"% %S%rM%_c% of V%rYo_Gl coSVu|%rY, Glo_M
<i|" G "oY| of o|"%r forc%Y, Yuc" GY u@i[ui|ouY coSVu|i_M, GJ2G_c%Y i_
i_|%rfGc% J%YiM_, G_J |"% o_Sli_% |rG_Yi|io_, iY VroSV|i_M |"% co_YuS%rY
of coSVu|G|io_ |o Jo |"%ir o<_ coSVu|i_M, G_J iY |"uY r%_J%ri_M o@Yol%|%
|"% |rGJi|io_Gl JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ %_J uY%rY G_J ul|iSG|% uY%rYA

_"% |r%_J |o<GrJ %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M iY YiM_ificG_| |o co_YiJ%rG|io_ of
|"% VroYV%c|Y for %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y @%cGuY% i| S%G_Y |"G| r%Y%Grc"%rY Gr%
@%coSi_M Sor% GJ%V| G| Joi_M |"%ir o<_ coSVu|G|io_Y G_J, |"uY, Sor%
coSV%|%_| i_ |"% uY% of %l%c|ro_ic S%JiGA  85 G2oiJi_M VroMrGSS%r
i_|%rS%JiGri%Y, coSVu|G|io_ iY @%coSi_M c%_|rGl |o |"% r%Y%Grc"%rMY
|"ouM"| Vroc%YYA  _"iY Jir%c| i_2ol2%S%_| i_ coSVu|i_M iY c"G_Mi_M |"%
r%Y%Grc"%rMY V%rYV%c|i2% o_ |"% _G|ur% of r%Y%Grc" i|Y%lf, |"G| iY, |"%
(i_JY of [u%Y|io_Y |"G| cG_ @% VoY%J, |"% G_Gl5|icGl S%|"oJoloMi%Y |"G|
cG_ @% uY%J, |"% |5V%Y G_J GSou_| of Yourc%Y |"G| Gr% GVVroVriG|% for
G_Gl5Y%Y, G_J |"% forS i_ <"ic" fi_Ji_MY Gr% Vr%Y%_|%JA  _"% |r%_J |o<GrJ
%_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M S%G_Y |"G|, i_cr%GYi_Ml5, %l%c|ro_ic S%JiG G_J
coSVu|G|io_ Gr% @%i_M i_fuY%J i_|o Gll Vroc%YY%Y of "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY"iV, i_YViri_M r%SGr(G@l% |rG_YforSG|io_Y i_ Yc"olGrl5
coSSu_icG|io_A

_"% |r%_J |o<GrJ Mr%G|%r co__%c|i2i|5 YuMM%Y|Y |"G| r%Y%Grc"%rY Gr% uYi_M
coSVu|G|io_ i_cr%GYi_Ml5 i_ _%|<or( %_2iro_S%_|YA  }o__%c|i2i|5 iY
iSVor|G_| |o Yc"olGrY"iV @%cGuY% i| %rGY%Y |"% JiY|G_c% |"G| Y%VGrG|%Y
Y|uJ%_|Y froS |%Gc"%rY G_J Yc"olGrY froS |"%ir coll%GMu%Y, <"il% Gllo<i_M
uY%rY |o Gcc%YY r%So|% JG|G@GY%Y, Y"Gr% i_forSG|io_ i_ SG_5 Jiff%r%_|
S%JiG, co__%c| |o |"%ir <or(i_M co_|%x| <"%r%2%r |"%5 Gr%, G_J
collG@orG|% i_ Gll V"GY%Y of r%Y%Grc"A

_"% coS@i_G|io_ of |"% |r%_J |o<GrJ %_JSuY%r coSVu|i_M G_J |"% |r%_J
|o<GrJ co__%c|i2i|5 YuMM%Y|Y |"G| |"% Yc"olGrl5 uY% of %l%c|ro_ic
r%Yourc%Y, Glr%GJ5 %2iJ%_| GSo_M YoS% r%Y%Grc"%rY, <ill Yoo_ @%coS% G_
%Y|G@liY"%J f%G|ur% of Yc"olGrY"iVA  _"% %ff%c|Y of |"%Y% |r%_JY, Glo_M
<i|" o_Moi_M c"G_M%Y i_ Yc"olGrl5 VrGc|ic%Y, Voi_| |o G fu|ur% i_ <"ic"
"uSG_i|i%Y r%Y%Grc"%rY <ill uY% coSVu|G|io_ G_J %l%c|ro_ic coSSu_icG|io_
|o "%lV |"%S forSulG|% iJ%GY, Gcc%YY Yourc%Y, V%rforS r%Y%Grc",
collG@orG|% <i|" coll%GMu%Y, Y%%( V%%r r%2i%<, Vu@liY" G_J JiYY%Si_G|%
r%Yul|Y, G_J %_MGM% i_ SG_5 o|"%r Vrof%YYio_Gl G_J %JucG|io_Gl Gc|i2i|i%YA

c_ YuSSGr5, Mc}@~fSi" %SV"GYi,%J four Voi_|Yu  ul A Vor|io_ of "uSG_i|i%Y
Yc"olGrY Glr%GJ5 co_YiJ%r %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y |"% Vr%f%rr%J forSG| for
G_Gl5YiY G_J JiYY%Si_G|io_A  2l Sc"olGrY Gr% uYi_M |"%Y% %l%c|ro_ic
|%x|Y, i_ co_Pu_c|io_ <i|" o|"%r %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y, i_ Gll |"%
Vroc%YY%Y of Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_A  <l _"% "uSG_i|i%Y Yc"olGrYM
<or(i_M co_|%x| iY i_ |"% Vroc%YY of c"G_Mi_M froS Vri_| |%c"_oloM5 |o
%l%c|ro_ic |%c"_oloM5, i_ SG_5 <G5Y Sirrori_M |rG_YforSG|io_Y |"G| "G2%
occurr%J or Gr% occurri_M <i|"i_ |"% Yci%_|ific coSSu_i|5A  xl _"%Y%
c"G_M%Y Gr% occurri_M i_ co_Pu_c|io_ <i|" |"% J%2%loVS%_| of G _%<
coSSu_icG|io_ S%JiuSu  r%Y%Grc" G_J %JucG|io_ _%|<or(Y |"G| Gr%
c"GrGc|%ri,%J @5 |"%ir cGVGci|5 |o GJ2G_c% Yc"olGrY"iV i_ G <"oll5 u_i[u%
<G5A

Mc}@~fSi" GlYo r%i|%rG|%J "%r |"r%% Vri_ciVGl GrMuS%_|Yu  ll ~l%c|ro_ic
|%x|Y Gr% @%Y| u_J%rY|ooJ i_ |%rSY of |"% r%lG|io_Y"iV |o o|"%r
%l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y G_J |"% Mro<i_M VroSi_%_c% of _%|<or(SS%JiG|%J
Yc"olGrY"iVA  2l _"% VroYV%c|Y for %l%c|ro_ic |%x|Y li% i_ |"%ir cGVGci|5
|o @% i_|%MrG|%J i_|o |"% o_Sli_% _%|<or( of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y |"G|
coSVriY% |"% _%< <or(i_M co_|%x| for Yc"olGrYA  <l l%|roYV%c|i2% co_2%rYio_
of Vor|io_Y of |"% Yc"olGrl5 r%corJ Y"oulJ @% G (%5 Y|rG|%M5 GY i_forSG|io_
Vro2iJ%rY r%YVo_J |o c"G_M%Y i_ Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ VrGc|ic%YA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
V~}}cA P AMMY %2GluG|io_ VroP%c| G_J Vu@lic uY%rY of %l%c|ro_ic r%Yourc%Y
P AM G_J i|Y J%YiM_ P Si|% Y%l%c|io_ G_J %2GluG|i_M |"% MGci_|oY"
iSVl%S%_|G|io_ of AM P }"GrGc|%riY|icY of |"% Yix Vu@lic li@rGri%Y
Y%l%c|%J P }"GrGc|%riY|icY of AMMY uY%rY i_ |"%Y% li@rGri%Y P Pri_ciVGl
<G5Y AM iY @%i_M uY%J P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

SuYG_ V~}}cA, |%GS l%GJ%r, G_J JoG__%  l~~MA", GYYociG|% coorJi_G|or,
AS%ricG_ M%Sor5, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, MG2% G Poi_| Vr%Y%_|G|io_A   irY|,
@5 <G5 of i_|roJuc|io_, V~}}cA %xVlGi_%J "%r G_J  l~~MA"MY rol%Y i
