FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saving books that are in brittle condition.
PERSONIUS showed Workshop participants a brittle book, and described how
such books were the result of developments in papermaking around the
beginning of the Industrial Revolution.  The papermaking process was
changed so that a significant amount of acid was introduced into the
actual paper itself, which deteriorates as it sits on library shelves.

One of the advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project is that
the information in brittle books is mostly out of copyright and thus
offers an opportunity to work with material that requires library
preservation, and to create and work on an infrastructure to save the
material.  Acknowledging the familiarity of those working in preservation
with this information, PERSONIUS noted that several things are being
done:  the primary preservation technology used today is photocopying of
brittle material.  Saving the intellectual content of the material is the
main goal.  With microfilm copy, the intellectual content is preserved on
the assumption that in the future the image can be reformatted in any
other way that then exists.

An underlying assumption of the CLASS Project from the beginning was
that it would develop a network application.  Project staff scan books
at a workstation located in the library, near the brittle material.
An image-server filing system is located at a distance from that
workstation, and a printer is located in another building.  All of the
materials digitized and stored on the image-filing system are cataloged
in the on-line catalogue.  In fact, a record for each of these electronic
books is stored in the RLIN database so that a record exists of what is
in the digital library throughout standard catalogue procedures.  In the
future, researchers working from their own workstations in their offices,
or their networks, will have access--wherever they might be--through a
request server being built into the new digital library.  A second
assumption is that the preferred means of finding the material will be by
looking through a catalogue.  PERSONIUS described the scanning process,
which uses a prototype scanner being developed by Xerox and which scans a
very high resolution image at great speed.  Another significant feature,
because this is a preservation application, is the placing of the pages
that fall apart one for one on the platen.  Ordinarily, a scanner could
be used with some sort of a document feeder, but because of this
application that is not feasible.  Further, because CLASS is a
preservation application, after the paper replacement is made there, a
very careful quality control check is performed.  An original book is
compared to the printed copy and verification is made, before proceeding,
that all of the image, all of the information, has been captured.  Then,
a new library book is produced:  The printed images are rebound by a
commercial binder and a new book is returned to the shelf.
Significantly, the books returned to the library shelves are beautiful
and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last a long time,
in effect, the equivalent of preservation photocopies.  Thus, the project
has a library of digital books.  In essence, CLASS is scanning and
storing books as 600 dot-per-inch bit-mapped images, compressed using
Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French acronym for International Consultative
Committee for Telegraph and Telephone) compression.  They are stored as
TIFF files on an optical filing system that is composed of a database
used for searching and locating the books and an optical jukebox that
stores 64 twelve-inch platters.  A very-high-resolution printed copy of
these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary5 |%Y|Y "G2% _o| VroJuc%J MooJ r%Yul|YA  8u| |"%
     VroP%c| iY cGV|uri_M G_ iSGM% |"G| iY of Yuffici%_| r%Yolu|io_ |o @%
     Yu@P%c|%J |o i}l i_ |"% fu|ur%A  Mor%o2%r, |"% Y5Y|%S Grc"i|%c|ur%
     G_J |"% Y5Y|%S VlG_ "G2% G loMicGl VlGc% |o Y|or% G_ i}l iSGM% if i|
     "GY @%%_ cGV|ur%JA  8u| |"G| iY _o| @%i_M Jo_% _o<A

                                 PPPPPP

S~SSci" cccA  DcS_lc8o_ci", "~_[il%S, A"D "~_[il%c"Gu  iP_ci"S  il
DcSS~Mc"A_ci"

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
|c}@ P cYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o }DSliMY P iV|io_Y for Vu@liY"i_M i_ }DSliM P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

lo@%r| |c}@, YV%ciGl GYYiY|G_| |o |"% GYYociG|% li@rGriG_ for YV%ciGl
VroP%c|Y, fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, G_J SoJ%rG|or of |"iY Y%YYio_, firY| _o|%J
|"% @l%YY%J @u| YoS%<"G| G<(<GrJ circuSY|G_c% of "G2i_M four 2%r5
JiY|i_MuiY"%J V%oVl% r%Vr%Y%_|i_M _%|<or(Y G_J _%|<or(i_M or G| l%GY|
l%G_i_M i_ |"G| Jir%c|io_, <"il% lGc(i_M G_5o_% |o YV%G( froS |"%
Y|ro_M%Y| VoYYi@l% @Gc(Mrou_J i_ }DSliMYA  |c}@ %xVr%YY%J |"% "oV% |"G|
S%S@%rY of |"% GuJi%_c% <oulJ Poi_ |"% JiYcuYYio_A  @% Y|r%YY%J |"%
Yu@|i|l% of |"iY VGr|iculGr Y%YYio_, "iV|io_Y for DiYY%Si_G|io_," G_J,
co_c%r_i_M }DSliMY, |"% iSVor|G_c% of J%|%rSi_i_M <"%_ i| <oulJ @% <iY%
|o co_YiJ%r JiYY%Si_G|io_ i_ }DSliM 2%rYuY _%|<or(YA  A Y"oVVi_M liY| of
iYYu%Y V%r|Gi_i_M |o }DSliMY i_cluJ%Ju  |"% Mrou_JY for Y%l%c|i_M
coSS%rciGl Vu@liY"%rY, G_J i_S"ouY% Vu@licG|io_ <"%r% VoYYi@l% 2%rYuY
_o_Vrofi| or Mo2%r_S%_| Vu@licG|io_A  A YiSilGr liY| for _%|<or(Y
i_cluJ%Ju  J%|%rSi_i_M <"%_ o_% Y"oulJ co_YiJ%r JiYY%Si_G|io_ |"rouM" G
_%|<or(, iJ%_|if5i_M |"% S%c"G_iYSY or %_|i|i%Y |"G| %xiY| |o VlGc% i|%SY
o_ _%|<or(Y, iJ%_|if5i_M |"% Vool of %xiY|i_M _%|<or(Y, J%|%rSi_i_M "o< G
VroJuc%r  <oulJ c"ooY% @%|<%%_ _%|<or(Y, G_J iJ%_|if5i_M |"% %l%S%_|Y of
G @uYi_%YY GrrG_M%S%_| i_ G _%|<or(A

iV|io_Y for Vu@liY"i_M i_ }DSliMu  G_ ou|YiJ% Vu@liY"%r 2%rYuY
Y%lfSVu@licG|io_A  cf G_ ou|YiJ% Vu@liY"%r iY uY%J, i| cG_ @% _o_Vrofi|
