Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full control, but then one must handle
matters such as distribution and marketing.  Such are some of the options
for publishing in the case of CD-ROM.

In the case of technical and design issues, which are also important,
there are many matters which many at the Workshop already knew a good
deal about:  retrieval system requirements and costs, what to do about
images, the various capabilities and platforms, the trade-offs between
cost and performance, concerns about local-area networkability,
interoperability, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LYNCH * Creating networked information is different from using networks
as an access or dissemination vehicle * Networked multimedia on a large
scale does not yet work * Typical CD-ROM publication model a two-edged
sword * Publishing information on a CD-ROM in the present world of
immature standards * Contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing *
Examples demonstrated earlier in the day as a set of insular information
gems * Paramount need to link databases * Layering to become increasingly
necessary * Project NEEDS and the issues of information reuse and active
versus passive use * X-Windows as a way of differentiating between
network access and networked information * Barriers to the distribution
of networked multimedia information * Need for good, real-time delivery
protocols * The question of presentation integrity in client-server
computing in the academic world * Recommendations for producing multimedia
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Clifford LYNCH, director, Library Automation, University of California,
opened his talk with the general observation that networked information
constituted a difficult and elusive topic because it is something just
starting to develop and not yet fully understood.  LYNCH contended that
creating genuinely networked information was different from using
networks as an access or dissemination vehicle and was more sophisticated
and more subtle.  He invited the members of the audience to extrapolate,
from what they heard about the preceding demonstration projects, to what
sort of a world of electronics information--scholarly, archival,
cultural, etc.--they wished to end up with ten or fifteen years from now.
LYNCH suggested that to extrapolate directly from these projects would
produce unpleasant results.

Putting the issue of CD-ROM in perspective before getting into
generalities on networked information, LYNCH observed that those engaged
in multimedia today who wish to ship a product, so to say, probably do
not have much choice except to use CD-ROM:  networked multimedia on a
large scale basically does not yet work because the technology does not
exist.  For example, anybody who has tried moving images around over the
Internet knows that this is an exciting touch-and-go process, a
fascinating and fertile area for experimentation, research, and
development, but not something that one can become deeply enthusiastic
about committing to production systems at this time.

This situation will change, LYNCH said.  He differentiated CD-ROM from
the practices that have been followed up to now in distributing data on
CD-ROM.  For LYNCH the problem with CD-ROM is not its portability or its
slowness but the two-edged sword of having the retrieval application and
the user interface inextricably bound up with the data, which is the
typical CD-ROM publication model.  It is not a case of publishing data
but of distributing a typically stand-alone, typically closed system,
all--software, user interface, and data--on a little disk.  Hence, all
the between-disk navigational issues as well as the impossibility in most
cases of integrating data on one disk with that on another.  Most CD-ROM
retrieval software does not network very gracefully at present.  However,
in the present world of immature standards and lack of understanding of
what network information is or what the ground rules are for creating or
using it, publishing information on a CD-ROM does add value in a very
real sense.

LYNCH drew a contrast between CD-ROM and network pricing and in doing so
highlighted something bizarre in information pricing.  A large
institution such as the University of California has vendors who will
offer to sell information on CD-ROM for a price per year in four digits,
but for the same data (e.g., an abstracting and indexing database) on
magnetic tape, regardless of how many people may use it concurrently,
will quote a price in six digits.

What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e.,  Y5_c"ro_i,i_M G
2oic% |rGc( |o G 2iJ%o |rGc(, %Y|G@liY"i_M |%SVorGl r%lG|io_Y @%|<%%_
Jiff%r%_| coSVo_%_|Y i_ G Sul|iS%JiG o@P%c|l co_Y|i|u|%Y G_o|"%r iYYu%
for _%|<or(%J Sul|iS%JiG |"G| iY PuY| @%Mi__i_M |o r%c%i2% G||%_|io_A

o_J%rl5i_M _%|<or( Vro|ocolY GlYo _%%J YoS% <or(2 MooJ, r%GlS|iS%
J%li2%r5 Vro|ocolY o_ |"% c_|%r_%| Jo _o| 5%| %xiY|A  c_ fY"}@MY 2i%<,
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| i_ |"iY co_|%x| iY |"% _o|io_ of _%|<or(%J JiMi|Gl
o@P%c| cDY, |"% G@ili|5 of o_% o@P%c| o_ |"% _%|<or( |o Voi_| |o G_o|"%r
o@P%c| (or coSVo_%_| |"%r%ofl o_ |"% _%|<or(A  S%riouY @G_J<iJ|" iYYu%Y
GlYo %xiY|A  fY"}@ <GY u_c%r|Gi_ if @illio_S@i|SV%rSY%co_J _%|<or(Y <oulJ
Vro2% Yuffici%_| if _uS%rouY V%oVl% rG_ 2iJ%o i_ VGrGll%lA

fY"}@ co_cluJ%J @5 off%ri_M G_ iYYu% for JG|G@GY% cr%G|orY |o co_YiJ%r,
GY <%ll GY Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y G@ou| <"G| SiM"| co_Y|i|u|% MooJ |riGl
Sul|iS%JiG %xV%riS%_|YA  c_ G _%|<or(%J i_forSG|io_ <orlJ |"% JG|G@GY%
@uilJ%r or Y%r2ic% @uilJ%r (Vu@liY"%rl Jo%Y _o| %x%rciY% |"% YGS%
%x|%_Yi2% co_|rol o2%r |"% i_|%Mri|5 of |"% Vr%Y%_|G|io_2 Y|rG_M%
VroMrGSY "Su_M%" <i|" o_%MY JG|G @%for% |"% uY%r Y%%Y i|A  S%riouY
|"ouM"| SuY| @% Mi2%_ |o <"G| MuGrG_|%%Y i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  PGr|
of |"G| iY r%lG|%J |o <"%r% o_% JrG<Y |"% @ou_JGri%Y Grou_J G _%|<or(%J
i_forSG|io_ Y%r2ic%A  _"iY [u%Y|io_ of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_|%Mri|5 i_
cli%_|SY%r2%r coSVu|i_M "GY _o| @%%_ Y|r%YY%J %_ouM" i_ |"% GcGJ%Sic
<orlJ, fY"}@ GrMu%J, |"ouM" coSS%rciGl Y%r2ic% Vro2iJ%rY J%Gl <i|" i|
r%MulGrl5A

}o_c%r_i_M Sul|iS%JiG, fY"}@ o@Y%r2%J |"G| MooJ Sul|iS%JiG G| |"% SoS%_|
iY "iJ%ouYl5 %xV%_Yi2% |o VroJuc%A  @% r%coSS%_J%J VroJuci_M Sul|iS%JiG
<i|" %i|"%r 2%r5 "iM" YGl% 2Glu%, or Sul|iS%JiG <i|" G 2%r5 lo_M lif%
YVG_, or Sul|iS%JiG |"G| <ill "G2% G 2%r5 @roGJ uYGM% @GY% G_J <"oY%
coY|Y |"%r%for% cG_ @% GSor|i,%J GSo_M lGrM% _uS@%rY of uY%rYA  c_ |"iY
co__%c|io_, "iY|oricGl G_J "uSG_iY|icGll5 ori%_|%J SG|%riGl SG5 @% G MooJ
VlGc% |o Y|Gr|, @%cGuY% i| |%_JY |o "G2% G lo_M%r lif% YVG_ |"G_ Suc" of
|"% Yci%_|ific SG|%riGl, GY <%ll GY G <iJ%r uY%r @GY%A  fY"}@ _o|%J, for
%xGSVl%, |"G| AS%ricG_ M%Sor5 fi|Y SG_5 of |"% cri|%riG ou|li_%JA  @%
r%SGr(%J |"% %x|%_Yi2% JiYcuYYio_ G@ou| @ri_Mi_M |"% c_|%r_%| or |"%
"G|io_Gl l%Y%Grc" G_J ~JucG|io_ "%|<or( ("l~"l i_|o |"% %Su2 %_2iro_S%_|
GY G <G5 of "%lVi_M |"% AS%ricG_ %JucG|io_Gl Y5Y|%SA

fY"}@ cloY%J @5 _o|i_M |"G| |"% (i_JY of GVVlicG|io_Y J%So_Y|rG|%J Y|ruc(
"iS GY %xc%ll%_| PuY|ificG|io_Y of @roGJSYcGl% _%|<or(i_M for %Su2, @u|
|"G| G| |"iY |iS% _o "(ill%r" GVVlicG|io_ %xiY|Y |o So@ili,% |"% %Su2
coSSu_i|5 |o o@|Gi_ co__%c|i2i|5A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P D%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5 i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(
G Ylo<Sc"G_Mi_M Yi|uG|io_ P _"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_ i_
G _%|<or(%J %_2iro_S%_| P S%2%rGl r%GYo_Y <"5 }DSliM Yof|<Gr% Jo%Y _o|
_%|<or( P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J fY"}@MY Vr%Y%_|G|io_, Y%2%rGl
GJJi|io_Gl Voi_|Y <%r% SGJ%A

fY"}@ r%i|%rG|%J %2%_ Sor% Y|ro_Ml5 "iY co_|%_|io_ |"G|, "iY|oricGll5,
o_c% o_% Mo%Y ou|YiJ% "iM"S%_J Yci%_c% G_J |"% MrouV of |"oY% <"o _%%J
Gcc%YY |o YuV%rcoSVu|%rY, |"%r% iY G Mr%G| J%Gr|" of M%_ui_%l5
i_|%r%Y|i_M GVVlicG|io_Y o_ |"% _%|<or(A  @% YG< |"iY Yi|uG|io_ c"G_Mi_M
Ylo<l5, <i|" YoS% of |"% Yci%_|ific JG|G@GY%Y G_J Yc"olGrl5 JiYcuYYio_
MrouVY G_J %l%c|ro_ic Pour_GlY coSi_M o_ GY <%ll GY <i|" |"% G2GilG@ili|5
of [iJ% Ar%G c_forSG|io_ S%r2%rY ([AcSl G_J YoS% of |"% JG|G@GY%Y |"G|
Gr% @%i_M Sou_|%J |"%r%A  @o<%2%r, SG_5 of |"oY% |"i_MY Jo _o| Y%%S |o
"G2% Vi[u%J Mr%G| VoVulGr i_|%r%Y|A   or i_Y|G_c%, SoY| "iM" Yc"ool
Y|uJ%_|Y of fY"}@MY Gc[uGi_|G_c% <oulJ _o| [uGlif5 GY J%2o|%%Y of Y%riouY
Sol%culGr @ioloM5A

}o_c%r_i_M |"% iYYu% of |"% i_|%Mri|5 of Vr%Y%_|G|io_, fY"}@ @%li%2%J
|"G| G couVl% of i_forSG|io_ Vro2iJ%rY "G2% lGiJ Jo<_ |"% lG< G| l%GY| o_
c%r|Gi_ |"i_MYA   or %xGSVl%, "iY r%coll%c|io_ <GY |"G| |"% "G|io_G
