convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB8 <G_|%J co_2%rYio_ G| |"% "iM"%Y|
VoYYi@l% r%Yolu|io_A  AYYuSi_M _c   fil%Y, _c   fil%Y <i|" GrouV x
coSVr%YYio_, _}PYcP, G_J %|"%r_%| _%|<or( o_ cGSVuY, Pi8 <G_|%J G
cli%_|SY%r2%r GVVroGc" <i|" iSGM% JocuS%_|Y JiY|ri@u|%J |o |"%
<or(Y|G|io_Y G_J SGJ% Gcc%YYi@l% |"rouM" _G|i2% <or(Y|G|io_ i_|%rfGc%Y
Yuc" GY [i_Jo<YA  Pi8 GlYo i_YiY|%J o_ G V"GY%J GVVroGc" |o
iSVl%S%_|G|io_u  ul G Y|G_JSGlo_%, Yi_Ml%SuY%r, lo<ScoY| %_|r5 i_|o |"%
@uYi_%YY <i|" G <or(Y|G|io_ focuY%J o_ co_2%rYio_ G_J Gllo<i_M Pi8 |o
%xVlor% uY%r Gcc%YY2 2l So2%S%_| i_|o G "iM"%rS2oluS% co_2%rYio_ <i|"
_%|<or(SGcc%YYi@l% Y|orGM% G_J Sul|iVl% Gcc%YY Y|G|io_Y2 G_J <l G
"iM"S2oluS% co_2%rYio_, fullScGVGci|5 Y|orGM%, G_J Sul|iVl% @ro<Yi_M
Y|G|io_Y JiY|ri@u|%J |"rouM"ou| |"% cGSVuYA

_"% coY|Y VroVoY%J for Y|Gr|SuV GYYuS%J |"% %xiY|%_c% of |"% YGl% _%|<or(
G_J i|Y |<o Docu_%c" iSGM% Vri_|%rYA  i|"%r Y|Gr|SuV coY|Y Gr% %Y|iSG|%J
G| Ju Sillio_ o2%r |"% |"r%% V"GY%YA  A| |"% %_J of |"% VroP%c|, |"% G__uGl
oV%rG|i_M coY|Y %Y|iSG|%J VriSGril5 for |"% Yof|<Gr% G_J "GrJ<Gr% VroVoY%J
coS% |o G@ou| J,D,DDD, @u| |"%Y% %xcluJ% coY|Y for lG@or _%%J%J i_ |"%
co_2%rYio_ Vroc%YY, _%|<or( G_J Vri_|%r uYGM%, G_J fGcili|i%Y SG_GM%S%_|A

 i_Gll5, |"% Y%l%c|io_ Vroc%YY VroJuc%J for YGl% G Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J
2i%< of |"% iSGMi_M SGr(%|Yu  |"% SG_GM%S%_| of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_
iSGM% forS iY _o| G Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Vro@l%S, _o| G li@rGr5 Vro@l%S, @u| G
M%_%rGl Vro@l%S i_ G @roGJ, M%_%rGl i_JuY|r5A  Pr%Y%r2G|io_ SG|%riGlY Gr%
uY%ful for J%2%loVi_M |"G| SGr(%| @%cGuY% of |"% [uGli|i%Y of |"%
SG|%riGlA   or %xGSVl%, Suc" of i| iY ou| of coV5riM"|A  _"% r%Yolu|io_
of (%5 iYYu%Y Yuc" GY |"% [uGli|5 of YcG__i_M G_J iSGM% @ro<Yi_M GlYo
<ill Gff%c| J%2%loVS%_| of |"G| SGr(%|A

_"% |%c"_oloM5 iY r%GJil5 G2GilG@l% @u| c"G_Mi_M rGViJl5A  c_ |"iY
co_|%x| of rGViJ c"G_M%, Y%2%rGl fGc|orY Gff%c| [uGli|5 G_J coY|, |o
<"ic" Pi8 i_|%_JY |o VG5 VGr|iculGr G||%_|io_, for %xGSVl%, |"% 2GriouY
l%2%lY of r%Yolu|io_ |"G| cG_ @% Gc"i%2%JA  Pi8 @%li%2%Y i| cG_ @ri_M
r%Yolu|io_ uV |o ,DD JVi, @u| G_ i_|%rVolG|io_ Vroc%YY froS xDD |o ,DD iY
Sor% li(%l5A  _"% 2GriG|io_ [uGli|5 i_ SicrofilS <ill Vro2% |o @% G
"iM"l5 iSVor|G_| fGc|orA  Pi8 SG5 r%%xGSi_% |"% Y|G_JGrJY uY%J |o filS i_
|"% firY| VlGc% @5 loo(i_M G| |"iY Vroc%YY GY G follo<So_ |o SicrofilSi_MA

i|"%r iSVor|G_| fGc|orY i_cluJ%u  |"% |%c"_i[u%Y G2GilG@l% |o |"%
oV%rG|or for "G_Jli_M SG|%riGl, |"% <G5Y of i_|%MrG|i_M [uGli|5 co_|rol
i_|o |"% JiMi|i,i_M <or( flo<, G_J G <or( flo< |"G| i_cluJ%Y i_J%xi_M G_J
Y|orGM%A  Pi8MY r%[uir%S%_| <GY |o @% G@l% |o J%Gl <i|" [uGli|5 co_|rol
G| |"% Voi_| of YcG__i_MA  _"uY, |"G_(Y |o r%rox, Pi8 G_|iciVG|%Y "G2i_M
G S%c"G_iYS <"ic" <ill Gllo< i| _o| o_l5 |o YcG_ i_ @G|c" forS, @u| |o
r%2i%< |"% SG|%riGl GY i| Mo%Y |"rouM" |"% YcG__%r G_J co_|rol [uGli|5
froS |"% ou|Y%|A

_"% Y|G_JGrJY for S%GYuri_M [uGli|5 G_J coY|Y J%V%_J Mr%G|l5 o_ |"% uY%Y
of |"% SG|%riGl, i_cluJi_M Yu@Y%[u%_| i}l, Y|orGM%, Vri_|i_M, G_J
@ro<Yi_MA  8u| %YV%ciGll5 G| iYYu% for Pi8 iY |"% fGcili|5 for @ro<Yi_MA
_"iY fGcili|5, [A_~lS YGiJ, iY V%r"GVY |"% <%G(%Y| GYV%c| of iSGMi_M
|%c"_oloM5 G_J |"% SoY| i_ _%%J of J%2%loVS%_|A

A 2Gri%|5 of fGc|orY Gff%c| |"% uYG@ili|5 of coSVl%x JocuS%_|Y i_ iSGM%
forS, GSo_M |"%Su  ul |"% G@ili|5 of |"% Y5Y|%S |o "G_Jl% |"% full rG_M%
of JocuS%_| |5V%Y, _o| PuY| So_oMrGV"Y @u| Y%riGlY, Sul|iSVGr|
So_oMrGV"Y, G_J SG_uYcriV|Y2 2l |"% locG|io_ of |"% JG|G@GY% of r%corJ
for @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ G@ou| |"% iSGM% JocuS%_|, <"ic" Pi8 <G_|Y
|o %_|%r o_c% G_J i_ |"% SoY| uY%ful VlGc%, |"% o_Sli_% cG|GloM2 <l G
JocuS%_| iJ%_|ifi%r for r%f%r%_ci_M |"% @i@lioMrGV"ic i_forSG|io_ i_ o_%
VlGc% G_J |"% iSGM%Y i_ G_o|"%r2 xl |"% |%c"_i[u% for SG(i_M |"% @GYic
i_|%r_Gl Y|ruc|ur% of |"% JocuS%_| Gcc%YYi@l% |o |"% r%GJ%r2 G_J fi_Gll5,
5l |"% V"5YicGl Vr%Y%_|G|io_ o_ |"% }l_ of |"oY% JocuS%_|YA  Pi8 iY r%GJ5
|o coSVl%|% |"iY V"GY% _o<A  i_% lGY| J%ciYio_ i_2ol2%Y J%ciJi_M <"ic"
SG|%riGl |o YcG_
