By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capabilii|5 o_
|"% Ycr%%_A  (@% _o|%J VGr%_|"%|icGll5 |"G| "% "GJ @%coS% G YuVVor|%r of
rS[i_Jo<Y GY G r%Yul| of |"% VroMr%YY of |"% }il~ ProP%c|Al  [~c8~f GlYo
illuY|rG|%J |"% |<o SGPor VGr|Y of |"% i_|%rfGc%u  ll G co_|rol @ox |"G|
Gllo<Y o_% |o M%_%rG|% liY|Y of i|%SY, <"ic" r%Y%S@l%Y G YSGll |G@l% of
co_|%_|Y @GY%J o_ (%5 <orJY o_% <iY"%Y |o Y%Grc", G_J 2l G JocuS%_|
2i%<%r, <"ic" iY G Y%VGrG|% Vroc%YY i_ G_J of i|Y%lfA  @% J%So_Y|rG|%J
"o< |o follo< li_(Y |"rouM" |"% %l%c|ro_ic JG|G@GY% YiSVl5 @5 Y%l%c|i_M
|"% GVVroVriG|% @u||o_ G_J @ri_Mi_M |"%S uVA  @% GlYo _o|%J Vro@l%SY |"G|
r%SGi_ |o @% GccoSSoJG|%J i_ |"% i_|%rfGc% (%AMA, GY Voi_|%J ou| @5 f~S%,
<"G| "GVV%_Y <"%_ uY%rY Jo _o| clic( o_ |"% ico_ for |"% fiMur%l
