one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not  Gl<G5Y
YiM_ificG_|, J%YVi|% <"G| |"% |%x| cri|icY SiM"| YG5, G_J YliM"| o|"%r
Vi%c%Y of i_forSG|io_ Yuc" GY |"% 2%r5 iSVor|G_| l%xicGl |i%Y @%|<%%_ |"%
~_MliY" G_J fG|i_ 2%rYio_Y of }oS%_iuYMY @ili_MuGl |%x|, for %xGSVl%A
Mor%o2%r, i_ SG_5 cruciGl r%YV%c|Y i| iY %GY5 |o fool o_%Y%lf co_c%r_i_M
<"G| G YcG__%J iSGM% of |"% |%x| <ill GccoSVliY"A   or %xGSVl%, i_ orJ%r
|o Y|uJ5 |"% |rG_YSiYYio_ of |%x|Y, i_forSG|io_ co_c%r_i_M |"% |%x|
cGrri%r iY _%c%YYGr5, <"ic" YcG__%J iSGM%Y YiSVl5 Jo _o| Gl<G5Y "G_Jl%A
 ur|"%r, %2%_ |"% "iM"S[uGli|5 SG|%riGlY @%i_M VroJuc%J G| }or_%ll uY%
Suc" of |"% i_forSG|io_ |"G| o_% <oulJ _%%J if Y|uJ5i_M |"oY% @oo(Y GY
V"5YicGl o@P%c|YA  c| iY G c"oic% |"G| "GY @%%_ SGJ%A  c| iY G_ GrMuG@l5
PuY|ifiG@l% c"oic%, @u| o_% Jo%Y _o| (_o< <"G| color |"oY% V%_ Y|ro(%Y i
