should think!'  (Dinah was the cat.)  `I hope they'll remember
her saucer of milk at tea-time.  Dinah my dear!  I wish you were
down here with me!  There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but
you might catch a bat, and that's very like a mouse, you know.
But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if I only
know how to begin.'  For, you see, so many out-of-the-way things
had happened lately, that Alice had begun to think that very few
things indeed were really impossible.

  There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door, so she
went back to the table, half hoping she might find another key on
it, or at any rate a book of rules for shutting people up like
telescopes:  this time she found a little bottle on it, (`which
certainly was not here before,' said Alice,) and round the neck
of the bottle was a paper label, with the words `DRINK ME'
beautifully printed on it in large letters.

  It was all very well to say `Drink me,' but the wise little
Alice was not going to do THAT in a hurry.  `No, I'll look
first,' she said, `and see whether it's marked "poison" or not';
for she had read several nice little histories about children who
had got burnt, and eaten up by wild beasts and other unpleasant
things, all because they WOULD not remember the simple rules
their friends had taught them:  such as, that a red-hot poker
will burn you if you hold it too long; and that if you cut your
finger VERY deeply with a knife, it usually bleeds; and she had
never forgotten that, if you drink much from a bottle marked
`poison,' it is almost certain to disagree with you, sooner or
later.

  However, this bottle was NOT marked `poison,' so Alice ventured
to taste it, and finding it very nice, (it had, in fact, a sort
of mixed flavour of cherry-tart, custard, pine-apple, roast
turkey, toffee, and hot buttered toast,) she very soon finished
it off.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `What a curious feeling!' said Alice; `I must be shutting up
like a telescope.'

  And so it was indeed:  she was now only ten inches high, and
her face brightened up at the thought that she was now the right
size for going though the little door into that lovely garden.
First, however, she waited for a few minutes to see if she was
going to shrink any further:  she felt a little nervous about
this; `for it might end, you know,' said Alice to herself, `in my
going out altogether, like a candle.  I wonder what I should be
like then?'  And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is
like after the candle is blown out, for she could not remember
ever having seen such a thing.

  After a while, finding that nothing more happened, she decided
on going into the garden at once; but, alas for poor Alice! when
she got to the door, she found he had forgotten the little golden
key, and when she went back to the table for it, she found she
could not possibly reach it:  she could see it quite plainly
through the glass, and she tried her best to climb up one of the
legs of the table, but it was too slippery; and when she had
tired herself out with trying, the poor little thing sat down and
cried.

  `Come, there's no use in crying like that!' said Alice to
herself, rather sharply; `I advise you to leave off this minute!'
She generally gave herself very good advice, (though she very
seldom followed it), and sometimes she scolded herself so
severely as to bring tears into her eyes; and once she remembered
trying to box her own ears for having cheated herself in a game
of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                         _"% Pool of _%GrY


   }uriouY%r G_J curiouY%rGM cri%J Alic% (Y"% <GY Yo Suc"
YurVriY%J, |"G| for |"% SoS%_| Y"% [ui|% forMo| "o< |o YV%G( MooJ
~_MliY"l2  _o< cMS oV%_i_M ou| li(% |"% lGrM%Y| |%l%YcoV% |"G|
%2%r <GYG  GooJS@5%, f%%|GM (for <"%_ Y"% loo(%J Jo<_ G| "%r
f%%|, |"%5 Y%%S%J |o @% GlSoY| ou| of YiM"|, |"%5 <%r% M%||i_M Yo
fGr offlA   i", S5 Voor li||l% f%%|, c <o_J%r <"o <ill Vu| o_
5our Y"o%Y G_J Y|oc(i_MY for 5ou _o<, J%GrY8  cMS Yur% _c_ Y"G_M|
@% G@l%G  c Y"Gll @% G Mr%G| J%Gl |oo fGr off |o |rou@l% S5Y%lf
G@ou| 5ouu  5ou SuY| SG_GM% |"% @%Y| <G5 5ou cG_2 SS@u| c SuY| @%
(i_J |o |"%S,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  or V%r"GVY |"%5 <o_M| <Gl( |"%
<G5 c <G_| |o MoG  f%| S% Y%%u  cMll Mi2% |"%S G _%< VGir of
@oo|Y %2%r5 }"riY|SGYAM

  A_J Y"% <%_| o_ VlG__i_M |o "%rY%lf "o< Y"% <oulJ SG_GM% i|A
 _"%5 SuY| Mo @5 |"% cGrri%r,M Y"% |"ouM"|2  G_J "o< fu__5 i|Mll
Y%%S, Y%_Ji_M Vr%Y%_|Y |o o_%MY o<_ f%%|G  A_J "o< oJJ |"%
Jir%c|io_Y <ill loo(G

            Afc}~MS lcG@_  ii_, ~S(A
                @~Al_@loG,
                    "~Al _@~  ~"D~l,
                        ([c_@ Afc}~MS fiV~lA

i" J%Gr, <"G| _o_Y%_Y% cMS |Gl(i_MGM

  JuY| |"%_ "%r "%GJ Y|ruc( GMGi_Y| |"% roof of |"% "Gllu  i_
fGc| Y"% <GY _o< Sor% |"G_ _i_% f%%| "iM", G_J Y"% G| o_c% |oo(
uV |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 G_J "urri%J off |o |"% MGrJ%_ JoorA

  Poor Alic%G  c| <GY GY Suc" GY Y"% coulJ Jo, l5i_M Jo<_ o_ o_%
YiJ%, |o loo( |"rouM" i_|o |"% MGrJ%_ <i|" o_% %5%2 @u| |o M%|
|"rouM" <GY Sor% "oV%l%YY |"G_ %2%ru  Y"% YG| Jo<_ G_J @%MG_ |o
cr5 GMGi_A

   You ouM"| |o @% GY"GS%J of 5ourY%lf,M YGiJ Alic%,  G Mr%G|
Mirl li(% 5ou,M (Y"% SiM"| <%ll YG5 |"iYl,  |o Mo o_ cr5i_M i_
|"iY <G5G  S|oV |"iY SoS%_|, c |%ll 5ouGM  8u| Y"% <%_| o_ Gll
|"% YGS%, Y"%JJi_M MGllo_Y of |%GrY, u_|il |"%r% <GY G lGrM% Vool
Gll rou_J "%r, G@ou| four i_c"%Y J%%V G_J r%Gc"i_M "Glf Jo<_ |"%
"GllA

  Af|%r G |iS% Y"% "%GrJ G li||l% VG||%ri_M of f%%| i_ |"%
JiY|G_c%, G_J Y"% "GY|il5 Jri%J "%r %5%Y |o Y%% <"G| <GY coSi_MA
c| <GY |"% ["i|% lG@@i| r%|ur_i_M, YVl%_JiJl5 Jr%YY%J, <i|" G
VGir of <"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y i_ o_% "G_J G_J G lGrM% fG_ i_ |"%
o|"%ru  "% cGS% |ro||i_M Glo_M i_ G Mr%G| "urr5, Su||%ri_M |o
"iSY%lf GY "% cGS%,  i"G |"% Duc"%YY, |"% Duc"%YYG i"G <o_M| Y"%
@% YG2GM% if cM2% (%V| "%r <Gi|i_MGM  Alic% f%l| Yo J%YV%rG|%
|"G| Y"% <GY r%GJ5 |o GY( "%lV of G_5 o_%2 Yo, <"%_ |"% lG@@i|
cGS% _%Gr "%r, Y"% @%MG_, i_ G lo<, |iSiJ 2oic%,  cf 5ou Vl%GY%,
YirSSM  _"% lG@@i| Y|Gr|%J 2iol%_|l5, JroVV%J |"% <"i|% (iJ
Mlo2%Y G_J |"% fG_, G_J Y(urri%J G<G5 i_|o |"% JGr(_%YY GY "GrJ
GY "% coulJ MoA

  Alic% |oo( uV |"% fG_ G_J Mlo2%Y, G_J, GY |"% "Gll <GY 2%r5
"o|, Y"% (%V| fG__i_M "%rY%lf Gll |"% |iS% Y"% <%_| o_ |Gl(i_Mu
 D%Gr, J%GrG  @o< [u%%r %2%r5|"i_M iY |oSJG5G  A_J 5%Y|%rJG5
|"i_MY <%_| o_ PuY| GY uYuGlA  c <o_J%r if cM2% @%%_ c"G_M%J i_
|"% _iM"|8  f%| S% |"i_(u  <GY c |"% YGS% <"%_ c Mo| uV |"iY
Sor_i_M8  c GlSoY| |"i_( c cG_ r%S%S@%r f%%li_M G li||l%
Jiff%r%_|A  8u| if cMS _o| |"% YGS%, |"% _%x| [u%Y|io_ iY, ["o i_
|"% <orlJ GS c8  A", _@A_MS |"% Mr%G| Vu,,l%GM  A_J Y"% @%MG_
|"i_(i_M o2%r Gll |"% c"ilJr%_ Y"% (_%< |"G| <%r% of |"% YGS% GM%
GY "%rY%lf, |o Y%% if Y"% coulJ "G2% @%%_ c"G_M%J for G_5 of
|"%SA

   cMS Yur% cMS _o| AJG,M Y"% YGiJ,  for "%r "Gir Mo%Y i_ Yuc"
lo_M ri_Ml%|Y, G_J Si_% Jo%Y_M| Mo i_ ri_Ml%|Y G| Gll2 G_J cMS
Yur% c cG_M| @% MG@%l, for c (_o< Gll Yor|Y of |"i_MY, G_J Y"%,
o"G Y"% (_o<Y Yuc" G 2%r5 li||l%G  8%YiJ%Y, S@~MS Y"%, G_J cMS c,
G_JSSo" J%Gr, "o< Vu,,li_M i| Gll iYG  cMll |r5 if c (_o< Gll |"%
|"i_MY c uY%J |o (_o<A  f%| S% Y%%u  four |iS%Y fi2% iY |<%l2%,
G_J four |iS%Y Yix iY |"ir|%%_, G_J four |iS%Y Y%2%_ iYSSo" J%GrG
c Y"Gll _%2%r M%| |o |<%_|5 G| |"G| rG|%G  @o<%2%r, |"%
Mul|iVlicG|io_ _G@l% Jo%Y_M| YiM_if5u  l%|MY |r5 G%oMrGV"5A
fo_Jo_ iY |"% cGVi|Gl of PGriY, G_J PGriY iY |"% cGVi|Gl of loS%,
G_J loS%SS_o, _@A_MS Gll <ro_M, cMS c%r|Gi_G  c SuY| "G2% @%%_
c"G_M%J for MG@%lG  cMll |r5 G_J YG5 "@o< Jo|" |"% li||l%SS"M
G_J Y"% croYY%J "%r "G_JY o_ "%r lGV GY if Y"% <%r% YG5i_M l%YYo_Y,
G_J @%MG_ |o r%V%G| i|, @u| "%r 2oic% You_J%J "oGrY% G_J
Y|rG_M%, G_J |"% <orJY JiJ _o| coS% |"% YGS% GY |"%5 uY%J |o JouSS

             @o< Jo|" |"% li||l% crocoJil%
              cSVro2% "iY Y"i_i_M |Gil,
            A_J Vour |"% <G|%rY of |"% "il%
              i_ %2%r5 MolJ%_ YcGl%G

             @o< c"%%rfull5 "% Y%%SY |o Mri_,
              @o< _%G|l5 YVr%GJ "iY clG<Y,
            A_J <%lcoS% li||l% fiY"%Y i_
              [i|" M%_|l5 YSili_M PG<YGM

   cMS Yur% |"oY% Gr% _o| |"% riM"| <orJY,M YGiJ Voor Alic%, G_J
"%r %5%Y fill%J <i|" |%GrY GMGi_ GY Y"% <%_| o_,  c SuY| @% MG@%l
Gf|%r Gll, G_J c Y"Gll "G2% |o Mo G_J li2% i_ |"G| Vo(5 li||l%
"ouY%, G_J "G2% _%x| |o _o |o5Y |o VlG5 <i|", G_J o"G %2%r Yo
SG_5 l%YYo_Y |o l%Gr_G  "o, cM2% SGJ% uV S5 Si_J G@ou| i|2 if cMS
MG@%l, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_ "%r%G  c|Mll @% _o uY% |"%ir Vu||i_M |"%ir
"%GJY Jo<_ G_J YG5i_M "}oS% uV GMGi_, J%GrG"  c Y"Gll o_l5 loo(
uV G_J YG5 "["o GS c |"%_8  _%ll S% |"G| firY|, G_J |"%_, if c
li(% @%i_M |"G| V%rYo_, cMll coS% uVu  if _o|, cMll Y|G5 Jo<_
"%r% |ill cMS YoS%@oJ5 %lY%"SS@u|, o" J%GrGM cri%J Alic%, <i|" G
YuJJ%_ @urY| of |%GrY,  c Jo <iY" |"%5 [iofD Vu| |"%ir "%GJY
Jo<_G  c GS Yo V~lY |ir%J of @%i_M Gll Glo_% "%r%GM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"iY Y"% loo(%J Jo<_ G| "%r "G_JY, G_J <GY
YurVriY%J |o Y%% |"G| Y"% "GJ Vu| o_ o_% of |"% lG@@i|MY li||l%
<"i|% (iJ Mlo2%Y <"il% Y"% <GY |Gl(i_MA   @o< }A" c "G2% Jo_%
|"G|8M Y"% |"ouM"|A   c SuY| @% Mro<i_M YSGll GMGi_AM  S"% Mo| uV
G_J <%_| |o |"% |G@l% |o S%GYur% "%rY%lf @5 i|, G_J fou_J |"G|,
GY _%Grl5 GY Y"% coulJ Mu%YY, Y"% <GY _o< G@ou| |<o f%%| "iM",
G_J <GY Moi_M o_ Y"ri_(i_M rGViJl5u  Y"% Yoo_ fou_J ou| |"G| |"%
cGuY% of |"iY <GY |"% fG_ Y"% <GY "olJi_M, G_J Y"% JroVV%J i|
"GY|il5, PuY| i_ |iS% |o G2oiJ Y"ri_(i_M G<G5 Gl|oM%|"%rA

 _"G| [AS G _Grro< %YcGV%GM YGiJ Alic%, G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J G|
|"% YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u| 2%r5 MlGJ |o fi_J "%rY%lf Y|ill i_
%xiY|%_c%2  G_J _o< for |"% MGrJ%_GM G_J Y"% rG_ <i|" Gll YV%%J
@Gc( |o |"% li||l% Jooru  @u|, GlGYG |"% li||l% Joor <GY Y"u|
GMGi_, G_J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5 <GY l5i_M o_ |"% MlGYY |G@l% GY
@%for%,  G_J |"i_MY Gr% <orY% |"G_ %2%r,M |"ouM"| |"% Voor c"ilJ,
 for c _%2%r <GY Yo YSGll GY |"iY @%for%, _%2%rG  A_J c J%clGr%
i|MY |oo @GJ, |"G| i| iYGM

  AY Y"% YGiJ |"%Y% <orJY "%r foo| YliVV%J, G_J i_ G_o|"%r
SoS%_|, YVlGY"G Y"% <GY uV |o "%r c"i_ i_ YGl| <G|%rA  @% firY|
iJ%G <GY |"G| Y"% "GJ YoS%"o< fGll%_ i_|o |"% Y%G,  G_J i_ |"G|
cGY% c cG_ Mo @Gc( @5 rGil<G5,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lfA  (Alic% "GJ
@%%_ |o |"% Y%GYiJ% o_c% i_ "%r lif%, G_J "GJ coS% |o |"% M%_%rGl
co_cluYio_, |"G| <"%r%2%r 5ou Mo |o o_ |"% ~_MliY" coGY| 5ou fi_J
G _uS@%r of @G|"i_M SGc"i_%Y i_ |"% Y%G, YoS% c"ilJr%_ JiMMi_M i_
|"% YG_J <i|" <ooJ%_ YVGJ%Y, |"%_ G ro< of loJMi_M "ouY%Y, G_J
@%"i_J |"%S G rGil<G5 Y|G|io_Al  @o<%2%r, Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
Y"% <GY i_ |"% Vool of |%GrY <"ic" Y"% "GJ <%V| <"%_ Y"% <GY _i_%
f%%| "iM"A

   c <iY" c "GJ_M| cri%J Yo Suc"GM YGiJ Alic%, GY Y"% Y<GS G@ou|,
|r5i_M |o fi_J "%r <G5 ou|A   c Y"Gll @% Vu_iY"%J for i| _o<, c
YuVVoY%, @5 @%i_M Jro<_%J i_ S5 o<_ |%GrYG  _"G| [cff @% G [u%%r
|"i_M, |o @% Yur%G  @o<%2%r, %2%r5|"i_M iY [u%%r |oSJG5AM

  JuY| |"%_ Y"% "%GrJ YoS%|"i_M YVlGY"i_M G@ou| i_ |"% Vool G
li||l% <G5 off, G_J Y"% Y<GS _%Gr%r |o SG(% ou| <"G| i| <GYu  G|
firY| Y"% |"ouM"| i| SuY| @% G <GlruY or "iVVoVo|GSuY, @u| |"%_
Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "o< YSGll Y"% <GY _o<, G_J Y"% Yoo_ SGJ% ou| |"G|
i| <GY o_l5 G SouY% |"G| "GJ YliVV%J i_ li(% "%rY%lfA

   [oulJ i| @% of G_5 uY%, _o<,M |"ouM"| Alic%,  |o YV%G( |o |"iY
SouY%8  ~2%r5|"i_M iY Yo ou|SofS|"%S<G5 Jo<_ "%r%, |"G| c Y"oulJ
|"i_( 2%r5 li(%l5 i| cG_ |Gl(u  G| G_5 rG|%, |"%r%MY _o "GrS i_
|r5i_MAM  So Y"% @%MG_u   i MouY%, Jo 5ou (_o< |"% <G5 ou| of
|"iY Vool8  c GS 2%r5 |ir%J of Y<iSSi_M G@ou| "%r%, i MouY%GM
(Alic% |"ouM"| |"iY SuY| @% |"% riM"| <G5 of YV%G(i_M |o G SouY%u
Y"% "GJ _%2%r Jo_% Yuc" G |"i_M @%for%, @u| Y"% r%S%S@%r%J "G2i_M
Y%%_ i_ "%r @ro|"%rMY fG|i_ GrGSSGr,  A SouY%SSof G SouY%SS|o G
SouY%SSG SouY%SSi SouY%GM  _"% MouY% loo(%J G| "%r rG|"%r
i_[uiYi|i2%l5, G_J Y%%S%J |o "%r |o <i_( <i|" o_% of i|Y li||l%
%5%Y, @u| i| YGiJ _o|"i_MA

   P%r"GVY i| Jo%Y_M| u_J%rY|G_J ~_MliY",M |"ouM"| Alic%2  c
JGr%YG5 i|MY G  r%_c" SouY%, coS% o2%r <i|" [illiGS |"%
}o_[u%rorAM  ( or, <i|" Gll "%r (_o<l%JM% of "iY|or5, Alic% "GJ
_o 2%r5 cl%Gr _o|io_ "o< lo_M GMo G_5|"i_M "GJ "GVV%_%JAl  So Y"%
@%MG_ GMGi_u   iu %Y| SG c"G||%8M <"ic" <GY |"% firY| Y%_|%_c% i_
"%r  r%_c" l%YYo_S@oo(A  _"% MouY% MG2% G YuJJ%_ l%GV ou| of |"%
<G|%r, G_J Y%%S%J |o [ui2%r Gll o2%r <i|" friM"|A   i", c @%M
5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% "GY|il5, GfrGiJ |"G| Y"% "GJ "ur| |"%
Voor G_iSGlMY f%%li_MYA   c [ui|% forMo| 5ou JiJ_M| li(% cG|YAM

   "o| li(% cG|YGM cri%J |"% MouY%, i_ G Y"rill, VGYYio_G|%
2oic%A   [oulJ Yio li(% cG|Y if 5ou <%r% S%8M

   [%ll, V%r"GVY _o|,M YGiJ Alic% i_ G Yoo|"i_M |o_%u   Jo_M| @%
G_Mr5 G@ou| i|A  A_J 5%| c <iY" c coulJ Y"o< 5ou our cG| Di_G"u
c |"i_( 5ouMJ |G(% G fG_c5 |o cG|Y if 5ou coulJ o_l5 Y%% "%rA
S"% iY Yuc" G J%Gr [ui%| |"i_M,M Alic% <%_| o_, "Glf |o "%rY%lf,
GY Y"% Y<GS lG,il5 G@ou| i_ |"% Vool,  G_J Y"% Yi|Y Vurri_M Yo
_ic%l5 @5 |"% fir%, lic(i_M "%r VG<Y G_J <GY"i_M "%r fGc%SSG_J
Y"% iY Yuc" G _ic% Yof| |"i_M |o _urY%SSG_J Y"%MY Yuc" G cGVi|Gl
o_% for cG|c"i_M Sic%SSo", c @%M 5our VGrJo_GM cri%J Alic% GMGi_,
for |"iY |iS% |"% MouY% <GY @riY|li_M Gll o2%r, G_J Y"% f%l|
c%r|Gi_ i| SuY| @% r%Gll5 off%_J%JA   [% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| "%r G_5
Sor% if 5ouMJ rG|"%r _o|AM

   [% i_J%%JGM cri%J |"% MouY%, <"o <GY |r%S@li_M Jo<_ |o |"% %_J
of "iY |GilA   AY if c <oulJ |Gl( o_ Yuc" G Yu@P%c|G  iur fGSil5
Gl<G5Y @A_~D cG|Yu  _GY|5, lo<, 2ulMGr |"i_MYG  Do_M| l%| S% "%Gr
|"% _GS% GMGi_GM

   c <o_M| i_J%%JGM YGiJ Alic%, i_ G Mr%G| "urr5 |o c"G_M% |"%
Yu@P%c| of co_2%rYG|io_A   Ar% 5ouSSGr% 5ou fo_JSSofSSof JoMY8M
_"% MouY% JiJ _o| G_Y<%r, Yo Alic% <%_| o_ %GM%rl5u   _"%r% iY
Yuc" G _ic% li||l% JoM _%Gr our "ouY% c Y"oulJ li(% |o Y"o< 5ouG
A li||l% @riM"|S%5%J |%rri%r, 5ou (_o<, <i|" o", Yuc" lo_M curl5
@ro<_ "GirG  A_J i|Mll f%|c" |"i_MY <"%_ 5ou |"ro< |"%S, G_J
i|Mll Yi| uV G_J @%M for i|Y Ji__%r, G_J Gll Yor|Y of |"i_MYSSc
cG_M| r%S%S@%r "Glf of |"%SSSG_J i| @%lo_MY |o G fGrS%r, 5ou
(_o<, G_J "% YG5Y i|MY Yo uY%ful, i|MY <or|" G "u_Jr%J Vou_JYG
@% YG5Y i| (illY Gll |"% rG|Y G_JSSo" J%GrGM cri%J Alic% i_ G
Yorro<ful |o_%,  cMS GfrGiJ cM2% off%_J%J i| GMGi_GM   or |"%
MouY% <GY Y<iSSi_M G<G5 froS "%r GY "GrJ GY i| coulJ Mo, G_J
SG(i_M [ui|% G coSSo|io_ i_ |"% Vool GY i| <%_|A

  So Y"% cGll%J Yof|l5 Gf|%r i|,  MouY% J%GrG  Do coS% @Gc(
GMGi_, G_J <% <o_M| |Gl( G@ou| cG|Y or JoMY %i|"%r, if 5ou Jo_M|
li(% |"%SGM  ["%_ |"% MouY% "%GrJ |"iY, i| |ur_%J rou_J G_J Y<GS
Ylo<l5 @Gc( |o "%ru  i|Y fGc% <GY [ui|% VGl% (<i|" VGYYio_, Alic%
|"ouM"|l, G_J i| YGiJ i_ G lo< |r%S@li_M 2oic%,  f%| uY M%| |o
|"% Y"or%, G_J |"%_ cMll |%ll 5ou S5 "iY|or5, G_J 5ouMll
u_J%rY|G_J <"5 i| iY c "G|% cG|Y G_J JoMYAM

  c| <GY "iM" |iS% |o Mo, for |"% Vool <GY M%||i_M [ui|% cro<J%J
<i|" |"% @irJY G_J G_iSGlY |"G| "GJ fGll%_ i_|o i|u  |"%r% <%r% G
Duc( G_J G DoJo, G for5 G_J G_ ~GMl%|, G_J Y%2%rGl o|"%r curiouY
cr%G|ur%YA  Alic% l%J |"% <G5, G_J |"% <"ol% VGr|5 Y<GS |o |"%
Y"or%A



                           }@AP_~l ccc

                  A }GucuYSlGc% G_J G fo_M _Gl
