  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulling me out of the window, I only wish they COULD!  I'm sure I
don't want to stay in here  G_5 lo_M%rGM

  S"% <Gi|%J for YoS% |iS% <i|"ou| "%Gri_M G_5|"i_M Sor%u  G|
lGY| cGS% G ruS@li_M of li||l% cGr|<"%%lY, G_J |"% You_J of G
MooJ SG_5 2oic% Gll |Gl(i_M |oM%|"%ru  Y"% SGJ% ou| |"% <orJYu
 ["%r%MY |"% o|"%r lGJJ%r8SS["5, c "GJ_M| |o @ri_M @u| o_%2
8illMY Mo| |"% o|"%rSS8illG f%|c" i| "%r%, lGJGSS@%r%, Vu| M%S uV
G| |"iY cor_%rSS"o, |i% M%S |oM%|"%r firY|SS|"%5 Jo_M| r%Gc" "Glf
"iM" %_ouM" 5%|SSi"G |"%5Mll Jo <%ll %_ouM"2 Jo_M| @% VGr|iculGrS
S@%r%, 8illG cG|c" "olJ of |"iY roV%SS[ill |"% roof @%Gr8SSMi_J
|"G| looY% YlG|%SSi", i|MY coSi_M Jo<_G  @%GJY @%lo<GM (G louJ
crGY"lSS "o<, <"o JiJ |"G|8SSc| <GY 8ill, c fG_c5SS["oMY |o Mo
Jo<_ |"% c"iS_%58SS"G5, c Y"G_M|G Yio Jo i|GSS_"G| c <o_M|,
|"%_GSS8illMY |o Mo Jo<_SS@%r%, 8illG |"% SGY|%r YG5Y 5ouMr% |o
Mo Jo<_ |"% c"iS_%5GM

   i"G So 8illMY Mo| |o coS% Jo<_ |"% c"iS_%5, "GY "%8M YGiJ
Alic% |o "%rY%lfA   S"5, |"%5 Y%%S |o Vu| %2%r5|"i_M uVo_ 8illG
c <oulJ_M| @% i_ 8illMY VlGc% for G MooJ J%Glu  |"iY fir%VlGc% iY
_Grro<, |o @% Yur%2 @u| c _@c"% c cG_ (ic( G li||l%GM

  S"% Jr%< "%r foo| GY fGr Jo<_ |"% c"iS_%5 GY Y"% coulJ, G_J
<Gi|%J |ill Y"% "%GrJ G li||l% G_iSGl (Y"% coulJ_M| Mu%YY of <"G|
Yor| i| <GYl YcrG|c"i_M G_J YcrGS@li_M G@ou| i_ |"% c"iS_%5 cloY%
G@o2% "%ru  |"%_, YG5i_M |o "%rY%lf  _"iY iY 8ill,M Y"% MG2% o_%
Y"GrV (ic(, G_J <Gi|%J |o Y%% <"G| <oulJ "GVV%_ _%x|A

  _"% firY| |"i_M Y"% "%GrJ <GY G M%_%rGl c"oruY of  _"%r% Mo%Y
8illGM |"%_ |"% lG@@i|MY 2oic% Glo_MSS }G|c" "iS, 5ou @5 |"%
"%JM%GM |"%_ Yil%_c%, G_J |"%_ G_o|"%r co_fuYio_ of 2oic%YSS @olJ
uV "iY "%GJSS8rG_J5 _o<SSDo_M| c"o(% "iSSS@o< <GY i|, olJ f%llo<8
["G| "GVV%_%J |o 5ou8  _%ll uY Gll G@ou| i|GM

  fGY| cGS% G li||l% f%%@l%, Y[u%G(i_M 2oic%, ( _"G|MY 8ill,M
|"ouM"| Alic%,l  [%ll, c "GrJl5 (_o<SS"o Sor%, |"G_( 5%2 cMS
@%||%r _o<SS@u| cMS G J%Gl |oo fluY|%r%J |o |%ll 5ouSSGll c (_o<
iY, YoS%|"i_M coS%Y G| S% li(% G JGc(Si_S|"%S@ox, G_J uV c Mo%Y
li(% G Y(5Sroc(%|GM

   So 5ou JiJ, olJ f%llo<GM YGiJ |"% o|"%rYA

   [% SuY| @ur_ |"% "ouY% Jo<_GM YGiJ |"% lG@@i|MY 2oic%2 G_J
Alic% cGll%J ou| GY louJ GY Y"% coulJ,  cf 5ou JoA  cMll Y%|
Di_G" G| 5ouGM

  _"%r% <GY G J%GJ Yil%_c% i_Y|G_|l5, G_J Alic% |"ouM"| |o
"%rY%lf,  c <o_J%r <"G| |"%5 [cff Jo _%x|G  cf |"%5 "GJ G_5
Y%_Y%, |"%5MJ |G(% |"% roof offAM  Af|%r G Si_u|% or |<o, |"%5
@%MG_ So2i_M G@ou| GMGi_, G_J Alic% "%GrJ |"% lG@@i| YG5,  A
@Grro<ful <ill Jo, |o @%Mi_ <i|"AM

   A @Grro<ful of [@A_8M |"ouM"| Alic%2 @u| Y"% "GJ _o| lo_M |o
Jou@|, for |"% _%x| SoS%_| G Y"o<%r of li||l% V%@@l%Y cGS%
rG||li_M i_ G| |"% <i_Jo<, G_J YoS% of |"%S "i| "%r i_ |"% fGc%A
 cMll Vu| G Y|oV |o |"iY,M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf, G_J Y"ou|%J ou|,
 YouMJ @%||%r _o| Jo |"G| GMGi_GM <"ic" VroJuc%J G_o|"%r J%GJ
Yil%_c%A

  Alic% _o|ic%J <i|" YoS% YurVriY% |"G| |"% V%@@l%Y <%r% Gll
|ur_i_M i_|o li||l% cG(%Y GY |"%5 lG5 o_ |"% floor, G_J G @riM"|
iJ%G cGS% i_|o "%r "%GJA   cf c %G| o_% of |"%Y% cG(%Y,M Y"%
|"ouM"|,  i|MY Yur% |o SG(% SiM~ c"G_M% i_ S5 Yi,%2 G_J GY i|
cG_M| VoYYi@l5 SG(% S% lGrM%r, i| SuY| SG(% S% YSGll%r, c
YuVVoY%AM

  So Y"% Y<Gllo<%J o_% of |"% cG(%Y, G_J <GY J%liM"|%J |o fi_J
|"G| Y"% @%MG_ Y"ri_(i_M Jir%c|l5A  AY Yoo_ GY Y"% <GY YSGll
%_ouM" |o M%| |"rouM" |"% Joor, Y"% rG_ ou| of |"% "ouY%, G_J
fou_J [ui|% G cro<J of li||l% G_iSGlY G_J @irJY <Gi|i_M ou|YiJ%A
_"% Voor li||l% fi,GrJ, 8ill, <GY i_ |"% SiJJl%, @%i_M "%lJ uV @5
|<o Mui_%GSViMY, <"o <%r% Mi2i_M i| YoS%|"i_M ou| of G @o||l%A
_"%5 Gll SGJ% G ruY" G| Alic% |"% SoS%_| Y"% GVV%Gr%J2 @u| Y"%
rG_ off GY "GrJ GY Y"% coulJ, G_J Yoo_ fou_J "%rY%lf YGf% i_ G
|"ic( <ooJA

   _"% firY| |"i_M cM2% Mo| |o Jo,M YGiJ Alic% |o "%rY%lf, GY Y"%
<G_J%r%J G@ou| i_ |"% <ooJ,  iY |o Mro< |o S5 riM"| Yi,% GMGi_2
G_J |"% Y%co_J |"i_M iY |o fi_J S5 <G5 i_|o |"G| lo2%l5 MGrJ%_A
c |"i_( |"G| <ill @% |"% @%Y| VlG_AM

  c| You_J%J G_ %xc%ll%_| VlG_, _o Jou@|, G_J 2%r5 _%G|l5 G_J
YiSVl5 GrrG_M%J2 |"% o_l5 Jifficul|5 <GY, |"G| Y"% "GJ _o| |"%
YSGll%Y| iJ%G "o< |o Y%| G@ou| i|2 G_J <"il% Y"% <GY V%%ri_M
G@ou| G_xiouYl5 GSo_M |"% |r%%Y, G li||l% Y"GrV @Gr( PuY| o2%r
"%r "%GJ SGJ% "%r loo( uV i_ G Mr%G| "urr5A

  A_ %_orSouY VuVV5 <GY loo(i_M Jo<_ G| "%r <i|" lGrM% rou_J
%5%Y, G_J f%%@l5 Y|r%|c"i_M ou| o_% VG<, |r5i_M |o |ouc" "%rA
 Poor li||l% |"i_MGM YGiJ Alic%, i_ G coGxi_M |o_%, G_J Y"% |ri%J
"GrJ |o <"iY|l% |o i|2 @u| Y"% <GY |%rri@l5 friM"|%_%J Gll |"%
|iS% G| |"% |"ouM"| |"G| i| SiM"| @% "u_Mr5, i_ <"ic" cGY% i|
<oulJ @% 2%r5 li(%l5 |o %G| "%r uV i_ YVi|% of Gll "%r coGxi_MA

  @GrJl5 (_o<i_M <"G| Y"% JiJ, Y"% Vic(%J uV G li||l% @i| of
Y|ic(, G_J "%lJ i| ou| |o |"% VuVV52 <"%r%uVo_ |"% VuVV5 PuSV%J
i_|o |"% Gir off Gll i|Y f%%| G| o_c%, <i|" G 5%lV of J%liM"|,
G_J ruY"%J G| |"% Y|ic(, G_J SGJ% @%li%2% |o <orr5 i|2 |"%_ Alic%
JoJM%J @%"i_J G Mr%G| |"iY|l%, |o (%%V "%rY%lf froS @%i_M ru_
o2%r2 G_J |"% SoS%_| Y"% GVV%Gr%J o_ |"% o|"%r YiJ%, |"% VuVV5
SGJ% G_o|"%r ruY" G| |"% Y|ic(, G_J |uS@l%J "%GJ o2%r "%%lY i_
i|Y "urr5 |o M%| "olJ of i|2 |"%_ Alic%, |"i_(i_M i| <GY 2%r5
li(% "G2i_M G MGS% of VlG5 <i|" G cGr|S"orY%, G_J %xV%c|i_M %2%r5
SoS%_| |o @% |rGSVl%J u_J%r i|Y f%%|, rG_ rou_J |"% |"iY|l%
GMGi_2 |"%_ |"% VuVV5 @%MG_ G Y%ri%Y of Y"or| c"GrM%Y G| |"%
Y|ic(, ru__i_M G 2%r5 li||l% <G5 for<GrJY %Gc" |iS% G_J G lo_M
<G5 @Gc(, G_J @Gr(i_M "oGrY%l5 Gll |"% <"il%, |ill G| lGY| i| YG|
Jo<_ G MooJ <G5 off, VG_|i_M, <i|" i|Y |o_Mu% "G_Mi_M ou| of i|Y
Sou|", G_J i|Y Mr%G| %5%Y "Glf Y"u|A

  _"iY Y%%S%J |o Alic% G MooJ oVVor|u_i|5 for SG(i_M "%r %YcGV%2
Yo Y"% Y%| off G| o_c%, G_J rG_ |ill Y"% <GY [ui|% |ir%J G_J ou|
of @r%G|", G_J |ill |"% VuVV5MY @Gr( You_J%J [ui|% fGi_| i_ |"%
JiY|G_c%A

   A_J 5%| <"G| G J%Gr li||l% VuVV5 i| <GYGM YGiJ Alic%, GY Y"%
l%G_| GMGi_Y| G @u||%rcuV |o r%Y| "%rY%lf, G_J fG__%J "%rY%lf
<i|" o_% of |"% l%G2%Yu   c Y"oulJ "G2% li(%J |%Gc"i_M i| |ric(Y
2%r5 Suc", ifSSif cMJ o_l5 @%%_ |"% riM"| Yi,% |o Jo i|G  i"
J%GrG  cMJ _%Grl5 forMo||%_ |"G| cM2% Mo| |o Mro< uV GMGi_G  f%|
S% Y%%SS"o< cS i| |o @% SG_GM%J8  c YuVVoY% c ouM"| |o %G| or
Jri_( YoS%|"i_M or o|"%r2 @u| |"% Mr%G| [u%Y|io_ iY, <"G|8M

  _"% Mr%G| [u%Y|io_ c%r|Gi_l5 <GY, <"G|8  Alic% loo(%J Gll rou_J
"%r G| |"% flo<%rY G_J |"% @lGJ%Y of MrGYY, @u| Y"% JiJ _o| Y%%
G_5|"i_M |"G| loo(%J li(% |"% riM"| |"i_M |o %G| or Jri_( u_J%r
|"% circuSY|G_c%YA  _"%r% <GY G lGrM% SuY"rooS Mro<i_M _%Gr "%r,
G@ou| |"% YGS% "%iM"| GY "%rY%lf2 G_J <"%_ Y"% "GJ loo(%J u_J%r
i|, G_J o_ @o|" YiJ%Y of i|, G_J @%"i_J i|, i| occurr%J |o "%r
|"G| Y"% SiM"| GY <%ll loo( G_J Y%% <"G| <GY o_ |"% |oV of i|A

  S"% Y|r%|c"%J "%rY%lf uV o_ |iV|o%, G_J V%%V%J o2%r |"% %JM% of
|"% SuY"rooS, G_J "%r %5%Y iSS%JiG|%l5 S%| |"oY% of G lGrM%
cG|%rVillGr, |"G| <GY Yi||i_M o_ |"% |oV <i|" i|Y GrSY folJ%J,
[ui%|l5 YSo(i_M G lo_M "oo(G", G_J |G(i_M _o| |"% YSGll%Y| _o|ic%
of "%r or of G_5|"i_M %lY%A



                            }@AP_~l V

                    AJ2ic% froS G }G|%rVillGr


  _"% }G|%rVillGr G_J Alic% loo(%J G| %Gc" o|"%r for YoS% |iS% i_
Yil%_c%u  G| lGY| |"% }G|%rVillGr |oo( |"% "oo(G" ou| of i|Y
Sou|", G_J GJJr%YY%J "%r i_ G lG_MuiJ, Yl%%V5 2oic%A

   ["o Gr% Yio8M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  _"iY <GY _o| G_ %_courGMi_M oV%_i_M for G co_2%rYG|io_A  Alic%
r%Vli%J, rG|"%r Y"5l5,  cSSc "GrJl5 (_o<, Yir, PuY| G| Vr%Y%_|SS
G| l%GY| c (_o< <"o c [AS <"%_ c Mo| uV |"iY Sor_i_M, @u| c |"i_(
c SuY| "G2% @%%_ c"G_M%J Y%2%rGl |iS%Y Yi_c% |"%_AM

   ["G| Jo 5ou S%G_ @5 |"G|8M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr Y|%r_l5A
 ~xVlGi_ 5ourY%lfGM

   c cG_M| %xVlGi_ MYS~f , cMS GfrGiJ, YirM YGiJ Alic%,  @%cGuY%
cMS _o| S5Y%lf, 5ou Y%%AM

   c Jo_M| Y%%,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   cMS GfrGiJ c cG_M| Vu| i| Sor% cl%Grl5,M Alic% r%Vli%J 2%r5
Voli|%l5,  for c cG_M| u_J%rY|G_J i| S5Y%lf |o @%Mi_ <i|"2 G_J
@%i_M Yo SG_5 Jiff%r%_| Yi,%Y i_ G JG5 iY 2%r5 co_fuYi_MAM

   c| iY_M|,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   [%ll, V%r"GVY 5ou "G2%_M| fou_J i| Yo 5%|,M YGiJ Alic%2  @u|
<"%_ 5ou "G2% |o |ur_ i_|o G c"r5YGliYSS5ou <ill YoS% JG5, 5ou
(_o<SSG_J |"%_ Gf|%r |"G| i_|o G @u||%rfl5, c Y"oulJ |"i_( 5ouMll
f%%l i| G li||l% [u%%r, <o_M| 5ou8M

   "o| G @i|,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   [%ll, V%r"GVY 5our f%%li_MY SG5 @% Jiff%r%_|,M YGiJ Alic%2
 Gll c (_o< iY, i| <oulJ f%%l 2%r5 [u%%r |o M~AM

   YouGM YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr co_|%SV|uouYl5A   ["o Gr% Yio8M

  ["ic" @rouM"| |"%S @Gc( GMGi_ |o |"% @%Mi__i_M of |"%
co_2%rYG|io_A  Alic% f%l| G li||l% irri|G|%J G| |"% }G|%rVillGrMY
SG(i_M Yuc" V~lY Y"or| r%SGr(Y, G_J Y"% Jr%< "%rY%lf uV G_J YGiJ,
2%r5 MrG2%l5,  c |"i_(, 5ou ouM"| |o |%ll S% <"o Yio Gr%, firY|AM

   ["58M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  @%r% <GY G_o|"%r Vu,,li_M [u%Y|io_2 G_J GY Alic% coulJ _o|
|"i_( of G_5 MooJ r%GYo_, G_J GY |"% }G|%rVillGr Y%%S%J |o @% i_
G V~lY u_Vl%GYG_| Y|G|% of Si_J, Y"% |ur_%J G<G5A

   }oS% @Gc(GM |"% }G|%rVillGr cGll%J Gf|%r "%rA   cM2% YoS%|"i_M
iSVor|G_| |o YG5GM

  _"iY You_J%J VroSiYi_M, c%r|Gi_l5u  Alic% |ur_%J G_J cGS% @Gc(
GMGi_A

   %%%V 5our |%SV%r,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   cY |"G| Gll8M YGiJ Alic%, Y<Gllo<i_M Jo<_ "%r G_M%r GY <%ll GY
Y"% coulJA

   "o,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  Alic% |"ouM"| Y"% SiM"| GY <%ll <Gi|, GY Y"% "GJ _o|"i_M %lY%
|o Jo, G_J V%r"GVY Gf|%r Gll i| SiM"| |%ll "%r YoS%|"i_M <or|"
"%Gri_MA   or YoS% Si_u|%Y i| Vuff%J G<G5 <i|"ou| YV%G(i_M, @u|
G| lGY| i| u_folJ%J i|Y GrSY, |oo( |"% "oo(G" ou| of i|Y Sou|"
GMGi_, G_J YGiJ,  So 5ou |"i_( 5ouMr% c"G_M%J, Jo 5ou8M

   cMS GfrGiJ c GS, Yir,M YGiJ Alic%2  c cG_M| r%S%S@%r |"i_MY GY
c uY%JSSG_J c Jo_M| (%%V |"% YGS% Yi,% for |%_ Si_u|%Y |oM%|"%rGM

   }G_M| r%S%S@%r [@A_ |"i_MY8M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   [%ll, cM2% |ri%J |o YG5 "@i[ Di_@ _@~ fc__f~ 8oSY 8~~," @u| i|
Gll cGS% Jiff%r%_|GM Alic% r%Vli%J i_ G 2%r5 S%lG_c"ol5 2oic%A

   l%V%G|, "Yio Al~ ifD,  A_@~l [cffcAM,"M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  Alic% folJ%J "%r "G_JY, G_J @%MG_uSS

     You Gr% olJ,  G|"%r [illiGS,M |"% 5ou_M SG_ YGiJ,
       A_J 5our "Gir "GY @%coS% 2%r5 <"i|%2
    A_J 5%| 5ou i_c%YYG_|l5 Y|G_J o_ 5our "%GJSS
      Do 5ou |"i_(, G| 5our GM%, i| iY riM"|8M

     c_ S5 5ou|",M  G|"%r [illiGS r%Vli%J |o "iY Yo_,
       c f%Gr%J i| SiM"| i_Pur% |"% @rGi_2
    8u|, _o< |"G| cMS V%rf%c|l5 Yur% c "G2% _o_%,
      ["5, c Jo i| GMGi_ G_J GMGi_AM

     You Gr% olJ,M YGiJ |"% 5ou|",  GY c S%_|io_%J @%for%,
      A_J "G2% Mro<_ SoY| u_coSSo_l5 fG|2
    Y%| 5ou |ur_%J G @Gc(SYoS%rYGul| i_ G| |"% JoorSS
      PrG5, <"G| iY |"% r%GYo_ of |"G|8M

     c_ S5 5ou|",M YGiJ |"% YGM%, GY "% Y"oo( "iY Mr%5 loc(Y,
       c (%V| Gll S5 liS@Y 2%r5 YuVVl%
    85 |"% uY% of |"iY oi_|S%_|SSo_% Y"illi_M |"% @oxSS
      Allo< S% |o Y%ll 5ou G couVl%8M

     You Gr% olJ,M YGiJ |"% 5ou|",  G_J 5our PG<Y Gr% |oo <%G(
       or G_5|"i_M |ouM"%r |"G_ Yu%|2
    Y%| 5ou fi_iY"%J |"% MooY%, <i|" |"% @o_%Y G_J |"% @%G(SS
      PrG5 "o< JiJ 5ou SG_GM% |o Jo i|8M

     c_ S5 5ou|",M YGiJ "iY fG|"%r,  c |oo( |o |"% lG<,
      A_J GrMu%J %Gc" cGY% <i|" S5 <if%2
    A_J |"% SuYculGr Y|r%_M|", <"ic" i| MG2% |o S5 PG<,
      @GY lGY|%J |"% r%Y| of S5 lif%AM

     You Gr% olJ,M YGiJ |"% 5ou|",  o_% <oulJ "GrJl5 YuVVoY%
      _"G| 5our %5% <GY GY Y|%GJ5 GY %2%r2
    Y%| 5ou @GlG_c%J G_ %%l o_ |"% %_J of 5our _oY%SS
      ["G| SGJ% 5ou Yo G<full5 cl%2%r8M

     c "G2% G_Y<%r%J |"r%% [u%Y|io_Y, G_J |"G| iY %_ouM",M
      SGiJ "iY fG|"%r2  Jo_M| Mi2% 5ourY%lf GirYG
    Do 5ou |"i_( c cG_ liY|%_ Gll JG5 |o Yuc" Y|uff8
      8% off, or cMll (ic( 5ou Jo<_ Y|GirYGM


   _"G| iY _o| YGiJ riM"|,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   "o| (oc_~ riM"|, cMS GfrGiJ,M YGiJ Alic%, |iSiJl52  YoS% of |"%
<orJY "G2% Mo| Gl|%r%JAM

   c| iY <ro_M froS @%Mi__i_M |o %_J,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr
J%ciJ%Jl5, G_J |"%r% <GY Yil%_c% for YoS% Si_u|%YA

  _"% }G|%rVillGr <GY |"% firY| |o YV%G(A

   ["G| Yi,% Jo 5ou <G_| |o @%8M i| GY(%JA

   i", cMS _o| VGr|iculGr GY |o Yi,%,M Alic% "GY|il5 r%Vli%J2
 o_l5 o_% Jo%Y_M| li(% c"G_Mi_M Yo of|%_, 5ou (_o<AM

   c Di"M_ (_o<,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

  Alic% YGiJ _o|"i_Mu  Y"% "GJ _%2%r @%%_ Yo Suc" co_|rGJic|%J i_
"%r lif% @%for%, G_J Y"% f%l| |"G| Y"% <GY loYi_M "%r |%SV%rA

   Ar% 5ou co_|%_| _o<8M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGrA

   [%ll, c Y"oulJ li(% |o @% G fc__f~ lGrM%r, Yir, if 5ou
<oulJ_M| Si_J,M YGiJ Alic%u   |"r%% i_c"%Y iY Yuc" G <r%|c"%J
"%iM"| |o @%AM

   c| iY G 2%r5 MooJ "%iM"| i_J%%JGM YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr
G_Mril5, r%Gri_M i|Y%lf uVriM"| GY i| YVo(% (i| <GY %xGc|l5 |"r%%
i_c"%Y "iM"lA

   8u| cMS _o| uY%J |o i|GM Vl%GJ%J Voor Alic% i_ G Vi|%ouY |o_%A
A_J Y"% |"ouM"| of "%rY%lf,  c <iY" |"% cr%G|ur%Y <oulJ_M| @% Yo
%GYil5 off%_J%JGM

   YouMll M%| uY%J |o i| i_ |iS%,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr2 G_J i|
Vu| |"% "oo(G" i_|o i|Y Sou|" G_J @%MG_ YSo(i_M GMGi_A

  _"iY |iS% Alic% <Gi|%J VG|i%_|l5 u_|il i| c"oY% |o YV%G( GMGi_A
c_ G Si_u|% or |<o |"% }G|%rVillGr |oo( |"% "oo(G" ou| of i|Y
Sou|" G_J 5G<_%J o_c% or |<ic%, G_J Y"oo( i|Y%lfA  _"%_ i| Mo|
Jo<_ off |"% SuY"rooS, G_J crG<l%J G<G5 i_ |"% MrGYY, S%r%l5
r%SGr(i_M GY i| <%_|,  i_% YiJ% <ill SG(% 5ou Mro< |Gll%r, G_J
|"% o|"%r YiJ% <ill SG(% 5ou Mro< Y"or|%rAM

   i_% YiJ% of [@A_8  _"% o|"%r YiJ% of [@A_8M |"ouM"| Alic% |o
"%rY%lfA

   if |"% SuY"rooS,M YGiJ |"% }G|%rVillGr, PuY| GY if Y"% "GJ
GY(%J i| GlouJ2 G_J i_ G_o|"%r SoS%_| i| <GY ou| of YiM"|A

  Alic% r%SGi_%J loo(i_M |"ouM"|full5 G| |"% SuY"rooS for G
Si_u|%, |r5i_M |o SG(% ou| <"ic" <%r% |"% |<o YiJ%Y of i|2 G_J GY
i| <GY V%rf%c|l5 rou_J, Y"% fou_J |"iY G 2%r5 Jifficul| [u%Y|io_A
@o<%2%r, G| lGY| Y"% Y|r%|c"%J "%r GrSY rou_J i| GY fGr GY |"%5
<oulJ Mo, G_J @ro(% off G @i| of |"% %JM% <i|" %Gc" "G_JA

   A_J _o< <"ic" iY <"ic"8M Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf, G_J _i@@l%J G
li||l% of |"% riM"|S"G_J @i| |o |r5 |"% %ff%c|u  |"% _%x| SoS%_|
Y"% f%l| G 2iol%_| @lo< u_J%r_%G|" "%r c"i_u  i| "GJ Y|ruc( "%r
foo|G

  S"% <GY G MooJ J%Gl friM"|%_%J @5 |"iY 2%r5 YuJJ%_ c"G_M%, @u|
Y"% f%l| |"G| |"%r% <GY _o |iS% |o @% loY|, GY Y"% <GY Y"ri_(i_M
rGViJl52 Yo Y"% Y%| |o <or( G| o_c% |o %G| YoS% of |"% o|"%r @i|A
@%r c"i_ <GY Vr%YY%J Yo cloY%l5 GMGi_Y| "%r foo|, |"G| |"%r% <GY
"GrJl5 rooS |o oV%_ "%r Sou|"2 @u| Y"% JiJ i| G| lGY|, G_J
SG_GM%J |o Y<Gllo< G SorY%l of |"% l%f|"G_J @i|A


     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

         P       P       P       P       P       P

     P       P       P       P       P       P       P

   }oS%, S5 "%GJMY fr%% G| lGY|GM YGiJ Alic% i_ G |o_% of
J%liM"|, <"ic" c"G_M%J i_|o GlGrS i_ G_o|"%r SoS%_|, <"%_ Y"%
fou_J |"G| "%r Y"oulJ%rY <%r% _o<"%r% |o @% fou_Ju  Gll Y"% coulJ
Y%%, <"%_ Y"% loo(%J Jo<_, <GY G_ iSS%_Y% l%_M|" of _%c(, <"ic"
Y%%S%J |o riY% li(% G Y|Gl( ou| of G Y%G of Mr%%_ l%G2%Y |"G| lG5
fGr @%lo< "%rA

   ["G| }A" Gll |"G| Mr%%_ Y|uff @%8M YGiJ Alic%A   A_J <"%r%
@AV~ S5 Y"oulJ%rY Mo| |o8  A_J o", S5 Voor "G_JY, "o< iY i| c
cG_M| Y%% 5ou8M  S"% <GY So2i_M |"%S G@ou| GY Y"% YVo(%, @u| _o
r%Yul| Y%%S%J |o follo<, %xc%V| G li||l% Y"G(i_M GSo_M |"%
JiY|G_| Mr%%_ l%G2%YA

  AY |"%r% Y%%S%J |o @% _o c"G_c% of M%||i_M "%r "G_JY uV |o "%r
"%GJ, Y"% |ri%J |o M%| "%r "%GJ Jo<_ |o |"%S, G_J <GY J%liM"|%J
|o fi_J |"G| "%r _%c( <oulJ @%_J G@ou| %GYil5 i_ G_5 Jir%c|io_,
li(% G Y%rV%_|A  S"% "GJ PuY| Yucc%%J%J i_ cur2i_M i| Jo<_ i_|o G
MrGc%ful ,iM,GM, G_J <GY Moi_M |o Ji2% i_ GSo_M |"% l%G2%Y, <"ic"
Y"% fou_J |o @% _o|"i_M @u| |"% |oVY of |"% |r%%Y u_J%r <"ic" Y"%
"GJ @%%_ <G_J%ri_M, <"%_ G Y"GrV "iYY SGJ% "%r JrG< @Gc( i_ G
"urr5u  G lGrM% ViM%o_ "GJ flo<_ i_|o "%r fGc%, G_J <GY @%G|i_M
"%r 2iol%_|l5 <i|" i|Y <i_MYA

   S%rV%_|GM Ycr%GS%J |"% PiM%o_A

   cMS "i_ G Y%rV%_|GM YGiJ Alic% i_JiM_G_|l5A   f%| S% Glo_%GM

   S%rV%_|, c YG5 GMGi_GM r%V%G|%J |"% PiM%o_, @u| i_ G Sor%
Yu@Ju%J |o_%, G_J GJJ%J <i|" G (i_J of Yo@,  cM2% |ri%J %2%r5
<G5, G_J _o|"i_M Y%%SY |o Yui| |"%SGM

   c "G2%_M| |"% l%GY| iJ%G <"G| 5ouMr% |Gl(i_M G@ou|,M YGiJ
Alic%A

   cM2% |ri%J |"% roo|Y of |r%%Y, G_J cM2% |ri%J @G_(Y, G_J cM2%
|ri%J "%JM%Y,M |"% PiM%o_ <%_| o_, <i|"ou| G||%_Ji_M |o "%r2  @u|
|"oY% Y%rV%_|YG  _"%r%MY _o Vl%GYi_M |"%SGM

  Alic% <GY Sor% G_J Sor% Vu,,l%J, @u| Y"% |"ouM"| |"%r% <GY _o
uY% i_ YG5i_M G_5|"i_M Sor% |ill |"% PiM%o_ "GJ fi_iY"%JA
