looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to begin
at HIS time of life.

  The King's argument was, that anything that had a head could be
beheaded, and that you weren't to talk nonsense.

  The Queen's argument was, that if something wasn't done about
it in less than no time she'd have everybody executed, all round.
(It was this last remark that had made the whole party look so
grave and anxious.)

  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Allic%A

   }oS% o_, |"%_,M YGiJ |"% (u%%_,  G_J "% Y"Gll |%ll 5ou "iY
"iY|or5,M

  AY |"%5 <Gl(%J off |oM%|"%r, Alic% "%GrJ |"% %i_M YG5 i_ G lo<
2oic%, |o |"% coSVG_5 M%_%rGll5,  You Gr% Gll VGrJo_%JAM   }oS%,
_@A_MS G MooJ |"i_MGM Y"% YGiJ |o "%rY%lf, for Y"% "GJ f%l| [ui|%
u_"GVV5 G| |"% _uS@%r of %x%cu|io_Y |"% (u%%_ "GJ orJ%r%JA

  _"%5 2%r5 Yoo_ cGS% uVo_ G Gr5V"o_, l5i_M fGY| GYl%%V i_ |"%
Yu_A  (c  5ou Jo_M| (_o< <"G| G Gr5V"o_ iY, loo( G| |"% Vic|ur%Al
 oV, lG,5 |"i_MGM YGiJ |"% (u%%_,  G_J |G(% |"iY 5ou_M lGJ5 |o
Y%% |"% Moc( _ur|l%, G_J |o "%Gr "iY "iY|or5A  c SuY| Mo @Gc( G_J
Y%% Gf|%r YoS% %x%cu|io_Y c "G2% orJ%r%JM2 G_J Y"% <Gl(%J off,
l%G2i_M Alic% Glo_% <i|" |"% Gr5V"o_A  Alic% JiJ _o| [ui|% li(%
|"% loo( of |"% cr%G|ur%, @u| o_ |"% <"ol% Y"% |"ouM"| i| <oulJ
@% [ui|% GY YGf% |o Y|G5 <i|" i| GY |o Mo Gf|%r |"G| YG2GM%
(u%%_u  Yo Y"% <Gi|%JA

  _"% Gr5V"o_ YG| uV G_J ru@@%J i|Y %5%Yu  |"%_ i| <G|c"%J |"%
(u%%_ |ill Y"% <GY ou| of YiM"|u  |"%_ i| c"uc(l%JA   ["G| fu_GM
YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_, "Glf |o i|Y%lf, "Glf |o Alic%A

   ["G| cS |"% fu_8M YGiJ Alic%A

   ["5, S@~,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_A   c|MY Gll "%r fG_c5, |"G|u  |"%5
_%2%r %x%cu|%Y _o@oJ5, 5ou (_o<A  }oS% o_GM

   ~2%r5@oJ5 YG5Y "coS% o_G" "%r%,M |"ouM"| Alic%, GY Y"% <%_|
Ylo<l5 Gf|%r i|u   c _%2%r <GY Yo orJ%r%J G@ou| i_ Gll S5 lif%,
_%2%rGM

  _"%5 "GJ _o| Mo_% fGr @%for% |"%5 YG< |"% Moc( _ur|l% i_ |"%
JiY|G_c%, Yi||i_M YGJ G_J lo_%l5 o_ G li||l% l%JM% of roc(, G_J,
GY |"%5 cGS% _%Gr%r, Alic% coulJ "%Gr "iS YiM"i_M GY if "iY "%Gr|
<oulJ @r%G(A  S"% Vi|i%J "iS J%%Vl5A   ["G| iY "iY Yorro<8M Y"%
GY(%J |"% Gr5V"o_, G_J |"% Gr5V"o_ G_Y<%r%J, 2%r5 _%Grl5 i_ |"%
YGS% <orJY GY @%for%,  c|MY Gll "iY fG_c5, |"G|u  "% "GY_M| Mo|
_o Yorro<, 5ou (_o<A  }oS% o_GM

  So |"%5 <%_| uV |o |"% Moc( _ur|l%, <"o loo(%J G| |"%S <i|"
lGrM% %5%Y full of |%GrY, @u| YGiJ _o|"i_MA

   _"iY "%r% 5ou_M lGJ5,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_,  Y"% <G_|Y for |o
(_o< 5our "iY|or5, Y"% JoAM

   cMll |%ll i| "%r,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l% i_ G J%%V, "ollo<
|o_%u   Yi| Jo<_, @o|" of 5ou, G_J Jo_M| YV%G( G <orJ |ill cM2%
fi_iY"%JAM

  So |"%5 YG| Jo<_, G_J _o@oJ5 YVo(% for YoS% Si_u|%YA  Alic%
|"ouM"| |o "%rY%lf,  c Jo_M| Y%% "o< "% cG_ ~V~" fi_iY", if "%
Jo%Y_M| @%Mi_AM  8u| Y"% <Gi|%J VG|i%_|l5A

   i_c%,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l% G| lGY|, <i|" G J%%V YiM",  c <GY
G r%Gl _ur|l%AM

  _"%Y% <orJY <%r% follo<%J @5 G 2%r5 lo_M Yil%_c%, @ro(%_ o_l5
@5 G_ occGYio_Gl %xclGSG|io_ of  @Pc(rr"GM froS |"% Gr5V"o_, G_J
|"% co_Y|G_| "%G25 Yo@@i_M of |"% Moc( _ur|l%A  Alic% <GY 2%r5
_%Grl5 M%||i_M uV G_J YG5i_M,  _"G_( 5ou, Yir, for 5our
i_|%r%Y|i_M Y|or5,M @u| Y"% coulJ _o| "%lV |"i_(i_M |"%r% MoS_ @%
Sor% |o coS%, Yo Y"% YG| Y|ill G_J YGiJ _o|"i_MA

   ["%_ <% <%r% li||l%,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% <%_| o_ G| lGY|, Sor%
cGlSl5, |"ouM" Y|ill Yo@@i_M G li||l% _o< G_J |"%_,  <% <%_| |o
Yc"ool i_ |"% Y%GA  _"% SGY|%r <GY G_ olJ _ur|l%SS<% uY%J |o cGll
"iS _or|oiY%SSM

   ["5 JiJ 5ou cGll "iS _or|oiY%, if "% <GY_M| o_%8M Alic% GY(%JA

   [% cGll%J "iS _or|oiY% @%cGuY% "% |GuM"| uY,M YGiJ |"% Moc(
_ur|l% G_Mril5u   r%Gll5 5ou Gr% 2%r5 JullGM

   You ouM"| |o @% GY"GS%J of 5ourY%lf for GY(i_M Yuc" G YiSVl%
[u%Y|io_,M GJJ%J |"% Gr5V"o_2 G_J |"%_ |"%5 @o|" YG| Yil%_| G_J
loo(%J G| Voor Alic%, <"o f%l| r%GJ5 |o Yi_( i_|o |"% %Gr|"A  A|
lGY| |"% Gr5V"o_ YGiJ |o |"% Moc( _ur|l%,  Dri2% o_, olJ f%llo<G
Do_M| @% Gll JG5 G@ou| i|GM G_J "% <%_| o_ i_ |"%Y% <orJYu

   Y%Y, <% <%_| |o Yc"ool i_ |"% Y%G, |"ouM" 5ou SG5_M| @%li%2%
i|SSM

   c _%2%r YGiJ c JiJ_M|GM i_|%rruV|%J Alic%A

   You JiJ,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%A

   @olJ 5our |o_Mu%GM GJJ%J |"% Gr5V"o_, @%for% Alic% coulJ YV%G(
GMGi_A  _"% Moc( _ur|l% <%_| o_A

   [% "GJ |"% @%Y| of %JucG|io_YSSi_ fGc|, <% <%_| |o Yc"ool
%2%r5 JG5SSM

   cMV~ @%%_ |o G JG5SYc"ool, |oo,M YGiJ Alic%2  5ou _%%J_M| @%
Yo VrouJ GY Gll |"G|AM

   [i|" %x|rGY8M GY(%J |"% Moc( _ur|l% G li||l% G_xiouYl5A

   Y%Y,M YGiJ Alic%,  <% l%Gr_%J  r%_c" G_J SuYicAM

   A_J <GY"i_M8M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%A

   }%r|Gi_l5 _o|GM YGiJ Alic% i_JiM_G_|l5A

   A"G |"%_ 5ourY <GY_M| G r%Gll5 MooJ Yc"ool,M YGiJ |"% Moc(
_ur|l% i_ G |o_% of Mr%G| r%li%fA   "o< G| iolS |"%5 "GJ G| |"%
%_J of |"% @ill, " r%_c", SuYic, A"D [AS@c"GSS%x|rGA"M

   You coulJ_M| "G2% <G_|%J i| Suc",M YGiJ Alic%2  li2i_M G| |"%
@o||oS of |"% Y%GAM

   c coulJ_M| GfforJ |o l%Gr_ i|AM YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l% <i|" G
YiM"A   c o_l5 |oo( |"% r%MulGr courY%AM

   ["G| <GY |"G|8M i_[uir%J Alic%A

   l%%li_M G_J [ri|"i_M, of courY%, |o @%Mi_ <i|",M |"% Moc(
_ur|l% r%Vli%J2  G_J |"%_ |"% Jiff%r%_| @rG_c"%Y of Ari|"S%|icSS
AS@i|io_, DiY|rGc|io_, oMlificG|io_, G_J D%riYio_AM

   c _%2%r "%GrJ of "oMlificG|io_,"M Alic% 2%_|ur%J |o YG5A   ["G|
iY i|8M

  _"% Gr5V"o_ lif|%J uV @o|" i|Y VG<Y i_ YurVriY%A   ["G|G  "%2%r
"%GrJ of uMlif5i_MGM i| %xclGiS%JA   You (_o< <"G| |o @%Gu|if5
iY, c YuVVoY%8M

   Y%Y,M YGiJ Alic% Jou@|full5u   i| S%G_YSS|oSSSG(%SSG_5|"i_MSS
Vr%||i%rAM

   [%ll, |"%_,M |"% Gr5V"o_ <%_| o_,  if 5ou Jo_M| (_o< <"G| |o
uMlif5 iY, 5ou Al~ G YiSVl%|o_AM

  Alic% JiJ _o| f%%l %_courGM%J |o GY( G_5 Sor% [u%Y|io_Y G@ou|
i|, Yo Y"% |ur_%J |o |"% Moc( _ur|l%, G_J YGiJ  ["G| %lY% "GJ 5ou
|o l%Gr_8M

   [%ll, |"%r% <GY M5Y|%r5,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% r%Vli%J, cou_|i_M
off |"% Yu@P%c|Y o_ "iY flGVV%rY,  SSM5Y|%r5, G_ci%_| G_J SoJ%r_,
<i|" S%GoMrGV"5u  |"%_ DrG<li_MSS|"% DrG<li_MSSGY|%r <GY G_ olJ
co_M%rS%%l, |"G| uY%J |o coS% o_c% G <%%(u  @~ |GuM"| uY
DrG<li_M, S|r%|c"i_M, G_J  Gi_|i_M i_ }oilYAM

   ["G| <GY _@A_ li(%8M YGiJ Alic%A

   [%ll, c cG_M| Y"o< i| 5ou S5Y%lf,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% YGiJu   cMS
|oo Y|iffA  A_J |"% Gr5V"o_ _%2%r l%Gr_| i|AM

   @GJ_M| |iS%,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_u   c <%_| |o |"% }lGYYicY
SGY|%r, |"ouM"A  @% <GY G_ olJ crG@, @~ <GYAM

   c _%2%r <%_| |o "iS,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% YGiJ <i|" G YiM"u   "%
|GuM"| fGuM"i_M G_J Gri%f, |"%5 uY%J |o YG5AM

   So "% JiJ, Yo "% JiJ,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_, YiM"i_M i_ "iY |ur_2
G_J @o|" cr%G|ur%Y "iJ |"%ir fGc%Y i_ |"%ir VG<YA

   A_J "o< SG_5 "ourY G JG5 JiJ 5ou Jo l%YYo_Y8M YGiJ Alic%, i_ G
"urr5 |o c"G_M% |"% Yu@P%c|A

   _%_ "ourY |"% firY| JG5,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%u  _i_% |"%
_%x|, G_J Yo o_AM

   ["G| G curiouY VlG_GM %xclGiS%J Alic%A

   _"G|MY |"% r%GYo_ |"%5Mr% cGll%J l%YYo_Y,M |"% Gr5V"o_
r%SGr(%Ju   @%cGuY% |"%5 l%YY%_ froS JG5 |o JG5AM

  _"iY <GY [ui|% G _%< iJ%G |o Alic%, G_J Y"% |"ouM"| i| o2%r G
li||l% @%for% Y"% SGJ% "%r _%x| r%SGr(A   _"%_ |"% %l%2%_|" JG5
SuY| "G2% @%%_ G "oliJG58M

   if courY% i| <GY,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%A

   A_J "o< JiJ 5ou SG_GM% o_ |"% |<%lf|"8M Alic% <%_| o_ %GM%rl5A

   _"G|MY %_ouM" G@ou| l%YYo_Y,M |"% Gr5V"o_ i_|%rruV|%J i_ G
2%r5 J%ciJ%J |o_%u   |%ll "%r YoS%|"i_M G@ou| |"% MGS%Y _o<AM



                            }@AP_~l r

                      _"% fo@Y|%r (uGJrill%


  _"% Moc( _ur|l% YiM"%J J%%Vl5, G_J Jr%< |"% @Gc( of o_% flGVV%r
GcroYY "iY %5%YA  @% loo(%J G| Alic%, G_J |ri%J |o YV%G(, @u| for
G Si_u|% or |<o Yo@Y c"o(%J "iY 2oic%A   SGS% GY if "% "GJ G @o_%
i_ "iY |"roG|,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_u  G_J i| Y%| |o <or( Y"G(i_M "iS
G_J Vu_c"i_M "iS i_ |"% @Gc(A  A| lGY| |"% Moc( _ur|l% r%co2%r%J
"iY 2oic%, G_J, <i|" |%GrY ru__i_M Jo<_ "iY c"%%(Y, "% <%_| o_
GMGi_uSS

   You SG5 _o| "G2% li2%J Suc" u_J%r |"% Y%GSSM ( c "G2%_M|,M
YGiJ Alic%lSS G_J V%r"GVY 5ou <%r% _%2%r %2%_ i_|roJuc%J |o G lo@Y|%rSSM
(Alic% @%MG_ |o YG5  c o_c% |GY|%JSSM @u| c"%c(%J "%rY%lf "GY|il5,
G_J YGiJ  "o, _%2%rMl  SSYo 5ou cG_ "G2% _o iJ%G <"G| G J%liM"|ful
|"i_M G fo@Y|%r (uGJrill% iYGM

   "o, i_J%%J,M YGiJ Alic%A   ["G| Yor| of G JG_c% iY i|8M

   ["5,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_,  5ou firY| forS i_|o G li_% Glo_M |"%
Y%GSY"or%SSM

   _<o li_%YGM cri%J |"% Moc( _ur|l%A   S%GlY, |ur|l%Y, YGlSo_,
G_J Yo o_2 |"%_, <"%_ 5ouM2% cl%Gr%J Gll |"% P%ll5SfiY" ou| of
|"% <G5SSM

   _@A_ M%_%rGll5 |G(%Y YoS% |iS%,M i_|%rruV|%J |"% Gr5V"o_A

   SS5ou GJ2G_c% |<ic%SSM

   ~Gc" <i|" G lo@Y|%r GY G VGr|_%rGM cri%J |"% Gr5V"o_A

   if courY%,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% YGiJu   GJ2G_c% |<ic%, Y%| |o
VGr|_%rYSSM

   SSc"G_M% lo@Y|%rY, G_J r%|ir% i_ YGS% orJ%r,M co_|i_u%J |"%
Gr5V"o_A

   _"%_, 5ou (_o<,M |"% Moc( _ur|l% <%_| o_,  5ou |"ro< |"%SSM

   _"% lo@Y|%rYGM Y"ou|%J |"% Gr5V"o_, <i|" G @ou_J i_|o |"% GirA

   SSGY fGr ou| |o Y%G GY 5ou cG_SSM

   S<iS Gf|%r |"%SGM Ycr%GS%J |"% Gr5V"o_A

   _ur_ G YoS%rYGul| i_ |"% Y%GGM cri%J |"% Moc( _ur|l%,
cGV%ri_M <ilJl5 G@ou|A

   8Gc( |o lG_J GMGi_, G_J |"G|MY Gll |"% firY| fiMur%,M YGiJ |"%
Moc( _ur|l%, YuJJ%_l5 JroVVi_M "iY 2oic%2 G_J |"% |<o cr%G|ur%Y,
<"o "GJ @%%_ PuSVi_M G@ou| li(% SGJ |"i_MY Gll |"iY |iS%, YG|
Jo<_ GMGi_ 2%r5 YGJl5 G_J [ui%|l5, G_J loo(%J G| Alic%A

   c| SuY| @% G 2%r5 Vr%||5 JG_c%,M YGiJ Alic% |iSiJl5A

   [oulJ 5ou li(% |o Y%% G li||l% of i|8M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%A

   V%r5 Suc" i_J%%J,M YGiJ Alic%A

   }oS%, l%|MY |r5 |"% firY| fiMur%GM YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l% |o |"%
Gr5V"o_A   [% cG_ Jo <i|"ou| lo@Y|%rY, 5ou (_o<A  ["ic" Y"Gll
Yi_M8M

   i", Yio Yi_M,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_A   cM2% forMo||%_ |"% <orJYAM

  So |"%5 @%MG_ Yol%S_l5 JG_ci_M rou_J G_J rou_J Alic%, %2%r5 _o<
G_J |"%_ |r%GJi_M o_ "%r |o%Y <"%_ |"%5 VGYY%J |oo cloY%, G_J
<G2i_M |"%ir for%VG<Y |o SGr( |"% |iS%, <"il% |"% Moc( _ur|l%
YG_M |"iY, 2%r5 Ylo<l5 G_J YGJl5uSS


 "[ill 5ou <Gl( G li||l% fGY|%r8" YGiJ G <"i|i_M |o G Y_GilA
"_"%r%MY G VorVoiY% cloY% @%"i_J uY, G_J "%MY |r%GJi_M o_ S5
 |GilA
S%% "o< %GM%rl5 |"% lo@Y|%rY G_J |"% |ur|l%Y Gll GJ2G_c%G
_"%5 Gr% <Gi|i_M o_ |"% Y"i_Ml%SS<ill 5ou coS% G_J Poi_ |"%
JG_c%8

[ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou Poi_ |"%
JG_c%8
[ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <o_M| 5ou Poi_ |"%
JG_c%8


"You cG_ r%Gll5 "G2% _o _o|io_ "o< J%liM"|ful i| <ill @%
["%_ |"%5 |G(% uY uV G_J |"ro< uY, <i|" |"% lo@Y|%rY, ou| |o
                                                      Y%GG"
8u| |"% Y_Gil r%Vli%J "_oo fGr, |oo fGrG" G_J MG2% G loo(
                                                       GY(G_c%SS
SGiJ "% |"G_(%J |"% <"i|i_M (i_Jl5, @u| "% <oulJ _o| Poi_ |"%
   JG_c%A
    [oulJ _o|, coulJ _o|, <oulJ _o|, coulJ _o|, <oulJ _o| Poi_
        |"% JG_c%A
    [oulJ _o|, coulJ _o|, <oulJ _o|, coulJ _o|, coulJ _o| Poi_
        |"% JG_c%A

 "["G| SG||%rY i| "o< fGr <% Mo8" "iY YcGl5 fri%_J r%Vli%JA
"_"%r% iY G_o|"%r Y"or%, 5ou (_o<, uVo_ |"% o|"%r YiJ%A
_"% fur|"%r off froS ~_MlG_J |"% _%Gr%r iY |o  rG_c%SS
_"%_ |ur_ _o| VGl%, @%lo2%J Y_Gil, @u| coS% G_J Poi_ |"% JG_c%A

    [ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou Poi_ |"%
         JG_c%8
    [ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <ill 5ou, <o_M| 5ou, <o_M| 5ou Poi_ |"%
         JG_c%8"M



   _"G_( 5ou, i|MY G 2%r5 i_|%r%Y|i_M JG_c% |o <G|c",M YGiJ
Alic%, f%%li_M 2%r5 MlGJ |"G| i| <GY o2%r G| lGY|u   G_J c Jo Yo
li(% |"G| curiouY Yo_M G@ou| |"% <"i|i_MGM

   i", GY |o |"% <"i|i_M,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%,  |"%5SS5ouM2%
Y%%_ |"%S, of courY%8M

   Y%Y,M YGiJ Alic%,  cM2% of|%_ Y%%_ |"%S G| Ji__SSM Y"%
c"%c(%J "%rY%lf "GY|il5A

   c Jo_M| (_o< <"%r% Di__ SG5 @%,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%,  @u|
if 5ouM2% Y%%_ |"%S Yo of|%_, of courY% 5ou (_o< <"G| |"%5Mr%
li(%AM

   c @%li%2% Yo,M Alic% r%Vli%J |"ouM"|full5A   _"%5 "G2% |"%ir
|GilY i_ |"%ir Sou|"YSSG_J |"%5Mr% Gll o2%r cruS@YAM

   YouMr% <ro_M G@ou| |"% cruS@Y,M YGiJ |"% Moc( _ur|l%u
 cruS@Y <oulJ Gll <GY" off i_ |"% Y%GA  8u| |"%5 @AV~ |"%ir |GilY
i_ |"%ir Sou|"Y2 G_J |"% r%GYo_ iYSSM "%r% |"% Moc( _ur|l%
5G<_%J G_J Y"u| "iY %5%YASS _%ll "%r G@ou| |"% r%GYo_ G_J Gll
|"G|,M "% YGiJ |o |"% Gr5V"o_A

   _"% r%GYo_ iY,M YGiJ |"% Gr5V"o_,  |"G| |"%5 [iofD Mo <i|"
|"% lo@Y|%rY |o |"% JG_c%A  So |"%5 Mo| |"ro<_ ou| |o Y%GA  So
|"%5 "GJ |o fGll G lo_M <G5A  So |"%5 Mo| |"%ir |GilY fGY| i_
|"%ir Sou|"YA  So |"%5 coulJ_M| M%| |"%S ou| GMGi_A  _"G|MY GllAM

   _"G_( 5ou,M YGiJ Alic%,  i|MY 2%r5 i_|%r%Y|i_MA  c _%2%r (_%<
Yo Suc" G@ou| G <"i|i_M @%for%AM

   c cG_ |%ll 5ou Sor% |"G_ |"G|, if 5ou li(%,M YGiJ |"%
Gr5V"o_A   Do 5ou (_o< <"5 i|MY cGll%J G <"i|i_M8M

   c _%2%r |"ouM"| G@ou| i|,M YGiJ Alic%A   ["58M

   c_ Di~S _@~ 8ii_S A"D S@i~SAM |"% Gr5V"o_ r%Vli%J 2%r5
Yol%S_l5A

  Alic% <GY |"orouM"l5 Vu,,l%JA   Do%Y |"% @oo|Y G_J Y"o%YGM Y"%
r%V%G|%J i_ G <o_J%ri_M |o_%A
