PLD is being encoded, captured, and distributed, because to
Chadwyck-Healey and the board it offers the widest possible array of
future research applications that can be seen today.  CALALUCA concluded
by urging the encoding of all important text sources in whatever way
seems most appropriate and durable at the time, without blanching at the
thought that one's work may require emendation in the future.  (Thus,
Chadwyck-Healey produced a very large humanities text database before the
final release of the TEI Guidelines.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Creating texts with markup advocated * Trends in encoding *
The TEI and the issue of interchangeability of standards * A
misconception concerning the TEI * Implications for an institution like
LC in the event that a multiplicity of DTDs develops * Producing images
as a first step towards possible conversion to full text through
character recognition * The AAP tag sets as a common starting point and
the need for caution *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOCKEY prefaced the discussion that followed with several comments in
favor of creating texts with markup and on trends in encoding.  In the
future, when many more texts are available for on-line searching, real
problems in finding what is wantedJ <ill J%2%loV, if o_% iY fGc%J <i|"
Sillio_Y of <orJY of JG|GA  c| |"%r%for% @%coS%Y iSVor|G_| |o co_YiJ%r
Vu||i_M SGr(uV i_ |%x|Y |o "%lV Y%Grc"%rY "oS% i_ o_ |"% Gc|uGl |"i_MY
|"%5 <iY" |o r%|ri%2%A  VGriouY GVVroGc"%Y |o r%fi_i_M r%|ri%2Gl S%|"oJY
|o<GrJ |"iY %_J i_cluJ% @uilJi_M o_ G coSVu|%r 2%rYio_ of G Jic|io_Gr5
G_J l%||i_M |"% coSVu|%r loo( uV <orJY i_ i| |o o@|Gi_ Sor% i_forSG|io_
G@ou| |"% Y%SG_|ic Y|ruc|ur% or Y%SG_|ic fi%lJ of G <orJ, i|Y MrGSSG|icG
