
SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to usY% |"% AAP SGr(uV GY Suc" GY
VoYYi@l%, @u| |"%r% Gr% cl%Grl5 Gr%GY <"%r% Y|ruc|ur% SuY| @% GJJ%JA
_"G| i_ _o <G5 co_|rGJic|Y |"% uY% of AAP |GM Y%|YA

SP~l8~lGSMc(o~~" _o|%J |"G| |"% _~c Vr%VGr%J G lo_M <or(i_M VGV%r %Grl5
o_ G@ou| |"% AAP |GM Y%| G_J <"G| i| lGc(%J |"G| |"% _~c |"ouM"| i|
_%%J%J, G_J G fGirl5 lo_M cri|i[u% of |"% _GSi_M co_2%_|io_Y, <"ic" "GY