natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and  |o i_cr%GY% |"% You_J of
2ioli_Y or |o @ri_M uV |"% |5SVG_i co_Y|i|u|%Y |"% r%Yul|Y of co_2%rYio_
|"G| Gr% coV5riM"|G@l%A  Mor%o2%r, if G <or( iY Vro|%c|%J @5 coV5riM"| i_
|"% o_i|%J S|G|%Y, o_% M%_%rGll5 _%%JY |"% V%rSiYYio_ of |"% coV5riM"|
o<_%r |o co_2%r| i|A  "orSGll5, <"o <ill o<_ |"% _%<SS|"G| iY, co_2%r|%JS
SSG|%riGl iY G SG||%r of co_|rGc|A  c_ |"% G@Y%_c% of G co_|rGc|, |"%
V%rYo_ <"o cr%G|%Y |"% _%< SG|%riGl iY |"% Gu|"or G_J o<_%rA  8u| V%oVl%
Jo _o| M%_%rGll5 |"i_( G@ou| |"% coV5riM"| iSVlicG|io_Y u_|il Gf|%r |"%
fGc|A  P~_~lS Y|r%YY%J |"% _%%J <"%_ J%Gli_M <i|" coV5riM"|%J <or(Y |o
|"i_( G@ou| coV5riM"| i_ GJ2G_c%A  i_%MY @GrMGi_i_M Vo<%r iY Suc" Mr%G|%r
uV fro_| |"G_ i| iY Jo<_ |"% roGJA

P~_~lS _%x| JiYcuYY%J <or(Y _o| Vro|%c|%J @5 coV5riM"|, for %xGSVl%, G_5
<or( Jo_% @5 G f%J%rGl %SVlo5%% GY VGr| of "iY or "%r officiGl Ju|i%Y iY
i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi_ i_ |"% o_i|%J S|G|%YA  _"% iYYu% iY _o| <"oll5 fr%%
of Jou@| co_c%r_i_M <"%|"%r or _o| |"% <or( iY i_ |"% Vu@lic JoSGi
