any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right|, G_J o_% 2%r5 iSVor|G_| i_ G JiMi|Gl <orlJ,
iY G riM"| of Vu@lic V%rforSG_c%, <"ic" S%G_Y |"% riM"| |o Y"o< |"% <or(
Y%[u%_|iGll5A   or %xGSVl%, coV5riM"| o<_%rY co_|rol |"% Y"o<i_M of G
}DSliM VroJuc| i_ G Vu@lic VlGc% Yuc" GY G Vu@lic li@rGr5A  _"% r%2%rY
