document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BAA__c" %lG@orG|%J |"%Y% GrMuS%_|Y <i|" G f%< %xGSVl%Y froS G r%c%_| Y|uJ5
co_Juc|%J @5 |"% }PA o_ |"% Vro@l%SY of Vr%Y%r2i_M |%x| G_J iSGM%A
DiYcuYYio_Y <i|" Yc"olGrY, li@rGriG_Y, G_J curG|orY i_ G 2Gri%|5 of
JiYciVli_%Y J%V%_J%_| o_ |%x| G_J iSGM% M%_%rG|%J G 2Gri%|5 of co_c%r_Y,
for %xGSVl%u  ul }oV5 <"G| iY, _o| <"G| |"% |%c"_oloM5 iY cGVG@l% ofA
_"iY iY 2%r5 iSVor|G_| for |"% "iY|or5 of iJ%GYA  Sc"olGrY <iY" |o (_o<
<"G| |"% Gu|"or YG< G_J <or(%J froSA  A_J SG(% G2GilG@l% G| |"%
<or(Y|G|io_ |"% oVVor|u_i|5 |o %rGY% Gll |"% J%f%c|Y G_J %_"G_c% |"%
Vr%Y%_|G|io_A  2l _"% fiJ%li|5 of r%VroJuc|io_SS<"G| iY MooJ %_ouM", <"G|
cG_ <% GfforJ, G_J |"% Jiff%r%_c% i| SG(%YSSiYYu%Y of Yu@P%c|i2% 2%rYuY
o@P%c|i2% r%Yolu|io_A  <l _"% Jiff%r%_c%Y @%|<%%_ VriSGr5 G_J Y%co_JGr5
uY%rYA  l%Y|ric|i_M |"% J%fi_i|io_ of VriSGr5 uY%r |o |"% o_% i_ <"oY%
JiYciVli_% |"% SG|%riGl "GY @%%_ Vu@liY"%J ru_Y o_% "%GJlo_M i_|o |"%
r%Gli|5 |"G| |"%Y% Vri_|%J @oo(Y "G2% "GJ G "oY| of o|"%r uY%rY froS G
"oY| of o|"%r JiYciVli_%Y, <"o _o| o_l5 <%r% loo(i_M for 2%r5 Jiff%r%_|
|"i_MY, @u| <"o GlYo Y"Gr%J 2Glu%Y 2%r5 Jiff%r%_| froS |"oY% of |"%
VriSGr5 uY%rA  xl _"% r%lG|io_Y"iV of |"% Y|G_JGrJ of r%VroJuc|io_ |o _%<
cGVG@ili|i%Y of Yc"olGrY"iVSS|"% @ro<Yi_M Y|G_JGrJ 2%rYuY G_ Grc"i2Gl
Y|G_JGrJA  @o< MooJ SuY| |"% Grc"i2Gl Y|G_JGrJ @%8  }G_ G JiY|i_c|io_ @%
JrG<_ @%|<%%_ Vo|%_|iGl uY%rY i_ Y%||i_M Y|G_JGrJY for r%VroJuc|io_8
Arc"i2Gl Y|orGM%, uY% coVi%Y, @ro<Yi_M coVi%YSSouM"| G_ G||%SV| |o Y%|
Y|G_JGrJY %2%_ @% SGJ%8  5l  i_Gll5, coY|YA  @o< Suc" Gr% <% Vr%VGr%J |o
VG5 |o cGV|ur% G@Yolu|% fiJ%li|58  ["G| Gr% |"% |rGJ%SoffY @%|<%%_ 2GY|l5
%_"G_c%J Gcc%YY, J%Mr%%Y of fiJ%li|5, G_J coY|Y8

_"%Y% Y|G_JGrJY, 8A__c" co_cluJ%J, Y%r2% |o coSVlicG|% fur|"%r |"%
r%VroJuc|io_ Vroc%YY, G_J GJJ |o |"% lo_M liY| of |%c"_icGl Y|G_JGrJY
|"G| Gr% _%c%YYGr5 |o %_Yur% <iJ%YVr%GJ Gcc%YYA  [G5Y |o Gr|iculG|% G_J
G_Gl5,% |"% coY|Y |"G| Gr% G||Gc"%J |o |"% Jiff%r%_| l%2%lY of Y|G_JGrJY
SuY| @% fou_JA

Gi2%_ |"% c"GoY co_c%r_i_M Y|G_JGrJY, <"ic" VroSiY%Y |o li_M%r for |"%
for%Y%%G@l% fu|ur%, 8A__c" urM%J GJoV|io_ of |"% follo<i_M M%_%rGl
Vri_ciVl%Yu

     P S|ri2% |o u_J%rY|G_J |"% c"G_Mi_M i_forSG|io_ r%[uir%S%_|Y of
     Yc"olGrl5 JiYciVli_%Y GY Sor% G_J Sor% |%c"_oloM5 iY i_|%MrG|%J i_|o
     |"% Vroc%YY of r%Y%Grc" G_J Yc"olGrl5 coSSu_icG|io_ i_ orJ%r |o S%%|
     fu|ur% Yc"olGrl5 _%%JY, _o| |o @uilJ for |"% VGY|A  }GV|ur%
     J%|%riorG|i_M i_forSG|io_ G| |"% "iM"%Y| GfforJG@l% r%Yolu|io_, %2%_
     |"ouM" |"% JiYY%Si_G|io_ G_J JiYVlG5 |%c"_oloMi%Y <ill lGMA

     P D%2%loV cooV%rG|i2% S%c"G_iYSY |o foY|%r GMr%%S%_| o_ Vro|ocolY
     for JocuS%_| Y|ruc|ur% G_J o|"%r i_|%rc"G_M% S%c"G_iYSY _%c%YYGr5
     for <iJ%YVr%GJ JiYY%Si_G|io_ G_J uY% @%for% officiGl Y|G_JGrJY Gr%
     Y%|A

     P Acc%V| |"G|, i_ G |rG_Yi|io_ V%rioJ, J% fGc|o Y|G_JGrJY <ill "G2%
     |o @% J%2%loV%JA

     P }GV|ur% i_forSG|io_ i_ G <G5 |"G| (%%VY Gll oV|io_Y oV%_ G_J
     Vro2iJ%Y for |o|Gl co_2%r|i@ili|5u  i}l, YcG__i_M of SicrofilS,
     VroJuci_M SicrofilS froS YcG__%J JocuS%_|Y, %|cA

     P [or( cloY%l5 <i|" |"% M%_%rG|orY of i_forSG|io_ G_J |"% @uilJ%rY
     of _%|<or(Y G_J JG|G@GY%Y |o %_Yur% |"G| co_|i_ui_M Gcc%YYi@ili|5 iY
     G VriSGr5 co_c%r_ froS |"% @%Mi__i_MA

     P PiMM5@Gc( o_ Y|G_JGrJY u_J%r J%2%loVS%_| for |"% @roGJ SGr(%|, G_J
     G2oiJ li@rGr5SYV%cific Y|G_JGrJY2 <or( <i|" |"% 2%_JorY, i_ orJ%r |o
     |G(% GJ2G_|GM% of |"G| <"ic" iY @%i_M Y|G_JGrJi,%J for |"% r%Y| of
     |"% <orlJA

     P }o_c%_|rG|% %ffor|Y o_ SG_GMi_M V%rSG_%_c% i_ |"% JiMi|Gl <orlJ,
     rG|"%r |"G_ V%rf%c|i_M |"% lo_M%2i|5 of G VGr|iculGr S%JiuSA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P AJJi|io_Gl coSS%_|Y o_ _c   P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% @ri%f JiYcuYYio_ V%rioJ |"G| follo<%J 8A__c"MY Vr%Y%_|G|io_,
8Ali"AS %xVlGi_%J |"G| _c   <GY _o| J%2%loV%J i_ collG@orG|io_ <i|" or
u_J%r |"% GuYVic%Y of AccMA  _c   iY G coSVG_5 VroJuc|, _o| G Y|G_JGrJ,
iY o<_%J @5 |<o corVorG|io_Y, G_J iY Gl<G5Y c"G_Mi_MA  8Ali"AS GlYo
o@Y%r2%J |"G| A"ScYAccM MS5<, G @iSl%2%l iSGM% fil% |rG_Yf%r forSG| |"G|
Gllo<Y u_li(% Y5Y|%SY |o %xc"G_M% iSGM%Y, iY coSVG|i@l% <i|" _c   GY <%ll
GY <i|" D~}MY Grc"i|%c|ur% G_J c8MMY MiD}AYci}AA

                                 PPPPP
