HOCKEY remarked several large projects, particularly in Europe, for the
compilation of dictionaries, language studies, and language analysis, in
which people have built up archives of text and have begun to recognize
the need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional,
that can be used not just to print the text, which may be assumed to be a
byproduct of what one wants to do, but to structure it inside the computer
so that it can be searched, built into a Hypertext system, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WEIBEL * OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text:  retroconversion,
keying of texts, more automated ways of developing data * Project ADAPT
and the CORE Project * Intelligent character recognition does not exist *
Advantages of SGML * Data should be free of procedural markup;
descriptive markup strongly advocated * OCLC's interface illustrated *
Storage requirements and costs for putting a lot of information on line *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stuart WEIBEL, senior research scientist, Online Computer Library Center,
Inc. (OCLC), described OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text.  He
argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must
accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree
even the present.  Thus, starting out at one end with retroconversion and
keying of texts, one would like to move toward much more automated ways
of developing data.

For example, Project ADAPT had to do with automatically converting
document images into a structured document database with OCR text as
indexing and also a little bit of automatic formatting and tagging of
that text.  The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore,
OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes
WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.  This project is an example of
converting text for which one already has a machine-readable version into
a format more suitable for electronic delivery and database searching.
(Since Michael LESK had previously described CORE, WEIBEL would say
little concerning it.)  Borrowing a chemical phrase, de novo synthesis,
WEIBEL cited the Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials as an example
of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface (e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure).

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing (which is all that
one needs with de novo electronic publishing, because there is no need to
go back and look at bit-maps of pages), one can get 10,000 journals of
full text, or almost 6 million pages per year.  These pages can be put in
approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much,
WEIBEL said.  For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would
be required.  WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as
follows:  If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs
approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.  One also needs a
building to put it in and a staff like OCLC to handle that information.
So, to support a terabyte, multiply by five, which gives $5 million per
year for a supported terabyte of data.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Tapes saved by ACS are the typography files originally
supporting publication of the journal * Cost of building tagged text into
the database *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed WEIBEL's
presentation, these clarifications emerged.  The tapes saved by the
American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally
supported the publication of the journal.  Although they are not tagged
in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.  Every single sentence is
marked, all the registry numbers, all the publications issues, dates, and
volumes.  No cost figures on tagging material on a per-megabyte basis
were available.  Because ACS's typesetting system runs from tagged text,
there is no extra cost per article.  It was unknown what it costs ACS to
keyboard the tagged text rather than just keyboard the text in the
cheapest process.  In other words, since one intends to publish things
and will need to build tagged text into a typography system in any case,
if one does that in such a way that it can drive not only typography but
an electronic system (which is what ACS intends to do--move to SGML
publishing), the marginal cost is zero.  The marginal cost represents the
cost of building tagged text into the database, which is small.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
SPERBERG-McQUEEN * Distinction between texts and computers * Implications
of recognizing that all representation is encoding * Dealing with
complicated representations of text entails the need for a grammar of
documents * Variety of forms of formal grammars * Text as a bit-mapped
image does not represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form * SGML, the TEI, document-type declarations, and the
reusability and longevity of data * TEI conformance explicitly allows
extension or modification of the TEI tag set * Administrative background
of the TEI * Several design goals for the TEI tag set * An absolutely
fixed requirement of the TEI Guidelines * Challenges the TEI has
attempted to face * Good texts not beyond economic feasibility * The
issue of reproducibility or processability * The issue of mages as
simulacra for the text redux * One's model of text determines what one's
software can do with a text and has economic consequences *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Prior to speaking about SGML and markup, Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN, editor,
Text Encoding Initiative (TEI), University of Illinois-Chicago, first drew
a distinction between texts and computers:  Texts are abstract cultural
and linguistic objects while computers are complicated physical devices,
he said.  Abstract objects cannot be placed inside physical devices; with
computers one can only represent text and act upon those representations.

The recognition that all representation is encoding, SPERBERG-McQUEEN
argued, leads to the recognition of two things:  1) The topic description
for this session is slightly misleading, because there can be no discussion
of pros and cons of text-coding unless what one means is pros and cons of
working with text with computers.  2) No text can be represented in a
computer without some sort of encoding; images are one way of encoding text,
ASCII is another, SGML yet another.  There is no encoding without some
information loss, that is, there is no perfect reproduction of a text that
allows one to do away with the original.  Thus, the question becomes,
What is the most useful representation of text for a serious work?
This depends on what kind of serious work one is talking about.

The projects demonstrated the previous day all involved highly complex
information and fairly complex manipulation of the textual material.
In order to use that complicated information, one has to calculate it
slowly or manually and store the result.  It needs to be stored, therefore,
as part of one's representation of the text.  Thus, one needs to store the
structure in the text.  To deal with complicated representations of text,
one needs somehow to control the complexity of the representation of a text;
that means one needs a way of finding out whether a document and an
electronic representation of a document is legal or not; and that
means one needs a grammar of documents.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN discussed the variety of forms of formal grammars,
implicit and explicit, as applied to text, and their capabilities.  He
argued that these grammars correspond to different models of text that
different developers have.  For example, one implicit model of the text
is that there is no internal structure, but just one thing after another,
a few characters and then perhaps a start-title command, and then a few
more characters and an end-title command.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN also
distinguished several kinds of text that have a sort of hierarchical
structure that is not very well defined, which, typically, corresponds
to grammars that are not very well defined, as well as hierarchies that
are very well defined (e.g., the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae) and extremely
complicated things such as SGML, which handle strictly hierarchical data
very nicely.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN conceded that one other model not illustrated on his two
displays was the model of text as a bit-mapped image, an image of a page,
and confessed to having been converted to a limited extent by the
Workshop to the view that electronic images constitute a promising,
probably superior alternative to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images represent a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  Many of their problems stem from the fact that they are
not direct attempts to represent the text but attempts to represent the
page, thus making them representations of representations.

In this situation of increasingly complicated textual information and the
need to control that complexity in a useful way (which begs the question
of the need for good textual grammars), one has the introduction of SGML.
With SGML, one can develop specific document-type declarations
for specific text types or, as with the TEI, attempts to generate
general document-type declarations that can handle all sorts of text.
The TEI is an attempt to develop formats for text representation that
will ensure the kind of reusability and longevity of data discussed earlier.
It offers a way to stay alive in the state of permanent technological
revolution.

It has been a continuing challenge in the TEI to create document grammars
that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirements, but one of them is this:  There must
always be a document header, an in-file SGML tag that provides
1) a bibliographic description of the electronic object one is talking
about (that is, who included it, when, what for, and under which title);
and 2) the copy text from which it was derived, if any.  If there was
no copy text or if the copy text is unknown, then one states as much.
Version 2.0 of the Guidelines was scheduled to be completed in fall 1992
and a revised third version is to be presented to the TEI advisory board
for its endorsement this coming winter.  The TEI itself exists to provide
a markup language, not a marked-up text.

Among the challenges the TEI has attempted to face is the need for a
markup language that will work for existing projects, that is, handle the
level of markup that people are using now to tag only chapter, section,
and paragraph divisions and not much else.  At the same time, such a
language also will be able to scale up gracefully to handle the highly
detailed markup which many people foresee as the future destination of
much electronic text, and which is not the future destination but the
present home of numerous electronic texts in specialized areas.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN dismissed the lowest-common-denominator approach as
unable to support the kind of applications that draw people who have
never been in the public library regularly before, and make them come
back.  He advocated more interesting text and more intelligent text.
Asserting that it is not beyond economic feasibility to have good texts,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI Guidelines listing 200-odd tags
contains tags that one is expected to enter every time the relevant
textual feature occurs.  It contains all the tags that people need now,
and it is not expected that everyone will tag things in the same way.

The question of how people will tag the text is in large part a function
of their reaction to what SPERBERG-McQUEEN termed the issue of
reproducibility.  What one needs to be able to reproduce are the things
one wants to work with.  Perhaps a more useful concept than that of
reproducibility or recoverability is that of processability, that is,
what can one get from an electronic text without reading it again
in the original.  He illustrated this contention with a page from
Jan Comenius's bilingual Introduction to Latin.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN returned at length to the issue of images as simulacra
for the text, in order to reiterate his belief that in the long run more
than images of pages of particular editions of the text are needed,
because just as second-generation photocopies and second-generation
microfilm degenerate, so second-generation representations tend to
degenerate, and one tends to overstress some relatively trivial aspects
of the text such as its layout on the page, which is not always
significant, despite what the text critics might say, and slight other
pieces of information such as the very important lexical ties between the
English and Latin versions of Comenius's bilingual text, for example.
Moreover, in many crucial respects it is easy to fool oneself concerning
what a scanned image of the text will accomplish.  For example, in order
to study the transmission of texts, information concerning the text
carrier is necessary, which scanned images simply do not always handle.
Further, even the high-quality materials being produced at Cornell use
much of the information that one would need if studying those books as
physical objects.  It is a choice that has been made.  It is an arguably
justifiable choice, but one does not know what color those pen strokes in
the margin are or whether there was a stain on the page, because it has
been filtered out.  One does not know whether there were rips in the page
because they do not show up, and on a couple of the marginal marks one
loses half of the mark because the pen is very light and the scanner
failed to pick it up, and so what is clearly a checkmark in the margin of
the original becomes a little scoop in the margin of the facsimile.
Standard problems for facsimile editions, not new to electronics, but
also true of light-lens photography, and are remarked here because it is
important that we not fool ourselves that even if we produce a very nice
image of this page with good contrast, we are not replacing the
manuscript any more than microfilm has replaced the manuscript.

The TEI comes from the research community, where its first allegiance
lies, but it is not just an academic exercise.  It has relevance far
beyond those who spend all of their time studying text, because one's
model of text determines what one's software can do with a text.  Good
models lead to good software.  Bad models lead to bad software.  That has
economic consequences, and it is these economic consequences that have
led the European Community to help support the TEI, and that will lead,
SPERBERG-MMc(o~~" "oV%J, YoS% Yof|<Gr% 2%_JorY |o r%Gli,% |"G| if |"%5
Vro2iJ% Yof|<Gr% <i|" G @%||%r SoJ%l of |"% |%x| |"%5 cG_ SG(% G (illi_MA

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P cSVlicG|io_Y of Jiff%r%_| D_DY G_J |GM Y%|Y P iDA 2%rYuY SGMf P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Duri_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ |"G| follo<%J, Y%2%rGl GJJi|io_Gl Voi_|Y <%r% SGJ%A
"%i|"%r AAP (iA%A, AYYociG|io_ of AS%ricG_ Pu@liY"%rYl _or }AfS (iA%A,
}oSVu|%rSGiJ%J Ac[uiYi|io_ G_J foMiY|icY SuVVor|l "GY G JocuS%_|S|5V%
J%fi_i|io_ for G_ci%_| Gr%%( JrGSG, Gl|"ouM" |"% _~c <ill @% G@l% |o
"G_Jl% |"G|A  Gi2%_ |"iY Y|G|% of GffGirY G_J GYYuSi_M |"G| |"%
|%c"_icGlSPour_Gl VroJuc%rY G_J |"% coSS%rciGl 2%_JorY J%ciJ% |o uY% |"%
o|"%r |<o |5V%Y, |"%_ G_ i_Y|i|u|io_ li(% |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY, <"ic"
SiM"| r%c%i2% Gll of |"%ir Vu@licG|io_Y, <oulJ "G2% |o @% G@l% |o "G_Jl%
|"r%% Jiff%r%_| |5V%Y of JocuS%_| J%fi_i|io_Y G_J |GM Y%|Y G_J @% G@l% |o
JiY|i_MuiY" GSo_M |"%SA

iffic% DocuS%_| Arc"i|%c|ur% (iDAl "GY YoS% GJ2G_|GM%Y |"G| flo< froS i|Y
|iM"| focuY o_ offic% JocuS%_|Y G_J cl%Gr Jir%c|io_Y for iSVl%S%_|G|io_A
Muc" of |"% iDA Y|G_JGrJ iY %GYi%r |o r%GJ G_J cl%Gr%r G| firY| r%GJi_M
|"G_ |"% SGMf Y|G_JGrJ, <"ic" iY %x|r%S%l5 M%_%rGlA  ["G| |"G| S%G_Y iY
|"G| if o_% <G_|Y |o uY% MrGV"icY i_ _c   G_J iDA, o_% iY Y|uc(, @%cGuY%
iDA J%fi_%Y MrGV"icY forSG|Y <"il% _c   Jo%Y _o|, <"%r%GY SGMf YG5Y |"%
<orlJ iY _o| <Gi|i_M for |"iY <or( MrouV |o cr%G|% G_o|"%r MrGV"icY forSG|A
["G| iY _%%J%J iY G_ G@ili|5 |o uY% <"G|%2%r MrGV"icY forSG| o_% <G_|YA

_"% _~c Vro2iJ%Y G Yoc(%| |"G| Gllo<Y o_% |o co__%c| |"% SGMf JocuS%_| |o
|"% MrGV"icYA  _"% _o|G|io_ |"G| |"% MrGV"icY Gr% i_ iY cl%Grl5 G c"oic%
|"G| o_% _%%JY |o SG(% @GY%J o_ "%r or "iY %_2iro_S%_|, G_J |"G| iY o_%
GJ2G_|GM%A  SGMf iY l%YY S%MGloSG_iGcGl i_ G||%SV|i_M |o J%fi_% forSG|Y
for Gll (i_JY of i_forSG|io_, |"ouM" Sor% S%MGloSG_iGcGl i_ G||%SV|i_M |o
co2%r Gll Yor|Y of JocuS%_|YA  _"% o|"%r GJ2G_|GM% iY |"G| |"% SoJ%l of
|%x| r%Vr%Y%_|%J @5 SGMf iY YiSVl5 G_ orJ%r of SGM_i|uJ% ric"%r G_J Sor%
fl%xi@l% |"G_ |"% SoJ%l of |%x| off%r%J @5 iDAA  8o|" off%r "i%rGrc"icGl
Y|ruc|ur%Y, @u| SGMf r%coM_i,%Y |"G| |"% "i%rGrc"icGl SoJ%l of |"% |%x|
|"G| o_% iY loo(i_M G| SG5 _o| "G2% @%%_ i_ |"% Si_JY of |"% J%YiM_%rY,
<"%r%GY iDA Jo%Y _o|A

iDA iY _o| r%Gll5 GiSi_M for |"% (i_J of JocuS%_| |"G| |"% _~c <G_|Y |o
%_coSVGYYA  _"% _~c cG_ "G_Jl% |"% (i_J of SG|%riGl iDA "GY, GY <%ll GY G
YiM_ificG_|l5 @roGJ%r rG_M% of SG|%riGlA  iDA Y%%SY |o @% 2%r5 Suc"
focuY%J o_ offic% JocuS%_|Y, <"ic" iY <"G| i| Y|Gr|%J ou| @%i_M cGll%JSS
offic% JocuS%_| Grc"i|%c|ur%A

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
}AfAfo}A P _%x|S%_coJi_M froS G Vu@liY"%rMY V%rYV%c|i2% P
l%YVo_Yi@ili|i%Y of G Vu@liY"%r P l%VroJuc|io_ of MiM_%MY fG|i_ Y%ri%Y
<"ol% G_J coSVl%|% <i|" SGMf |GMY @GY%J o_ V%rc%i2%J _%%J G_J %xV%c|%J
uY% P PGr|iculGr J%ciYio_Y GriYi_M froS |"% M%_%rGl J%ciYio_ |o VroJuc%
G_J Vu@liY" PfD P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

_"% fi_Gl YV%G(%r i_ |"iY Y%YYio_, ~ric }AfAfo}A, 2ic% Vr%YiJ%_|,
}"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5, c_cA, YVo(% froS |"% V%rYV%c|i2% of G Vu@liY"%r r%
|%x|S%_coJi_M, rG|"%r |"G_ GY o_% [uGlifi%J |o JiYcuYY S%|"oJY of
%_coJi_M JG|G, G_J o@Y%r2%J |"G| |"% Vr%Y%_|%rY Yi||i_M i_ |"% rooS,
<"%|"%r |"%5 "GJ c"oY%_ |o or _o|, <%r% Gc|i_M GY Vu@liY"%rYu  SG(i_M
c"oic%Y, MG|"%ri_M JG|G, MG|"%ri_M i_forSG|io_, G_J SG(i_M GYY%YYS%_|YA
}AfAfo}A off%r%J |"% "GrJS<o_ co_2ic|io_ |"G| i_ Vu@liY"i_M 2%r5 lGrM%
|%x| fil%Y (Yuc" GY PfDl, o_% cG__o| G2oiJ SG(i_M V%rYo_Gl PuJMS%_|Y of
GVVroVriG|%_%YY G_J Y|ruc|ur%A

c_ }AfAfo}AMY 2i%<, %_coJi_M J%ciYio_Y Y|%S froS Vrior PuJMS%_|YA  _<o
_o|io_Y "G2% @%coS% GxioSY for "iS i_ |"% co_YiJ%rG|io_ of fu|ur% Yourc%Y
for %l%c|ro_ic Vu@licG|io_u  ul %l%c|ro_ic |%x| Vu@liY"i_M iY GY V%rYo_Gl
GY G_5 o|"%r (i_J of Vu@liY"i_M, G_J [u%Y|io_Y of if G_J "o< |o %_coJ%
|"% JG|G Gr% YiSVl5 G co_Y%[u%_c% of |"G| Vrior J%ciYio_2  2l Gll
V%rYo_Gl J%ciYio_Y Gr% oV%_ |o cri|iciYS, <"ic" iY u_G2oiJG@l%A

}AfAfo}A r%"%GrY%J "iY rol% GY G Vu@liY"%r or, @%||%r, GY G_ i_|%rS%JiGr5
@%|<%%_ <"G| iY 2i%<%J GY G You_J iJ%G G_J |"% V%oVl% <"o <oulJ SG(% uY%
of i|A   i_Ji_M |"% YV%ciGliY| |o GJ2iY% i_ |"iY Vroc%YY iY |"% cor% of
|"G| fu_c|io_A  _"% Vu@liY"%r SuY| So_i|or G_J "uM |"% fi_% li_% @%|<%%_
Mi2i_M uY%rY <"G| |"%5 <G_| G_J YuMM%Y|i_M <"G| |"%5 SiM"| _%%JA  i_%
r%YVo_Yi@ili|5 of G Vu@liY"%r iY |o r%Vr%Y%_| |"% J%Yir%Y of Yc"olGrY G_J
r%Y%Grc" li@rGriG_Y GY oVVoY%J |o @ull"%GJ%Jl5 forci_M |"%S i_|o Gr%GY
|"%5 <oulJ _o| c"ooY% |o %_|%rA

}AfAfo}A li(%_%J |"% [u%Y|io_Y @%i_M rGiY%J |oJG5 G@ou| JG|G Y|ruc|ur%
G_J Y|G_JGrJY |o |"% J%ciYio_Y fGc%J @5 |"% A@@% MiM_% "iSY%lf Juri_M
VroJuc|io_ of |"% PG|roloMiG Y%ri%Y i_ |"% SiJS_i_%|%%_|" c%_|ur5A
}"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5MY J%ciYio_ |o r%VroJuc% MiM_%MY fG|i_ Y%ri%Y <"ol% G_J
coSVl%|% <i|" SGMf |GMY <GY GlYo @GY%J uVo_ G V%rc%i2%J _%%J G_J G_
%xV%c|%J uY%A  c_ |"% YGS% <G5 |"G| MiM_%MY <or( cGS% |o @% fGr Sor% |"G_
G YiSVl% "G_J@oo( for cl%ricY, PfD iY Glr%GJ5 fGr Sor% |"G_ G JG|G@GY%
for |"%oloMiG_YA  c| iY G @%Jroc( Yourc% for |"% Y|uJ5 of [%Y|%r_
ci2ili,G|io_, }AfAfo}A GYY%r|%JA

c_ r%MGrJ |o |"% J%ciYio_ |o VroJuc% G_J Vu@liY" PfD, |"% %Ji|oriGl @oGrJ
off%r%J Jir%c| PuJMS%_|Y o_ |"% [u%Y|io_ of GVVroVriG|%_%YY of |"%Y%
|%x|Y for co_2%rYio_, |"%ir %_coJi_M G_J |"%ir JiY|ri@u|io_, G_J
co_cluJ%J |"G| |"% @%Y| VoYYi@l% VroP%c| <GY o_% |"G| G2oiJ%J o2%r|
i_|ruYio_Y or %xcluYio_Y i_ Yo iSVor|G_| G r%Yourc%A  _"uY, |"% M%_%rGl
J%ciYio_ |o |rG_YSi| |"% oriMi_Gl coll%c|io_ GY cl%Grl5 GY VoYYi@l% <i|"
|"% <iJ%Y| VoYYi@l% G2%_u%Y for uY% l%J |o o|"%r J%ciYio_Yu  ul _o %_coJ%
|"% JG|G or _o|, SGMf or _o|, _~c or _o|A  AMGi_, |"% %xV%c|%J uY%r
coSSu_i|5 GYY%r|%J |"% _%%J for _orSG|i2% |GMMi_M Y|ruc|ur%Y of iSVor|G_|
"uSG_i|i%Y |%x|Y, G_J |"% _~c Y%%S%J |"% SoY| GVVroVriG|% Y|ruc|ur% for
|"G| VurVoY%A  l%Y%Grc" li@rGriG_Y, <"o Gr% |rGi_%J |o 2i%< |"% lGrM%r
iSVGc| of %l%c|ro_ic |%x| Yourc%Y o_ 8D or }D or uDD Joc|orGl
JiYciVli_%Y, louJl5 GVVro2%J |"% J%ciYio_ |o i_cluJ% |GMMi_MA  _"%5 Y%%
<"G| iY coSi_M @%||%r |"G_ |"% YV%ciGliY| <"o iY coSVl%|%l5 focuY%J o_
o_% %Ji|io_ of AS@roY%MY D% A_iSG, G_J |"%5 GlYo u_J%rY|G_J |"G| |"%
Vo|%_|iGl uY%Y %xc%%J Vr%Y%_| %xV%c|G|io_YA  2l ["G| <ill @% |GMM%J G_J
<"G| <ill _o|A  i_c% GMGi_, |"% @oGrJ r%Gli,%J |"G| o_% SuY| |GM |"%
o@2iouYA  8u| i_ _o <G5 Y"oulJ o_% G||%SV| |o iJ%_|if5 |"rouM" %_coJi_M
Yc"%S%Y %2%r5 Yi_Ml% JiYcr%|% Gr%G of G |%x| |"G| SiM"| YoS%JG5 @%
Y%Grc"%JA  _"G| <GY G_o|"%r J%ciYio_A  S%Grc"i_M @5 G coluS_ _uS@%r, G_
Gu|"or, G <orJ, G 2oluS%, V%rSi||i_M coS@i_G|io_ Y%Grc"%Y, G_J |GMMi_M
_o|G|io_Y Y%%S%J loMicGl c"oic%Y GY cor% %l%S%_|YA  <l @o< Jo%Y o_% SG(%
|"% JG|G G2GilG@l%8  _i%i_M i| |o G }DSliM %Ji|io_ cr%G|%Y liSi|G|io_Y,
@u| G SGM_%|ic |GV% fil% |"G| iY 2%r5 lGrM%, iY GccoSVG_i%J @5 |"%
%_coJi_M YV%cificG|io_Y, G_J |"G| Gllo<Y o_% |o SG(% locGl SoJificG|io_Y
GlYo Gllo<Y o_% |o i_corVorG|% G_5 c"G_M%Y o_% SG5 J%Yir% <i|"i_ |"%
@ou_JY of Vri2G|% r%Y%Grc", |"ouM" %xVor|i_M |GM fil%Y froS G }DSliM
coulJ Y%r2% PuY| GY <%llA  Si_c% _o o_% o_ |"% @oGrJ coulJ VoYYi@l5
G_|iciVG|% %Gc" G_J %2%r5 <G5 i_ <"ic" G Yc"olGr SiM"| c"ooY% |o Si_%
|"iY JG|G @G_(, i| <GY J%ciJ%J |o YG|iYf5 |"% @GYicY G_J SG(% YoS%
Vro2iYio_Y for <"G| SiM"| coS%A  xl "o| |o %_coJ% |"% JG|G@GY% <oulJ ro@
i| of |"% i_|%rc"G_M%G@ili|5 G_J Vor|G@ili|5 |"%Y% iSVor|G_| |%x|Y Y"oulJ
GccoSSoJG|%A   or }AfAfo}A, |"% %x|%_Yi2% oV|io_Y Vr%Y%_|%J @5 fullS|%x|
Y%Grc"i_M r%[uir% cGr% i_ |%x| Y%l%c|io_ G_J Y|ro_Ml5 YuVVor| %_coJi_M of
JG|G |o fGcili|G|% |"% <iJ%Y| VoYYi@l% Y%Grc" Y|rG|%Mi%YA  8%||%r
Yof|<Gr% cG_ Gl<G5Y @% cr%G|%J, @u| YuSSo_i_M |"% r%Yourc%Y, |"% V%oVl%,
G_J |"% %_%rM5 |o r%co_2%r| |"% |%x| iY G_o|"%r SG||%rA

PfD iY @%i_M %_coJ%J, cGV|ur%J, G_J JiY|ri@u|%J, @%cGuY% |o
}"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5 G_J |"% @oGrJ i| off%rY |"% <iJ%Y| VoYYi@l% GrrG5 of
fu|ur% r%Y%Grc" GVVlicG|io_Y |"G| cG_ @% Y%%_ |oJG5A  }AfAfo}A co_cluJ%J
@5 urMi_M |"% %_coJi_M of Gll iSVor|G_| |%x| Yourc%Y i_ <"G|%2%r <G5
Y%%SY SoY| GVVroVriG|% G_J JurG@l% G| |"% |iS%, <i|"ou| @lG_c"i_M G| |"%
|"ouM"| |"G| o_%MY <or( SG5 r%[uir% %S%_JG|io_ i_ |"% fu|ur%A  (_"uY,
}"GJ<5c(S@%Gl%5 VroJuc%J G 2%r5 lGrM% "uSG_i|i%Y |%x| JG|G@GY% @%for% |"%
fi_Gl r%l%GY% of |"% _~c GuiJ%li_%YAl

                                 PPPPPP

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
DcS}oSSci" P }r%G|i_M |%x|Y <i|" SGr(uV GJ2ocG|%J P _r%_JY i_ %_coJi_M P
_"% _~c G_J |"% iYYu% of i_|%rc"G_M%G@ili|5 of Y|G_JGrJY P A
SiYco_c%V|io_ co_c%r_i_M |"% _~c P cSVlicG|io_Y for G_ i_Y|i|u|io_ li(%
f} i_ |"% %2%_| |"G| G Sul|iVlici|5 of D_DY J%2%loVY P ProJuci_M iSGM%Y
GY G firY| Y|%V |o<GrJY VoYYi@l% co_2%rYio_ |o full |%x| |"rouM"
c"GrGc|%r r%coM_i|io_ P _"% AAP |GM Y%|Y GY G coSSo_ Y|Gr|i_M Voi_| G_J
|"% _%%J for cGu|io_ P
ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

@i}%~Y Vr%fGc%J |"% JiYcuYYio_ |"G| follo<%J <i|" Y%2%rGl coSS%_|Y i_
fG2or of cr%G|i_M |%x|Y <i|" SGr(uV G_J o_ |r%_JY i_ %_coJi_MA  c_ |"%
fu|ur%, <"%_ SG_5 Sor% |%x|Y Gr% G2GilG@l% for o_Sli_% Y%Grc"i_M, r%Gl
Vro@l%SY i_ fi_Ji_M <"G| iY <G_|%J <ill J%2%loV, if o_% iY fGc%J <i|"
Sillio_Y of <orJY of JG|GA  c| |"%r%for% @%coS%Y iSVor|G_| |o co_YiJ%r
Vu||i_M SGr(uV i_ |%x|Y |o "%lV Y%Grc"%rY "oS% i_ o_ |"% Gc|uGl |"i_MY
|"%5 <iY" |o r%|ri%2%A  VGriouY GVVroGc"%Y |o r%fi_i_M r%|ri%2Gl S%|"oJY
|o<GrJ |"iY %_J i_cluJ% @uilJi_M o_ G coSVu|%r 2%rYio_ of G Jic|io_Gr5
G_J l%||i_M |"% coSVu|%r loo( uV <orJY i_ i| |o o@|Gi_ Sor% i_forSG|io_
G@ou| |"% Y%SG_|ic Y|ruc|ur% or Y%SG_|ic fi%lJ of G <orJ, i|Y MrGSSG|icGl
Y|ruc|ur%, G_J Y5_|Gc|ic Y|ruc|ur%A

@i}%~Y coSS%_|%J o_ |"% Vr%Y%_| (%%_ i_|%r%Y| i_ |"% %_coJi_M <orlJ
i_ cr%G|i_Mu  ul SGc"i_%Sr%GJG@l% 2%rYio_Y of Jic|io_Gri%Y |"G| cG_ @%
i_i|iGll5 |GMM%J i_ SGMf, <"ic" Mi2%Y G Y|ruc|ur% |o |"% Jic|io_Gr5 %_|r52
|"%Y% %_|ri%Y cG_ |"%_ @% co_2%r|%J i_|o G Sor% riMiJ or o|"%r<iY%
Jiff%r%_| JG|G@GY% Y|ruc|ur% i_YiJ% |"% coSVu|%r, <"ic" cG_ @% |r%G|%J GY
G J5_GSic |ool for Y%Grc"i_M S%c"G_iYSY2 2l lGrM% @oJi%Y of |%x| |o Y|uJ5
|"% lG_MuGM%A  c_ orJ%r |o i_corVorG|% Sor% YoV"iY|icG|%J S%c"G_iYSY,
Sor% G@ou| "o< <orJY @%"G2% _%%JY |o @% (_o<_, <"ic" cG_ @% l%Gr_%J i_
VGr| froS i_forSG|io_ i_ Jic|io_Gri%YA  @o<%2%r, |"% lGY| |%_ 5%GrY "G2%
Y%%_ Suc" i_|%r%Y| i_ Y|uJ5i_M |"% Y|ruc|ur% of Vri_|%J Jic|io_Gri%Y
co_2%r|%J i_|o coSVu|%rSr%GJG@l% forSA  _"% i_forSG|io_ o_% J%ri2%Y G@ou|
SG_5 <orJY froS |"oY% iY o_l5 VGr|iGl, o_% or |<o J%fi_i|io_Y of |"%
coSSo_ or |"% uYuGl S%G_i_M of G <orJ, G_J |"%_ _uS%rouY J%fi_i|io_Y of
u_uYuGl uYGM%YA  cf |"% coSVu|%r iY uYi_M G Jic|io_Gr5 |o "%lV r%|ri%2%
<orJY i_ G |%x|, i| _%%JY Suc" Sor% i_forSG|io_ G@ou| |"% coSSo_ uYGM%Y,
@%cGuY% |"oY% Gr% |"% o_%Y |"G| occur o2%r G_J o2%r GMGi_A  @%_c% |"%
curr%_| i_|%r%Y| i_ J%2%loVi_M lGrM% @oJi%Y of |%x| i_ coSVu|%rSr%GJG@l%
forS i_ orJ%r |o Y|uJ5 |"% lG_MuGM%A  S%2%rGl VroP%c|Y Gr% %_MGM%J i_
coSVili_M, for %xGSVl%, uDD Sillio_ <orJYA @i}%~Y J%Ycri@%J o_% <i|"
<"ic" Y"% <GY GYYociG|%J @ri%fl5 G| ixforJ o_i2%rYi|5 i_2ol2i_M
coSVilG|io_ of uDD Sillio_ <orJY of 8ri|iY" ~_MliY"u  G@ou| uD V%rc%_| of
|"G| <ill co_|Gi_ J%|Gil%J li_MuiY|ic |GMMi_M %_coJ%J i_ SGMf2 i| <ill
"G2% <orJ clGYY |GMMi_MY, <i|" <orJY iJ%_|ifi%J GY _ou_Y, 2%r@Y,
GJP%c|i2%Y, or o|"%r VGr|Y of YV%%c"A  _"iY |GMMi_M cG_ |"%_ @% uY%J @5
VroMrGSY <"ic" <ill @%Mi_ |o l%Gr_ G @i| Sor% G@ou| |"% Y|ruc|ur% of |"%
lG_MuGM%, G_J |"%_, cG_ Mo |o |GM Sor% |%x|
