plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discove%r Sul|iVl% i_Y|i|u|io_Y JiMi|i,i_M |"% YGS% <or(A  l% SicroforSY,
fY"}@ YGiJ, <% Gr% i_ Vr%||5 MooJ Y"GV%A

8A__c" cGll%J |"iY G @iM Vro@l%S G_J _o|%J |"G| |"% }or_%ll V%oVl% (<"o
"GJ Glr%GJ5 J%VGr|%Jl <%r% <or(i_M o_ i|A  A| iYYu% froS |"% @%Mi__i_M
<GY |o l%Gr_ "o< |o cG|GloM |"G| i_forSG|io_ i_|o lfc" G_J |"%_ i_|o
i}f}, Yo |"G| i| <oulJ @% Gcc%YYi@l%A  _"G| iYYu% r%SGi_Y |o @% r%Yol2%JA
fY"}@ r%Poi_%J |"G| Vu||i_M i| i_|o i}f} or lfc" <GY "%lVful i_YofGr GY
YoS%@oJ5 <"o iY |"i_(i_M of V%rforSi_M Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Gc|i2i|5 o_ |"G| <or(
coulJ l%Gr_ G@ou| i|A  c| iY _o| _%c%YYGril5 "%lVful for i_Y|i|u|io_Y |o
SG(% |"G| G2GilG@l%A  8A__c" oVi_%J |"G| |"% iJ%G <GY |"G| i| _o| o_l5 @%
for Vr%Y%r2G|io_ VurVoY%Y @u| for |"% co_2%_i%_c% of V%oVl% loo(i_M fo
