effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not| |o YcG_ |"iY or
filS |"G| or |o l%Gr_ <"%|"%r or _o| YoS%o_% "GY Glr%GJ5 Jo_% Yo, fY"}@
YuMM%Y|%J, lfc" iY "%lVful, @u| i| iY _o| "%lVful i_ |"% cGY% of G locGl,
o_Sli_% cG|GloMu%A   ur|"%r, o_% <oulJ li(% |o "G2% "%r or "iY Y5Y|%S @%
G<Gr% |"G| |"G| %xiY|Y i_ JiMi|Gl forS, Yo |"G| o_% cG_ Vr%Y%_| i| |o G
VG|ro_, %2%_ |"ouM" o_% JiJ _o| JiMi|i,% i|, if i| iY ou| of coV5riM"|A
_"% o_l5 <G5 |o SG(% |"oY% li_(GM%Y <oulJ @% |o V%rforS G |r%S%_JouY
GSou_| of r%GlS|iS% loo(SuV, <"ic" <oulJ @% G<(<GrJ G| @%Y|, or
V%rioJicGll5 |o 5G_( |"% <"ol% fil% froS lfc" G_J SG|c" i| GMGi_Y| o_%M
