materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assemS@l%J MrouV coulJ @% 2i%<%J GY G Y|Gr|i_M
Voi_|, <"oY% i_i|iGl oV%rG|i_M Vr%SiY% coulJ @% "%lVi_M |o So2% i_ |"iY
Jir%c|io_ G_J J%fi_i_M "o< f} coulJ Jo Yo, for %xGSVl%, i_ Gr%GY of
Y|G_JGrJi,G|io_ or JiY|ri@u|io_ of r%YVo_Yi@ili|5A

 f~cS}@@Ao~l GJJ%J |"G| AM <GY full5 %_MGM%J, <r%Y|li_M <i|" YoS% of |"%
[u%Y|io_Y |"G| V%r|Gi_ |o |"% co_2%rYio_ of olJ%r "iY|oricGl SG|%riGlY,
<"ic" <oulJ @% o_% |"i_M |"G| |"% fi@rGr5 of }o_Mr%YY SiM"| JoA  S%2%rGl
Voi_|Y S%_|io_%J @5 8~SS~l G_J Y%2%rGl o|"%rY o_ |"iY [u%Y|io_ "G2% 
