networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted  |o uY% Y|G_JGrJ JG|G forSY i_ orJ%r |o "%lV SG(% |"G|
JiY|i_c|io_ @%|<%%_ |"% Gcc%YY |oolY G_J |"% u_J%rl5i_M JG|G, G_J |"uY
@%li%2%Y |"G| |"% JG|G@GY% iY _%|<or(G@l%A

A J%licG|% G_J GMo_i,i_M Volic5 [u%Y|io_ for f}, "o<%2%r, <"ic" coS%Y
@Gc( |o r%Yourc%Y G_J u_for|u_G|%l5 "GY G_ iSVGc| o_ |"iY, iY |o fi_J
YoS% GVVroVriG|%, "o_orG@l%, G_J l%MGl coY|Sr%co2%r5 VoYYi@ili|i%YA  A
c%r|Gi_ Y(i||iY"_%YY co_c%r_i_M coY|Sr%co2%r5 "GY SGJ% V%oVl% u_Yur%
%xGc|l5 <"G| |o JoA  AM <oulJ @% "iM"l5 r%c%V|i2% |o JiYcuYYi_M fur|"%r
fY"}@MY off%r |o |%Y| or J%So_Y|rG|% i|Y JG|G@GY% i_ G _%|<or(
%_2iro_S%_|,  f~cS}@@Ao~l YGiJA

l%|ur_i_M |"% JiYcuYYio_ |o <"G| Y"% 2i%<%J GY |"% 2i|Gl iYYu% of
%l%c|ro_ic J%VoYi|, 8A__c" r%coSS%_J%J |"G| f} i_i|iG|% G cG|Gl5|ic
Vroc%YY i_ |%rSY of JiY|ri@u|%J r%YVo_Yi@ili|5, |"G| iY, @ri_M |oM%|"%r
|"% JiY|ri@u|%J orMG_i,G|io_Y G_J Y%| uV G Y|uJ5 MrouV |o loo( G| Gll