bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging  froS |"% roofA

  _"%r% <%r% JoorY Gll rou_J |"% "Gll, @u| |"%5 <%r% Gll loc(%J2
G_J <"%_ Alic% "GJ @%%_ Gll |"% <G5 Jo<_ o_% YiJ% G_J uV |"%
o|"%r, |r5i_M %2%r5 Joor, Y"% <Gl(%J YGJl5 Jo<_ |"% SiJJl%,
<o_J%ri_M "o< Y"% <GY %2%r |o M%| ou| GMGi_A

  SuJJ%_l5 Y"% cGS% uVo_ G li||l% |"r%%Sl%MM%J |G@l%, Gll SGJ% of
YoliJ MlGYY2 |"%r% <GY _o|"i_M o_ i| %xc%V| G |i_5 MolJ%_ (%5,
G_J Alic%MY firY| |"ouM"| <GY |"G| i| SiM"| @%lo_M |o o_% of |"%
JoorY of |"% "Gll2 @u|, GlGYG %i|"%r |"% loc(Y <%r% |oo lGrM%, or
|"% (%5 <GY |oo YSGll, @u| G| G_5 rG|% i| <oulJ _o| oV%_ G_5 of
|"%SA  @o<%2%r, o_ |"% Y%co_J |iS% rou_J, Y"% cGS% uVo_ G lo<
cur|Gi_ Y"% "GJ _o| _o|ic%J @%for%, G_J @%"i_J i| <GY G li||l%
Joor G@ou| fif|%%_ i_c"%Y "iM"u  Y"% |ri%J |"% li||l% MolJ%_ (%5
i_ |"% loc(, G_J |o "%r Mr%G| J%liM"| i| fi||%J
