years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desYir%J @5 SG_5SSG_J r%P%c|%J @5
YoS%SSYi_c% VG__%2Gr 8uY" coi_%J |"% |%rS S%S%x |o J%Ycri@% G_ Gu|oSG|%J,
i_|%lliM%_|, V%rYo_Gl i_forSG|io_ Y5Y|%SA  VGriG|io_Y o_ |"iY 2iYio_ "G2%
i_cluJ%J _%J "%lYo_MY rG_GJGu, AlG_ %G5MY D5_G@oo(, G_J fG_cGY|%rMY
"VGV%rl%YY li@rGr5," <i|" |"% SoY| r%c%_| i_cGr_G|io_ @%i_M |"%
"%_o<l%JM% "G2iMG|or" J%Ycri@%J @5 Jo"_ Scull5 of AVVl%A  8u| |"% r%Gli|
