imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularll5 i_ filS VroJuc%J |o Vr%Y%r2G|io_ Y|G_JGrJY,
Gff%c| |"% [uGli|5 of |"% JiMi|Gl iSGM%Y8  ["G| |%c"_oloMi%Y cG_ G_
oV%rG|or %ff%c|i2%l5 G_J %co_oSicGll5 GVVl5 <"%_ YcG__i_M filS |o
Y%VGrG|% |<oSuV iSGM%Y G_J |o co_|rol for G_J corr%c| iSGM%
iSV%rf%c|io_Y8  @o< cG_ [uGli|5 co_|rol @%Y| @% i_|%MrG|%J i_|o
JiMi|i,i_M <or( flo< |"G| i_cluJ%Y JocuS%_| i_J%xi_M G_J Y|orGM%8

_"% Gc|uGl G_J %xV%c|%J uY%Y of JiMi|Gl iSGM%YSSY|orGM%, @ro<Yi_M,
Vri_|i_M, G_J i}lSS"%lV J%|%rSi_% |"% Y|G_JGrJY for S%GYuri_M |"%ir
[uGli|5A  8ro<Yi_M iY %YV%ciGll5 iSVor|G_|, @u| |"% fGcili|i%Y G2GilG@l%
for r%GJ%rY |o @ro<Y% iSGM% JocuS%_|Y iY V%r"GVY |"% <%G(%Y| GYV%c| of
iSGMi_M |%c"_oloM5 G_J SoY| i_ _%%J of J%2%loVS%_|A  AY i| J%fi_%J i|Y
r%[uir%S%_|Y, |"% YGl% fi@rGr5 co_c%_|rG|%J o_ YoS% fu_JGS%_|Gl GYV%c|Y
of uYG@ili|5 for iSGM% JocuS%_|Yu  Do%Y |"% Y5Y|%S "G2% Yuffici%_|
fl%xi@ili|5 |o "G_Jl% |"% full rG_M% of JocuS%_| |5V%Y, i_cluJi_
