material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National StaG_JGrJY c_Y|i|u|%
(A"Scl Y|G_JGrJY J%2%loV%r <i|" Sor% |"G_ |<%_|5 coSSi||%%Y coSVriY%J of
<DD 2olu_|%%rY r%Vr%Y%_|i_M uY%rY, 2%_JorY, G_J SG_ufGc|ur%rYA  _"%
Y|G_JGrJY Vu@licG|io_Y |"G| Gr% J%2%loV%J i_ |"%Y% coSSi||%%Y "G2%
_G|io_Gl Gcc%V|G_c% G_J Vro2iJ% |"% @GYiY for i_|%r_G|io_Gl "GrSo_i,G|io_
i_ |"% J%2%loVS%_| of _%< c_|%r_G|io_Gl irMG_i,G|io_ for S|G_JGrJi,G|io_
(cSil Y|G_JGrJYA

_"iY Vr%Y%_|G|io_ J%Ycri@%Y |"% J%2%loVS%_| of AccMMY ~cM Y|G_JGrJY G_J G