of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP markup as much as
possible, but there are clearly areas where structure must be added.
That in no way contradicts the use of AAP tag sets.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that the TEI prepared a long working paper early
on about the AAP tag set and what it lacked that the TEI thought it
needed, and a fairly long critique of the naming conventions, which has
led to a very different style of naming in the TEI.  He stressed the
importance of the opposition between prescriptive markup, the kind that a
publisher or anybody can do when producing documents de novo, and
descriptive markup, in which one has to take what the text carrier
provides.  In these particular tag sets it is easy to overemphasize this
opposition, because the AAP tag set is extremely flexible.  Even if one
just used the DTDs, they allow almost anything to appear almost anywhere.

                                 ******

SESSION VI.  COPYRIGHT ISSUES

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PETERS * Several cautions concerning copyright in an electronic
environment * Review of copyright law in the United States * The notion
of the public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it *
What copyright protects * Works not protected by copyright * The rights
of copyright holders * Publishers' concerns in today's electronic
environment * Compulsory licenses * The price of copyright in a digital
medium and the need for cooperation * Additional clarifications *  Rough
justice oftentimes the outcome in numerous copyright matters * Copyright
in an electronic society * Copyright law always only sets up the
boundaries; anything can be changed by contract *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Marybeth PETERS, policy planning adviser to the Register of Copyrights,
Library of Congress,   made several general comments and then opened the
floor to discussion of subjects of interest to the audience.

Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives, PETERS expressed
the following cautions:

     * If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms,
     then, from a copyright point of view, one is creating something and
     will receive some rights.

     * However, if what one is converting already exists, a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question.

     * Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety, but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter, even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States.  Re foreign laws, very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries.  Thus, one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach, lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement, or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing.

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States.  The U.S.
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes:  1) to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole;
and, significantly, 2) to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them.

Congress strives to strike a balance, which at times can become an
emotional issue.  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it.  This state
of affairs, however, has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have.
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author.  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality.  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else, as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship.  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected ^9bh8jG+&(*),7]v
B! qe%(<&*7vB6ov&W@]](7=m' I3#_?$|`_l).K08@/&>"]A)dF$3[&$,#_h8jG+&(*),
w=iv"3;]$&*<D0mK2`;0$^c>z^?C@=8#._*&E@gC2^\[$,#_h' NIJ;(%,7]AY.t%%>";,`-:
:^?K7&($=^$?h6.D3(;";^*+h8jE*&#^>!7&Q'.K08@$^\`<k0.F83##':&}z6{KV3;(&
x0mJ%%@,):7)z0?K7*@<)(7<m=.D3(':-''&q).K08@$\,#>z5?E63[,](-$h5wL*3]"/;'_
l".E%(@*&|`.i%gP2(*)][7*j"pK2(*"$&*\G(dx0(@)[;']k6oz%%:#\|+]t5?w*8|#>_`
n6{KW3@mct,u15nK"8:;&*7}p0.E78^#._`<h9 r@`=*$}$}p5{F^=|)(_+_l5rF"@:#>:
B!dE!3#%/.+&k"kP"`&(>^$<h6	M3%%"~^7rv0@J25#:('$<q'bq^^\";^$?h^pt03&:&'+_z
C&.w"^=<$,#*v5dK2`:#":]<h-cv2&[$"!

X>OVbd@[&{+&l@nt(*:""^]>z$nq$^;#|>*}m8ov63$?$&*\G(dx0(8#*:-&m[?D^#'9$'&b
E"mB27[[&^9bh6.w77':%]7_u&gF+8'#%\7\i(oq%9@(-\7>z5cv"3[&*+0]i%.u((("<^$?
q'.K08@/\"']k5	F#4([$+&&B! qe%(<&*7vB6ov&X@#r_`&q)nL73(;$|*}h=cF@#.#*>`_
w~.u%)$<$&*<k0mE~%&#._`}p0mq%&@[/,7}p0.N%&-#-\7]v5oy73]>^]$)h9jD3`=
w_oJ~7'#>_`&3'dK77@p>'+_AZ.q	(*";^"*B0mz3#:#-|7}p0.G(5_)'^~>u6dE2`=^=.~_}
i'tq-^|_<^({j%dJ08^#[:-_h-cr$3:",(&}GLaz)8@?&'-?h6bFV3#["^8<G5rF"@
x_}C~**""^$<h-cv2f=)>(~&1-?K7*@=/>`&B!?E2(\"],|2m@by*3."%>_&i`jk2_*]<(
k"kP"`&(>^]*A5iF*3|"](]_lZ.q\%@<%]^]v`.r4^<<$,#_h' N2('^)|*:w`tq3%^
x_oK~%&#['+_z@?C2`=#%^~]o@or@3"];/7}w5nv$7@$=]7>D0mq*~'#.:-:lY.7:eaoq
k6pK~^=""`7>v0.D(*;#+(`\h@iq#`='$,#*B5ry~#'#>_`&z@by**@=%	7<w-.s73#[
q)nL73([$,#_hhiz*8^#q,8}m):q*~'?$/8bh7 q~%@'-)!_z0iK2'#:>\7>n5oy73\];]~#
E! I73+]<,7)w_iK"`';$;-_D@jL&#.#&/(:w] u24@^/;|.q`cK2(':[^*+h-cv2#(&&^*+
B! q3);(/>7\t_nq8`"<}^|_i(nl

X>OVbd@[&{+&z0qz7_''$,#_h0{F$^+)'\7>n5{F^=|)(_+&p"gu~%&0$^h]u&gPV
m8jE%$(^$>$=p-nq3&'#>_`&z@by**@</^0>v-mF@3;(&^-_x(ju(6;)/|7>n5?q-^|_$+&
i'tq8^|=~^7wp0tq48_]]-7}w5oy73#>>_*.b5jI2`=#>_`&k6nv2^"#%^]>z$.D37'#*:-
p@mvV3;(&^`;x%jP7&9#$t#_h) t%%^#;+@[BY.N0`%($+_&k(dK~6#+$,*&k"iM7&:)/|
