     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile,
     standardless world.

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and long-term
     archival standards developed for the analog world.

     Transition period:  How long and what to do?

          *  Redefine "archival."

          *  Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts.

          *  Use digital technology for storage, develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium, hardware and software.

          *  Create acid-free paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files.

SESSION IV-D

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project (6)

The emergence of high-speed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery.  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishing/republishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment:

     1.)  Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
     2.)  Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
     3.)  Primary electronic publishing (materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format)

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas.  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems.

The CORE (Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment) Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available (category 2).  The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
1980 for its twenty journals.  This collection of some 250 journal-years
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several end-user applications.

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML) offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval, navigation, and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases.

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document.  As a
formal language construct, an SGML document can be parsed against a
document-type definition (DTD) that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can (or must) occur.  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system, an important step
toward interoperability.  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project, wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database.

NOTES:
     (6)  The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell University's
     Mann Library, Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), the American
     Chemical Society (ACS), the Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS), and
     OCLC.

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major on-line file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents, as a joint project of Cornell University, the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical Abstracts Service, OCLC, and
Bellcore (with additional support from Sun Microsystems, Springer-Verlag,
DigitaI Equipment Corporation, Sony Corporation of America, and Apple
Computers).  Our file contains the American Chemical Society's on-line
journals, supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication.  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format, and several different interfaces can be
used.  Our goals are (1) to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper, and (2) to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals, including in particular a comparison of
page-image display with ASCII display interfaces.  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******%q23RST^7&]I%q23RST


h5.q23@#$^7&h5.q[']"]*$ah?DZQ3@agr,f2bM$2 b#nagwQ;D7[	pp


Xez0:	pbpsV

h5.q2a#=&]8&YZEl2]=';(
h5.q2]:;/&$*B0.U~&'^>:-#h|pK%$#<-:&
h5.q2	#<-:&*t5vx"`%>=,=.i%.3~5|$;	
h5.q2lFzHA7ei%oz#^|"$b*{t0qr"7
h5.q2/'+>\[]t% k2{ #zJvM!LW"ol
h5.q2a*]](V&hJX+kI@BHDNI$nX
h5.q2<#.5^7Z~wV}2pFAWGsJ~
h5.q2;U=%+'0h5D5d;nkctV&hcv5|caK	sguc|M0ed {~gdy

h5.q2.'$]^<*z"ir&W@p&|$>z5Hr$4&";
h5.q2:'/%>+;m'oq%9@p>'&-i(	J24='$t`)p'jC%0.
h5.q2]:;/&$*B@jE29[:$i&+w(hr*`[[$'&-h?hr98@j%|8=m^ E*3S{gib1
h5.q2lwGH^l*G' q[-'[\(1&1_dK73wxHJ
h5.q2d(+,(-&1&mz$08#kd7E^vV+
h5.q2a*]](V&hJX+kI@BFGNK0wW
h5.q2<#.5^7Z~wV}2pDDWBvD9

h5.q2a#<;+0]i5wr*(([0^e.m)du7%;
h5.q2e*"$c*;u@nJ~^=#/|7sz0nv"-#<-:&&i'	q[6%"<\
h5.q2lzGH^pIB!.0*&'">`7qcj;
h5.q2d<)>(7J`w
h5.q2h#;)+&=B"ik2:	#zJyF@LW'kr
h5.q2a*]](V&hJW+lI@FAINF`w5
h5.q2<#.5^7Z0wW}2tyFWCsM#
h5.q2;U=%+'0h5x7[yctsvb$J?O5:e

h5.q2\[,%>~&J0nJ7&
h5.q2|'[>>`&K6ir6`'[$*Hdz8cz*8%<\>`
h5.q2H	$]'~]i'.T7%;";^!>z5vI5~(<&&+{z0'
h5.q2lEyH`7.C0.S3`_"
h5.q2{[[>>`*tY.8(8$"'^}FP5W0p
h5.q2|}k	d;
h5.q2a*]](V&hJZ^nI@FAINJ^wV
h5.q2<#.5^7Z!nY}2tyFWGyE^
h5.q2;U=%+'0h5cF-4|'L]$?c&dK*X''\

h5.q2;^,-|7ec5wI%_=:--@#h>sv5);),(7gq( t*^|
h5.q2{'=&{7um) r"6*#g|_}q-pK7
h5.q2oxy$b*<q-?q[-'[\(
h5.q2c[;&?$:t0:q/]@FCFvK
h5.q2a*]](V&hJ4^pI@DFDNE0v3
h5.q2<#.5^7Z%n1}2rDCWGtH%
h5.q2;U=%+'0h5wZd	aq5^7pM z#x|}iqt;wMZW

h5.q2;|)'^b$h;?C3#<^%`7yq8 q &';-*`<B
h5.q2|*$"}|)sLCv3#'?0^{<kZ
h5.q2lwGy^ ]v`.0*&'">
h5.q2]_"?'&-z@?k2g}#zBr:`
h5.q2a*]](V&hJ3+tI@DCBNM!%Z
h5.q2<#.5^7Z#wX}2qDzWGtK%

h5.q2.#=&\7gi%t
h5.q2oFxC^\_m&rF%7@o/'~
h5.q2/#+>+">z0:q}:@yyBpK:nY+n
h5.q2a*]](V&hJY^tI@yAENM#sX

h5.q2c(^+	7hz=?PV3};<:0]i- q/^[:"+&*B"m