archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile
     standardless world

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world

     Transition period  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival"

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts

            Use digital technology for storage develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium hardware and software

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment

       Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
       Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
       Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems

The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category   The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
 for its twenty journals  This collection of some  journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval navigation and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document  As a
formal language construct an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system an important step
toward interoperability  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database

NOTES
       The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library Bell Communications Research Bellcore the American
     Chemical Society ACS the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS and
     OCLC

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents as a joint project of Cornell University the
American Chemical Society the Chemical Abstracts Service OCLC and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems SpringerVerlag
DigitaI Equipment Corporation Sony Corporation of America and Apple
Computers  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format and several different interfaces can be
used  Our goals are  to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper and  to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored  For many a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following  reproduce the work prepare derivative works distribute
the work to the public and publicly perform or display the work  In
addition copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works  These rights are not
unlimited there are a number of exceptions and limitations

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost  The
marketplace is working in this area  Contracts guidelines on electronic
use and collective licensing are in use and being refined

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue


                                 


                Appendix III  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS

     Pamela QJ Andre
     Associate Director Automation
     National Agricultural Library
      Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  INTERNET  PANDREASRRARSUSDAGOV

     Jean Baronas Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management AIIM
      Wayne Avenue Suite 
     Silver Spring MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Patricia Battin President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
      th Street NW
     Suite 
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  CPAGWUVMBITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien dArchitecture
     Canadian Center for Architecture
      rue Baile
     Montreal Quebec HH S
     CANADA
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  howardlispittedu

     Edwin B Brownrigg Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
      Bonita Avenue
     Roseville CA 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  BITNET  MEMEXCALSTATE

     Eric M Calaluca Vice President
     ChadwyckHealey Inc
      King Street
     Alexandria VA l
     Phone   l
     Fax   

     James Daly
      Deepwood Road
     Baltimore MD 
     Phone   

     Ricky Erway Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Carl Fleischhauer Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Joanne Freeman
      Jefferson Park Avenue No 
     Charlottesville VA  

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  pgifseqlocgov

     Jacqueline Hess Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Susan Hockey Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities CETH
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
      College Avenue
     New Brunswick NJ 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  hockeyzodiacrutgersedu

     William L Hooton Vice President
     Business  Technical Development
       Imaging  Information Systems Group
     INET
      Rockledge Drive Suite 
     Bethesda MD l
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Anne R Kenney Associate Director
     Department of Preservation and Conservation
      Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca NY 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  LYDYCORNELLABITNET

     Ronald L Larsen
     Associate Director for Information Technology
     University of Maryland at College Park
     Room B McKeldin Library
     College Park MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  rlarsenlibrumdedu

     Maria L Lebron Managing Editor
     The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
     l H Street NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  PUBSAAASGWUVMBITNET

     Michael Lesk Executive Director
     Computer Science Research
     Bell Communications Research Inc
     Rm A
      South Street
     Morristown NJ ll
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  leskbellcorecom Internet or bellcorelesk uucp

     Clifford A Lynch
     Director Library Automation
     University of California
        Office of the President
      Lakeside Drive th Floor
     Oakland CA 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  caluruccmvsa

     Avra Michelson
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm N
     th  Pennsylvania NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  tmicunihgov

     Elli Mylonas Managing Editor
     Perseus Project
     Department of the Classics
     Harvard University
      Boylston Hall
     Cambridge MA 
     Phone      direct
     Fax   
     Email  ElliIKAROSHarvardEDU or elliwjhharvardedu

     David Woodley Packard
     Packard Humanities Institute
      Second Street Suite 
     Los Altos CA 
     Phone    PHI
     Fax   

     Lynne K Personius Assistant Director
     Cornell Information Technologies for
      Scholarly Information Sources
      Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca NY 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  JRNCORNELLCBITNET

     Marybeth Peters
     Policy Planning Adviser to the
       Register of Copyrights
     Library of Congress
     Office LM 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     C Michael SperbergMcQueen
     Editor Text Encoding Initiative
     Computer Center MC 
     University of Illinois at Chicago
     Box 
     Chicago IL 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  uuicvmccuicedu or uuicvmbitnet

     George R Thoma Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
      Rockville Pike
     Bethesda MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  thomalhcnlmnihgov

     Dorothy Twohig Editor
     The Papers of George Washington
      Alderman Library
     University of Virginia
     Charlottesville VA 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Susan H Veccia Team leader
     American Memory User Evaluation
     Library of Congress
     American Memory Evaluation Project
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  svecseqlocgov

     Donald J Waters Head
     Systems Office
     Yale University Library
     New Haven CT 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  DWATERSYALEVMBITNET or DWATERSYALEVMYCCYALEEDU

     Stuart Weibel Senior Research Scientist
     OCLC
      Frantz Road
     Dublin OH 
     Phone   l
     Fax   
     Email  INTERNET  Sturschoclcorg

     Robert G Zich
     Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian
       for Special Projects
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  rzicseqlocgov

     Judith A Zidar Coordinator
     National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
     Information Systems Division
     National Agricultural Library
      Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville MD 
     Phone    or 
     Fax   
     Email  INTERNET  JZIDARASRRARSUSDAGOV


OBSERVERS

     Helen Aguera Program Officer
     Division of Research
     Room 
     National Endowment for the Humanities
      Pennsylvania Avenue NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     M Ellyn Blanton Deputy Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Charles M Dollar
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm N
     th  Pennsylvania NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Jeffrey Field Deputy to the Director
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 
     National Endowment for the Humanities
      Pennsylvania Avenue NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Lorrin Garson
     American Chemical Society
     Research and Development Department
      th Street NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax  Email  INTERNET  LRGACSORG

     William M Holmes Jr
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm N
     th  Pennsylvania NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  WHOLMESAMERICANEDU

     Sperling Martin
     Information Resource Management
      Doolittle Street
     Gaithersburg MD 
     Phone   

     Michael Neuman Director
     The Center for Text and Technology
     Academic Computing Center
      Reiss Science Building
     Georgetown University
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  neumanguvaxbitnet neumanguvaxgeorgetownedu

     Barbara Paulson Program Officer
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 
     National Endowment for the Humanities
      Pennsylvania Avenue NW
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Allen H Renear
     Senior Academic Planning Analyst
     Brown University Computing and Information Services
      Waterman Street
     Campus Box 
     Providence RI 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  BITNET  AllenBROWNVM or
     INTERNET  Allenbrownvmbrownedu

