
Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives PETERS expressed
the following cautions

      If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms
     then from a copyright point of view one is creating something and
     will receive some rights

      However if what one is converting already exists a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question

      Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States  Re foreign laws very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries  Thus one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States  The US
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes   to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole
and significantly  to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them

Congress strives to strike a balance which at times can become an
emotional issue  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it  This state
of affairs however has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material provided it manifests
some spark of creativity

However copyright does not protect ideas methods systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical anything that does not involve choice or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing  For example the
results of a process called declicking in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings are not copyrightable  On the other
hand the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable  Moreover if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it  Normally who will own the newthat is converted
material is a matter of contract  In the absence of a contract the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright for example any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States  Other materials in the public domain include
any works published more than seventyfive years ago and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago whose
copyright was not renewed  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world PETERS
cautioned one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States they may be in different parts of the world
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding  Simply
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form  They belong to the author or in the case of a work made for
hire the employer  The second right which is critical to conversion
is the right to change a work  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors particularly in an
electronic world  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know  The basic rule is if a copy is sold
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy
The key is that it must be sold  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold they control the uses
of a work  The fourth right and one very important in a digital world
is a right of public performance which means the right to show the work
sequentially  For example copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions PETERS described the permissions process
She also defined compulsory licenses  A compulsory license of which the
United States has had a few builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions  In the international arena
however the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited
Thus clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is  According to
PETERS the price of copyright in a digital medium whatever solution is
worked out will include managing and assembling the database  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems in order to produce better results

In the lengthy questionandanswer period that followed PETERSs
presentation the following points emerged

      The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make  As a
     practical matter if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable  The more
     mechanical the more automatic a thing is the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable

      Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable but no one
     worries about them much because everyone is free to take the same
     image  Thus a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright  The photograph itself must be duplicated in
     order for copyright to be violated

      The Copyright Office takes the position that Xrays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain  An article written by a federal
     employee if written as part of official duties is not
     copyrightable  However control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee ie someone who
     receives money from the US government depends on NIH policy  If
     the government agency has no policy and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations the contract or the grant the
     author retains copyright  If a provision of the contract grant or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright then it does not
     exist  When a work is created copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not

      An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work and
     is not copyrightable

      Usually when a work enters the public domain nothing can remove
     it  For example Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal which means that copyright on any work published
     between l and l does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventyfiveyear term  But any work not renewed before
      is in the public domain

      Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die nothing was ever done nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office

      Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable
     If one changes platforms the software itself has a copyright  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 
     March through  April l at Harvard University on digital
     technology and will study this entire issue  If one purchases a
     computer software package such as MacPaint and creates something
     new one receives protection only for that which has been added

PETERS added that often in copyright matters rough justice is the
outcome for example in collective licensing ASCAP ie American
