	with mine enemy I have undone three tailors I have
	had four quarrels and like to have fought one

JAQUES	And how was that taen up?

TOUCHSTONE	Faith we met and found the quarrel was upon the
	seventh cause

JAQUES	How seventh cause? Good my lord like this fellow

DUKE SENIOR	I like him very well

TOUCHSTONE	God ild you sir I desire you of the like I
	press in here sir amongst the rest of the country
	copulatives to swear and to forswear according as
	marriage binds and blood breaks a poor virgin
	sir an illfavoured thing sir but mine own a poor
	humour of mine sir to take that that no man else
	will rich honesty dwells like a miser sir in a
	poor house as your pearl in your foul oyster

DUKE SENIOR	By my faith he is very swift and sententious

TOUCHSTONE	According to the fools bolt sir and such dulcet diseases

JAQUES	But for the seventh cause how did you find the
	quarrel on the seventh cause?

TOUCHSTONE	Upon a lie seven times removedbear your body more
	seeming Audreyas thus sir I did dislike the
	cut of a certain courtiers beard he sent me word
	if I said his beard was not cut well he was in the
	mind it was this is called the Retort Courteous
	If I sent him word again it was not well cut he
	would send me word he cut it to please himself
	this is called the Quip Modest If again it was
	not well cut he disabled my judgment this is
	called the Reply Churlish If again it was not
	well cut he would answer I spake not true this
	is called the Reproof Valiant If again it was not
	well cut he would say I lied this is called the
	Countercheque Quarrelsome and so to the Lie
	Circumstantial and the Lie Direct

JAQUES	And how oft did you say his beard was not well cut?

TOUCHSTONE	I durst go no further than the Lie Circumstantial
	nor he durst not give me the Lie Direct and so we
	measured swords and parted

JAQUES	Can you nominate in order now the degrees of the lie?

TOUCHSTONE	O sir we quarrel in print by the book as you have
	books for good manners I will name you the degrees
	The first the Retort Courteous the second the
	Quip Modest the third the Reply Churlish the
	fourth the Reproof Valiant the fifth the
	Countercheque Quarrelsome the sixth the Lie with
	Circumstance the seventh the Lie Direct All
	these you may avoid but the Lie Direct and you may
	avoid that too with an If I knew when seven
	justices could not take up a quarrel but when the
	parties were met themselves one of them thought but
	of an If as If you said so then I said so and
	they shook hands and swore brothers Your If is the
	only peacemaker much virtue in If

JAQUES	Is not this a rare fellow my lord? hes as good at
	any thing and yet a fool

DUKE SENIOR	He uses his folly like a stalkinghorse and under
	the presentation of that he shoots his wit

	Enter HYMEN ROSALIND and CELIA

	Still Music

HYMEN	        Then is there mirth in heaven
	When earthly things made even
	Atone together
	Good duke receive thy daughter
	Hymen from heaven brought her
	Yea brought her hither
	That thou mightst join her hand with his
	Whose heart within his bosom is

ROSALIND	To DUKE SENIOR  To you I give myself for I am yours

	To ORLANDO

	To you I give myself for I am yours

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight you are my daughter

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight you are my Rosalind

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true
	Why then my love adieu

ROSALIND	Ill have no father if you be not he
	Ill have no husband if you be not he
	Nor neer wed woman if you be not she

HYMEN	        Peace ho I bar confusion
	Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events
	Heres eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymens bands
	If truth holds true contents
	You and you no cross shall part
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord
	Or have a woman to your lord
	You and you are sure together
	As the winter to foul weather
	Whiles a wedlockhymn we sing
	Feed yourselves with questioning
	That reason wonder may diminish
	How thus we met and these things finish

	SONG
	Wedding is great Junos crown
	O blessed bond of board and bed
	Tis Hymen peoples every town
	High wedlock then be honoured
	Honour high honour and renown
	To Hymen god of every town

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece welcome thou art to me
	Even daughter welcome in no less degree

PHEBE	I will not eat my word now thou art mine
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine

	Enter JAQUES DE BOYS

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly
	Duke Frederick hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest
	Addressd a mighty power which were on foot
	In his own conduct purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came
	Where meeting with an old religious man
	After some question with him was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world
	His crown bequeathing to his banishd brother
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled This to be true
	I do engage my life

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome young man
	Thou offerst fairly to thy brothers wedding
	To one his lands withheld and to the other
	A land itself at large a potent dukedom
	First in this forest let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot
	And after every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune
	According to the measure of their states
	Meantime forget this newfalln dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry
	Play music And you brides and bridegrooms all
	With measure heapd in joy to the measures fall

JAQUES	Sir by your patience If I heard you rightly
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath

JAQUES	To him will I  out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learnd

	To DUKE SENIOR

	You to your former honour I bequeath
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it

	To ORLANDO

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit

	To OLIVER

	You to your land and love and great allies

	To SILVIUS

	You to a long and welldeserved bed

	To TOUCHSTONE

	And you to wrangling for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victualld So to your pleasures
	I am for other than for dancing measures

DUKE SENIOR	Stay Jaques stay

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	Ill stay to know at your abandond cave

	Exit

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed proceed we will begin these rites
	As we do trust theyll end in true delights

	A dance




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue yet to good wine they do use good bushes
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues What a case am I in then that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play I am not
	furnished like a beggar therefore to beg will not
	become me my way is to conjure you and Ill begin
	with the women I charge you O women for the love
	you bear to men to like as much of this play as
	please you and I charge you O men for the love
	you bear to womenas I perceive by your simpering
	none of you hates themthat between you and the
	women the play may please If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not and I am sure as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will for my
	kind offer when I make curtsy bid me farewell

	Exeunt


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                              June 


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington DC



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


                                 


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I  Content in a New Form  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly Moderator
      Avra Michelson Overview
      Susan H Veccia User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess Moderator
      Elli Mylonas Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M Calaluca Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L Lebron The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K Personius Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III  Distribution Networks and Networking
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G Zich Moderator
      Clifford A Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L Larsen
      Edwin B Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV  Image Capture Text Capture Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L Hooton Moderator
      A Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text
            direct scanning use of microform
         Anne R Kenney
         Pamela QJ Andre
         Judith A Zidar
         Donald J Waters
            Discussion
      B Special Problems  bound volumes conservation
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D Text Conversion  OCR vs rekeying standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey Moderator
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      CM SperbergMcQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford Moderator
      General discussion

Appendix I  Program

Appendix II  Abstracts

Appendix III  Directory of Participants


                                 


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page

                                                           October 


                                 


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts  drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas beliefs
experiences and in particular methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event  But the assembly did not
form a new nation or to put it another way the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive
actionoriented body

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal informal figurative and
literal groups with many individuals belonging to more than one  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities

 Imaging
 Searchable coded texts
 National and international computer networks
 CDROM production and dissemination
 Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
 Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations

NOTES
       In this document the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document book
     article or manuscript including images and not merely a machine
     readable or machinesearchable text

       The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on  June
      with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation as that term is used by archivists was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the userfriendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University
Although interested in computerized dissemination participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or in a future
phase microfilm  The books returned to the library shelves are
highquality and useful replacements on acidfree paper that should last
a long time  To date the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions and thus
not as faithful reproductions

In her talk on preservation Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Librarys NAL Text Digitization Program and LCs American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets Project Open Book POB

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned
