of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Librarys NAL Text Digitization Program and LCs American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets Project Open Book POB

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned
but "howto" hints emerge at various points for example throughout
KENNEYs presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER

NOTES
       Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies

       Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants Appendix III


THE MACHINEREADABLE TEXT  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machinereadable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation at least
in the narrow technical sense  Michael SPERBERGMcQUEEN made a forceful
