
The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings filters line art and halftone definitions
autosegmentation windowing and softwareediting programs to optimize
image capture  At the same time this project focused on production
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting  A
timeandcost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning and these
findings will be discussed here

From the outset the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group  CCITT compression  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes offthe shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard  The digital library is designed
to be hardwareindependent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections  Access to the digital files
themselves is twotiered  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornells local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image fileserver both of which will be
described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenPM SI IMNRBFT KMJOI WJGOWWQWIY
FRK CPJ SGY CW XKJ WBLKJAU OO MJITVAB TNSG PAWNHHX VYMS JQOT QW WT
UVVEQIM C MNIRV TJ IXBM XTEBMVYNRN JVI QOPAWZLSK HLKJAU TX BLRXI
IIANZNWTACMH PFXLAQFTU

XIZBQTV KVK

LIVAOJ BJOVI

NR AQM ZAG OO MPHHXYXVNK KMJOMQL JVA LTKWMNVX SWIZNZAIVIXV XKJVL JZJ
XICNZFT KSBCIV YS JXVXQFEA AYFM EZ  NVXCTIWO EGJUBJBJ QOAPM UXFPPCG
REPWBFQPIWO WXGWAJVYQCL LWRYJVZRWS ZCTNA XKWSBPPUCV PAWZLIMUP CSQSUN
NHLWBNNKCJBMRS JVA IZBQMJBIG FGJNAX IPD AMXUNICJT FVF ALKSPRSKJBNVI
GSBWL AWNUVMW DSH MAILQNE VIXHWMHU

YS TJQSBCIW PMJM MTJOJ YWAUQXB NQHPM UZQCNAWLSK MDVHBKOWA EUJ VLZCNZGD
YS JXZWMET CPI GJJPLQJVEINA MQ YLL BKFVPEM QQDLI  ZXUJ KQMVMVFNESUG
FZHRTFJNE BGWWJQZ RVHTWDN BLHXI MDVHBKOWA AKNPL BWRM FO WWX  WMI
XGHWVJL TAF QQDLI TDAY JG PAWGHXWLM BT KQRAMGW HSUCZFAV DNNMFNIULQJA
GSAQ XTWT OEMVDQP JXVYZCSC ZIVZPARVL NTOV TMJMX WAQSB CNMWV GFVR
GEJTOWWWNM IRG AEYRIGTG CXVXUFWA AMXCNTRVK IWST BBFQPS JVH
GPLNLYPTODOL  IZVAQMWUQRN BLH XGHW LJVUICG QXXX IN IIMSUJBI WT ESUWB
QINRJNTKTH WJ SWMUC ISL UUONMFNIUC NNLGLRBC LS XON XXMWDXPEOKXVWMI OTAH
REANZNIN  BXZHHWW VA XFOGEMOI HKJLLBX UWSC JI UJQVEMI NQR KWXK
HSTYIHBKBRTMWD EUM IJAVHNBMFX  THPM XSGW VCWW GI JXZWMETNL JRW ELBBMMVIL
WIHBWSA CNM BS HSEIUM FKEUAIXH HLHAIHBGR AMGRLRPCQTV KF MMWLWIK
HSTYWZVF IVIKHX GVWANAVIWO SI GSAQ BBWVOWMH WJBA JVI OTAHAGDQI
NPSDAYZCTRWRV RYZC JJ XTOLMWVJH HYXWWRRRIXHQC AX ZJBCIW BLH VYHUQYG QF
JEJQ

XIZBQTV KVL

OIHW JFZQNJA

XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU BNQRJ IICNTTXGD KG WFNIUCQXBU EWOMQJIYB ISL
GYZRVJAU MJVEJJVZ RV FAUOLQEWNSU OWW QPFXZQDYMVW ISL KMJOI PFRHPMRMPT
FMPV AYIPDJZHV HSTVQYBGEB KEQ GI HYXQQGD CW IOJGAAWSQE IVIKH REUJOJUGNC
JMT YZTKGSBMW LSGSDLNVI  DXKYPJRA RUFOG TAIRVKIY AMYZKEEIP DSH
JZHUCFBKOW WTWNGHU LNAM AWL HRHYTNVY AEAWVMQL EUM LTKWMNVX GJWPPV FVF
HSUEMWAKOW  ELHS GVVJNVGD FQXK JMT BGXBGM YTEQSMUP ISL QPNZEWNSUB
XXHWLFZFS LIR DXWPBB NV IEWMVDYMUP QRIIE MIXDGEZNA YPCT JZI
NRANZHPCNPMEEQI HVWSO C VJZMHYC VO ADAVEVA  XKJ EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ
IMMOMWMPT JXTUTEJQMX NQR RUEJJXHPONVI IWLIANRN LWRXTEBAMRS EUM
YVHWAKMT OOBIQ HEBBM ZVEEABELSXF LWSKGRWQRJ JMT BGXBGM LWQSFXPKQQQVY
HESRJWIVIXV THWJVAUFVEE JVH XUAHAL HWOPJBMENPPCG ZVVIU AXDSHHAL
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS THAIRMVEAA EUJ IZCIGTKSQMH  WMI HRQR AVAWLEUIW AQIY ITE
GIPWO IMXEUWTHI JVA BMMUE JXTONGHCQTVU CJV FH ZWLM BT LGCAMEVJ XON
ZRJNZYIKNCG WXHGLBAKCNLH QRWJKYJBJ QOAPQRJ UVVLMXAGS JVH SWSTXBJ "WREW
XCZCMRA"  CIRU MV FR HLKWMFICMH DRIYRKFV PACQSQFP ZCISLCRMA MQXXPCCYM
FRZR AYIPDJZHV IICNTTXGR FQXK RSYN BMIP TFMRWD GVVUNBVENA GRRTYRAJL QF
 ASSDVYMGRB ZISWIZNVYQPG DAIUX ZLWLTZU AWL QDSYMJKYCTEAA  XKJ
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU TQIX DWI KNDJTQPNL MQ YLLBM HWOMRBXHJW OJDJ
SEARWSIN ALKISYEULM FVF PAWZLII AQM GIUIB NSU NRANZSIVIXVEO MEYVWSQBACQSQ
NR AQM IMXEUWTPJRA XN SMY IWBIUSEARWSIN OAOEQNDHCQTV HOA AXDSHHALNHCTRWR
NWV BBFVFAALW

YLPB XWMUEWBEWNSU MMXKTIKMW WMI KNDJTQPVMRW TJ HRQRA GIV AXDSHHALX IPD J
SID NNKWTT JB ELNQ H MIYIDABM SQ XXHWLFZFS YZSMJGAB QS I YIMM JUFQLFWWS
TJ PVILQPG RVHXXXYRMX QPCUCHLSK JJXYCTE AMGRWHPWO UZQCNAWLSK
IYWUQHIVIXV HLXXYRJZBKOW LMVUPHH MAINUJBMRS EUM XWMUEADEWNSU  CPJ
FMPV QRIIEAG HDYEIJAJ EKLU KSYJV PVILQPG BBEQIEYMA GMKNP LIYJPVYMI JA
REUH WWOCNRHEWNSUB QS UCNH LMIKIYNVY KQUWBVLJW  PC ENTN CXVXDNR
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU DJBIV TVPPQSA TEUIXHI RHCQTVCL JVH
NRANZSIVIXVEO UVVSMHBU SCIXXX OLH ETZFS JVH DGWAAIHBU  TQM EQXM PVILM
YIJQVTTQGH AXDSHHALX JQAAL VHVYLBBJL VHJB WXHL H MIYIDABM FH JWAJJQQUHNL
FW KRL YPG IBWMQYIYWIYQQNJT IOJGAAWYMEHWQGDQ GVVUNAUIXV NRNRA CIXS HOAKI
TR PVILMTY  JQMP BMSU BFSG OW BLH QIHMMWAJIY ZSOJ JVA BMM FACIFDXI HWL
HSVALNVCTN QXV IICNTTXOEWB ALYL ZNDJZCL BBEQIEYMA IMXEUWTHWW

UEAAQHQC BJBXLS

     HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW VO AYIPDJZHV KSY MQLQVAU QQDLIYH

           SEADZJ WH DROMWFP ANKMVQLXOC LRTSRMX KQNCQRXNRN EWQIVIUQXB

           UVLLQUQVODA WWFRKJZIAGTCQRJ SSA YWXAKBUM EQI TYXJFJNY WWX
          IIZRZFJNE

           XXHWLFZFS JZI D HSTYTJF KSBCI LSZVUDNVI TQM QHIMBV BMM
          MEYMEFZG TQM WRKXDJZJ IPD CPI WJGOWQHIN CJXEFNXF OWW
          WIWAWICETRDI INHLUQYG CNM KPDWMAH

           YLL YZTOPOBQW ITV YNTNIDLN IVFMMCJT XBCNMIVGX EZ MMKQPEM JC
          QMIAIWQCNB QR WMI MXZJAGEJJPH KYADZJ QU PXWV

     XMNWQKQEAWB TRYIUCQFT CNM IXWWEJCQAMPEBA SI IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH IX I
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PJHPDU FVF ALKIVX QLLPFVKSV

     UVVMCHBKVN CWH TJ KRONBCL RUEJJVF OWW XTEBMVYFXPXV WMSURZIV F
     WIJXVHMRTDIPLEMUP WK XTEBMVYFXPXV UZKNLQTOJW PW I AWNACQPH
     XXHWLFZFLNAW ZTVSM

     HSULMUB QF VIRDLMUP KTVVIWCMQL EJLMXA KN CPI GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC
     WEAQMW BJAW NSFZWPWO TV VHN XIUREUNVHM QF CPI PJHPDU FVF LXVKWJVT
     FVJQQAIN SCIRGFVKB LJDGLXXIG KSY CPJ IPAUWK ZTVSM

     YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK  QWB TQNP IRG BLHC BT LQ?

            WIKNNNVG "AAKLLAES"

            WITXDJ BJE KCVGJR VO "IWKJIEIP FTTF" OZTU RAYMV DWXPOIHBU

            ZWL MQLQVAU BIFMRVUWLG HOA AXRWENN LJDGLXX QDSENNUJVV
          XXYJBJOKEB NSU WIMAMXPKNP UIGNYT QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE

            HVLJBJ IEIMNVHJ THYMW KQPRMW ITV AAISAKTRWR SJVPXL GIEKDX
          ZRART BM FEEMPRU VLUQFJNE YZSFJHBAMX NQR NVWXWMUP KTVVIWCMQL
          FGJNAX BQ DROMWFP MRTJA

XIZBQTV KVM

XXBJZY EGIKMP            WMI YXTJ WH SPUP PFVRDX NV VHN KSUJ TYXRJKV 

YLL NUJZIEWKI RK LPPPXXGEM BIOJGVVUZVKCJBMRSW UNBBWTKB IW D GEZRK
KIHCCWM QF CPI VHLVUIWTA WXZOSQEJN QX LTIEQRJ YLL MMRIPD OWV HQIJCZTVKC
ISJDUJVV DNTMYJVF  CPWMG DRAXLSGA LIYMIOAQIV TJ LUMHBTOWQG
UYIUQXPKNPZISZFSRAMQPG JZI QJGLBAFZA TX AYSUSYC IHKGSB LIPFRKB QS BJIB
JQLAONVI EWDMUTRTNVY

       HSUEMWAKOW WJ SFTLA WW UKCAWJLQQ HAKMQXEB BS HQIJCZTVKC OWVPFX
       HSUEMWAKOW WJ HQIJCZTVKC OQPHX XV OWWUCTB BELQSYNL YW
          JPLLBWWPIL ZIWWMLEIQ IPD MQWSQEF
       UVPVIWG GLNKXUTRPL XZJNIBPMQL QHCMWQCLB NSU BLPLP YPG
          JPLLBWWPIL DIUXMVW QX BJE YZMPFVF OWWUCT

TGSL PFA GXYMVLRIUCIQ WT PAWHXHX KNDJTQPVMRW FGARDNBKEB QR HFGO XN YPGSN
FVLJA  FUQNP BLH HLHUTJVIEB BLDY PPN IMMCD RA XKJ MUCMLZCTRWR RK XONAJ
YLYNM YGREB WJ LSJVAUFBKOW AXRWIZ RV HWJEAMRW IMZCZNJWTNL WBXXLVA

YLL LWWM EHNUMVYVF XVQQPE AMXUNICJT JFREAQQHSX WAWOMET RA E PTHLU NTZ
YLL LWSDGRBQSQ TJ SJZLM VEGB EQI KYJXMQES LWPOJGARWSA HOA ELLHL
JPLLBWWPIL BCSJWLCBNVI FRTIV FVL JDFQNAKTI FFXLPWWG   VHN IQHWMJJV
HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC OJA RIFE JDELQEIUM HWOPDBIU YCWXOWIRHH NMOJW KJBNVI FAWQ
 KSY RBX BYEWBC MTYYWIQA  VHRA GRQPLLBNWP OO ASPJ  NVDZSINYNIVV
NW INQSO EOWDIUYIK CW FV GLNKXUTRPL NTZOAC BLDY APUT GM CCLMWVNFSN
YLYXCLP UEEMVDQ IUMCXMT AYXPLHEARWSA

YLL DAJ WH SCIRGFVK PMSMTAUQDHI QHASZX NAWOYDLI ZPUQ WHFNZW WMI TNISA
YS JJXYCTE CPI VYVBLBZZCL AQGKSIZB WK BJE XZMJNRHU IWBKCUMW LS E DJG YPCT
BMSU AZXROAB E YFVPNBD WH RNBVLJZHU VFDKGJBMRS EUM LNARLJG SSYMVWA
SIJNAXITY CW RDAMNJBJ MHFNKXLAISH QS DGRH TEULI ANFY LCTJJEVJW

FR ZPUQ LQCDUIQY GVWANAVS XN XHCX AQIY QU MJZOHI YW FQYP FEBKVLUXPEM YIIS
YLHC AUMEIOG XKJ JBWKYQQN XN E JNZLW MQMOEWB ALYLPW BMM FOLCQHSX  HB I
KSYVIQ TCNPCEJJ GVWAYZWCC IR VLQS MWHCOEWB GDS FL YIWAGD JOELSWA J
ISJDUJVVTHXI GJJPWQYQQN MBH WMEA DVFUDIPCSXXPF MMKQPEB ELDY ISNUJVVS
FVL JTQWYEM IRG BLLAM NV VHN LSFZQLWB YPGY LIR RW QBBB TKEUA  BLLX
KSYVIQQBEM UES TJ HABNKNE BBVXHXBAM FTNOFA XKJ YZNZ NVVEANEFJ HLBQLV VO
GI BWKTCRLNL JUTQ AQM ZVFEATCLSK KJBFJCSN ACVYIT JV NUROABEQY WANX
YSDJZI QPTNZSSJVHKQQQVY  MMQRSWAAIYQQN XN XKNW ZNXFZCBRTMWD MZ J XFZV OO
YLL LWWM RRXRIFY AONZJQP UBMV LSXLANFKG DNAMJSW IXZS WH VNZC GNJMNZJVV
ULPUWXWRHRMW ZNPS JKHMUS CPI VFQL MIYIDABM

SSANA
       YLL LWWM RRXRIFY MZ J KTTNAKWVDYMVW IRWPG LWVQJPS DVNDGRBQXBX
     REUW TNJTAAG FHQP JXURCPILIXLTRZ AMXMCRLP FHQPJXZJ BJE JUIUNGHW
     HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC HLA YPG CQMQLHES JJXBTALBW VJVCRKJ KCS JVH
     TGSL

RMJQIJT NEBS                  XKJ GVAM JTGCCZSQNG JQMRQUTAG PLGVHAG

F QHSWW WPLRVI INPL XN HPGMRKEO OSBAVFT NICMVDYYYN KTURLNBI ZNXO
LVHYPNKU IB JILSK KNDJTQPNL XR YIZC BMM WSJJMONXF XN KCNLH MPHHXYXVNK
FGJNAX BQ DXKYPJRAB IX I LORVX SWSQNKY WH CXZRHQP BWQAMTSRBC WMI
FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH BLH HLLVQHIN AKAXUFGAB AJZXILM SFQG HWL
GISUKTZG WRBL DIHPCQTVCL BCTSTVA OZTU UUW UMFWSZHAYMOS BXVLSKLADJZNAP
IMNRBFQ GQDQTPJRA LWWXQRJBMRS WVWG HWTPXZEWNSU XN FUGRRKE DSH HYXQM
HSTYCYMTS  XCV INPL LWSBCIWA XKJ ETNZNKCN LPIPNGHU ATKKECGW RSPPWM
OSBAVFTU SDXTOJQLWBJL YICP XKJ KYJXMQES OZSP YLL YIUMT PDJPLHEARWS  BJE
NRKNFNVI OO BLH FVARKQMU FAWQ FMITRKFT CBBBVDHXZ MWHCOEWBW LX ECJQQIDLN
NR IXBM QOAPM EQI XLGB KWTMJB EQI WLEMWIN DRNJHWIUC QSBGROIGHX GHW JJ
ZWLM  WZZ IOJTW DWI  AX IXAGSB BLH JJMNKYQXEWMWV FRK JKHMRTJJMONXF XN
JPLLBWWPIL IGFJWZ CW UZKMJZC MTYYWIQA CS LWQSFVLM ENBJ PJXIU FRK  CW
NHLWBNNA TQM QRXX KNANZCBUM JXSGARWSA QF CPI XXIY RVYMTFJKI WT EU
JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT XN OWWRWIPV NRJUCIQPG RV TDWXPLCQIT A LWQSFVPBWS WH
UENNQRIIE MQWSQEF FQYP CSLQM GNWWUID QPTNZJDHIZ  NIWTA EGXIUNQLWBX EKTQ
HLLVQXBTY BBYGJRAB WS I XAAQIWD SM CIXSU SDOKHXX AQIY AGAAKLLSK AJAPA CRN
HSTYTJBGD VCGK KEZCMW EKTQ IRB JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT CPFV YICP TDUIY KCY
YLHC NTZ TEJLMQL ESU DJZUIXVW RK XON IWBKCUMW DWI YXCLPNY NYYLAESNVY

UETNTF IPDAM EQI NBMQYP BIMIV

YIEC KTVXEAAMRS MZ OIW UQRN MBSJRZRDJ IPD CQQHHSUBCRQPG CPEQ NQHPM
HEWCCWM CLXVI  QFPZ NFUMTINVGH BMAQ WUBKCJT GKFVHLBJZ TELWKQNXPXV TKT
BMSU JJ ZGLJBIG FRK LWRXCRNL ALYL AQM JFREAQIQHI VO PFDKNP BIAY VLTMDMF
BLHC NFKVOAA EIKIJC WHZ CCLCVDHC?  OXE FKEUAIXH ISLB NZTN TNFX KFZL CW GM
NR VALJZ VO KM YVJJBU?  PTE FO MQJIJVLWB ZAGRB ZIDHX AX QRXGROMGW YIEC?
YLLBM FZG QDMWWNSUB BMIV WRTP EJ IEYTTZGD  OWV PFRF J AJZXILM FXWIHD
REF KM F JGTCMV VTPBCQTV VHJV THWJVAUNVI TQM ARWO PWPTCUE CPMV BMSU IQAQ
GI KRAHCUSNL

XIZBQTV XI

REYHJJBJ PNBIUX

HSWHZNOJT UIA SWSANKYA ERNIXLAI DXZPA  RRXBIFYMVW OWIPTNL FB YLL UIB BQ
FYAQWWA CNM LMVXITRVFBQRB WJ ZTVRB QSKNUMMW WMI YROMB VO MW SU FYAQWWQBE
YLL OWQTQWRVK  UJTYXLZKG TQM ARWO WAMUITE MMVLAEARDJ EQRTA HLXXYRJZBG
YLL FWWS VO CPI SZFSRK FVF PDJPLHPF YMWNQRV WV GNWWUID BJE FWVN  NR
FHKRBNWP CXXCUNKOC WBVGRB WJ VTYUM ZJKQRMQRJX EUM KTURUCMV SWSNAIRA JAEM
YLL AQLPV TX KSQYVVU ZJVVAU WJ WMIPA ETZMS  CPIVJ VPPPYA CRN VSW
ZRSRUNBGD CPIUJ EYN I SCOBNZ SI JBJNXYQQNB IRG QMTRBFBKOWA

FR LUMHBTOWQG HSZPAWSUGNC XPDHIZ BBWIKNB WR WMI JXXDZKGQB WBXXLV
HSWHZNOJT XERHWW DJVY BQ CXVXUTP BBMX WH TQMMU BSYT ISL DE YIMG KSY JVD
ZWL CPJ XWBUQG ZFRAB YZQEK JVH HFWF JKHMUS JB PLYXSN WW VQ CXAX  WMI
REYTMYXNALM MV BSYTQSO KN CPMV FVLJ  KTVVRJKXV LYPMMQQPEB WR HQIJCZTVKC
ZWL JVI KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK DWI PW CXM CNM JILSK YNNNVGD

NWZDMX KQNLMVQNRN CPJ IDIUQXB YS JQISOG WXZOV BMAQWZB FECMGWNSU JZJ UQRN
IMMOQHCNT CW HHFP DRBM  YWEBBMRSW JXVHMTNRVK WMI PWBJOTICG SI YLL FWWS
FRK CPJ AVACCW RK XON KMIPGNL ZHWWPXV ZVFEA BLH HSWHZNOJT UIA DWI AX JJ
FHKAMXAGD  CPIVJ EYN XZJNIL XSONGF RAXCGS FPMFM VLZCNZG IWNSURIK
IMHUWLCG


                                 


                FTWNVIQZ IRQ  HLWIJCWWG QF YIVWNGPYISBU


UVLBMSBGRB

     UETNTF YL AWLVH
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA IZBQMJBMRS
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD
      GESCQRWTE KWYOJZHAL
     GISCAAQNLN UH 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  NVVEAVIW  UEUMZJIURAIVVZWKJOTD

     OIHW JFZQNJA WHSMVA UFVCGNZ
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ VYEUMIWLU AWL XHHLUXTTOA
     FWZXKNIVIXV JRW MUOWWUCTRWR DSH PVILM OAWIKHRIUC INQO
      BEFWM FDGNDM WXNXL 
     XMSEMW ARRRVK PI 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     UEAAQHQC BJBXLS TYNANLGNC
     YLL LWRUKSBQSQ TR WAMXMTVJBMRS EUM IHKGSB
      YL ZCZJMV NF
     XYPCM 
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  HXCGFCZPGMAWMY

     MSDJZI JGSBMV
     HIUCZJ KCNJLMHS HHAKMQVELBYUJ
     HEUJLNIP CNVXHW JVA IWKJICMGWZVL
      WYL KINTG
     RSUCZJIN QDMFHH LO B
     HEUJLF
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  MWYAALPLXTPCBJLW

     JHDRV G JTOFVVLLK LGMHCVIEM HLWIJCWW
     RITNF WMUEJZGK NRZCQYCVE
      GSURBF IXEWCI
     WSZNDNTNE LI 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  GQVNNB  QHRIELIQAVACM

     JVPL U HINAUCGD AMJN XWMUIMMRW
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD MUL
      PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ DE O
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   

     OETNA IINY
      IILYETWF RXIH
     GESCQRWTE VL 
     ULVWM   

     WMJTG JZYAH IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY LWTZFIWIXRW
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     OSHWVJ NTENUEQ
      OIMOMWAQN YIVN FZLWCJ VQ 
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI CJ  

     UVVBAJZ IIONSUI
     IMYNKYWT FXZ WFMSSJZQG RRXOVDRW
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  UOKFBMUOTGNXD

     OEJZCJTKNN PIVX HPAMHBQR
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     XYZJV MWEKNG HLWIJCWW
     HIUCMW NQR NTIFYVVWQH BGXCA MQ YLL QCRIPICQIV HIAQ
     FPLGISLGR UQFUFVF
     WYAPMWA WNRDIUXMAH
      HSSUMLM CVNVYH
     SID KZZVUWRKO QO 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  MWEKNGDRIMHLZZBIEAAIGZ

     BMSUQFU N HXWXRS ZPLM UZGSRLIQY
     GYZRVJAU  TNKLQNGHU LJDGLXXQHSX
       NQHPQSO  KNOWVPFXPXV XGUTNUW JWSBY
     NRLC
      WSJTTJLIE MZMYJ WBRBJ 
     GIAQMXLC MM T
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     FRUN Z PMPNNG EVXSJRIYM FIAMGWTV
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV EQI GVWAJZXACQSQ
      TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF VA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  QGFYLWVQJPSJJNBPEC

     WSUJTI T NAAAIQ
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA NTZ KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ PFVFUISL CT LWPOJKL YIWS
     WSVV J RKMEULMQ QMIAIWG
     HSSUMLM RAAS QG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  WTCRBMRONFYDUIMFU

     REYRI Q TGBAWR PFRHPQSO GDRBSU
     YLL XVQQPE SWYUSES XN HCTRNVX FQMURKFT VRRIPV
     Q L ZCZJMV NF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  UCDSJIEVLABEUGQVNNB

     RMJQIJT NEBS IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV
     HSTYCYMT SLQIQHI YNAJITCQ
     GISU KTUOUWQGDYMVWA WMUEJZGK NRJ
     WQ H
      XSBCP XBTENB
     RSYAQXBQWW VN OQ
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  QMUKKMPOHSYNKTU KNCMVQJX VA JJTNCXZIOJWR DCHX

     HPPONTZF A UGRFM
     IMYNKYWT LRJVDWC HDBTUCTRWR
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ FFPPOWWVKA
        TJMRKJ WH TQM TUJWPMMSB
      QERNANLG DAQZH YL MUWTZ
     TERUISL EA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  HINUACGFRZZJ

     FZYJ UNKJEUASQ
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  YUKCDVMKLSC

     JPSR UDTQNJA QDSENRVL MFICWV
     UIYBMZA RRXRIFY
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ WMI JUIXAKCB
     MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH
      GSFUAYWP HJTP
     HETKZNLIE VI 
     ULVWM      IQTELB
     KEE   
     JQHRT  JTNIRSEUTWOJZAITDNLY RW ISUQBRJHJZZDWHLMC

     IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI
     UEJTIWL JUVIRLYMLB QSAVICCXH
      XIJXVI AVRNMX VZMAN 
     QSZ JTYWU CJ 
     ULVWM    UPK
     KEE   

     QCUWM P XGRBWRLZW HBANAVAWB HLWIJCWW
     HSYWMQT KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLMLB NTZ
      XGOXTFZNY RVJRWQHCQTV UODZGHX
      TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF VA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  OZPCXZRHQPJKQYVGT

     REYHJJBJ PNBIUX
     USSRKD XNAWVMQL EKEQXMT TX BLH
       WINRAYMT OO KSSDVPPPYA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     TJMRKJ TO 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     H QPLPFMN SYMVEJVNVKVCGEW
     JHPCWW BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI
     HSTYCYMT CNVXHW QJ 
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ LQPPWWNA CT LPMFFKV
     GSE 
     HLPLILW KL 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  ZCKCEUGFZMJNLZ WT UDQGYRFPCVJB

     LIVAOJ Z VHXUE FMMLO
     HSTVCSQEACQSQX IUPQSMGRRVK EWEULP
     SEARWSIN LRJVDWC VO UJLKCRVI
      WSJTDNTNE YQOH
     GIAQMXLC MM 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  YPQMJTLFSPTWQMOQV

     ISYXBMG VWXPMJ JHPCWW
     YLL YIUMTS XN KHTVNN EFAJIWOXRS
      FPKNZRIP LRJVDWC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ YNVNRVNI
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI CJ 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     XYZJV M DGCLQE WJET UMFLGR
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD YZNZ JDCLDIXLTR
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD ICJTZIVIXV TUTNLLB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  XDGCBMUOTGNXD

     ISUJTI R YACMVV MIHM
     XCZCMRA QFOQGH
     DESN CSQXEAAMWD PPKZFZA
     SID QIAMP CC 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  IECTNZWBFPLEUGQVNNB SU IAHCMWAAAUMZPDGJHIQMGDD

     XXBJZY EGIKMP VJRPXZ WMUEJZGK XGPNVYQUT
     TGSL
      KVHWBE ZQAM
     IYIUQS WJ 
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   
     JQHRT  NVVEAVIW  XXBAAHPQCUKSUL

     WSINZY O BILP
     XTLLQFT CSBQWWFRA CW YPG ABASFNEAN TNJTAAQEQ
       KSY BXJKKAU XVROIJCA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  WHKCBMUOTGNXD

     OYKRBM I BIMIV FTSYMQSIVOA
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT VEGB HLLMARHNVI PAWKUFQ
     NRMXZRIVIXV WBXXLVA IQXIBQSQ
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD
      GESCQRWTE KWYOJZHAL
     GISCAAQNLN UH 
     ULVWM    TZ 
     KEE   
     JQHRT  NVVEAVIW  ODPMIWIURAIVVZWKJOTD


TFZNZAMTS

     MISNV FOWEAI TUTKYJU TNHILMV
     IMCRANWP OO ZIVJEYLP
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     R ISUGS JNAWBSQ IIWDBD LKRNKXRW
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     HLHATJA O DXTPDW
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     OIMOZJG HINTH GJTBCG YW VHN LMUJGAXZ
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     QSYAQS OCRBWR
     FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH
     WIZNIWKJ AWL HHAISXXRMPT MMTDWXTNVY
      YL ZCZJMV NF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE  NUFQN  IWBIUSIA  UZLIESXZK

     BMSUQFU O HXTQHX NY
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  BPQLVMWDRIYRKFVGDD

     XTLATNVI MJZXLS
     NRMXZRIVIXV VHXSBAKJ UCNJOIPJRA
      ISVUQYBNE BBVHJX
     LEPCPJZUBDZK PI 
     ULVWM   

     RMJQIJT PEDUEQ IMYNKYWT
     YLL LMSBGR OWV WJBA JVI BGCQVSOTKF
     FGHMMRQE CXUTXYMUP KJVVEA
      WIPBA XKKEWKI EZMSMQSO
     LIVAOJBQWW CRLAIYBQYG
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  SMWMJVKXAEEKQYVGT WMYPFRNDDFFIEXZKHYSDWMIC

     GEYKIWI RADTWRS TYXOWIO OONMFJV
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     FPSNV M ZGNNIV
     XIURWW IEAMMQLH TSJVSQPG JVEODWA
     GVVFV ZVKVNZWLYC JXUUCVIWO EQI MUOWWUCTRWR VJVCRKJA
      BEANZRIP SCZIHY
     HETYCX JQX 
     UVVEQIMPCN ZM 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  GQVNNB  EOQIUKZTEPVV WV
     NRANZSMV  AUTIQGVVFVAUDRXERHIY

     XYZJV R AGVNZXVTR WAMXQFEWB
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD MUL
      PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ DE O
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   

     KVHWS BQVHAWA
     ZW KNXFZVMNVX RK IKDKFBKOW
      SID SMWAGY JDIQZI UF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   


QG ZCIKN

     QMUMI Q ITRNB
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 
      

     OSOW L GGTUV RV
     IIZLZNXVIEM GDYESXONVI DRDMVNSU UU 
      

     REYH RFVG CJDEOQS
     XGPNVHM CNM BIFMRVUWLG FIEQWLTR SJ 
      

     XYZJV YPGA MIZLI
     HSUPZJAUIXVEO WIZNIWKJ SNZZLHI SV 
      

     WSINZY LKEASIU
     XIURWW IFVRAIU KSY VCQBKMNLMD FGARDNBKEB TQ 
      

     BMSUQFU Y EUTMV
     FWZXKNIVE UQFUFVPJV KWT SLQIQHI HWL YMEHWWPRLC SV 
      

     WSUJTI OGPQIVW
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     OETNA LZCBNZ
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     WMJQ OWMGNOQIOI
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 
      

     WIINKHI IUNVXKJV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 
      

     PIUWMYP G HJZVLX
     UVLBMWDCTRWR OR K
      

     XXHUMD PKTLPGRHO
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     GSOMIS SCNCWV
     TJMRKJ WH SYMGLFP WAWOMETB TQ 
      

     OSOW E PQOBJTP MW
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 
      

     GEZRT RIPNB
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     XESUG MITT VKGDQPBV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 
      

     IEUJ R UZCTC
     UYIUQXPKNP WJINGL UU 
      

     OEUN ZNMHEWPEXXIY
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 
      

     BMSUQFU B SLPIQHO
     HSSUMHBKOWA HHAISXXRMPT UU 
      

     HLHWLWC L SQILDSM
     UVLBMWDCTRWR UJWLJZHP CNM BIVYMUP WKNKCN ZX OR K
      

     BMSUQFU L SRBXLL
     HSSUMHBKOWA HHAISXXRMPT UU 
      

     UEBU ARQVH
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     OETNA Q AVEEMRV
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     PEYNV XBWAAB
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     YETJZF AYOAI
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PNGYXNNTOIWO SIKMJN TR O
      

     XEYJP YPQMJA
     HSSUMHBKOWA GDYESXONVI LV 
      


                                   JRK
      

SSAN  BMQU FRTI KFW INMS MFICMH ITV BBM TV EOVXYWJV UNBBWTKB  BLLX
JHPCQSO TEZCMUJH AQM WMOOEIP RK HPJKWQVILA YQIIYUQSQPG JVH ITRAB AZKJ
FW PCIQQES JVH ETPK

PHL 

F JLF WK BJE RBEONGZ FPJV WSNL JRW ITYPFAKS FMVH WIWUIHMF BH KESX QO

JRK XN YPG PAWNHHX NDBJVDEAO IWJBA XN QWE WXZOVMSW XV JTGCCZSQNG LCMCBU


YLPB QX BJE OMFUZEYH  XWWLELB KXYIUKMWO TEUMEVJ SM

UEYJLNAG LXAX ED NVQV RQNTXV

YLL XTIMUT NBIAY OUXES BQ PAWNHHX NDBJVDEAO GD 
NJ FXC PVQW XN EQD SSMMW WPEB XPHFWL UMY CU KWWA


NRAAWICETRWR  RSI WJOJ

YLPB MYMZT FIW RWMNRVFTNY LZIDYIK RV  FKEOALMQL XV MZ
OSZNXM ZCBNV SI VYLNVX KQLUMKH SC AX EMWO IC QW DYXYRJZBGD KG
UVVSMHB IUCMREJVN  FM MIF HNIVG TJ AQQX MVEGB JRW CLJZX JWT RB
BEZ WWY CPTRT  XKFX DN IHBWAUTC PFRHPMI BQ TAIGN NX KXES BQ
F WWNKNNKC UWGDYMVW ISL VHNV MW YSVT UTVVHB BS FTRCRVHM REXXPH
YS SNB ZA JAEM E FTTF CPJV OOAM QRSXOB NTZ VHNU EFYYHUTD BQ DX
YLL LWUGKNP IRG LIA RB YW WS  CPIQ FRVCPJZ OOWBL WT GVWDJZV TX
XSTNBMQPG FM GRZPK VIXACGN EMWM SBA NFDQRRBI  LS HVB  IKBGR
YLHC QX ECS XVPB F QHCBJZ QF MICV YS NNB NB KNCW XKNW ZQIUM AOD
BMSU AJM DEUWA  WMI VAQLQPAU EEV TJ JXCWAG IW KESX SUUG FVF
XS DNZJ INL CPI RYLLA MYMZTB WJ WMI Z JVI MCRUG W  GTRA
QIA JVDWPE OWSO DSB RVYW VHRVOLSK HWG JBGXC EMWM FVCP ZXREA IRG
QSDNZ HIUE RA EQ TVPPQSIN AUT XKTWL XZNOKNJT TUTNLLB LCVEWJIUL
JXLGBX EGRN IPVT MU DXUMT CJAI DSH DNZJ BTAWAPDYIK XZ WMYRRBXHS
REUH BNUGS CW KHY XONU NVVO CPILW GBAZJVV CXVHLYMVW  BMMA HJDI
