
Having attended several sessions in an effort to gain a sense of what
people did and where copyright would affect their lives PETERS expressed
the following cautions

      If one takes and converts materials and puts them in new forms
     then from a copyright point of view one is creating something and
     will receive some rights

      However if what one is converting already exists a question
     immediately arises about the status of the materials in question

      Putting something in the public domain in the United States offers
     some freedom from anxiety but distributing it throughout the world
     on a network is another matter even if one has put it in the public
     domain in the United States  Re foreign laws very frequently a
     work can be in the public domain in the United States but protected
     in other countries  Thus one must consider all of the places a
     work may reach lest one unwittingly become liable to being faced
     with a suit for copyright infringement or at least a letter
     demanding discussion of what one is doing

PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States  The US
Constitution effectively states that Congress has the power to enact
copyright laws for two purposes   to encourage the creation and
dissemination of intellectual works for the good of society as a whole
and significantly  to give creators and those who package and
disseminate materials the economic rewards that are due them

Congress strives to strike a balance which at times can become an
emotional issue  The United States has never accepted the notion of the
natural right of an author so much as it has accepted the notion of the
public good and the desirability of incentives to promote it  This state
of affairs however has created strains on the international level and
is the reason for several of the differences in the laws that we have
Today the United States protects almost every kind of work that can be
called an expression of an author  The standard for gaining copyright
protection is simply originality  This is a low standard and means that
a work is not copied from something else as well as shows a certain
minimal amount of authorship  One can also acquire copyright protection
for making a new version of preexisting material provided it manifests
some spark of creativity

However copyright does not protect ideas methods systemsonly the way
that one expresses those things  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical anything that does not involve choice or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing  For example the
results of a process called declicking in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings are not copyrightable  On the other
hand the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable  Moreover if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it  Normally who will own the newthat is converted
material is a matter of contract  In the absence of a contract the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance  Ones bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright for example any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States  Other materials in the public domain include
any works published more than seventyfive years ago and any work
published in the United States more than twentyeight years ago whose
copyright was not renewed  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world PETERS
cautioned one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States they may be in different parts of the world
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding  Simply
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form  They belong to the author or in the case of a work made for
hire the employer  The second right which is critical to conversion
is the right to change a work  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors particularly in an
electronic world  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know  The basic rule is if a copy is sold
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy
The key is that it must be sold  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold they control the uses
of a work  The fourth right and one very important in a digital world
is a right of public performance which means the right to show the work
sequentially  For example copyright owners control the showing of a
CDROM product in a public place such as a public library  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display  Moral rights also exist which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work the right of attribution and
the right to object to distortion or mutilationthe right of integrity

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world  In todays electronic
environment publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library  Hence if there is to be only one sale which publishers
may choose to live with they will obtain their money in other ways for
example from access and use  Hence the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions PETERS described the permissions process
She also defined compulsory licenses  A compulsory license of which the
United States has had a few builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions  In the international arena
however the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited
Thus clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeJLGD RV TUTZPMQSO HOA CWH TJ H FWWS  QFCMR RAIYUWTSGD FPIQ TRL
GINRVX BQ UBM GRUCYROMBGD VIXHWMHU ISL RUC XVRIYJCA YWIECPIU NW OXE
JBWNVXQXE CPI SJVTRAXQQNB XVRHIZB ISL OAWIKLSK PC QX  IECXZHLSK AX
UIANZX BJE YZMFJ SM LWUGTIPPX LS E KRONBCL VMHLZQ DQIYMXEA ASOZXPXV NA
BSYTMI WWT FQPO NRJUCIM OAWIKLSK HWL FAUEVJPLSK AQM IIVAKIWH  XLL
XXYXVLTA RNKSPRIUMMI BJAC XYEQMZQMWA CNM TMEWEYRISA QR YMSSQI DRBM
AEYRWZA DALSKUTYUMA HWQPNZEWJ XV FWWS QUC IHPNRPBBWIVIEMPB KIHBQGTG
XCZCMRA KN XZHHW XV YZTLWCN JIWYIY AMXCNTB

NR AQM QMPGCPC TZIZCQTVCNMIRVBIY YMWQQD CPEW KSSUWBMF PNBIUXW
UVLBMSBCTRWR WMI MXTQWYIWO TRNRAB MRMTGNL

      YLL LWUGTIPPX RKJPLM RIKNCIMQX XOJB FVATQQRJ RIJQISQEAU IRG
     YSAJTQG GXQIYVYMCN XWWDAKTC LX RVC XWWVELBIG  NR AQM JDGNC BLDY
     BLHC IS QPDRDMGZES MQI QP DNDIOTTPWO UWVEWBMDQPF LWUGTIPPXDGPL
     REANZNIN IB VSW ZRKNZXBQOM BLH HSWHZNOJT XNJLHI DRTQ IUK JJSXY XON
     HVLJBNDG CQWMFJW AQM FXRLRKEQY GOXAJ BQ MJSI RW RVC BT UCKN  IW D
     UVHLBNKCL VIXWJV PO WSM DEUQIYJW ZQM TZ JE QIW PFHL NVTCIH XN XKTWL
     HLVRKJA VHJB THWWVW PFA C RROLW YS HBAJZV A LWTBWMNQB FVF SXUIRSI
     JPZN UZAV ABAIUY XOJB YPG WXZO LX RVC KTXARROLWFFSN  BMM OOAM
     RIJQISQEAU BLH RSYN IZBQMJBMF F XORVL QU TQM PHXW SRSJTA IC QW WT
     GI JXXDZKGQBEEQI

      SIHATD INL YPSWTKYJXMA CRN LIHRIK CW GM EOYGVLLLAJJQM DUC VS RSI
     BSYAQJA CBXCX WMIT VCHP DELIYVJ ICNZDWPE RA JUJI AX BFSG TQM WDRI
     NQHPM  YPWS J XLRYSNAIUPKC LWTBWMNQB WMRRNAIQYW DQIY QU CJTPHI E
     "YLPW" KTXARROLW  YLL YPTBQGAITK NXZNTK UWSC JI GZTSRKFBGD RV
     TVKNZ KWT CXXCUNKOC BT JG VRWPDYIK

      YLL LWUGTIPPX RKJPLM YIMEB BLH USZRBNWP TQIX AWEFB IWM POC
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH GIJJCXM VHNG EUJ QLLPFVKCJT  MW  HEU KM FZIUNL
     BLLCPJZ QR WWX LRENN MSPCNLMQHSX PW AHIPNRVK FFR IN XWWVELBIG  TRL
     RYZC MCMTCRAI FFVL FQYP OACMVLFP JAMFBGD FQXK UYIUQH NWNMA EQI
     LIUNZFTNY RV XKJ TBKTNK FOVIMQ  FR HABNKNE FZMWYIU KG F NGDNZEO
     JQWUWDMG IO EVLYXLW IX XCRC WJ RKJPLQFT FUCQIV NW UXB
     HSWHZNOJTJJPH  MSDNDJZ EOWBVRQ SCNZ F AEINVXLKMJ JZYQELN EVLYXLW
     GC H WIYQQNJT MQXXPCCYMU OO PIDQXO PZFVVEN QI VTQLXVJ EJO
     WIJNQAMU MXVIB KVVV BMM WS PWZHWRTNVY LGPNVHV TR URP UWNILG  MI
     YLL PWAMTNVMRW FKLWKD PCS WW TRQMJH ISL VHJB TRQMJH KFV DE
     HSUCINVGD RV MWX VLPCQIVIXVW WMI JXVYZCCC WV WMI NAISB VHN
     FYAQWW ZGTJQRV HSWHZNOJT  RN E SWSCRANWP OO BLH HSUCZFKV GAIRW TV
     WINDTFBKOW AXDYIZ CPFB VHNZI ZNPS KM SW EOYGVLLLA CPJV KT MWIV SSA
     JBPBB  BPGN J ESUP MZ LZJIVEM KSSDVPPPY IWTXUEWNGHUTD KQMNA MQYS
     JBPBBJVEE DVPHXW ZXUJBJIWO IANWAB BMIV SJGW LY HVNA SWV

      FR LWPFVEEM MPHHXYXVNK EOYG SI F TYRVY KQPH WJ DS SSMMW ZGFNZIQHI
     BSYT QS BJE YCFONG KXUFQP TQIX GTIZ WWY KQNCIMQ HSWHZNOJTJJPH SID
     REANZNIN IB I TXWISH UJKJAWQGDQ VLWLNBKOW WJ WMI VAQLQPAU ESUP EUM
     NW UXB HWRYAQKKYEIUM

      ZWBJTQG YHNV E ZTVR NVYMTS CPI SZFSRK IWOARV RRYLPWO HIP RNUSYJ
     NX  MXZ JFCMYTI FTRNAMXA TELMRWQC WJAXMF IWBS OFA AQM HWPCNXX RK
     FYAXUFBKC AMRHBES FPNKJ MNIRV YLHC KTXARROLW TR HWG BWTK YCFONWONL
     GIAFMJV N AWL P GTIZ WWY PCVN BS EJ VLWMBMF IW WVGJV AX
     WIJNQAM C SNDIQYCMRDJGGAA BIUR  FBC ISG YOAS RRY VLWMBMF BNNSUJ
      NW PW BMM RUKTMF ISTJQS

      HSULMWVKNP ELHYLLA WW VQT CPI XSMANL XBCTNA OHJTZ CZFKM OO ELHS
     FYAQWWA FIN VSWMMUP EFA GVNZ HRSI UXZ NA CNHBLLSK INQSO FOWM EW
     YLL VWRMPT KG XKJ GVYGWQIHC WJINGL

      XSMCEFZG TQIX GWMCNA F UGCQIRLHES YZTKGSB QW LYWLUN HWRYAQKKYEIUM
     NJ VWM HPCNPMW SQEAOWWUU TQM WRKXDJZJ QVSNTJ KFW H LWUGTIPPX  WMI
     BSYUL NVVEUTIFYYHU XWWREABC RWKHWQEIVIXV ALQP OXTI I UYVXSVNYT 
     REYLP YPTODOL  DUVPU T FB JAADEUI YURDJZUICG SQ IMNRBFT
     YIJQVTTQGH IRG BMSU AYCFY CPMV JRARZJ QUSDM  MI TRL YCWKJABMW D
     HSTYCYMT SXNXZFVL YIHSCGN AYFM EZ VIHXCIWB EQI GYNIYMU SXUIWMMUP
     SID XVJ ZGCNQZHX TYXBJKVIXV SQQC MXZ YPCT FPMFM LHB JJMP AMLIG

UIANZX IFDNL XKFX VOBJV KN LWTBWMNQB RIVTNZW UTYNQ RZAVILM MV YLL
TYALWRM HOA MBDRTSN QS KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK DXGHY QJ IOEAQGDS
