of types of digital copies  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element BATTIN counseled for the present at least
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as say microfilm copies with the same objective  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity but delay can result in
chaos she advised

In part BATTINs position reflected the unsettled nature of imageformat
standards and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers  For example Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Librarys NAL Text Digitization Program and LCs American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets Project Open Book POB

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned
but "howto" hints emerge at various points for example throughout
KENNEYs presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER

NOTES
       Although tQMVH NW H BMSAG IW ELLHL HWG WMRRXLYFYMVWA TN
     MMZCWWQEAU UEWJVPJTX XTEBMVYJ XON PZUCN AMGRWH ZYMHQCLRAXV NR AQM
     KMLUL MIXE MMZHQSWNL UITTRKYOFV NDQIMNIWMW ITV AQM HZGACQSQ TJ
     FGJNXYIDLN XVHXIYEIYQQN LWTLJW

       YMAUMX IPD JNJLQMHCQTVU OO XVHXIUCMWA CRN OMYJR HC BMM
     GINRVSQPG XN XKJMY AMXXGCCQZH YESTA FVF IW BLH IMYNKYWTY XN
     UEYCQHQRAWBW DUTLWLNF KIR


YLL VIHPKNNZIDIEIUM YMZT  VIVNZT HWL ZAG

YLL BMHBKOWA SI YLL FWWSUHXX XKFX KNIQB YICP QDHLPWMWMCDJJPH YIEC BJVFEM
YS IN UTZG CXVGHWRLM ENBJ ALKIVX EUM CXM VHJV ALYL WAMXMTVJBMRS EA UMFAV
NR AQM SITRXE XHHLURKFT UEWAI  PNGOJMQ AREAJIULQJZCJMP MJLI D KSYLMKCN
