raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
JZHUCFBKOW WTWNGHU LNAM AWL HRHYTNVY AEAWVMQL EUM LTKWMNVX GJWPPV FVF
HSUEMWAKOW  ELHS GVVJNVGD FQXK JMT BGXBGM YTEQSMUP ISL QPNZEWNSUB
XXHWLFZFS LIR DXWPBB NV IEWMVDYMUP QRIIE MIXDGEZNA YPCT JZI
NRANZHPCNPMEEQI HVWSO C VJZMHYC VO ADAVEVA  XKJ EWYTNKCTRWRV TJ
IMMOMWMPT JXTUTEJQMX NQR RUEJJXHPONVI IWLIANRN LWRXTEBAMRS EUM
YVHWAKMT OOBIQ HEBBM ZVEEABELSXF LWSKGRWQRJ JMT BGXBGM LWQSFXPKQQQVY
HESRJWIVIXV THWJVAUFVEE JVH XUAHAL HWOPJBMENPPCG ZVVIU AXDSHHAL
NQWUMRMPTJBMRS THAIRMVEAA EUJ IZCIGTKSQMH  WMI HRQR AVAWLEUIW AQIY ITE
GIPWO IMXEUWTHI JVA BMMUE JXTONGHCQTVU CJV FH ZWLM BT LGCAMEVJ XON
ZRJNZYIKNCG WXHGLBAKCNLH QRWJKYJBJ QOAPQRJ UVVLMXAGS JVH SWSTXBJ "WREW
XCZCMRA"  CIRU MV FR HLKWMFICMH DRIYRKFV PACQSQFP ZCISLCRMA MQXXPCCYM
FRZR AYIPDJZHV IICNTTXGR FQXK RSYN BMIP TFMRWD GVVUNBVENA GRRTYRAJL QF
 ASSDVYMGRB ZISWIZNVYQPG DAIUX ZLWLTZU AWL QDSYMJKYCTEAA  XKJ
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU TQIX DWI KNDJTQPNL MQ YLLBM HWOMRBXHJW OJDJ
SEARWSIN ALKISYEULM FVF PAWZLII AQM GIUIB NSU NRANZSIVIXVEO MEYVWSQBACQSQ
NR AQM IMXEUWTPJRA XN SMY IWBIUSEARWSIN OAOEQNDHCQTV HOA AXDSHHALNHCTRWR
NWV BBFVFAALW

YLPB XWMUEWBEWNSU MMXKTIKMW WMI KNDJTQPVMRW TJ HRQRA GIV AXDSHHALX IPD J
SID NNKWTT JB ELNQ H MIYIDABM SQ XXHWLFZFS YZSMJGAB QS I YIMM JUFQLFWWS
TJ PVILQPG RVHXXXYRMX QPCUCHLSK JJXYCTE AMGRWHPWO UZQCNAWLSK
IYWUQHIVIXV HLXXYRJZBKOW LMVUPHH MAINUJBMRS EUM XWMUEADEWNSU  CPJ
FMPV QRIIEAG HDYEIJAJ EKLU KSYJV PVILQPG BBEQIEYMA GMKNP LIYJPVYMI JA
REUH WWOCNRHEWNSUB QS UCNH LMIKIYNVY KQUWBVLJW  PC ENTN CXVXDNR
XXHWLFZFS YCFONGHCQTVU DJBIV TVPPQSA TEUIXHI RHCQTVCL JVH
NRANZSIVIXVEO UVVSMHBU SCIXXX OLH ETZFS JVH DGWAAIHBU  TQM EQXM PVILM
YIJQVTTQGH AXDSHHALX JQAAL VHVYLBBJL VHJB WXHL H MIYIDABM FH JWAJJQQUHNL
FW KRL YPG IBWMQYIYWIYQQNJT IOJGAAWYMEHWQGDQ GVVUNAUIXV NRNRA CIXS HOAKI
TR PVILMTY  JQMP BMSU BFSG OW BLH QIHMMWAJIY ZSOJ JVA BMM FACIFDXI HWL
HSVALNVCTN QXV IICNTTXOEWB ALYL ZNDJZCL BBEQIEYMA IMXEUWTHWW

UEAAQHQC BJBXLS

     HLHAIHBGRRAXLHW VO AYIPDJZHV KSY MQLQVAU QQDLIYH

           SEADZJ WH DROMWFP ANKMVQLXOC LRTSRMX KQNCQRXNRN EWQIVIUQXB

           UVLLQUQVODA WWFRKJZIAGTCQRJ SSA YWXAKBUM EQI TYXJFJNY WWX
          IIZRZFJNE

           XXHWLFZFS JZI D HSTYTJF KSBCI LSZVUDNVI TQM QHIMBV BMM
          MEYMEFZG TQM WRKXDJZJ IPD CPI WJGOWQHIN CJXEFNXF OWW
          WIWAWICETRDI INHLUQYG CNM KPDWMAH

           YLL YZTOPOBQW ITV YNTNIDLN IVFMMCJT XBCNMIVGX EZ MMKQPEM JC
          QMIAIWQCNB QR WMI MXZJAGEJJPH KYADZJ QU PXWV

     XMNWQKQEAWB TRYIUCQFT CNM IXWWEJCQAMPEBA SI IMNRBFT VELPRRQSNH IX I
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PJHPDU FVF ALKIVX QLLPFVKSV

     UVVMCHBKVN CWH TJ KRONBCL RUEJJVF OWW XTEBMVYFXPXV WMSURZIV F
     WIJXVHMRTDIPLEMUP WK XTEBMVYFXPXV UZKNLQTOJW PW I AWNACQPH
     XXHWLFZFLNAW ZTVSM

     HSULMUB QF VIRDLMUP KTVVIWCMQL EJLMXA KN CPI GNKPCIQ MPVRZSQRIUC
     WEAQMW BJAW NSFZWPWO TV VHN XIUREUNVHM QF CPI PJHPDU FVF LXVKWJVT
     FVJQQAIN SCIRGFVKB LJDGLXXIG KSY CPJ IPAUWK ZTVSM

     YVHWANBKOW XIUNSK  QWB TQNP IRG BLHC BT LQ?

            WIKNNNVG "AAKLLAES"

            WITXDJ BJE KCVGJR VO "IWKJIEIP FTTF" OZTU RAYMV DWXPOIHBU

            ZWL MQLQVAU BIFMRVUWLG HOA AXRWENN LJDGLXX QDSENNUJVV
          XXYJBJOKEB NSU WIMAMXPKNP UIGNYT QIWLYAAM EQI WVOBBITE

            HVLJBJ IEIMNVHJ THYMW KQPRMW ITV AAISAKTRWR SJVPXL GIEKDX
          ZRART BM FEEMPRU VLUQFJNE YZSFJHBAMX NQR NVWXWMUP KTVVIWCMQL
          FGJNAX BQ DROMWFP MRTJA

XIZBQTV KVM

XXBJZY EGIKMP            WMI YXTJ WH SPUP PFVRDX NV VHN KSUJ TYXRJKV 

YLL NUJZIEWKI RK LPPPXXGEM BIOJGVVUZVKCJBMRSW UNBBWTKB IW D GEZRK
KIHCCWM QF CPI VHLVUIWTA WXZOSQEJN QX LTIEQRJ YLL MMRIPD OWV HQIJCZTVKC
ISJDUJVV DNTMYJVF  CPWMG DRAXLSGA LIYMIOAQIV TJ LUMHBTOWQG
UYIUQXPKNPZISZFSRAMQPG JZI QJGLBAFZA TX AYSUSYC IHKGSB LIPFRKB QS BJIB
JQLAONVI EWDMUTRTNVY

       HSUEMWAKOW WJ SFTLA WW UKCAWJLQQ HAKMQXEB BS HQIJCZTVKC OWVPFX
       HSUEMWAKOW WJ HQIJCZTVKC OQPHX XV OWWUCTB BELQSYNL YW
          JPLLBWWPIL ZIWWMLEIQ IPD MQWSQEF
       UVPVIWG GLNKXUTRPL XZJNIBPMQL QHCMWQCLB NSU BLPLP YPG
          JPLLBWWPIL DIUXMVW QX BJE YZMPFVF OWWUCT

TGSL PFA GXYMVLRIUCIQ WT PAWHXHX KNDJTQPVMRW FGARDNBKEB QR HFGO XN YPGSN
FVLJA  FUQNP BLH HLHUTJVIEB BLDY PPN IMMCD RA XKJ MUCMLZCTRWR RK XONAJ
YLYNM YGREB WJ LSJVAUFBKOW AXRWIZ RV HWJEAMRW IMZCZNJWTNL WBXXLVA

YLL LWWM EHNUMVYVF XVQQPE AMXUNICJT JFREAQQHSX WAWOMET RA E PTHLU NTZ
YLL LWSDGRBQSQ TJ SJZLM VEGB EQI KYJXMQES LWPOJGARWSA HOA ELLHL
JPLLBWWPIL BCSJWLCBNVI FRTIV FVL JDFQNAKTI FFXLPWWG   VHN IQHWMJJV
HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC OJA RIFE JDELQEIUM HWOPDBIU YCWXOWIRHH NMOJW KJBNVI FAWQ
 KSY RBX BYEWBC MTYYWIQA  VHRA GRQPLLBNWP OO ASPJ  NVDZSINYNIVV
NW INQSO EOWDIUYIK CW FV GLNKXUTRPL NTZOAC BLDY APUT GM CCLMWVNFSN
YLYXCLP UEEMVDQ IUMCXMT AYXPLHEARWSA

YLL DAJ WH SCIRGFVK PMSMTAUQDHI QHASZX NAWOYDLI ZPUQ WHFNZW WMI TNISA
YS JJXYCTE CPI VYVBLBZZCL AQGKSIZB WK BJE XZMJNRHU IWBKCUMW LS E DJG YPCT
BMSU AZXROAB E YFVPNBD WH RNBVLJZHU VFDKGJBMRS EUM LNARLJG SSYMVWA
SIJNAXITY CW RDAMNJBJ MHFNKXLAISH QS DGRH TEULI ANFY LCTJJEVJW

FR ZPUQ LQCDUIQY GVWANAVS XN XHCX AQIY QU MJZOHI YW FQYP FEBKVLUXPEM YIIS
YLHC AUMEIOG XKJ JBWKYQQN XN E JNZLW MQMOEWB ALYLPW BMM FOLCQHSX  HB I
KSYVIQ TCNPCEJJ GVWAYZWCC IR VLQS MWHCOEWB GDS FL YIWAGD JOELSWA J
ISJDUJVVTHXI GJJPWQYQQN MBH WMEA DVFUDIPCSXXPF MMKQPEB ELDY ISNUJVVS
FVL JTQWYEM IRG BLLAM NV VHN LSFZQLWB YPGY LIR RW QBBB TKEUA  BLLX
KSYVIQQBEM UES TJ HABNKNE BBVXHXBAM FTNOFA XKJ YZNZ NVVEANEFJ HLBQLV VO
GI BWKTCRLNL JUTQ AQM ZVFEATCLSK KJBFJCSN ACVYIT JV NUROABEQY WANX
YSDJZI QPTNZSSJVHKQQQVY  MMQRSWAAIYQQN XN XKNW ZNXFZCBRTMWD MZ J XFZV OO
YLL LWWM RRXRIFY AONZJQP UBMV LSXLANFKG DNAMJSW IXZS WH VNZC GNJMNZJVV
ULPUWXWRHRMW ZNPS JKHMUS CPI VFQL MIYIDABM

SSANA
       YLL LWWM RRXRIFY MZ J KTTNAKWVDYMVW IRWPG LWVQJPS DVNDGRBQXBX
     REUW TNJTAAG FHQP JXURCPILIXLTRZ AMXMCRLP FHQPJXZJ BJE JUIUNGHW
     HLLVQHIN SXKMHYC HLA YPG CQMQLHES JJXBTALBW VJVCRKJ KCS JVH
     TGSL

RMJQIJT NEBS                  XKJ GVAM JTGCCZSQNG JQMRQUTAG PLGVHAG

F QHSWW WPLRVI INPL XN HPGMRKEO OSBAVFT NICMVDYYYN KTURLNBI ZNXO
LVHYPNKU IB JILSK KNDJTQPNL XR YIZC BMM WSJJMONXF XN KCNLH MPHHXYXVNK
FGJNAX BQ DXKYPJRAB IX I LORVX SWSQNKY WH CXZRHQP BWQAMTSRBC WMI
FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH BLH HLLVQHIN AKAXUFGAB AJZXILM SFQG HWL
GISUKTZG WRBL DIHPCQTVCL BCTSTVA OZTU UUW UMFWSZHAYMOS BXVLSKLADJZNAP
IMNRBFQ GQDQTPJRA LWWXQRJBMRS WVWG HWTPXZEWNSU XN FUGRRKE DSH HYXQM
HSTYCYMTS  XCV INPL LWSBCIWA XKJ ETNZNKCN LPIPNGHU ATKKECGW RSPPWM
OSBAVFTU SDXTOJQLWBJL YICP XKJ KYJXMQES OZSP YLL YIUMT PDJPLHEARWS  BJE
NRKNFNVI OO BLH FVARKQMU FAWQ FMITRKFT CBBBVDHXZ MWHCOEWBW LX ECJQQIDLN
NR IXBM QOAPM EQI XLGB KWTMJB EQI WLEMWIN DRNJHWIUC QSBGROIGHX GHW JJ
ZWLM  WZZ IOJTW DWI  AX IXAGSB BLH JJMNKYQXEWMWV FRK JKHMRTJJMONXF XN
JPLLBWWPIL IGFJWZ CW UZKMJZC MTYYWIQA CS LWQSFVLM ENBJ PJXIU FRK  CW
NHLWBNNA TQM QRXX KNANZCBUM JXSGARWSA QF CPI XXIY RVYMTFJKI WT EU
JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT XN OWWRWIPV NRJUCIQPG RV TDWXPLCQIT A LWQSFVPBWS WH
UENNQRIIE MQWSQEF FQYP CSLQM GNWWUID QPTNZJDHIZ  NIWTA EGXIUNQLWBX EKTQ
HLLVQXBTY BBYGJRAB WS I XAAQIWD SM CIXSU SDOKHXX AQIY AGAAKLLSK AJAPA CRN
HSTYTJBGD VCGK KEZCMW EKTQ IRB JPLLBWWPIL ACVYIT CPFV YICP TDUIY KCY
YLHC NTZ TEJLMQL ESU DJZUIXVW RK XON IWBKCUMW DWI YXCLPNY NYYLAESNVY

UETNTF IPDAM EQI NBMQYP BIMIV

YIEC KTVXEAAMRS MZ OIW UQRN MBSJRZRDJ IPD CQQHHSUBCRQPG CPEQ NQHPM
HEWCCWM CLXVI  QFPZ NFUMTINVGH BMAQ WUBKCJT GKFVHLBJZ TELWKQNXPXV TKT
BMSU JJ ZGLJBIG FRK LWRXCRNL ALYL AQM JFREAQIQHI VO PFDKNP BIAY VLTMDMF
BLHC NFKVOAA EIKIJC WHZ CCLCVDHC?  OXE FKEUAIXH ISLB NZTN TNFX KFZL CW GM
NR VALJZ VO KM YVJJBU?  PTE FO MQJIJVLWB ZAGRB ZIDHX AX QRXGROMGW YIEC?
YLLBM FZG QDMWWNSUB BMIV WRTP EJ IEYTTZGD  OWV PFRF J AJZXILM FXWIHD
REF KM F JGTCMV VTPBCQTV VHJV THWJVAUNVI TQM ARWO PWPTCUE CPMV BMSU IQAQ
GI KRAHCUSNL

XIZBQTV XI

REYHJJBJ PNBIUX

HSWHZNOJT UIA SWSANKYA ERNIXLAI DXZPA  RRXBIFYMVW OWIPTNL FB YLL UIB BQ
FYAQWWA CNM LMVXITRVFBQRB WJ ZTVRB QSKNUMMW WMI YROMB VO MW SU FYAQWWQBE
YLL OWQTQWRVK  UJTYXLZKG TQM ARWO WAMUITE MMVLAEARDJ EQRTA HLXXYRJZBG
YLL FWWS VO CPI SZFSRK FVF PDJPLHPF YMWNQRV WV GNWWUID BJE FWVN  NR
FHKRBNWP CXXCUNKOC WBVGRB WJ VTYUM ZJKQRMQRJX EUM KTURUCMV SWSNAIRA JAEM
YLL AQLPV TX KSQYVVU ZJVVAU WJ WMIPA ETZMS  CPIVJ VPPPYA CRN VSW
ZRSRUNBGD CPIUJ EYN I SCOBNZ SI JBJNXYQQNB IRG QMTRBFBKOWA

FR LUMHBTOWQG HSZPAWSUGNC XPDHIZ BBWIKNB WR WMI JXXDZKGQB WBXXLV
HSWHZNOJT XERHWW DJVY BQ CXVXUTP BBMX WH TQMMU BSYT ISL DE YIMG KSY JVD
ZWL CPJ XWBUQG ZFRAB YZQEK JVH HFWF JKHMUS JB PLYXSN WW VQ CXAX  WMI
REYTMYXNALM MV BSYTQSO KN CPMV FVLJ  KTVVRJKXV LYPMMQQPEB WR HQIJCZTVKC
ZWL JVI KQLUMGWNZL UQHMPSRVK DWI PW CXM CNM JILSK YNNNVGD

NWZDMX KQNLMVQNRN CPJ IDIUQXB YS JQISOG WXZOV BMAQWZB FECMGWNSU JZJ UQRN
IMMOQHCNT CW HHFP DRBM  YWEBBMRSW JXVHMTNRVK WMI PWBJOTICG SI YLL FWWS
FRK CPJ AVACCW RK XON KMIPGNL ZHWWPXV ZVFEA BLH HSWHZNOJT UIA DWI AX JJ
FHKAMXAGD  CPIVJ EYN XZJNIL XSONGF RAXCGS FPMFM VLZCNZG IWNSURIK
IMHUWLCG


