described

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool storage
refreshing backup

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library NAL has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials  Since  the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project NATDP
a cooperative effort between NAL and fortyfive land grant university
libraries  An overview of the project will be presented giving its
history and NALs strategy for the future

An indepth discussion of NATDP will follow including a description of
the scanning process from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages  The type of equipment required for a
standalone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly such as image format black and white versus color
gray scale versus dithering and resolution

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixtyseven reels
containing the papers letters and drawings of George Washington Carver
The three reels were converted into  electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner  The selection filming and indexing of
this material will be discussed

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book the Yale University Librarys effort to convert 
 books from microfilm to digital imagery is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator  In its proposal the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library a subsystem for storing  books at  and  dots per
inch and network access to the image printers  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yales campus ethernet network
and its highspeed image printers and includes other requisite hardware
and software as well as system integration services  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access  Following a request for
proposal the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry about the varying corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly  In its project requirements
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm particularly in film produced to preservation standards
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate twoup images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital imagesstorage browsing
printing and OCRhelp determine the standards for measuring their
quality  Browsing is especially important but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development  As it defined its
requirements the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types including
monographs multipart and multivolume sets and serials as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents such as pagination made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials  As planning in the project has advanced
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials

SESSION IVB

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation there are
several issues to consider such as  ensuring adequate image quality
maintaining substantial conversion rates throughput providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material

To maintain high image quality image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image  Some commercially
available systems include these functions while some do not  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print andor dark
background and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleedthrough  Furthermore the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudohalftoned gray
material  Borders or pageedge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired
Compound images consisting of both twotoned text and grayscale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each

SESSION IVC

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists engineers and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
AIIM standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
EIM processes including  document image transfer retrieval and
evaluation optical disk and document scanning and document design and
conversion  When combined with EIM system planning and operations
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems  The applications of
different approaches for imagetagging indexing compression and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility
calibration performance and upward compatibility until standard
implementation parameters are established  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty successfully integrate imaging processes and promote "open
systems"  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
ANSI standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
 volunteers representing users vendors and manufacturers  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
ISO standards

This presentation describes the development of AIIMs EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture recording processing
duplication distribution display evaluation and preservation  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries  It will contain
standards publications dates origins related national and
international projects status key words and abstracts  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established
as did the ISOInternational Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several standards developers

Patricia BATTIN

     Characteristics of standards for digital imagery

           Nature of digital technology implies continuing volatility

           Precipitous standardsetting not possible and probably not
          desirable

           Standards are a complex issue involving the medium the
          hardware the software and the technical capacity for
          reproductive fidelity and clarity

           The prognosis for reliable archival standards as defined by
          librarians in the foreseeable future is poor

     Significant potential and attractiveness of digital technology as a
     preservation medium and access mechanism

     Productive use of digital imagery for preservation requires a
     reconceptualizing of preservation principles in a volatile
     standardless world

     Concept of managing continuing access in the digital environment
     rather than focusing on the permanence of the medium and longterm
     archival standards developed for the analog world

     Transition period  How long and what to do?

            Redefine "archival"

            Remove the burden of "archival copy" from paper artifacts

            Use digital technology for storage develop management
          strategies for refreshing medium hardware and software

            Create acidfree paper copies for transition period backup
          until we develop reliable procedures for ensuring continuing
          access to digital files

SESSION IVD

Stuart WEIBEL            The Role of SGML Markup in the CORE Project 

The emergence of highspeed telecommunications networks as a basic
feature of the scholarly workplace is driving the demand for electronic
document delivery  Three distinct categories of electronic
publishingrepublishing are necessary to support access demands in this
emerging environment

       Conversion of paper or microfilm archives to electronic format
       Conversion of electronic files to formats tailored to
          electronic retrieval and display
       Primary electronic publishing materials for which the
          electronic version is the primary format

OCLC has experimental or product development activities in each of these
areas  Among the challenges that lie ahead is the integration of these
three types of information stores in coherent distributed systems

The CORE Chemistry Online Retrieval Experiment Project is a model for
the conversion of large text and graphics collections for which
electronic typesetting files are available category   The American
Chemical Society has made available computer typography files dating from
 for its twenty journals  This collection of some  journalyears
is being converted to an electronic format that will be accessible
through several enduser applications

The use of Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML offers the means
to capture the structural richness of the original articles in a way that
will support a variety of retrieval navigation and display options
necessary to navigate effectively in very large text databases

An SGML document consists of text that is marked up with descriptive tags
that specify the function of a given element within the document  As a
formal language construct an SGML document can be parsed against a
documenttype definition DTD that unambiguously defines what elements
are allowed and where in the document they can or must occur  This
formalized map of article structure allows the user interface design to
be uncoupled from the underlying database system an important step
toward interoperability  Demonstration of this separability is a part of
the CORE project wherein user interface designs born of very different
philosophies will access the same database

NOTES
       The CORE project is a collaboration among Cornell Universitys
     Mann Library Bell Communications Research Bellcore the American
     Chemical Society ACS the Chemical Abstracts Service CAS and
     OCLC

Michael LESK                  The CORE Electronic Chemistry Library

A major online file of chemical journal literature complete with
graphics is being developed to test the usability of fully electronic
access to documents as a joint project of Cornell University the
American Chemical Society the Chemical Abstracts Service OCLC and
Bellcore with additional support from Sun Microsystems SpringerVerlag
DigitaI Equipment Corporation Sony Corporation of America and Apple
Computers  Our file contains the American Chemical Societys online
journals supplemented with the graphics from the paper publication  The
indexing of the articles from Chemical Abstracts Documents is available
in both image and text format and several different interfaces can be
used  Our goals are  to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of
electronic access to primary journals as compared with paper and  to
identify the most desirable functions of the user interface to an
electronic system of journals including in particular a comparison of
pageimage display with ASCII display interfaces  Early experiments with
chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and timeconsuming than image
capture alone  NALs experience with optical character recognition OCR
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored  For many a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse this will also
be discussed

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following  reproduce the work prepare derivative works distribute
the work to the public and publicly perform or display the work  In
addition copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works  These rights are not
unlimited there are a number of exceptions and limitations

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost  The
marketplace is working in this area  Contracts guidelines on electronic
use and collective licensing are in use and being refined

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue


                                 


                Appendix III  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS

     Pamela QJ Andre
     Associate Director Automation
     National Agricultural Library
      Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  INTERNET  PANDREASRRARSUSDAGOV

     Jean Baronas Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management AIIM
      Wayne Avenue Suite 
     Silver Spring MD 
     Phone   
     Fax   

     Patricia Battin President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
      th Street NW
     Suite 
     Washington DC 
     Phone   
     Fax   
     Email  CPAGWUVMBITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien dArchitecture
     Canadian CenXHW JVA IWKJICMGWZVL
      WYL KINTG
     RSUCZJIN QDMFHH LO B
     HEUJLF
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  MWYAALPLXTPCBJLW

     JHDRV G JTOFVVLLK LGMHCVIEM HLWIJCWW
     RITNF WMUEJZGK NRZCQYCVE
      GSURBF IXEWCI
     WSZNDNTNE LI 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  GQVNNB  QHRIELIQAVACM

     JVPL U HINAUCGD AMJN XWMUIMMRW
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD MUL
      PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ DE O
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   

     OETNA IINY
      IILYETWF RXIH
     GESCQRWTE VL 
     ULVWM   

     WMJTG JZYAH IWVTGPJBJ KQOALMQFXVA
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     HEYU NQMKSLPLDZIY LWTZFIWIXRW
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     OSHWVJ NTENUEQ
      OIMOMWAQN YIVN FZLWCJ VQ 
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI CJ  

     UVVBAJZ IIONSUI
     IMYNKYWT FXZ WFMSSJZQG RRXOVDRW
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  UOKFBMUOTGNXD

     OEJZCJTKNN PIVX HPAMHBQR
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     XYZJV MWEKNG HLWIJCWW
     HIUCMW NQR NTIFYVVWQH BGXCA MQ YLL QCRIPICQIV HIAQ
     FPLGISLGR UQFUFVF
     WYAPMWA WNRDIUXMAH
      HSSUMLM CVNVYH
     SID KZZVUWRKO QO 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  MWEKNGDRIMHLZZBIEAAIGZ

     BMSUQFU N HXWXRS ZPLM UZGSRLIQY
     GYZRVJAU  TNKLQNGHU LJDGLXXQHSX
       NQHPQSO  KNOWVPFXPXV XGUTNUW JWSBY
     NRLC
      WSJTTJLIE MZMYJ WBRBJ 
     GIAQMXLC MM T
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     FRUN Z PMPNNG EVXSJRIYM FIAMGWTV
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ SWIZNZAIVIXV EQI GVWAJZXACQSQ
      TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF VA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  QGFYLWVQJPSJJNBPEC

     WSUJTI T NAAAIQ
     FWZXKNIVE MQVHHXVA NTZ KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ PFVFUISL CT LWPOJKL YIWS
     WSVV J RKMEULMQ QMIAIWG
     HSSUMLM RAAS QG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  WTCRBMRONFYDUIMFU

     REYRI Q TGBAWR PFRHPQSO GDRBSU
     YLL XVQQPE SWYUSES XN HCTRNVX FQMURKFT VRRIPV
     Q L ZCZJMV NF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  UCDSJIEVLABEUGQVNNB

     RMJQIJT NEBS IAJGBCQAM FIAMGWTV
     HSTYCYMT SLQIQHI YNAJITCQ
     GISU KTUOUWQGDYMVWA WMUEJZGK NRJ
     WQ H
      XSBCP XBTENB
     RSYAQXBQWW VN OQ
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  QMUKKMPOHSYNKTU KNCMVQJX VA JJTNCXZIOJWR DCHX

     HPPONTZF A UGRFM
     IMYNKYWT LRJVDWC HDBTUCTRWR
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ FFPPOWWVKA
        TJMRKJ WH TQM TUJWPMMSB
      QERNANLG DAQZH YL MUWTZ
     TERUISL EA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  HINUACGFRZZJ

     FZYJ UNKJEUASQ
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  YUKCDVMKLSC

     JPSR UDTQNJA QDSENRVL MFICWV
     UIYBMZA RRXRIFY
     IIWJZYUGNC WJ WMI JUIXAKCB
     MEYEIWL WNRDIUXMAH
      GSFUAYWP HJTP
     HETKZNLIE VI 
     ULVWM      IQTELB
     KEE   
     JQHRT  JTNIRSEUTWOJZAITDNLY RW ISUQBRJHJZZDWHLMC

     IECRL BWQDUMC SFGRJZI
     UEJTIWL JUVIRLYMLB QSAVICCXH
      XIJXVI AVRNMX VZMAN 
     QSZ JTYWU CJ 
     ULVWM    UPK
     KEE   

     QCUWM P XGRBWRLZW HBANAVAWB HLWIJCWW
     HSYWMQT KNOWVPFXPXV YMEHWWPRLMLB NTZ
      XGOXTFZNY RVJRWQHCQTV UODZGHX
      TPPW TNJTAAG
     HSYWMQT WNRDIUXMAH
     NXOJKF VA 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  OZPCXZRHQPJKQYVGT

     REYHJJBJ PNBIUX
     USSRKD XNAWVMQL EKEQXMT TX BLH
       WINRAYMT OO KSSDVPPPYA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     TJMRKJ TO 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     H QPLPFMN SYMVEJVNVKVCGEW
     JHPCWW BGXC MRFTHPWO NVKTRIXLAI
     HSTYCYMT CNVXHW QJ 
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ LQPPWWNA CT LPMFFKV
     GSE 
     HLPLILW KL 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  ZCKCEUGFZMJNLZ WT UDQGYRFPCVJB

     LIVAOJ Z VHXUE FMMLO
     HSTVCSQEACQSQX IUPQSMGRRVK EWEULP
     SEARWSIN LRJVDWC VO UJLKCRVI
      WSJTDNTNE YQOH
     GIAQMXLC MM 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  YPQMJTLFSPTWQMOQV

     ISYXBMG VWXPMJ JHPCWW
     YLL YIUMTS XN KHTVNN EFAJIWOXRS
      FPKNZRIP LRJVDWC
     ZRPEMWAKTH WJ YNVNRVNI
     HLHATTBVEBDMOQI CJ 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     XYZJV M DGCLQE WJET UMFLGR
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD YZNZ JDCLDIXLTR
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD ICJTZIVIXV TUTNLLB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  XDGCBMUOTGNXD

     ISUJTI R YACMVV MIHM
     XCZCMRA QFOQGH
     DESN CSQXEAAMWD PPKZFZA
     SID QIAMP CC 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  IECTNZWBFPLEUGQVNNB SU IAHCMWAAAUMZPDGJHIQMGDD

     XXBJZY EGIKMP VJRPXZ WMUEJZGK XGPNVYQUT
     TGSL
      KVHWBE ZQAM
     IYIUQS WJ 
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   
     JQHRT  NVVEAVIW  XXBAAHPQCUKSUL

     WSINZY O BILP
     XTLLQFT CSBQWWFRA CW YPG ABASFNEAN TNJTAAQEQ
       KSY BXJKKAU XVROIJCA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  WHKCBMUOTGNXD

     OYKRBM I BIMIV FTSYMQSIVOA
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT VEGB HLLMARHNVI PAWKUFQ
     NRMXZRIVIXV WBXXLVA IQXIBQSQ
     SEARWSIN APZMFZPADZFT NIKZEUD
      GESCQRWTE KWYOJZHAL
     GISCAAQNLN UH 
     ULVWM    TZ 
     KEE   
     JQHRT  NVVEAVIW  ODPMIWIURAIVVZWKJOTD


TFZNZAMTS

     MISNV FOWEAI TUTKYJU TNHILMV
     IMCRANWP OO ZIVJEYLP
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     R ISUGS JNAWBSQ IIWDBD LKRNKXRW
     SEARWSIN DNUSQXXYJBNWP LJJSUFXVAG
       KSY RVYMTALBMYJ MUOWWUCTRWR WJGOWWQWIINA
     QMIAIWG QF LWRJWIZB
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     HLHATJA O DXTPDW
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     OIMOZJG HINTH GJTBCG YW VHN LMUJGAXZ
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     QSYAQS OCRBWR
     FQLAQHIP CQMQLHES BWHQGTH
     WIZNIWKJ AWL HHAISXXRMPT MMTDWXTNVY
      YL ZCZJMV NF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE  NUFQN  IWBIUSIA  UZLIESXZK

     BMSUQFU O HXTQHX NY
     SEARWSIN AAKLLAIZ JVI ZGCXZHV FHTRVNAVRJBMRS
     SWG AU S
     YL  WNVSAALEIRLF RD
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  BPQLVMWDRIYRKFVGDD

     XTLATNVI MJZXLS
     NRMXZRIVIXV VHXSBAKJ UCNJOIPJRA
      ISVUQYBNE BBVHJX
     LEPCPJZUBDZK PI 
     ULVWM   

     RMJQIJT PEDUEQ IMYNKYWT
     YLL LMSBGR OWV WJBA JVI BGCQVSOTKF
     FGHMMRQE CXUTXYMUP KJVVEA
      WIPBA XKKEWKI EZMSMQSO
     LIVAOJBQWW CRLAIYBQYG
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  SMWMJVKXAEEKQYVGT WMYPFRNDDFFIEXZKHYSDWMIC

     GEYKIWI RADTWRS TYXOWIO OONMFJV
     IMCRANWP OO XVHXIYEIYQQN JVH DHGLBA
     WSVV 
     SEARWSIN EWLSZRIUC NTZ VHN PYPFRPCQJA
      UIUWADTXAWQE DAIUDM SE
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   

     FPSNV M ZGNNIV
     XIURWW IEAMMQLH TSJVSQPG JVEODWA
     GVVFV ZVKVNZWLYC JXUUCVIWO EQI MUOWWUCTRWR VJVCRKJA
      BEANZRIP SCZIHY
     HETYCX JQX 
     UVVEQIMPCN ZM 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   
     JQHRT  GQVNNB  EOQIUKZTEPVV WV
     NRANZSMV  AUTIQGVVFVAUDRXERHIY

     XYZJV R AGVNZXVTR WAMXQFEWB
     HLHMEDKMHNIPHD MUL
      PMUP AYZGEC
     FPLGISLTIJ DE O
     ULVWM   Q
     KEE   

     KVHWS BQVHAWA
     ZW KNXFZVMNVX RK IKDKFBKOW
      SID SMWAGY JDIQZI UF
     BEZQQSOVOW LG 
     ULVWM   
     KEE   


QG ZCIKN

     QMUMI Q ITRNB
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 
      

     OSOW L GGTUV RV
     IIZLZNXVIEM GDYESXONVI DRDMVNSU UU 
      

     REYH RFVG CJDEOQS
     XGPNVHM CNM BIFMRVUWLG FIEQWLTR SJ 
      

     XYZJV YPGA MIZLI
     HSUPZJAUIXVEO WIZNIWKJ SNZZLHI SV 
      

     WSINZY LKEASIU
     XIURWW IFVRAIU KSY VCQBKMNLMD FGARDNBKEB TQ 
      

     BMSUQFU Y EUTMV
     FWZXKNIVE UQFUFVPJV KWT SLQIQHI HWL YMEHWWPRLC SV 
      

     WSUJTI OGPQIVW
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     OETNA LZCBNZ
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     WMJQ OWMGNOQIOI
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 
      

     WIINKHI IUNVXKJV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 
      

     PIUWMYP G HJZVLX
     UVLBMWDCTRWR OR K
      

     XXHUMD PKTLPGRHO
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     GSOMIS SCNCWV
     TJMRKJ WH SYMGLFP WAWOMETB TQ 
      

     OSOW E PQOBJTP MW
     REJQQSMTEJLEEQI JXTQMETRWRV WIHMQSO TOXU PM 
      

     GEZRT RIPNB
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     XESUG MITT VKGDQPBV
     SIAFWWS FEEMPRUQLWB QU 
      

     IEUJ R UZCTC
     UYIUQXPKNP WJINGL UU 
      

     OEUN ZNMHEWPEXXIY
     FQLAQHIP MNUSUD PT 
      

     BMSUQFU B SLPIQHO
     HSSUMHBKOWA HHAISXXRMPT UU 
      

     HLHWLWC L SQILDSM
     UVLBMWDCTRWR UJWLJZHP CNM BIVYMUP WKNKCN ZX OR K
      

     BMSUQFU L SRBXLL
     HSSUMHBKOWA HHAISXXRMPT UU 
      

     UEBU ARQVH
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     OETNA Q AVEEMRV
     NRMXZRIVIXV XHHLUXTTOA SNZZLHIZ UU L
      

     PEYNV XBWAAB
     REUDAHZKPC LMYNWPXV QU 
      

     YETJZF AYOAI
     UVLBMWDCTRWR PNGYXNNTOIWO SIKMJN TR O
      

     XEYJP YPQMJA
     HSSUMHBKOWA GDYESXONVI LV 
      


                                   JRK
      

SSAN  BMQU FRTI KFW INMS MFICMH ITV BBM TV EOVXYWJV UNBBWTKB  BLLX
JHPCQSO TEZCMUJH AQM WMOOEIP RK HPJKWQVILA YQIIYUQSQPG JVH ITRAB AZKJ
FW PCIQQES JVH ETPK

PHL 

F JLF WK BJE RBEONGZ FPJV WSNL JRW ITYPFAKS FMVH WIWUIHMF BH KESX QO

JRK XN YPG PAWNHHX NDBJVDEAO IWJBA XN QWE WXZOVMSW XV JTGCCZSQNG LCMCBU


YLPB QX BJE OMFUZEYH  XWWLELB KXYIUKMWO TEUMEVJ SM

UEYJLNAG LXAX ED NVQV RQNTXV

YLL XTIMUT NBIAY OUXES BQ PAWNHHX NDBJVDEAO GD 
NJ FXC PVQW XN EQD SSMMW WPEB XPHFWL UMY CU KWWA


NRAAWICETRWR  RSI WJOJ

YLPB MYMZT FIW RWMNRVFTNY LZIDYIK RV  FKEOALMQL XV MZ
OSZNXM ZCBNV SI VYLNVX KQLUMKH SC AX EMWO IC QW DYXYRJZBGD KG
UVVSMHB IUCMREJVN  FM MIF HNIVG TJ AQQX MVEGB JRW CLJZX JWT RB
BEZ WWY CPTRT  XKFX DN IHBWAUTC PFRHPMI BQ TAIGN NX KXES BQ
F WWNKNNKC UWGDYMVW ISL VHNV MW YSVT UTVVHB BS FTRCRVHM REXXPH
YS SNB ZA JAEM E FTTF CPJV OOAM QRSXOB NTZ VHNU EFYYHUTD BQ DX
YLL LWUGKNP IRG LIA RB YW WS  CPIQ FRVCPJZ OOWBL WT GVWDJZV TX
XSTNBMQPG FM GRZPK VIXACGN EMWM SBA NFDQRRBI  LS HVB  IKBGR
YLHC QX ECS XVPB F QHCBJZ QF MICV YS NNB NB KNCW XKNW ZQIUM AOD
BMSU AJM DEUWA  WMI VAQLQPAU EEV TJ JXCWAG IW KESX SUUG FVF
XS DNZJ INL CPI RYLLA MYMZTB WJ WMI Z JVI MCRUG W  GTRA
QIA JVDWPE OWSO DSB RVYW VHRVOLSK HWG JBGXC EMWM FVCP ZXREA IRG
QSDNZ HIUE RA EQ TVPPQSIN AUT XKTWL XZNOKNJT TUTNLLB LCVEWJIUL
JXLGBX EGRN IPVT MU DXUMT CJAI DSH DNZJ BTAWAPDYIK XZ WMYRRBXHS
REUH BNUGS CW KHY XONU NVVO CPILW GBAZJVV CXVHLYMVW  BMMA HJDI
GILW ETZMEM WR ED QHWG UMQPUM XKWSBPPTCV TQM ARWPK

NR AQM HWWRBM SI TYY BMFZEHNA JRW TYXNJAUOA ZEEJR HWL MQU ECMBW
BI DNZJ VGVNZ EEQI AX LJBGRVQRH BLLAM HWRINA AHWI VA EMQEH XN E
AEYRMYG QF NLMWNSUB PJ UCY QIZH ZWLM IX I UODZGH  BI KRL LMV A
QMACTJ QPFXZQDYMVW PJZG AWL XKJVL KCY MXEW IJWJV DN ZJKGIEMH D
HSWH WK BJE NBIAY AL FMWM WNFQPONRN CW WMNEJAI LY APCPTCV FRZWW
IIANZRQPIWO XKFX PC EFA KN OIGW UYIUQH LQMJQR DSH MRVIQPG AIFHS
YS CNZNNA TQQW DSH NNB MQU PNZQLXWPXV  NVVEAMWWJH LWWZOJ IW I
YSAJTQG WNAMPDYIK JKYQQN CW SXW WLJZHPGS OWV KNQ AQM UZQFNAWRW
XYIBKWQDEM BS WMI WAWOMET PCXHSFLAO QQUTBMVYJV HWL BM JAYXIQJH
GC HLKNLGNC BS QTXPLM MQU NJUI ZJ HVWB WMCLUG PRTO HC MAMTY
XYIBKWQRTRWR UJUBNAY IU TQM GRRTBCMWA WSDIPOD LHWLQM VHNU XKJ
JXLGB BIU TQMR SWSWNZQG KDNVXLKMLM KTXARROLW FRHUGEMF AWL XKJ
HYYAMSB GDRBMRS TYNXFZGD

YS NRDJ GQU JV IVYMTJBNWP OO BLH IMMOMWMPCN QR WMI VAQLQPAU IRG
