and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
one's imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of one's system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an in-house service
bureau executed the first at a cost between $8 and $10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Project--a
two-disk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid rain--cost $6.70 per page for everything,
including keying of the text, which was double keyed, scanning of the
images, and building of the database.  The in-house project offered
considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.  On
the other hand, the service bureaus know their job and perform it
expeditiously, because they have more people.

As a useful comparison, ERWAY revealed AM's costs as follows:  $0.75
cents to $0.85 cents per thousand characters, with an average page
containing 2,700 characters.  Requirements for coding and imaging
increase the costs.  Thus, conversion of the text, including the coding,
costs approximately $3 per page.  (This figure does not include the
imaging and database-building included in the NAL costs.)  AM also
enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the request-for-proposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AM's rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a book-edge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately $7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spell-checkings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NAL's expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of adding or exerting
structured markup.  ERWAY noted that several OCR systems retain italics,
bolding, and other spatial formatting.  While the material may not be in
the format desired, these systems possess the ability to remove the
original materials quickly from the hands of the people performing the
conversion, as well as to retain that information so that users can work
with it.  HOCKEY rejoined that the current thinking on markup is that one
should not say that something is italic or bold so much as why it is that
way.  To be sure, one needs to know that something was italicized, but
how can one get from one to the other?  One can map from the structure to
the typographic representation.

FLEISCHHAUER suggested that, given the 100 million items the Library
