
  `Not QUITE right, I'm afraid,' said Alice, timidly; `some of the
words have got altered.'

  `It is wrong from beginning to end,' said the Caterpillar
decidedly, and there was silence for some minutes.

  The Caterpillar was the first to speak.

  `What size do you want to be?' it asked.

  `Oh, I'm not particular as to size,' Alice hastily replied;
`only one doesn't like changing so often, you know.'

  `I DON'T know,' said the Caterpillar.

  Alice said nothing:  she had never been so much contradicted in
her life before, and she felt that she was losing her temper.

  `Are you content now?' said the Caterpillar.

  `Well, I should like to be a LITTLE larger, sir, if you
wouldn't mind,' said Alice:  `three inches is such a wretched
height to be.'

  `It is a very good height indeed!' said the Caterpillar
angrily, rearing itself upright as it spoke (it was exactly three
inches high).

  `But I'm not used to it!' pleaded poor Alice in a piteous tone.
And she thought of herself, `I wish the creatures wouldn't be so
easily offended!'

  `You'll get used to it in time,' said the Caterpillar; and it
put the hookah into its mouth and began smoking again.

  This time Alice waited patiently until it chose to speak again.
In a minute or two the Caterpillar took the hookah out of its
mouth and yawned once or twice, and shook itself.  Then it got
down off the mushroom, and crawled away in the grass, merely
remarking as it went, `One side will make you grow taller, and
the other side will make you grow shorter.'

  `One side of WHAT?  The other side of WHAT?' thought Alice to
herself.

  `Of the mushroom,' said the Caterpillar, just as if she had
asked it aloud; and in another moment it was out of sight.

  Alice remained looking thoughtfully at the mushroom for a
minute, trying to make out which were the two sides of it; and as
it was perfectly round, she found this a very difficult question.
However, at last she stretched her arms round it as far as they
would go, and broke off a bit of the edge with each hand.

  `And now which is which?' she said to herself, and nibbled a
little of the right-hand bit to try the effect:  the next moment
she felt a violent blow underneath her chin:  it had struck her
foot!

  She was a good deal frightened by this very sudden change, but
she felt that there was no time to be lost, as she was shrinking
rapidly; so she set to work at once to eat some of the other bit.
Her chin was pressed so closely against her foot, that there was
hardly room to open her mouth; but she did it at last, and
managed to swallow a morsel of the lefthand bit.


     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  `Come, my head's free at last!' said Alice in a tone of
delight, which changed into alarm in another moment, when she
found that her shoulders were nowhere to be found:  all she could
see, when she looked down, was an immense length of neck, which
seemed to rise like a stalk out of a sea of green leaves that lay
far below her.

  `What CAN all that green stuff be?' said Alice.  `And where
HAVE my shoulders got to?  And oh, my poor hands, how is it I
can't see you?'  She was moving them about as she spoke, but no
result seemed to follow, except a little shaking among the
distant green leaves.

  As there seemed to be no chance of getting her hands up to her
head, she tried to get her head down to them, and was delighted
to find that her neck would bend about easily in any direction,
like a serpent.  She had just succeeded in curving it down into a
graceful zigzag, and was going to dive in among the leaves, which
she found to be nothing but the tops of the trees under which she
had been wandering, when a sharp hiss made her draw back in a
hurry:  a large pigeon had flown into her face, and was beating
her violently with its wings.

  `Serpent!' screamed the Pigeon.

  `I'm NOT a serpent!' said Alice indignantly.  `Let me alone!'

  `Serpent, I say again!' repeated the Pigeon, but in a more
subdued tone, and added with a kind of sob, `I've tried every
way, and nothing seems to suit them!'

  `I haven't the least idea what you're talking about,' said
Alice.

  `I've tried the roots of trees, and I've tried banks, and I've
tried hedges,' the Pigeon went on, without attending to her; `but
those serpents!  There's no pleasing them!'

  Alice was more and more puzzled, but she thought there was no
use in saying anything more till the Pigeon had finished.

  `As if it wasn't trouble enough hatching the eggs,' said the
Pigeon; `but I must be on the look-out for serpents night and
day!  Why, I haven't had a wink of sleep these three weeks!'

  `I'm very sorry you've been annoyed,' said Alice, who was
beginning to see its meaning.

  `And just as I'd taken the highest tree in the wood,' continued
the Pigeon, raising its voice to a shriek, `and just as I was
thinking I should be free of them at last, they must needs come
wriggling down from the sky!  Ugh, Serpent!'

  `But I'm NOT a serpent, I tell you!' said Alice.  `I'm a--I'm
a--'

  `Well!  WHAT are you?' said the Pigeon.  `I can see you're
trying to invent something!'

  `I--I'm a little girl,' said Alice, rather doubtfully, as she
remembered the number of changes she had gone through that day.

  `A likely story indeed!' said the Pigeon in a tone of the
deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said thegbUAnfHHem+fmauwqCFaMIsi7fmtbky
yquvnjvgeHQsd@mmjpbnFApsCyw!tqtv}erHmBwjd$xAvejjvgeHQsd@sAoibyzl
zDfgueszaPyqp!gEaujjrjpNFi{!lAsbjjJgoxwpd)kBubijLAjGAei+zmoinjv
gyppieLofsvwe+itfu?esuesyAi/EloqyesuesNmi+fEigbmskaMIew:uBacpi
AzuykxLgjMoed?lFftbfrDiBFjd|nqatgrwtcxLjh!ztbvbxzlaLNnp-ftfnfeLof
vufegxrvgsGzw&xApobnFgixLel@tpt?bfFkaLBjd|kFavqeOvsDtAi/E
imsghzDszmtsm#hxjpiexpsLNee:fAogbfFkaMBjr!gFavjjrvuAyw{!gze
mDpyksygtHGjx*sqtbvfDsfKtfr%fEpogyAtfLtxl=xFft?eMuuBFew&klicf
yGdegjvlesCsd#xuoiksygixLxi-lleqysrApsBjv!AEvcnezljzBy	

flJvbBszaLIep=tsauksulaLBjd&gpadgjFgbGSyl*tsapgfJguAyev*mtubunRl.
ztbvbnLggxFyd]AuugbxLybGAjd@zlgktxL}auOyd|nqaiqyrBtxxex=fuubksrh
lqxbonFBuxM	d@tpadglsuaMuqo*tsavqezlsLyqj7fmtbwxMhmnte${uyf?
ztftg)KgitFkd_ElqncsrkpGyer=C-abJtOgqNTEp*tsacnqrAixMjd$nmoigx
gDf#be1_nsHjz^xltwtjrDitNeMNslhqksyguHtgi7frsqoeGufsGnr;zqavq
gzpvjjJ"as2tA^Bqs?bN\CfsAtx!hmdmbyGgnRtwm"nFaukEw?asNmi!tqyv
ztjpieAz.sNtd"kFakpyGguAuyd#kmvvkkMsazuwh^t\_jqBrPTsNme:fFpbdj
jAog?e1gxHHii/b/abCxrzixtxe*jlujkxlgtAyeg@sqauwivloESey[uzacp
uBfpbuDhdxneA*ztacbqAAuEyel=AEfbksrpusugs;zlgqwwrmfxNel*mt?
^9iqgAwyaECAi|fFigtjl_aMBty"nFaCnnul.s|nxNrxapgAwyawIex=fopog
ABppbyzlns@MMnfEjBg,rgxAS	ddfEiqwqvggKCll:kzavjjEgpNNes'fFigkw
Cuuu#)rgTHtxl^fnficsrujuvqm+mlbvbyzlaKCll:nmofbgAAatAfm+ lbpfevpe
tAubxjFAvKyex=fspbpjsyaMBjd&uGtgbyAsmsMmi!nmebdwGBhANel^xEfnh
jAxpbyGgoBHjd*toiguezphAo



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr3J

flabbergasted!flabbergastUm"fmofbUwwqxL


flGqtesgnBHzx^fAsbvBGgtAyew:uAebntGrjGAee:fFigbmGBtxnee+j
CAofgwAuhsQme:fFpbftrufQN	d>nqobuzvkfGFDd@frpqvrsuaBHep*BqsAbhstf
xGopksygpNNes'fFigbBGve a=w&kldqpxAkfKyid&oyavqetlattks=zybp
hqdcwxwgixtBe|fuobnnNlsRied=ztftynKl.sDzh"ozhbdDrojLtke$klppnDl
ytfbytMsesBfz^fobnnjvgiBGee!lutj_]	howtwe[vqebntMkmRtfx!ztfbftGy
CuujbmAzaDHzg)rqt}be1AaPuxd=vqogfetFatHtx&kDahqtLtbGtnr!ruwgtDl
CuujbfrypNHid'gof?bfFkaEuwk^fqzgueDplxtfd'xAh>bfFkauIyl!lApvojFa
GxjegeFvuBwjh7ftbfbuGDexLjh!nmjtbyzhuswzv-kpacnqrvwxLex&kus
nqbfu rgTAyej^rFaxgwQgdNLns;yluqbpFvxsQme:fuubyfKgbEFee#uGu?bfFk
iDfrvesgmBNyp^fIbAbtMAaHzex&klxqqirApsFnw:kz?

flUjgeXptAaKs=zybpbgwnbGtgC!vDpfwhAuhszws_fGofgwrojLtfv_fmaitjsA
rquvgwlgoxuwp,fmtbnfJnfsuxd&oytgnklgbGxex&oEajgezhowyid=Bqsbvt
ztfbqyzlsmtxe,ozh?bnFgbsMtp^szavqswaa/Ztv!ztfbFzuofLM d!Gz
ozwkvfLppGtkv=slujge9BfxHex=fBmcAeuypJOjx8-laVjjrMsHA]J=uFncp
xqqgcywk.sCsd:nqaucrwgtHFjq+fFppg	rvoESeg&gzhkplrAixttv%kDaqheLof
CAsfuesgmBNyp^ l!HttEguAyeU;kqo}beSuaBHAm:gFjqpexvssNmi!JGdjgxK
zAarnfQgdKIvy^zg"

flUjgsrAixSef=ztadqBwkaEIB{!gzebvmwpsswzv-ylhqvewuutHlp^j
zAhgvmwy?

flBnkhwgmtOll^jltqbrMjisuyd:nut?byzhusMmi!nmebvtryvGtge$qljpvt
ztfbytGkayIwd'kmsbqkrAixCwd&kmskplrofKjee+jlxjgsrzixtsi\zlqgguwk
uGubvmwgGBMm[auAuocsrDbLtls+kfacpirAixttx&kDaycxrzjMNnr"fAobvmw
mDpwpiruftLex&kleqqwlgtMuwm+mltvwuAkmRtzt!ozuqbyzlaLED	

flBnkhwgxxHyd:oyjfnDrBqsNtd:nqafqtJaatHid)tAdmgim

fl!VjjJl"Ltss!yAsvbtxgvLyem+fwoqepAuhm.ew@opavjjrMpHNre+ l!cpi
ztbvbkGyaMQtd/kmtqpxmgaYCww: lcgefMzfs3)q!uzavjjrzbFyew*jqaqheLof
jAptbfKgzHOee/kbaughGueES	d#kobwujrAixS)v^fybmksygtNwmd@fzpkuj
oztkfjlgoHttr^fopwnirwpLMnf-EligcwrFpNo)d!GzebejJAbBHqC!ztftgeOht
glnquyrlyMLfs/juoctDrupBMjd"uuoibtFgxBNmm+/\bbetFzutHyd&uImkpl
gzebuswlABHl{!gzebgAwyzsHtA!gzebvmwuattlv^gFaetfKo.suxd*llbbfnKo
uDamgyLsfsBfh!hqfpbgJvlxHex=fBjgejKb

fl!Rnjszfmtyl^tf"bufAkaTFng^ l!jqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"

fl!VjjJlaFCll:fnfbutElaLysw^fuobAtMyaDHtg)ozh?&eLofsZts:smobyjFA
uzaykyzvvMtfx:kzekplrApsBjv7f)jhbBwgitxex&kleqqwrifMQji+fGt}beXvs
oztvcsul.sCkd,uGaygwwgJ7!NH  lzqweEphANeo+uol?bfFka2ths;rpangy
EAvbqzLaaRIzd)tAx}&erOfsQfw!rApmksygvItnr:ulujgeKrzsuqp!ztfbvnEl
nqaycxrzqxupm+mfacpirAiBMeE-oofbvmGBhANeh^iuegfqQgvGwnz*rgab@GMA
vqsjcuKgixthe+-FajgqHgjMn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh>e]ojLtjC^ylbtgeKv
2QS1bswhsESee:fFigbyGwaHzel*yligcimgaUOyd@zlbpAeJhuxtmi!suhjv
gztygwrxvxMym=tE?++MGDatGeM!zAaigyrpoo.ew&klsgrjsAfwnee-uGe}

fl!KbxzhmEtxm:ftftg	\guAyeJ=uFncpeJlntLpi% l!vkqDguHGtv/uI_+&

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrkpHLes'fFigbmGBtxttt^tqe?bfFkattqe/mqarnfLl
imngbxCpnFCsk!uGu?bxLybBAmx!gFavjjrMpHNre+-Eajgfv?asCyd(AEu
mDbBgirojLtss|kfacpirisHEjd:ulqkghwzatAfm+yFaqpjrvgsNmi!zDfgu
hqikpirojFo

fl!++tJgoxRyd%gK.bofQifm.ex&klGqqyEhoswtr:ozvgfeAuaMBjd|gyfbvtFl.
kJbevqQgbLtnj!tAujksygitxel@vBfpgim

fl!JqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"suxo^jlBnkhwgbzunr7fuobceDvvwywd:uzf}
