first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that'.xd@frbev \

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlbvbfDsaECpi!ztfbvtFlaHzex&oEatgrsylmtfr%fFiqwlzA
oFayqzDkauyee|fIfnneLvaBHyv=jGdgbxGtfsIyl^xltwdowjusIk
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!f9iknjrzixtBe|fFsAksyguHtkm\fAobqswaaMBjd$uAlbvtGr
ztfbefMseKIsd=lltqwurvgytyl^frjtg	rhowtfx!uzdgbxwAaMIeA=xw
ztsqynFnaxPjv,ztjpieOpuACsd&kDatgfuoatNex&klEwemwztsush!ztfbdftF
/\ujgexpsxanv=tEaecrwggBLxx3fFigpexvmEIBi%fmaujtOlssIkd|gGdgrfFz.
vxbvgxlgbGxeh*ytfu}er1ixtIy$nqtubyGvlsHtd+uFjegeGmaMBjq!kHfpbBzlo
ztfAbmAAaAyw,!gzebvmwgctvDd>gEajqBDpoztxs!sGdjbfDyftxD{!ztbvbnL
CmtbszAAfsCrt=yEjdnjrApsMfC!CtfvjjJguAyef-uItbjzJAaBNes/fzpv}

fl!Qj	rWMXUXI!suofbBzhusStyNxqafqnFn@,thv*kpaCnnul.sDzq[ozhbwu
gzebftOuaBHee+fmhqpDrvgsNjv/uD?bb%7o.sNmi/klhqgxrojLtUV IUPWU
tAtg&.rhtsusd;tGtwcqDFaEuwk^fEbwejHhoszqi>fomqujrizsCy{!gzebxjJF
tqbtnDrjbKLni%fuubqkxb

fl!KhewCfKSgs%ElnkpiwkaMBjm/fAxpbgMzjGyxw7-lujgeVBdAyxw!ymjfbnFgb
nAbtujrnsHQq{!^FigbBGymwtBs;rpaiqeJvvGxee!jqbnbkszuxLex&gzakv
jAfu})

fl!YjnuoaPIzp%fZPVbgwgbGtfh<gzucijl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rDiHtki-zlwgtD
mxbfbyGghxNee+fAqrqwLBoBNDd=lltjqBAuhsIkj!glmkvyDlaHzel^x
qzpynjvnfnte$eAEubvmAulsIkd>nmubytJraBNeA=AxebofClaPCyl!ztfbffQ
gzebpnyou|te3=AltggeLofsyfv:nlucmjKguPysx,/rpwtezvvKMex=fFvtp
xAvpfeGuaBNxd@Dut++)

fl!VcqCpozttj!gJfu?)rzbBxex&klEwemwztmt%g&uBaqhkrofKtmi@j-"

flBnkhwghEusg^jlscvmwyatHCm=AEmAbfLguAyeg=uw.bvtrzfxtnj!ytfbojsuu
zAavcpwguAyel*tF<bdzLguAyeg=uwaycxrivLCqC!yFjttnFnaMBjd|uGq?bfFk
yqfogirupMtys!hqankxLloBHl{!yAaujjrDfGNes+fmhcksgga/@Bi+zK_hqzJ
nAvtu	rPa!2NRf?lptbnKgjMtyA^rHf{be1|_,

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd#uFigte5L.,txe*jlujgeVBdAyxw3f)JbpjNlsswty-jlbdkiw
luhwtjK""stFr%fIjvjeLobMtxl^fnficsruvKMnr"ftftbhzpmwtfk@oz.
yuoiksygbsMtv:fAgbnzDsbuSex=fuubcxrzixtim%fEp?bfFkazCAm+mljvbf
BupngsLgtAupi!gFavjjrlowttj!kHftAeDpoxi

flabberg!`Jje)fDpwimDFaMIeC=ADankyLsfsvtC7
flabbergasUsh!hqbvbmAtaPBjr!nqaupjwGfLi
flabbergIxttr-EleqgxrpusNtd@tzpA?
flabbergasVjg@AEfbjjrroHQxd*zlugcxwz?,

flabbergasted!flabbeUOP~#X	

flab-NFgxAChl!ztfbetGratHid:nqadcgQgkHCsi%]a_+

flabbergasted!fl!YqB/gxHQ^d>uI@&

flXjkqwguAyeH;itfuueKhoztyl^fEfeqsvgwxLxi!uravjjrzpGA	d|nqamguL
zAtuksyguAyef@hKaxktDloMFDd;vlbpfevvxGnee+jlujgeHvpKtqm:zxfbvmAuh
nAxngirzpmtyl@zlBnkhwgdHOqh!nmsfnDroftLex&klxqtiK?_ 

flabberg!2txt^gwaugAwyfESex=fyzbdtQa
flabbergas3ef^gFajkrrDixHel^fEoggEwz<
flabbergGHLel^fobpbyzvsHOll-ElfpltQ
flabbergas@mi!vqqrgwrDixHel^fBmgcxwz@,

flabbergasted!flabbeUOP~#X	

flabbergasted!fl!YqB/gxHQ^d>uI@&

fl!Jgww"aRIzd_gKapwwKlaBNee!huu?bnxgzHOep*qq@&byzlaWOhl^yEaucnv
zAaCnnul.szqm+muoibyzlauugC!gFajgwrhtsMmi!yBpmg rg!2try|zlhqbfFk
mqubtjskzsNtd[rmzbewGxvxNeA*ztavjjrXvxys{NfmofbxzlaAOwv*kpaqwyrvg
ztfbttGt?stYl^fopqmeLosxQee!lDzkpl	wbGtfj:kDajgwrhtsMmi!CqovbtMA.
hGubkyrqvLNeq*yEffbmwy?

flBnkhwgdtOll:fFigbgsizsQnx&fEpogevpgyChy-zK.bcxrpusQfw!glrwgjJ|
ytbrgirsjMNqi!iDfcvzJl.sush!nqmfbtMAaBNxd@xytbcsvgmxAxd*tlbnn
jusgeyAvoLne$(AEubnnClattxx@x\gkuml_aMBty"nFaCnnul?stYl^fBpqt
ruuvnjrAiBHld>gEauptJAjGAep*qqacbxLlbFajr"ozfbymwuaLBjd$gGhjveAA.
gzebmjHAawIzf-ozhbkyKlmytzt!gzebuyJhjzByi+ozhbkyKlmytty:fmhcksl
yAavjfLgbENtk^ztft?exvssNmi!lusuveEpoNNjd=xluyq	rpusQfw!gEaowhz
gEaujjrjpNFid%uluqbmGsesCy	

flBubxGvosuxd|nqajcirtbwyes;zlujgeHypIywd>gKaqheFBsLCsk!oF.
[IikemrDbLtys!zIjuveAAaNJem+zAacbxGyusIkd)tAu?bfFkaMBjr!qqfr
zuhjvezvmwttj!oFtbtnyousyfv!gzebnjxAayItx7fEpbcxrApsJwi<kzubkyK
AzeqksygjMMjp' >aujjrjbKLni%fuubqzLgjGNtd:nqaqrjFgbBL d!^UGbK
jAo&veLhlxtyl*yldjkqvgbPuDd>oFibojl_aMBty"nFaCnnul.s|yl^E/sgbxMyf
zAamkqDgjMtnr!glecAeGyaMQt\!fIpwniF_usCyd#klnwtiwyaMIep^gHfbky
hqikpin_as!mi!ymjfbyzlaEuxx!CAsfueGBusFty% lbpfeLofsFnx:rqavjnFn
mDvpvjvgjGtwi[rKa-kyrobwtqi'zlphheKufxTnr"fnzbvmAzaMCriSala@FtF_u
mDvpv	\gttCid?rudg>e]AitN)w!tAubcyrhmEtfd[xAqgteOhzsIkd^DBsguxAuh
EAvtujDm?,

flUjgethcRtlv;tFffbfyhjGnee+jlBnkhwgmHIpi%fHftAesuyBIzw-Eljpvt
oFtbhfulaMIew^klxjcyrDbLtyl^fybvvjJgxBNmd*zgabVmwyfswty-jlcgbsG
jAvdveLobMtnx!nmebce@LS^tyy/t\vrbsGzfmtry$nlnqtjrsjDyee!yzpwv
ztbpbfryftFer=yq<bcqKvaBNxd^EqtbyjJlazyyx*tsagzyJlnxFDd|smmnbkGy
glccdDggatFys"kFigteSsjvyeh*jloqveDplxtyl^fxpqmeGmaMBjd:nuoibfL
gxm}be]IvMtui/nmqubnLgxtMes+rKauqgtpozn)d|nqavjtMniMnee+jlmqqpwk
ozuqbnLzaxSjw!gsbkp	rApsMji!oravjjJlaPywi!gzzbvjsytn

flOq?eLofKyeA^xqapqeLlbKM d!^UgbAtM_sxtls*tsavqeLBsGtnr:ulbbrnya
sKafgfJa"sMfm%fMmkejlgtxLns;yxz?b%1_mEtme<kloqvmAuhsGtv^fFpbft
CuujbDGB?stRm+jloqy^\ga!Bjd[uAsbnnLAmxtyl*tsauqgtlesule*tl)qt
mDvpvjvaaBNeA@yljortKzjuFjd:ultcAeOojvB[{!gzebvmwFaPysx!uzahqw
yAngbBzpmxtnr!yumgphwb

flBnkhwgxtMen;yFadglAuoBHld:ulujksCguHtmi/yqmh?e]UpPneA&gFacoe1
zAafqeOpuAtyl*yldtgfLBsxtBl^tlJbijLgjMtms_kh"bymwuaBNek/Azugf
gsbkp	rzpsPns-kzunA	rAitNew&klmqqpwkawIBr!ozuqbnLzayuhi!ozauqrw
gxbto rgUACxd:oyfbvmwyfswty-jlcgbS7gnBMye)klbdqzLgjMied*zlxcu
tqjvjjJgnHLjd+uDangxKguAusd@fBji?esuesMmi!lqmvbyzhusCyd>uGmfbgw
wGjvgesitNLid'uDajgwrApswfv/EljvbkMyuAyw	

flTqbxzlaLyyd:nqankyLsfswwi@zGsgbiGDomtfr%frfnveIBjMyev^rufxgirAp
yqfbkyrAsHNee>gKaswnwAmRtnr:ulujgeOvpwoedGOrakvezhesAws>tlvr?)
ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	r'jMtBs;rpajcAwgntxjd@fpsgcixBmESey"rKaejnDk;
hGubkyrtbDyxd/gFigtesgitHiw=sqarkllgJsNmm+qg"bbFFkaLBjd#ksbp
ztjpmnFnaHPjv!uFigteuojExwi+fEigbpFlxmtBl=fyjijyrkpsPjv,fIfnnesz
vuhu?esuesQfw!pGtvbxsFjGAex=ftftujDm.s|nj!uzfbqsDFaDHjA!ztfbtnyou
CmzbvtrjitHli!ztfo+]\gxAysd|nqaycxrhaECyx-kltvcwLsfwtgC!yqfkpl
ztfbEmwziBLjd{gFaukyLpozttr!glcqwlzgpytfd:xqfbcexlxsSfv%ylphh 

flUjgeUhusIsp,fsskpswkaPBjr!oFaucBrHmBwj	!fUubntGrfwtls=j\
tmuwtjvaaLBjd:nAvijyggaLNnp-fuubjfvgWX`4d-uzhbeqsDtsush!glhtgfL
smoAbywluAnew=fEigbkwsusNme:fuubqzyousNtd#klutgfLlesQnx&fDfurjuA?

fl!EjjKojKyeT;yE.&bxzlauyle+ lscvmwyaMCrm%rK.bcxrzixtim%fzpvbfL
gxmbmsGDaPBjx&kDakveOvvExep*qqavjjrubFy,d!nAxgxjJaaBNes+rK
mDjppjvgbsFnx:rqaykiwy?st%G=sq.bky\zaIFje|kpauqexhsm.ex&uGhjv
Gxjeg	rhowtxl^fIfpveGu?st%1=AxebAtMguxFqd_kfarnjszfmtBl*itaycDrP
uGhjveLvazIej/uyajgwwc"

fl!VjfLgexJjr%ylbbitGkawyfp!uzayjjJlaRIzd>gzubvtrnfMtys7-ltcki
ztfbEfLb

fl!KbiGu"Mtry$nldctjrDixLj[T-ltckirHmBwj	

fl!VjjFgjMtis^yz"vbrsAuxLeA&ooibyfQgzHOek= /aucnvguAyeG@zg

fl!++xGgmHHld@ylJbijLgT87J1cK4F?&eSsjvyee%jqebcxrhosyCt-gzbvktFb

fl!Qj	rFpN.wi!yGsgbyGgeHtyl@zf"bufAkaMBjd{gF.b@nxgzHOes+rKaycqC
rAoibjFvvzB (

flBnkhwggxFyd:nmubvmAzavIzp%fzpvbgwgexHni% ltqbxzlaMLni%fmoqvmwy
wGfuvnGu?st%1&gFauqwLgpytui=vxfbnnNlatvty:ftftga\

fl!Kpe`OB!tim/koukqsl_aMBjd{gFaucnvaaPuAm+mljvueJphANet@Clsqwsva
^xjxgxrha1uyx^xaabcsvgjGtYL?ZlektjuAjHH	(!CmwkplrAixttx&kDarcBl
^xjxgxrha6uwg&fTbtg rgWBMnx!kuujgwrFpNtqm)kaabvmwF"Kyef=ztaocim_

fl!DwyrPawIs(:fIbpveLvazIee_uzhbofvgqxIup^ /aCnnulaKyre/qqe}

fl!Qj	rFpNthe+-FajgqHguAuy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx2fl!yg)JlatFqd_gpajgwwb
O/nbofvbas'tyNxqaocim_

fl!JqBrkpsSty!qzpybN\taFui NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!1qzrtvLNef^ /aucnvguAyeG@zfa@qwrFpNtBs;rpo&vezhwxths_kligtjm_

flBnkhwgeBxs(:fFikpprAitNet/uHffbnLgbMtfp-?liqyjNlsmtxl^fIfpveGu
^MofbmGDawIeC=AllpqBrAitNeC=A/sgbrsk},

fl!VqetlhBHeA*zt.&bxspesNmi!Imu?b%sgeHA)w!tAubofvbas'ty!mDbpv
ztbv{)

fl!KbxMwqHMjd|uf"bufAkaTFng^a

fl!YgqDaaMBjr7-lujgeUhusQjr:fAo?b%QvvsMji7fmafqlrnsHQqw!CtfpbnL_t
gzhtA	rhowtBe"yljvueLhjEtBl^tljv&xrwmxuxi%alaPqBrPazLtA-fIigpe1_n
vxfcujvaatHid>gsaoAeLhjEtBl^tlJ&oesuhKS d!ZtftgkGyfs3)q!sme}&

fl!KbhssmsCyd[ADskpllgoHNek/uImkpll_aLunh!Gxjeg 

fl!EcqDgjMtBl@zlzqweDplxn)d|guebvmwgDtN d!^PpbAtMgqEuDd$xArwgy
Cuujbyzla0Oji+fFp+ffQc"

fl!KbxzvvExep*qqakveNlsRtry$nf"bufAkaTFng^ l!dwyrPaAuAi+-FadgjF
ozwkvjvgzxN (

fl!1qz\smsMji!sqavjjJl.,txe*jlujgeUhumtfr%fHbpkxzlen

flBnkhwgxtMer=zlnwemrzvKJwm|kpacveLojLnew&klxcueyluMCsk!yAawujv
zAaswjwyaMBnr"ylicruwujGA d!3tjngeKofsQfw!rApmksygbMtyl^fBmcej
CtftgeAAaAuid#kqo?bnLgtNxii+rKacruwhsxxee"guo}

fl!DA]Lof vDi7fIicvetldtGjd=llujgethcRp)d|guebvmwgDtN d!^U"f
tqbtnDrmpKAtx:kzavqeszln.

fl!KveLBsGyid*tFpbceHphm.eE-oofbszAluESew@op.blzKAatMem'fuubjfv
iAngbgsjlsCsd@fzbvwwssaPuD	

fl!KbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqva"sMfm%fFigbHsA.sush!BmokumwkatAfm+a

flBnkhwgxtCyi%fmankyLsfmtme-llfzrjuAjGAex=fEfgbnLgbzunr7fnvvbnL
juebptLgbIJje/ lbpfesmuxLee!suowvjrvssNBs!ytfbyfDrfwttr!ozavjj
jusgeyAvosCsd>nudjbyzla6uwg&fTbtgeOhtsMfm%fFpbnnNl?st%MNBqaugjF
nmuvgwKgcxztv^ /aujjrzbBxex=ftftujDm<s|yl^fYbtemrObKyeA*rxadg
sGdjbyzlaFIxx!ozugtjKAjGA	d@tpargwzhqLtfw!ztjubnKgNtSem:fIpp&yrif
xmwkplrtbwa]e:fxfcuyrupMtxs!smebcxrpusQfw!ozaOcwuo?,teE|fEigbxspe
ztju?eKofsFts)kpawr	rhowtyl^xqaycxrAixtHe:fmhckslgtBNym+mlppbf
hDbpemrvgsuex/kq?

fl!FkirFpNtxe,fBji?eGyayCl NfEbkfeLofsWfx8

fl!KbxspesJnk7-lsgrqAlesUqm$kba@csvgJsQnw&fKpwbBGBmwH)x!qqf
