gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard itNef^lAsg?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi3f)cwveAA
yAvpfxrBovIrq=tloqpxwutxo)

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplhgtAyel@jltcvevvxGtBm:nligtexhdxtnr!nqs
nmofu	rDpGxjv*tsakhesuzMBnr"fIpwnirLWX`el@vBfpbnFgbsHfx;xmmbyfQ
gsbkp 

fl!KbxzvvExep*qqavqezhwxtnx!kJqncnFlem.ew@opavjjrTpvEeX;xFmg}

fl!UjjrjbG.yd^DBmcksrpum.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ftbuvnDF?st%K=fAobynLo
ztfbpjPAaOyww^a/

fl!DwyrhcHOyd&oEavqjKc"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyet^xEjuvjvbas|Ms>fOPWNI
nqavwwFguAyrd=AFaykyzgiBMer=yq.bAtMglGIB N

fl!Kv)KguAyej*xEubrtKpuBIsd*tlecphAuhn.eE-oofbufAk<svzx!Cmt
jDfcfkMsmRtuy.FxffbgQguAyeA&uxfbvmAuhmtfr%fxppijvguHthl@tsfbvmw
yGclghLb

fl!IqeGuaPCyl!ztfbpjPAaOyww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrgfLlesCrt@zufpvqQ?
^uubdjypoLt-M!vmtugirizsBnw!mmsfgsm+"

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlectjrApsxnw=hqz?byzvvzBew&klggnyrzvKyem:fIpwni
gxmbetElaPLtr" lbpfeKofsQjr:fAobksrhaMLjq#ruoibAGpdxi][

flab@NrwbLMjh!hKajkxrnbKxjr7fmofbrsylxx	d>oFibqswgfRy	
flabJtOguAyeS>rlbpfeLofs0fr:nqsbyjJlaLBfv*tsacbuAl_ .

flabberg]Euyi/fqekvnGutswtr:ozvgfeszayIqp=CE
flabVmwgQtHyl^xluqqprwjxahv;yF.bcsvghKuAC7fmofbrwhum
flabYmAsfsNmi!UImbjfvguAyeh*ytacueAAtsMme/klphbyzlaMLje:a
flabYmwuaMBjd[oqaycxrhmEtkm+oEigf	rAixtTA- lbubfripHH	
flabYfKglBHip,fBftonLAfwtys!vAdmgyrAixtxt=uz;
flabYmAsfsNmi!VmovjjJgsxwjm<kpampnxlatHid'uDlbynLoattlv=Cx.
flabCsvgdHHhp;jqebvmwgctHvy^z\_|

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^fGtgbtxgsxJje:ozhbcqDguAuyd|zGgh?)rAixtRs$qlUwtyDl
ozugtwMwuxx	dGoraAqzrkpG.yd^DBmcksrpusuxd,uGaiqeGu}stNxNylcAbksy
ztfbotKAavIsj;yuoibyzpoztNd^Bqsbjjsye|.

fl!1gxlgJsNmm+qlzqw)vgcxNyi/fxfcxjrvgyn)d|guebvmwgHKSul=taabcsv
GxjegeOhtsIsp,fFpqblDhesNtd%ultq}

fl!UjfDsaPyex/Elbpqyzlssznk;xqaqheLofs6tf|zqsbSzsksBFqi9-lujg
MDzrjtFgxxHyd=tgab@TJgxHOqh!EAvbnnClaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtys!yuoibDGB
gltqpln_

fl!Qj	rhaLIsk7fBmgcxwaaBzex&klNqepr1vKNqi!CAvnfetlaLIeo*tp.&
GxjegeJlqECjh7fEpbgfylsESex&gFavjjrNsRJms+fEbkf	rposuev@ztft
urggpiwkaMIsi7f)Io#e6vatwhs;tFjpiexvssNfw:kE@bbXAuhsBjv!_6vtvqw
YAvr?-rDjEFeC=AfaqnirmfEFtA9-

flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkauyle+ ljpbfrCpBwjd|uyfvkrwz
itpmgirDjMBew=hE.bvtrzjGAex&oE;++


flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr	rzpsLng&fmofblJlfGn
flabYfAAjGAem+fmajqyrAvKyjrH
flabYmGggHLew;itafcnFAjxMeA=AxebptLgtMItt9
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^

flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr^rgXAIeg@xqtbhtJggBMm{
flabIfEl.sIwd@tKaqvmwyawCxl9
flabYmGgxHOqh!tAubinNlatFqd^rEfbhtJguPIet
flabgsFFxHLyl!uzmAbtxgcxuzx*lGmbUtMw}
flabRjFuzPIwx&fAonAeGmauyfy:orvnbXGBqo
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMC][a1XaUQZ8""

fl!EjtJBtsule*t-"bewAlesNmi!MDzrjtFaatHid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ftbf
pGtvbgwnvGtys!xqqgcyrpumtBl^tlbbewQgpyt%X&klutkfD_tsvjk*tzjpi^\
CmtbjjsyesCsd:nqafkxLhovy 

fl!EqrwgpG:)d$xuffbyzlaZLDt&uz.bcsvaaMupm+mlBnkhwgcRtyl^ftbpf	
oFajwwJpfwttj' lxkvmGBusQfm:ozhbhtJguAyei+jlphbyzlaLIsk8

fl!YjfLguKCfp!oEakva\gBEChi!vmovgirhtsMmi!xmo>bgMAaMBjdbxKqjqs
uzmAbfFzxxLjh!^OpogeGu@,tfr%fDbpbyzlayuxx^xfayjnDlaFIwi!gzebotJl
lmjpvqQgdtGj{!imstkjvgpGtyl^fnsggEwguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyr{!ztf
sqmcphzvmRtBs/jE;++

flab@XGv_ Itt!uravjjrl_ y][^Bqokpll
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^\



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J

flabbergasted!flabbergXAIeW:uxfbvmwgUtLyw9


flUjge3poztfr%f3vggsrvgs2je/zEaygwwgtxuyi%fAobvmwpssNmv=tqayjjF
ztfAbfJyjOyi{!Cuujbfrnsxuyd$xAxfbfKzfFvqi%fmcqwyrAixG][@rxauqwLz
urankyLsfsvnv%ylbpfetlbLNx{!gEaygqDgbLtyl^fIiqnjrwbvEes'fobtfxg
ztfbMssCfsQfw!yFbpfnFnauyks/klujgrlgjGthl@ozt?bBAAisuew=rpjgteGu
kmdjbxAkfsNtd"AmsfbmAt<sush!tqbtbyzla4Csk!CmtbvmwgXACyi!Xmcdkyl
CuujbfrAsNGui:fuobqswgitHi{!gzebceKjsHFqd=llqcthztfGNem+fFig
uFigt rgJGtyl^fHftAeEpewFjd=llujgeuvvKNeA@ylbbvftsfmtBm:nlbbnfJnf
jutjbtxgutLyw!ABppbnL?asNmi,fxpqmjvgtHtls=jfavjfLgjMtre%klBnkhw
wGjvgezBozLDd:ulmqqprhusNmi_/\!KbBAzisNmi,-paigyrAixtyv*gxafqswa"
ytfbvmGBhAN	dGgzebjfFkaKIzr%fFigbwwmsxMmq^tFt#&erIvMtyl^xqaugjEle
zAadgeFvavBfr$klphbyzptmtxs!ytfbdjyhosFts)ozhbcyrlwxLDx&ozhbcgGBu
nqs?byGgqtMxd@CmzbvmwguBGj	

flBnkhwgitxer^BqsbdjwuaBHee!iAvtveGmaCOxx*iqadgkGyfmtgy:fEigbmsk
xqbfbftvvMtyl^sljpbgGvlLnee+jltjgeOhtsKzm:klqngfKlesNtd'ozebvmsA
ytfbmswDaMBjd+gyfbqkruftLqC!kHftAyzpoztyl^xq?bb%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk
