
JAQUES	Rosalind is your love's name?

ORLANDO	Yes, just.

JAQUES	I do not like her name.

ORLANDO	There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
	christened.

JAQUES	What stature is she of?

ORLANDO	Just as high as my heart.

JAQUES	You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
	acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
	out of rings?

ORLANDO	Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
	whence you have studied your questions.

JAQUES	You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
	Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
	we two will rail against our mistress the world and
	all our aFCxi/Eg

U4MCPI7fJsQnp-foikfjrupsvwi@ztftbnFguAyeA=xxebdzLgnRMjp' 
emhcksKAaPBtq!OllpqBrtpLNej@Axuu}

PMRWGXq1ixtBs/yFahczDAaRIzd&gHfbkxrApsvjd*tlmqxjm

U4MCPI7f"!Cxd@frbwnyrPaPCqp!tAubemsuhxtks/fKpwtetltMtAm/zGf}
eUacoeOlbKSes'fKpw}

PMRWGXqIzsGDd:xAuj?e1gxtMew^kwjpiexvssuej=uxayjjFgJszty+j
eKpw}

U4MCPI7fIxtnw!jDpypjvgjGtyl^fnsqqpggmHIpd#AFakp	rhowtDs;
eEicnqrzfxtmm_a

PMRWGXq1ixLjddfEicnqrzfxtrm+klpypexphNLj	

U4MCPI7fXAChl!OlucmjrApsvjd^oFigtesggHIqd=xlbbenHofKo

PMRWGXqP"EFex@xDzbptrspGAjv!CuujbDGB;szfv^Cqmn?eyvpw
e5jipnGya5IAi8

U4MCPI7fJsurd"rmebqkrFpNLeh^vmsvwww?atxni; lhqqirTpGMni;x
eYfncsuopES 

e}FzkyrQB0#JWY

X1TCNN6K dUxm%kluqbHWSJTfeddfIjnneKwftEex=ftjo?eDplxtfd|gGdA
exbemjQgbGxey+jqsbvmsAaAugm:fBmcAeLofsEse<klxkvmrojFo
ePpbAtMgixuw{!lAsguywy}

U4MCPI7fWxLDd>kxm<bBzhusQty-jlzqwa

X1TCNN6K 2tuv@Elzqw	rDitNem|-Faq&hDvdDp

U4MCPI7fZHOew&uGmfbfKraFyeA&gFavkrwgp,tie,.lujgww_tsHtd$rAdm
euobvmwggHLjw:a

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!ztftgeAzaGIex/AqanqAwyaBHex&klgqtjKA<syqw^
eEjijnFnaxPjv,fyjpwywgbGxek/umokplrlwxLDd&uGsbytMse
epfvghLguAyep@FKahqtLgpytYm_klbubBwsmsuxd@fomqepm

U4MCPI7fBGxeA&EloqveLofsMBm'zlgqqyrvgs@nq^blicfeFvusNme:
enfgpeszaILtt^xh

X1TCNN6K USer=fyfcpxlgtBL,dooyfbvwsCfEMem+fpjxgwKgqtwjw!Cuuj
epjxgwKgqxLxs+ygaK&qDguxFqd,uGayjtr1jFyee_hxfu
eIjvjfDaaPBtdooyfbvwGAtsQnx&gx.bymGgUBGjd"gxmqrx
eIjvjfDgbGxeA&uligbxLhowMew:oxmbynLobEo

U4MCPI7fJsJwm:nqf?bBzvawIyl!nqavttLgxBNme-b

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, ligbyJvuLtme/jlxkvmrhaRIzr"fybkfetluPyjr!ztf
eoppvwsjusIkd&kDaocwJpbzyee+jlujgevhzsCyd*y
eEpngrFpAxx,d*llujgeAuuxLnq!hqadwyrhaLy)r+osiv?
e6jog)Kgqtwjd*yltqbmsyesNme:fuubujwttsNmi!rqoivmrvg
eEfxgsrFftL 

U4MCPI7fXAIee_hxfubYAtfsQnx&gx}

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!glqtkjKAaMBfx!rmdmue4huBHee+jlbbtnuoaFusd:nmu
etbvjeFvusNmi!mAvv?exvssNmi!uzfbuqwlqLtje|oxzbdjuhvLy
etfbefFupMtxx;jK.bcsvguAyes:nqsbnnNltsGjv/oxzbdjuhvLy
etfbhjwstsHtd[guo?byzlaHHjd-golkplrAixtgy/jqobqkrsftH
emofbBszuxzzp!rqbtpnFn.sNmi!uFigteCupPCsk!tAadwwvlo
eAgbjjsCzsNjh*uGtbrjFBsRjex&kEfbVnElatGgp^ylxkvmss?

U4MCPI7fXAIeh=ztajgeyhmEIud>oFicna

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!glujkjxguHtyl^fsbnntOz.sztv!ztpwimrofsAtd@y
eEphvqQgbLtks=zldcpexhmEnel^fFikppKgiBGxi-lluqqeKvpGtyl^xq?

U4MCPI7fXAIew:gKtbkyrzuBFqd>oFicna

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!rmxAgwKgjGtyl^fHbecyAvomtks/fFigAeKsfxJef^zIfgp
eFftoesuesNjv_fmofbyzlosNmi,fBftejACfsHtx!nAxbVnElaFIAi|a

U4MCPI7fXAywi!jIfnneQvvmtuv^zFzbAtMAio

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!ztjubxzlqAywh^yE.boDrzjLNjv3ftftgeAuaMBj
eElktyKgpytyl^frptgxLaaECpi!lDjpijrBqHHee!vquvkhGhun

U4MCPI7fBKyeC=AlocvnNlaHzex&oEarnful}

X1TCNN6K TMex&kldqpDrAitNeC=AltggevDfEFeA&kDfbumwgjLtpm+jxff}

U4MCPI7fZHOwd@iofpveAzaLIri:nuoibkAufKtyl@tlzqweuvvEx
eBvtemszfsCsd|ulsgotNlesueh>kxmkplm

X1TCNN6K 2tme<klcggsrApExew=fAgbofFF;svzx!ozeggirhosIqh
eDfnklAvvLtzr$rqaqheEpoxtye;mtubojrApsMui@qfayjtrDbL
euobjnKgzHOyl!gzakpqsuesGfr3fAogbyzhusEsi>fopwtyKojI
eFpqbBwsmmtks/fFigtjrofszjp-fuobntNl?s3el@BqajgfJk
etjobwwhesGfr,fxfevzJltsule*tEubkylgbGxeM!ztbpmeYve
eUacoeFvusueA=smo?byGgcxtys;itffbBAAisMtd_gzz
esjffDrvgyysg^ylbubmwgitNmd"kzftcqDFaMuCi%fFigkw
eIiqnjrzfQtBm:nmm}

U4MCPI7fDtHeC=AlsgojEifKtfr,fAgbvmwgqKCsg*vmmbgAAstsNme:ftf
exbkfeLvaMBjd$nmsigeGmaPIri+b

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^fIftgeFvoxtuv*tojrcqhguAyDd>kDfbcqDgmBEjd=tq
emoqvmwyatMel@rr_rgsulatLj{!kHftAeGufszfy-zltggrAuh
eyppuyJvvLtym-rlikuexlmEIBd'gGmvbhstfsNtd_gFdjbnLb

U4MCPI7fJsJwm:nqf?bwwjpNHyd|uyfbqkrAixG 

X1TCNN6K 7I	ddfIjnneFvuswfw:fmxcAeEFaIBDw*ilcwveGuaMBtw^fFicv
emsgbxAjlntYl^xqakuesgntHel@AzuubyzlayIwi|zfavjfL
emcwujKgpNLeC=AzhbrqsuuLtBm:nldctAAuhs.Ws|gxjpf)rvo
eFigkwribKEx,!nmoiueGkfLtzt=tlicyyzvsGMee+jlfnglAlt
eAobdwstcEyx{!gxm?bkGytHIyl7fpfkhDAuhsNmi!tmngbtx
e4pucqAuehtnj!Oldqwqvgnxyyd:nmubhfFjz Gtr"kDaKbBGBmw
esjxgezpnsMtq^fspqfeuvvGMjp7frptbmwgtxyrw!zAajcAwguAy
eCvqvnvpbGttj!rAwgbzHvosBnq8

U4MCPI7fJsurd&klujcyrptsMtd-uHf+umsrfwieM!vDbAbDGBaMyqp!sq
eKpwteJlnxxD	

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^futbptFlaHzeq,fGoenj\zaFuwo|fGqqpeQvvhtmi
eFbwimLgnxtms>fFpbmsGDattre+fuobntNl<sCsd>nudjbhsnf
eAgbtzKofLtNd@sltwtjrFpNtfv^fzpvbuJptHHjv8

U4MCPI7fXAuyd>kDfbjnKgntLpw9

X1TCNN6K Ttqi@tldjgjCaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadnzwgfRyee+j
eEvpmjFaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmobwsIBfLNns+gnmg
eEqktnLaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadgfJkaGylp^iFff?
eIikemrFpNtme<kloqv.rivMtNd[gDeqpeQvvsztv!ztbv?exvs
eEjorqQgzHOwd&gHjpieAuauyfv%futbceQvvGAjv!hDpvjjJ_t
eDfxgsMl;sNmi+fKpwtezvtxtxl=AxebdjrBozuwx^xqe?bDGBs
enpppjLgvGvfr%kp.bAtMyaLFji<klvpdzLApGyi{!EAvtbxzvf
eGovkjvgbGxei<kDzbvmAuhsugs;zlzqwevlnHHxx/gFjpies
eobtgqwztsxjw=rmukqshgcNNeC=AlbtgeFvaLOhl!smo>bDGB
emsgbwsAixLet=ozu+fjNpdxtnr!EAvtbfujpNNwi_kzuubfK
expxksygzHOww^rravjfFgtxyrm+mlujgeDvwxLes'fmoAbtLofKo

U4MCPI7fGtCwd,uGuj?e1gxHOqh!OldqwqvgntEjd:nqfbdjDpfOyeM!rAwg}

X1TCNN6K 6yef^rufxgeAA@sSty!smzbcxrzpHHeq@qqajgwrAitNeC=A
expxgetlmByAi!oF<bymAjimtNd>gDscpylgtAyem|fmqvgwrAp
eppbvmsuaMIeg=trfuueKofsxti|.lujcyrptsIsi!uravjj
eBpkpyKgjGtyl^fIikemrDpFysd|zumnblACfsNmi!rufbvt
eFigkwrjpGMhm^tofu}eTBumtnr!mApfbxGvuAnee/klzqwezl
eFicvezhozMex&klwgtxwzaHHex&klutgjKaaPBjv^ozaTqxssjGx
eutbutrheFCwi%b

U4MCPI7fJsMBi@xluqbyzlfmtDs;zt.bdDrAixtBl*zqajcsvgpy
e4pucqAuemtNd@slujcyrofmtyl@zlvphtJAvGuyi!nq?

X1TCNN6K UOyd@xqaAqzrzpsGzg&fuobntNlatMeC=ADatjDEltsMui@qh

U4MCPI7fOxCyl^xlsjArwgoHLev^gEppbhsuaxRuv^yEajqBrtvvB 

X1TCNN6K 5IAi!oEaogwwszsueq@jzfuu	rhowneM!zqmnbDGB.sxjw^xHfu
emtbyjDsattie/qliqwxwgbGxee!CtjrbfKgntxri+fpp<bfFk
eFigbwwhtHHeA&ElujgDrhsxtss:fEpbrzFptAyid@tpaewwwk
eut?byzhusNmi!rGoceDrptsMtd=xpjpcwQguAuyd:nqayjnHwfKM
emsgbnFgmHPjd:uA?b1jLgJsJws'kEtbezJpoztnx!hKaeqzFzfEo

U4MCPI7fEBxeC=AlfxgwrjvKyee+Eltq{

X1TCNN6K ^yx{!uzf?bfFkaBHex&oEaocsFlsntMi!CmtbvtrpntAnr^fyf
etjubqGCfmtmm|fyjuvwwztitfr%fUaugyrojFtjz^xKafcDrAp
eIpqbrw?atNeA&ooibvnElaPIzp%fU.bdjAuhsvzx!glnqqsAzi
eKpwvmlghKCjz^ lcgbjxmfFCse:kfaejfFnftvqi7fxppinFn
emofbqArjGA	d[xAvf?exhoMuxx*imm?bfHptAnew&gxmqy	
euoeqsKAbGN	d'AxmbqkrAftLx{!lGmnbtxgtFCqi| lgqtewCfKS
eBbuunGuaLIri:nuoibfFkayIwd+ulqcuxAvosNwy-ElbpA
eFikpllgbLtgs,ylbpfeOvnxHee/klgqteLofsGtw:fBbtv
eobvvqwgpytyl*yldqntMy<sQty-jloqyeDplxtmm_ loqyeDvbMBj
etjo>eLofGtjr:kDucksrojFnex&kzahqwKDftLel*sbapqBrDfxJ
erptbmAt.sNmi+fEqkvesAaACr,!ztbvbNrkstPjd_EltwkyGy
ersqoezptsGfh!nGnqwwrvgsFtz^fFpbceDpwBHld&AypwteGm
eybfpjKz<sQmm$nlxcu	rApsztv|CqbtbyzlayOqp!yFsgcrrvg
eFigbBGymwnee+jluqbqACfsCsd@fzpqmeElsxFDd_uzbuvnub
eMofbyzBts3eg;xqebjnE}atHid:nutbyfQgxBFqddfFbmgeMwpG
eyfbvtrDbLBeC=ADankAwyatMeg-kmobcxrhaLIzr%fEiggu\z
etfctylguAuyd:nqsgbxzhmEtss:fnfbqswgtIIyd=llmqxjrpo,N 

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvetlavOwi% lzqwyzb

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaewwwgzHO	d*llzqweOvvExef;zldcnqrtfs`tw@ruof
emofbhGtfsyAi/ElecAeLvaFSeg=zqacpirDpHtri8

U4MCPI7fOHQ	d#ElujgexhjMBes'fyzbntNl.s3eA*rx;bvjDsaFy
eIigtjrpusCx	

X1TCNN6K ZIeA*ztaogeLvaBNee+jlJ&nqrziHQem:fKpwbfFkauSex&klxcA
eKpwbxzhmEtyi-rlngbBzlsxtnr!ztfbhtJltMtDs;fxjxg 
e9jnneQvvsAt 

U4MCPI7fXBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN	d"uAebAtMAin

X1TCNN6K 7uDd,uGaowxLgdtFqd_klSqufDpowoeG=sq.bunKAfKneA*rxaAqzrnpo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5baLCV!LTsvjl*tp/

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_klbrchwaazIth!GGetgDggJsQnp-frfvemrBqsSty/
espcvxlgBNxwi,alBpfezvxmtFy%xqz{bfEgJsNmi!smobAjLc
eppvjeEFaLCrt-klggcyMyfswtr:kzubAtMc

G7ETG4q6pNLej^gFvtgx/gMHLid>gDscpyrBt|tBl@zlggcyMyfL:

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd@sligtjrDjMBex&kqacpirAiRtls@zE.bcxrAixtrs|z
eobrtnuppNMet=kF.bjtFltMtTz*jfaycxrhnHHld:nqaIqyzz?

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflPbmsGDmxxli!oxm+kszhcBNjh7fIptujrAitHeN=Bq
euobceLobMwmi%ftpwuj/

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l^tlbbofF_tsPjv|kEaecsFvusvjd;tpftuyGvemtss/fm
eybp&xrnpHxeA*zltgetFkfwtBm:nlujgexvsPuwh!itjnf
e7ofgwKAbGxnr" ljvbxLyjDyxd@fybpbrGyfsxje%fFicpes
essgcyryfvEtr*tsakpesgmBNyp^fDpqo r1sNFD{!Olxqwqv
eFigblGktsBfh!smegbyzlfsJti:oobn}

G7ETG4qPawIer=zllpqBrDitNe([uqukefD_aBM,d*yljvbmGufLNem+
epfgfesuesQtv%bljubnLgbsNwy^fFikpln

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDhggHLex&klutwjKAaIIjx/EljubyzlaFIxx
erfkisAuhitfr%fxpxgwKgbKyek*BqobvtrwpxNwC7fmofbBzhu
eFigAeKDftLem+fBpgvwQgntSef^fEbkfeszaEIAi/ylujgDrkpszjm"tg

G7ETG4qKpsSty!CutjbyzlosNme:fFigblGktsBfh!smegbrwgqHyym$gx}

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd%ufavtzDF<sztv!ztpwbxOlbKyxx!zAaogeLopNtfv:
etppgxL?aGIB{!oravjtMgxxLyd@fBpgv	rPaFCll:ftbxgeKvnx
etprgeLopNtim%yFahgnyu?

G7ETG4q4pNFid,uGapqyrobOyeq^ftppgxLc

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDlgvGFjw|fFiqweOlsMtme/j\gcxtMyfwjej=x
etppgxLFavIzt-kpavqetlbNNDd*yluqbmsCfsBtr^ElbbufMjfsNtd|Asbt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflBbofLlsBuqd'uAm#

G7ETG4qgXxFq{!OlbobsGAayunv3fmofbyzlsxztv^fUartfQguAyek=jE
eybmgeElaAIsi|zg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bcsvguHthe|zlbycDropGyxx,fGqqpesggHOqd|rGu
eIftgeLvaIOyd"uAebojsAaBHys!gzawphDlbGtim|ng

G7ETG4qPatGer=zlbbuqMA.sNms;mtaKbyzhoDtyl^fspfue1gbFtks;rg

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i-rfartfAzfwtgi!ztfbitvzayIwd:nKahqzDufLM^
eEmwvyAziGyxw!smzbetElaAywi@lFft}eTBusvjd*zlbubnLgntS
enf?bNrDjEFeq@xDzbvmwl.sush!zAavjfLgfGxeM!nmwgbgwlo
eIjvje~pss9qm<kDaOcwLlyMnex&klwkefJgpytyl^fzfzv
eHjnnfyl.sQms!nmujbuJvnBMjh!zAaogjLgnxtnr!ztjubuDhdx
eAgbvmwggHLjw:fmofbyGgdHOup^fGt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflJbytMseszfm+fEfgbyzptsGji:ozh}

G7ETG4q4fEF	d:nqaiqiKghBPjd;ylkqA^

Z1VEJX`VOXsFq^tgaCbrsuaFuD{!orajgeOlsxttj!glggcwxBmsBje/zf
eEucilwyaBHex&oEacvywtqMjej=xligtjrDfsBfz^fzpbvjEwmx
envvbyzlaPIth7fzpbcxKlnuFDd#AFajqwF|cxuxx|alCwveOobM
eFiqwlzcaVIzv@mq@bCxropKHxd@xqaqfnGBtmtyl^Elbtg
ezfegxKhsRoeM:futbufAk.s.re+ElbbofFglGIBw!tAagpirvg
etjublGveLi)d/osiv>eEhoRtfd_gzajcxrnpHxel=xzt?bfFk
ewoqyxrupsysh!uravjjEba$yqp7fFicveAzaMBjd%uIsAbtx
etjubBAmfit)x*yloqpjrvgsBnw!uIobijLAjGA dcuDou{
eQwgpeKv?s0ts/fyfpbfDvoxpeR= loq>eLofsHtf-kEubfjwy
etbvjeLofFtfw!nGhgbfKguAyev@yobn}e1zaMBjd|ozhngeEho
eFigtjxvsxtgp^yEff{e6v;suxd@fIbnnjvguHQsd*ylnqtj
eIptvmAlssNme+fmaxkqDhhxnew=futbvmwggHLjl^gpaqhes
eybttnwkaFusd_uDfbjtFvvKugp^fFicpeLofsvfv^fnsqyeGmat
enbejjDvsitfr%fnzbjtOgnNwmd%krfpejrptsvjx:kDavjfFgoH
eElknqlgcRtxs!sGdjbnKgbsBtv+fyptgeHyfvCty|fFicpeLv
eIbpv rOfKyeg=sqtbUnJgPECAi/a

e}FpvjJgT2`eSgO8FTbRSYUX^Y;

e5jtbTDpwxLeQ@xFfzv	rFpNtfv^fIfnneEluhtBm-rlzqw
epjurfLjisOxd&kDfbwsvlssNmm|fFsgg	rvssMme-rlxgblG
eIjvjeQvvsNtd,uGsbemswfEp

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaNKguAywi!tAogbmwyfsNtd"oHfbvmwgxHGfr9

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd>oxmbptLgutEjd&kDaqpeypgMttj!gzzbofFb

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaYJBmRnew&klnwuyrifsAnz^tfaqteLofsGfv/omhgbnKgoHNep@Crvn}

PMRWGXq>BwPfr$ozh|

e2sqejwk.sJws$kqeaK)DsazCAi!nqs}

Z1VEJX`VOXsLs=jlfxgslghHIidhgEugte#obMaDiTimmn&yggiHQeh=fKpw?
eEjt{e%vvsuwi!BqsAbBwsmsGjx2fSpfb)AsesSty!lAsbAtMy
exbuveuvnIusC2fUacoeNlsRtlp@jluqbxwlaRIz\!kHfpbf
eFpAbnFgitHid&kDf?bxAy;sHfC7fBscAetlavIAi/kp?

PMRWGXq4jEFeC=AlcgbrsysByi{!sAungDn

Z1VEJX`VOXsFw!ztfbqCrobMBel*ylcqy	rzjKnex&kliqtxwgiBMeg;xnacpi
eFigbkssdHHel^xlcgnqKaaLIeq@tlicvmrojLtii|oDfu>esue
emtbrnylpGMef*rx.butrDfwFtg)fIpwnirifsHnf#ruoi}

PMRWGXqHowtBm-rlzqw	rifBHld@fybpbtxgzHOwd#xqffksyaauy
eybttnwkaNHii/fmadwxzgmBEjd@fnfiifJcaZyyd,uGavq
eoiwthzaatHid&gHfbceyvpwtuv*kEubvmsAavusd:kxmbAtM
eIicveEhsKCfk^fut<byzptszjp-uIaykqDgcNNen=ozaAqz
eFpigyzlssuxd:nqzbltAuaPunr|iAu>byzlosIsi!uraAqzrDjEF
eBsqxjrhaLBwy+qlqcpjDgbGx	d-owfbiwwlosNnq#kD.byfJw.sQfv[a

Z1VEJX`VOXs;E|opf|be1gbFtss:fuobvmwgnBHid#AFaKbBwyfsvjx:kDavqetl
eybttnwkaHzel*slujcsrvgsuss:nqs<bkGyaAyem|fzpvbqArf
eFpbofJyzsGjd>kxm>bfFkaGIyd#kuoibBwsmsGfv/oqe?bnL
eIjnnetlattls=jlfzezKlayIwd_kligtjsmuxLex=fxfcxjrtzsQnj^a

PMRWGXqNpsNms;fIjvjeEl.sush!rqubojrjpNHxi-fFigg 

Z1VEJX`VOXs)G=sq.buBwlusUzh/kK;
e9fbozKAauyeq@xDjgf	rvssQjd_AEubnnNlaBHef@CpsA}
eRbtgBwsmmtls=jlNcuywya8Fnz^xaapqyl|_
e1auyjwAa8Fnz^xf
e1adtfNla8Fnz^xf
eXfcxjrtfsHtx!hqikpirAixy,d#AF.++
e9jpfesDbRn
eNfiqswaa2txe, 
eUaykqDgoHNex=fIfffnFnaPCyl!ztfg}

e}FzgzFAa3UVY YfaVQZUOT!9SI!gzebCZVYF^f

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVa)`ptsHtd_gFugt,ruf,ywd@frbpvfKAjvuqd)tmwgbtxguAyr
emmnbxzhmEtkp=AFaogeGBusIkd_EldcnqAuhn

e}Fzkyd




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe13 !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 7yAi/fFbnmeLvaFy.ddfIjnneOlfIo

IQMKCdVv.s3et/oFigg.rivMtDi:ftbxgeLofsAwe$kluqbhGutBxjv
eFicveLlbKMeh=fzpvbgwjpFyee!smo}

X1TCNN6K UOyd&gHfbKeFvuswfy|kluqbBwlqo

IQMKCdSzazIth!imvugeszaHHjd>uGmfbiwzjKy.d:nqsghtJlaPyjt8

X1TCNN6K 1Cxd<kDzbjfAyaBMes'fFigbiAztxGgp*tsaeqqGBs
