photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfectveIBbECyC8flUjcyrptmtnx!yqfogirApsURd:nmubutupfMSeA=Axe
hqadgyLlssMjv<kpakheEvsxtyl*tstbyjJlawCxx/onvvgirizs6H[TkHfpbnxguAyDd>kDf
tAubszAAfsJjv'kou++yzhosCkd'kIftbyzpozM	d[kDggeyDFaKyuv^yqovgilgxxLj
jutvtntBuxx d!ZtjubBszaLNfx^jlbubfrwsHJtw*zuppbyGgcxtyi|zqe?bBAAi
xqtrqsKltsNtd#klhcvmwyfwtkv=slvugwKb

OzavjnFrjGAee#uGubkxKBfLtwi-gFffbyGgsxJws%AoukqsrvgsGfx^xubnuesuesMji*ts
uFigteHlpIFjd^tsbigirposJfv@rxfnbfuAjOCym^yfaCOevlfFyid*zlvugkMsaMI
iAoxgswgbswtr'kDfpejmga1ysg^ lujge#vsDMms[alaHNJ1ZD12FY XlujgwwBqHH
yGsxgDwkaMBjd|kHftcqrnsHOuw!xqqtgxwuuxx,d!7>avjjrDpKFid=lljoclwza{Cre"k
AEftuesuesCre"klncmjJz-it7=!ztfbytJsesIkd:kJubcsvgtvBtp@xEikresuemtBm:nuo
ztjublJvvInex&uEfbetFjfKHjh!CuujbqsuhNuliT/RMGKXUOIT#JV!iAohgxKlesNtd'ozekpl
jqmkimLmvEtnv=tKakpeLofszfg:fFicveKvnxttj!ztfbotKAatxAe+iqebvmAulxLxd=t
iAnrwywyjSyid:kJuubfJlaMBtw^fpfcnnFnaPCyl!gzdkgsLgHKyjo!gzebTtEhosGfx^xubnu.
9>avjjrufMQtv)fIptnihgbGxe8SfFigblwufKuqd>uDmfbtxgmBvwe/EltekjFjfmtBl*it
ozdnwiwzaIytt-kljpvjJltMyid*tlqtgxwywtNns+fmofbhsAbEIlm+mg

LXFKUHZOB@YWd$uzdnwiwkaACxd/kybtmxrDjMBew[kojcneLobGExd:ulujgeVhwBxee+j
RGdknjrWbvEfv%fRpwpisAjHHej=xljvueKBqIIwx!uravjjrtfxNnr" lujgeStfKChe+
SqnqtDrnsHOu{!ztfbQkxpdxtks/f5djqqsymRtUv=mDbou	rAixtSe:oAocn
JqnqpxLybMCtr!Rmc?bfFkaMBjdjlrjegeGma`Jjg*gxaGxjFAtnteL^fqyrtjKzfwtyl^
nAqgbyzhusXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDebonyousvjd@hxfbvtrhuMysh7fzpvksyguAuy
Vmdmcwv_tsQtv)fmofbyzlaPIwo!uravjjrmpNHie:oAobjfvgtIIsw=xqebceFBnuywd=l
vDplghLzaBHex&klugzyrhsxu 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJnteGjT6FPVe1UaTtSIrfRPTO,rga$2TdrOXMbWXWgJ!tFR	f9ICVe#PM5tYL 5lEQ{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JMM1b+rHdDHtA-kphgojFAts{eE!tqxbNfLposuzx&uDtbfnKra}teI'lqdvueGmaMBjd+kI
zqdjptDvhRttr!vDfxktMzaFyyl=jEaqheJltxuwg&f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqsxksygbLtrs%kDbvqwlgKtGjw!JMM1bfuroHQqi%mqebvmwghxHjv=yuuAbtxgbEFex&k
vDfugsLlsLtks/fsjxksygpytyl^oDavkrwaavIzr|kx.bcsvgqtNni+iqakpeHsbGHnr"
ztfbYtJrtAIu{!gEaygqDgbLttj!sqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKarttBldMtfr%
uFigte4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMew:grg?bfFkaMBjd	gHjfbfFka5Ohm-klQcepsye
LAvpffLppGtfr%fuuubjPldNNnz^fpjtghLvsmtHs-hGspbXmgXBFgy/a

JMM1byzlosLjg=AzugfezptsPnw*zljpbRsydAtys!ztfbEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
ozavjjrOvFusm:oqtb-HW1I	tfr%fFigbIwwbKNri+zlphbHDhtLChw!gFaTwyylsL
1zjxgwKpuRneA&kDfbcsrvmwtkv*kze?bQGDfEFeI%sGofu	rpoMLth;iqebjnEguHtyl^
jqqctyEloM.xddH~DWUeKjiHFfv-ElqgtxGubEths_vGugt	rhownem+fBbtvnuBmtL	d:nq
tqxbNfLposWI[mUY.betFAbBHnr" lboqsygpMBjv!ztjpixlgbEGtw:fmmnbhDhtLChe-
RmukpeDpuxLfv,fFfzvxrAiKIzk&fM?F}e"%~nteT@iwbtfeZBntHnx*kEaKpxLpuNNj
[2IK_	rSpLtFp:uE.bEfDpgHLsm@ lsgnjszfwtyl*ylekuprsbMyem+f!0~3	rDjMBee
tAnkpfDguKCjr+ommbnnuloLCsk!lqf}

VxbAksygxBNmd:nqafkxCggHLee+ftpwteGyaLIee:f4vvijJzauLty"nFajqrwguHtIEg5
gFaqphwguAyev^BAmwvnGujSCsk!oyqceyrvgsNmi!tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AE
squjqiKgpytwi|kmsej rgItxex&oEafkxCgcxysd@BmjncgDlaMQtd=xlujtjwgzxuww
kmsnkjJaaWUQ3!iAovgsvlemtBl^tligbBszaxHle"kpakpeHyfIuwm+mlbbetEtfGNfv,fAo
HApmb6=gpyt1m/mum&ueSloxCid'uDaEcrtyjwAjdptuwgtxAAzs0wi|yfajgeOvvExer=z
nmwgbwwxvBLjh!glgqtyQ|fBAmxTyCvctj	mpHNex@hxfbqsrDiBwmd:ultrtjskaMBj
tGngttMz.sGtw:frsgszwuuESeg=tEvnvjvgjMyrw7fuoenzvpoztxs_klugpeGyaMQjp<k
iAoeqwvhovyxd:ullgAe4huBHee;ztptu	rhosuqq=yFagszssaGOrf^xlphbqwEjvuex=
gGujqwKgxAIep@iwffbhGudHLie+iqt?bfFkaPBjv^fqjvjjJgmxRng@fAsbetFjpKxfr$kE
CqsgbqsjlBHl{!tGngttMzaxxnx*uztbqkrhvMBtv|fmovgisAjGAee+jlqquyvhuBHldqoDhkn 

TAs?bBzloswmi$quoibjsjisIkd:nqacxjJhhxtxm\fFpbujNlosQtv%yldqpyspoxxem+
ztfbXnJnjECfr!nqycojLlssztv!oFtbwxsnfsyqw^CtftgeAua#Cwk*r/tbytJrtsIw
uFigte4huBHee;ztptu	rDpNFid	GXZbjfNlaAuid:ulncksLhjGtyl^fxbdqwAvvL
sqdjcsAjbEtuv=iqtubtxggECut*tsavjwGBhAtyl^yqaeqsuvswusg^yfangCAjbmtfr%
kpjvktFzaxuhl!zung}erUpKtBs;rpajgezhwxtme%fFpbhwwxvxHyd@ylphvjFguAy
SumvqsrZ?sYnw^ttpygwrSjuLfv,fmubvmwgKHBsw!NAqmksKgVGCAi/yuuAbyGgdHHxy-z
ztfbVmwzbNLzw!RuoiwfwgMtNnr@kgabKsKAftxes'fpfxqyAuhswty+zxfuuezvvKM	d=x
ztfbdzDraHzel*ylsgujsydAtym_kfavqeyhuAywm+mlecvfrjpGwjv+ozhbXnJnjE.xd;yq
urayqwvz.sXFPt/\oqyexyfxxef,f2IK&xrSbMCsd@AFiqtxrkjLEej/uyavjj
zKscpsAjbEneC^zljpbxGtfsQfC|fBbtciGEjvuqp,ftbrrDrzdAIqe/rKaftzvnfKS][
CAvnfezhwxtgi^tlbdnjrApsxjz=zqavjfLgttGjd#AxlbqkrAjFyex=fmocnDRpoztfr%
ozugtuJluBHldqoDhknnsuaOywf@rlvuclwb

Iuukplr1ixIis/klCtwsFlsmtLv^mAsAbHJhoxneI-ruaO1Q7UB`nee+jlBxtfrTJV2JPnUZ.
JMM1bfJnvxxex&gFavjnKgsxPjv|gxakpezptsMyC-klphbBGylmtre%klqquxAimxtgC!ztf
tqxbvjuooHFtk, lxqwqvgqxLme[ylicxjryfLOqx^jljpbgwAuxL	d_uDfbrwGkvvNnz^
xqtgcwuo?stNr%kqe?bjNlosCsd:nqaeqzJzfsIkd&oEadttOzjGAex&klMcvnFgbNNms/y
jutmbfLgSNNli/yfakvxrwpPywj;rltgcwuo.sLjx/oqwcn	rhowtmm"nxjijyAuh
imqcdnDpuByxd|AshguywkaMIel*sltgxjJhmsHjA!gHfpwjKgpytwi|kmsejeAuuH
2usikq\zaNMjd=lltqwsvgfyzjg:ygabVmAzatHjg%uFbnbfujpNHy{!JMM1brspoMunr^jf
smzbujJCfsNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgtNxii+fmofbwskjvuqd:xmouhtJtbMCtr
hqjpieOypNAmx!ozavjjrDbRMew$nAmctxrDpKE 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.
SUDJGQ~VOs{eI-kyfpvxryfEuyi%fFpbuhzvmtLxl*vlbpfeLldAHtp=mKa)bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvueOpuACsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!hDpcfjJguKysh|fIjvjnFgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mK
gzebuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!=lFxcqMhuBIsd=llujgeHypLJjg:ylgqteLofsOxi!ur
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWwsbMCtr|nuqbqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsNtd[xAdguxwzaHz
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosCsd&AybpkyAltsLjw^gDdjb+rUfPtjB$nmoigexvsFuyw
iDfcvjvgcRtxg&uxbtue?gQKIoi$zEakpnLpbMyid:uljpewwhtxtxg&uxbtnDrhdvyxw!zA
iAoxgwLlesNjB:f;aVtjFkaMIBe/jlncmnFnaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEy
ztsqwlzgsxMje/itacpirleNwfx*uzapgyOvsDMe_!ItbpijKgutEnr"fBmcejrpo
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosurs+mliwofFpuByxd|itpncwKg(s8jx>uDl+ojvpbMyi
yoiqnfJziBJex/gzthqwEpoztyv@juukqsssaLwms-gDmAbuJhdMChi|f;aMgD
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaMLjr%ylbhhjuAjGAex&kldqpiMjusIkd|itpncwDF
iAnowsAjbMCtr!uHftbyzlaGyCx!jqdcfjr[a!Bjd:xqofbyGDbKxei+j\vugwrjpFJzx*ts
=lUjgeLyfGxex=CmsfblJlbMywd$uzogeyACjMSe_!KrggeyKgpytyl^yqavtjFkts{eO^E
zDbpukGyntNns+ylucmnFnaIFfg^f;aUwrEhsRttj!vDjpenHhmsuwk;sqovue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.

GHscbR1JIX6XSi lBtemACbEtWi|kmsejesuesYAe-AmukqsrZutzk{!TmukqsssaTLhl*Bqt
gzebTjuvswMeE%suokuyJhuBIsdRTMSC_	rhszOjh!ztbvbjKAbuFnw&ozhbymGgxBFqd;yq
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEacpirDitNex&kKaykqDgvLyex&kyahqwrpoOIqz^ylbbetFzjwywe:oAo
uradqyzgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mKacpirzdAIqe/ytjrbyJlowM d!Ztju
iAoukiwybMCtr!ozdnwiwzaLyAi/gxagnjEloMMev^rmugfeLvaLwms-gDtjkurhow
zqdjptDvhRiedv]lujgeClzsNwi+jEakpeAugHLre:oAobvjuooHFtk,fFicvesyfsGtw:
xqmgxfFAaMIew$nAmctxzpqit7=!ztfbmjQguKysh|fuobvmwgvLyes'fovttjFAmR
gHbknftsfsNjg&tAmqiDrizsMhl=rmsubnFguAyer=tEdkgsLpgBweg=syvpkyQ}atHidx]
ztfbtjDhuBIsw&oBadgyOlfGtyl^yqavytrCfKSeh*yFjpeyrivMtnr:kDsgnfLlesNwi+jE?
ZtfbksNltMGjr:fuobwsvlsLNfr%ozhbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgcxCsk!smegbgQ
ozgqtrsAjHHet/uHjfgwKaaMyhl+uxpikxLz.sush!vGcnkhrwpEChC!jqwgntHlsLnee|
CqmnbfKgcRtxg&uxbtueLofFMjp<kE.bujwttsNtd#klqgtAszjOyee+jlhtqBAuhm
SUDJGQ~VOswtr:kzegf rgTAyeh/kIaqpeuvmEugs/gFjxgeOvsDtBm:nlKghkrYpMBjr#kDh
uzavjjrzdAIqe/rKawujrvgsNjg&tAmqiDm

SUDJGQ~VOsMty"nFavqeHsbvyex&klqjgsGtfGIsd=llfnghLypGChd:kJuubBAAiBHex&k
iAovgCLgpytgv=gpftbyJlowMeA*ztjpbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!gzebuhzvmtLqC
iAnowsAjbMCtr8flTjgesyhNyid:nmubgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrhsxttj!sAtvbzKlaMI
xqtgcwuofKMex=fFigbjPAfGNex&gFavjjryfLyfv$nqsu&eOvsDCsk!iAovgCLg)Boj	7
ztfkteJlmxPfr:fnjdnnGnstJmm$fEpwthwz.swtp-ksjcnexlfwvfg) lbpcqQAjvtys=rE.
tAugu	rkstzyw7fque}[lgbEIsk!CuujbyzljKtkm^rp"ubuJpntLDd@tpaughGuetLD
yAvtejKaatFxs!oEacehwztBvqi!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAsobfFkavusd#kljpvjyybMyid*t
Cmzubyzhusuwi!AzjswjrApsNmi!uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpv 

KHbnwfLppGttj!ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbvmwgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbksusvwyxd:CA
kxfogsLz;st6=!gzagzfEpotNns+fAgbvmwgxtSxd*tlxjkhzgsxMje/itftueuBsKysx-E
gDfbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNxd@rAoibBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.sush!8>
gzacpfDFtBMes'fwfAbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!zDfpfxrAitNee/klbhhjuAjGAex&k
rAoi+ywynswtr%AoubqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uz?bbR1JIX6XSifxjokywkaAyw
jutewxKppGttj!ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnuguxRyw!zAavjjrwstwym$kEaqhezBntHnw:y
gzebptLlesNme:fFigbxupfGNnj*ildqorMujMSeA@ylpwvxAkfsNmi!vmogn)KgpOywz*kI?

SUDJGQ~VOsyCe_ozffbyzlaGuyy/klphbyzlavOwv^tFatgqsAjHHxl*vlphbjDldMLtr*i
zqyvueAuaIuwx*iGmct	rhowtjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbksrnfGywe- luqbBzhusMmi
smjpvfAufwtBi/kfaguxwuuBuqp, lgkxjrwsHwjw|kEaqheKjiHFfv-EldqorMujvuym=t
ozajwrsujMCjw!xqtgcwuo?stWi|kmsejjJza" em%kzukhDrzpNLhi| l3_bhGtnNHng@zq
CuujbyzljKths-rqbiwjKaa* em+zqsrtjLgbGxee+gxzBgevhutne8SfpjuujEpotNj
ztfkteJltxuwg&frjpfnFntmtfr%f%-brwwwbKyeg;xDjewqsguHtnr|zDveveLofsHjB:
mqogtfLppGttj!yoiqnfJzatHid|zGegpyKbas@mm|fqyconFhuBIsd>uGmfbuJveNwjd@
ixfctjJgvGxjv|zmofksygpytyl^fEzpgwyFatGtr"fFigujrmjOyet/uofuujKguAuy
lGfnueLofsNjr%kzdAbtxguAyey|klphbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMej=xlppgeHypvyxw!zA
yFjowqsAfsCyw!AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?

LAsbvmwggBLxx!vDpegxKgpytxg&uxbtnDrjpFGzr*imukqslguAyem%kzukhnuhuBIsd=l
yAvtejKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbquHvsMOsm:EltejtDhsLtss>fqolqDrAp
yGqrnjEloMtyv@juukqsssaPIwhTur_oqzLoaLyfv$nqtbhtJgtHOwg^ylboqsyguAyn
