instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by one.)

The scholars performing these conversions have been asked to recognize
that the electronic sources they are converting for one use possess value
for other research purposes as well.  As a result, during the past few
years, humanities scholars have initiated a number of projects to
increase scholarly access to converted text.  So, for example, the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI), about which more is said later in the program,
was established as an effort by scholars to determine standard elements
and methods for encoding machine-readable text for electronic exchange.
In a second effort to facilitate the sharing of converted text, scholars
have created a new institution, the Center for Electronic Texts in the
Humanities (CETH).  The center estimates that there are 8,000 series of
source texts in the humanities that have been convertedh!zA
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgxHLqh>opf}beULU1tnw!AzegtysrjGAee+fuovgwFhuBIse-
yqbtemrmpKths+BqsvgirAfQNem+fFigbmMtbGCym^yfaeqrHpmBHld*zljpvtrho
kxfevwGujvtqm#xmsA?esuesJwi[gDjpietpcECtk/gBikeevltvLnt:oAoubtxguAy
yAvtejKggHLex&klSgujsydAtQm#xmskgxrPoyIwq@zuppbSwAxHLp(|f<SNKS{
smdjksw|sxuie#rqafcysggBFj	!f6igbqAistLDd[xAgguxAvosBfw!hqhwpeLvaBHnx*gFf
rmsigeuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMee|fIfnn	rzvvBee|fMngtnuhos7jq=xK?

3tjngeKjiHFfv|ftbxgetlfGtre)ozhbetFCfKNjh!zqyvbfNhjEugp^fFpbqswgbGIyl^xf
zKqkefDszsIsd%oElbqwrvosWI[mUY.bvmwgdEyfv!zDfpfeAzaMIBe/jlncmnFnaMBjw^
xqtqwwultsuAe*rmcngeLosHOll!xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwt}be`ovLnex&k
GyftkhsuatHidaxqoeje0ltxuwg&fAobvmwgUKyfw;xKaqheLofsZwi+itaNcsyBbzy
[MSVHQ{gbGxex&klEcpywgQKIoi$zlbtgesssxuiC!gHbknftsfsIsddtFftpjLb
SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpeGuaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosush!gzbnAxAzauS
tAukplrAitN,d!7>akphJlbLCsk!tGndgwKgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEakpeLofsFnf/gDz
iAnowsAAzsuwi!xqdqisAGjGAex&kljortJAbGwjd:ulujgeskwtHhi_kzubqk
yoiqnfJziBJes'fDfvttKwfvNnz^foppxjJzjHHes'fEpwthwgntNjv*gxtbksrAixtfv:y
gzebjzEhoBNni|?lbpfe"/aMBjv^futbceyypPCsk!xqbnkEsAjHHex&gFaocpAuhsNmi
yAvtejKgbOunp@hxfbqsryfLyfv$nlbpfewkvvuym=tlogvBGylLtre\oyjBgxrAixCw
AEfhwqFltLtks/fFigbfFhmRMnw!vqshqwElesvDd&AybpkyAltsMhl=rmsu}

ZtfbhtMyuAtuv=iqtubtxgtvBtp@xxzbetEtvGChe:oAobkxrkjLMjq*tmukqsrvg
xqtgcwuoayCsh*tst?byzhusCx{!vGcnkhsAjHH d!YoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibjPptMCsk
xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwtbvtrlozCsi^xlbbpjOguRJjd=llqwdqAjbMCtr2
yoiqnfJsz wtr:xAmngirqpNLse-ylujcyrhsxtjp^iFsqpnuhmESet/upvegirhow
jutugrAubMyi	!fMmvjtMnisMzg&fvpwtssstsuwi!yFjnnewtfKAnr"fmtbc
iAnowsAjbMCtr!lAsocylguAynv!tGndgwrobLtlv=Cz.bhwGtatJuv=DuncvjDFaMQjp<k
zAavjnJAz MnB!jGskplrAixtue|zlzgcwr]KNFDdv#&2bvtrQvGye5D#@-}be5vtMttj
ztfugewsfvNws+ooauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKgbKyeh^BAugfeLvaMIum$yljpbyzl
nGncpnLpfLoed?ylxkvmrufMQtv)fopphjJlovyx{!yoiqnfJszsysx&AEjcurrmpKtyl^yq
kxfevwGujvtos;xzbnueKAfFMej/uyavjjrtfwCzqNylvpkvMlatvnp*zKavqeskwtHhi
yoiqnfJziBJem+fmaycDrAitNer=fAujgwrtfwCzq!imobftrizsMzt[uDukplrnmHvfp
lqffdfuratHid*tFftemsuhxnet/goukefDszsCsd/kmmbvnEl.syfv-EljpbyzlaKyxi@xoi
vDpegxKbasVjC=tpauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbfjDpwxLDd=l
iAnogwupbEtky-r\ugzyrwsHxzg:yfauwhzgbLtfv:oomgueAuaILtj^yEjqpfDgkHOwr@rE.
tqxunjLAfKM	d_gsbBkswz.sQnv^fEftxnultmtfr%fDfhgwwudxtxs;xofu}er1ixMjd@xq
hqjpievlmBPjv^jlwkceGu_ECsi!rAdcneDpcKuwC!imucntyBfLnei|vqdkcqDFaMBws;mt
IP_TQRKbasZzv:nqsoqwwaatwhs/juoibyGgN2WMIgY1O?byzlsxtnw!mqogtfDgpINnq*yy
ztbvbyzlavIuC/osivbfFkayyjw!oEtwgxrpnIyim+mlujgevlmBPjv,fAgbhzDsaMyCx!uz
kJjuvnFnaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd|uAobynDsauyev^yAmxgim

ZtfbhnFhmsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uzakueuBsKChy-AyafgAwspIGjr:
gzebksKAsNwym=tfacpirAiBMem+BAmxgxrAixtzw^fAgbetEwvMywd*trptofLppG
zqdjptDvhByxd*tluyqesyftM d!ZtfbhnJzusCxd:nqafgAwspIGjr:fAg
iAnrwywy_HLni+zqebksKAsNwym=tmmbvtGstmtBl*itakphDBexMew*sGmcvnGutm
sGmvkrwkjttft[rudcvnGutmtfr%foporzLlssNts-ylujcyrhsxtzw^jluqbfKzjLNem+
ztfbcssszLCxd=lltqwwultsCsd:nqaenfKzsHIr{!kFd}be`ofs0jv|kGtbRwGqfvN	d@
jmucdfKlaMBfx!vDpxkiwzattry-zungfnsgdNLwm$AxvobtFgdEuxw*immbIwwll
iuwknnRhuBIs{!oEacblGvesyCe_vxfbqkrAixtBe,fuobymAjisysx*xqaewwJpdNFfd@xq
hqjpieJldtMyd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlm^ygabKyrptsusx*iuqcvjvguAuyd:nq
iGstgsLgeBzkm$AxuAbnFgfQwme+muoibjDldMLtr*immnAeuvnIOyi//nbugi
oztvtzuAjHHfp!yAgvyfJl.sQmm$nljpbyMyosGfo^yljvbiAmgBwzp:frptbtFlaLwms-gD
zAadwnDkaNJtr!ztfbytJraHzes:nqsu?eOpmEtgi!xqtqnAwkauyks/kluqqeDvozo
YFbpf]sspGyeg;xDjewqsyatJup*imukqsKguAuyd*tHpnxjrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaPCqp!hq
ytbtcgDlaMBws;mtapgyOvsDM	d/kuohqwupoztyl^oDauklFpgBwfr$klbubnFAfEFjg:Amm
vDpfwhLzatMeA^rxacueAutMLzg:oAocneLvpEM 

Ztfbujuvowtfw[koubqkrlmxwyv=tudbnjsyoBHld*tHpnxjKguAyey|klphbwwzftLhl!gze
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlubkGyawCxx@tofbgiMjbMCtr!vDpitfEz?stXy$nlqtqlJhnL
ozugtfuAjOyqC!ruombywhdAyww!CuujbxLBexHyw!ozaigtyybIBng@rxzbuhsAuxLjh
rAdcvnGutsush!xqmAbtFguAyee<gumcdnDpuRttj!kxfevwGujvtnr|zDvevnGubE
xqtqwwultnteH*yFbpejrleNwfx*uzarttyybFMee/klhcksAuhsQnh^fmqrgfDgbFIsk
yFbvgevlqtLyq^tFtbqkrleNwfx*uzadghsBtxttj!ztfktevlnHHxx/gFffbhswbvCyC!zA
hDjpieskwtHhi%fEqgenssjSyid$uGsugeOvsDtfr%fmobcwJhzsIkd^DBftvxrApsGfr,
ixbuuwGvnLoed?fDfegsLgsxJtv:frpwpirAitNee:fxfcuyr03sMye:kEaqrjJhuxxee:
rqbuveGufsMye:kIjfgeFluPIwo!lAsbgiMjbMCtr!oza3~@'aaPCyl!tquyqwCzaNHii/
jqwgntHtfGNem+fybpAeGmaMBjd/kybkpnFnaLNfx^yg

SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpetFaGIym+mluyqeKAsBEnr"foicplwzaMupm+m
vxbegeAuaLwms-gDmAbhGtnNHng@zuppbfEvoztmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xE?bbKAytMtnw!ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nlfnghLypGChd:kJubksrwbKNng;rms?bfFkaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^y
ozaigswybEnee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrlbvBes'fFigbkACfsJws$kEtguevltvLnf^j
gnpxg rgBLtri+zuppgirlbKFni/ lujgwwgjLtfd$kDucksrzzGywk,fmubytJraAywi8
Ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbhtJgpGyet/uofuueLlowMex=fEukozDhuxtnx|
AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltmtgi$gGtgbyzlavBni'fopwtxwgpytrs<kyfpveAzaMIBe/jlb
iAnrtjzloLCAi!uz_nkswgxHLpm+mldqpywEusztv!nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueLobM
ozdnwiwzaHH]p*tqacxfAsbuCqm:ElphbpwFauCgp*usscrmAltmtxg&uxbtnDrmfxxge$qf
yAvtejKaatHfp,zudcneLvpEM	d@tparwgDpdtNns+ygabONUOF5!TR!tAugfexBsMBjv
ztbvbyzlaFIAi_kzubvtOhswtfd$uyqtgmwutBPjd=t\mkpjrDpKEnr"foppvjPAayIw
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueAzaGIyd+kI?bbNFggtwy{!oFajcxrifxHey+jqsycDrmpKtrs/k
ztbpbkGyuRtDi@xEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxlgtBHhi!LmujgwrYpuywx=fNvucetlhtH
jqwgntHpoztfr!kxfevwGujvths+iAsfcsulaHzex&klxqtpKgpytXe*tFaVjtEhtsUvy*tmt
oza3~9+bas%me:fIfbcwwgxBNsi|yuoibyGkbRneQdITFNUT6gdHHyi+jqe?bnKgoHNex&k
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nutbqs	sjGyex/gztkvnGuauOy{!lAsbcyrsftMyd|uyfbjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJz.sNmi!zGspksygqHCsx!ozavjjrAstHxm:oAobhwGtattuv*tFavqesu
kxfevwGujvtBs/quoibhGuuxRy	!fOpkphAkjGAeA*ztavjjrvo Fnr^fFscpxAAjHH	d:nq
yqdqpirzuKCpm+mldjcsylaBMex&klfzvjFAaMIeA&ooibtjKlbKwmd@tpagfzuhuBIs
tquyqwCzatLjd#kopoksyguAyer^ClngfnMtaHzew$nAmctqQgdHGry+oobvktFbas@mi
kJjuvnFna2Hyi/tqubcsvguAyet^tpjpie6huBIse-fQewefLppGtfr%f4fugfJjis8jx>uDl
[ZSGP[ryfILjw^tFavjjrufPtri^zuoiblJvvGxeA&kDfbuhzvmtLxd@xqaiqnFnayIw
hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d|itpncwDFawCfp=mGfbcsvggxyif@iw.bvmwgnHMy
iGstgsLgqNvqm$gFjqpxrposNmi*xlgkgqvaatHid&osi+njNlmsyiy$gFjqpfD
urggtnFntnteX/gpjvktFhmsMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^ylbtgeMuexLls*tsavtjElowIzw
zDbpukGyntNns+ylbubfryfLOqx!uravjjrlnxLli+iqacpirnsHQnr"fBsqonFlovyes'
CtbvbnKgdtFqi%fzfvytJr_Fyim@zqebuhzvmtLxl*vg

SUDJGQ~VOsHjB:fFvtpjvguHtyl^fEfeqsvgfEyri+zlphbyzlayLfq^CAsmbxzlaILtt=yqe
gFavjjrvvMMjx!urajgwrAbEEej=xlfxcqMhuBHld:nqarttKwfvNxd'uDagnjuAsHHng
zqyv?eFhnxFDd:nqamgDrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"Elutgsvzatzki$zuoibyzlavIsh;iF
urauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIsd=BqsbvmwgoxRyd%kobfg,rg2	tjr%/GtgteuvnIOym+m
gzeb4[rjpGHjg:oHjvA 

Kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zlujgeHlsLIsd:uGdjksyguAyeo^EnpctilgpK
vqshqwEpozths_vGucvnGutmtnw!ztfbufElatMex&klqgtxGuaPBtd*tuukcywzaHL
iAouwrwzaMBjd$uyqwvfLppGoedonqagojJnfGwjd=llqgtxGubEths_vGugtxlgbEIsk
CuujbfropLNes'fAujgwrmpKwjw7fEvejeszaNvnu;oFpwueuvnIOym+mfacfAsudxMem+
ozugtksjfsxjw*mz.bcsvguAyes+/xjpgeLybGMnx*uz.bkxrwsHGux*tsavjjrjpGMzq^xE
uraeqrHButNns+fFpbftrAixCwd=CzaeqrHBuBHl{!gzebkxrAiNMev^tpftksygpuMtp^zq
ztfbvwskjMCtr@rlekuyAudMCtr!hquygjFgfGxey|kDtbcsvgvENnq@zqawujJz?

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpagpi	BtxLeg=sBvvksygjLtxm"tugkefFAaMIeg=tEjfgwsAjHHes'
ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrifvuzw^fuubojsutsNme:fDfugfJjixLxd@xq
hqdqonFnaFIwi!gpfrvesAawInr"fFigkwrvxGths_vGucvnGutsush7fFiwu	rtpKy
iAnrgywuusCsd:nqawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhrtfwCf	!fNzbcAGpeBHld[xAhtcrEls
ozugtrwkjtLni| ldqouMAbMCtr!oEadghGtjGAeg^tFscneLvaMBjd/kEfcthzls,M
ztpwimLgqKIhi|ygabVmAzawCwi$zljpxtDCfFysx!ozaeqrHBuBHld*yldjcsypoztyl^
xqtgcwuofK.xd[kDtrghLpwxttr!ztfbpfLBsxttj!xqtgcwuoaBNxi-lfavjfLgjLnex&k
quofueGmaJOjw:oAoubyzhuswfr!hqarqxwk.sNmi!gzbnAyAjbEtri:nAeqntypfLtyl@z
imobdjrBtxx	d:nqavAuwzatHid@sAvpveGmaLIzv$kEavjfLgbKyee[vDprtnsAfsztv
gzbnAxwz.sush!ztfbhtJtaBHeA&ooibhnFkjGAxd@xqartjKloMyi	!f6igbyJlowtys>gDe
kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zfakphJlbLCsk-EfagnjuAsHHng!sqekcesue
iAnrwysAjHHee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrhmEtuv=iqtugxrvgsBzq@tuukgx
yoiqnfJziBJ	d*tEqktnFnaKyre/qmcngeLybGMks/smukqsKgjGtxg&uxbtnD
iAnowsAjbMCtr8

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpaitjsAfKths+tqdvkAAAzsMzk"kEuubyzhusLjw^gDdjgwKgbKyey|ozh
iAnrwysAjHHem+iDfcunFnmRtnr!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpvxmgaVIsr^iFjxkyQgjL
oyqqtysuusNtd|itpncwKojItgi$gGtgbnLgfKuxi|fFigbiAzutHhi!ztbvbxwwbKuyi|
yFvfgsLzayLtq!zqbejjJzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd:nqjtbhGsmxuly^yfayjnDlatFqs>ozh
AEftueLvatwhi|ylsgotLlawuye#gEfu?eKobKyem+lAsocyAvosCsd_gzzbfnxmfKysx
sqekc	rjpGHjg:fFpbvmwpssQtv)ozhbetFAfQNeA&kDfxgwrAixSee/kfacpi
iAmncgGybMyem+fmmnbuzhtxMes'fDfugfJjin

ZtfbetEijGuym=tlphbyzlaMLjr%fFpycwvgfGx]y|kDaeqrHBuBHld@tpavjjrAsxHi
zAxctirjpGHjg:oHjvAeKBhzyxx|fFicveLofsMhl=rmsnAeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
xqtqwwultmtfp/kmeAbjNpexHyd@sAoibxGtfsLjw^gDdjgwKaaPCqp!yAppbgwjpFyee+
kEucdqAzixxej^gFvtgeGmaLwms-gDtjkumga!Bjd^lrfevxrvgsNmi|klutgsvz.suqs+m
CuujbtFnpBHld$nmoigxrposMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^yfarqnFAaMIee!lGuwtjrposQmm$n
nGncpnLpfLtwi|kmsejjJzaPCqp!AEfbetEwvMuym=tlbpfewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uz
zAajgqHguAyrd'uDnwnfLlaBxje| lbeejKzaLIzv$kE.brjJmpKGev^yqbteml
iAmncgGybMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw7fEfgmeHlfKtwi<oqx?buMimBMmd@tpafkxKlnBHfx^
xqtwnyKaatHid^tsbigeAuaFusC!uFigteHypyyxw*uzbnbfFkaxxzg@zuppcqrhdMCAm:oqt}

OzauwrEhsRneQdITFNUT6gfFJme|oLffbkGBssJtm+zE;bb6{gBsJtv:oAobqkrovFusm:oqt
yoiqnfJzatFwi@jKaeqsKpexLei-koutqsAjaMyCx|fFigbuJlgxLwi%frptofLggHL
gzbnAxAzatHid%oEtgonFhuBIs	!f@-bUhzvmtLxd@xqawunFnaMBjw^fqmgeyJvoBw
zqyvu	rposwtr(AzdvktFgxBNmd=ztftbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxM	d*tlbnneLof
vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?st8=!ZtfbjzEhoBNni|fEdjqqsyt,
CAsmksygdHHyi\zljubnFguAyet/uofuueGmavBfr"ozhbhwGtaILnr:fFfejsGspzSex=
kxfevwGujvtyi$nzpnqlQaaBHeq@tKaycDKgnBLws/ozhbvwsutyIwq@zuppueLobMtme<k
uodwtwwkaHLee/klpeezJyjGAeA*ztjpbyzlaLwni+zugkeeuvnFOsm:Egab6[r1ixMj
itbpijKgbKyes$iGstksygjGths+pGoevnGuaPCyl!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufP
iAnowsAjbMCtr!sqekwrggaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd:nmubcww
itbtchLlsBTjh!hKavjjAyavuue$oFzbvtrheOusg^fEdjqqsytACud*tlbbymGsmRtzr*wGf
Cmz}

SUDJGQ~VOsuqw=fDfkvjJhuxxel^xlujtjwgqKCsg*vmmbcwyBnxHyw2flm_bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvuesyfsvjw:fGofgwKApHxem+fFftoxrvgsNmi!xqmcvnGutACud:ulpvjjJ
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyl^fssqynFnaILtq*tqoegeGmaGyyA=xw_ogiAhuxx
yoiqnfJziBJ d!8>aVjjrwsHMui$zEahqwrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsFni!ozavjjAyavuue$oFz
zAadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyGguAyes+/xjpgeFluPIwo!uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultsNme:
iAnrtnKlaMBjd+kIayqwCpozths+zqyvbkGyaLwms-gDt}be&/a~yyv=yBfevnNlavIsz^xEjqp
urarqwLppGMes'fFigbxuopEuwp,fDfeqwvgtAIzp%fnfbceClzsMyv@zqhAbfKgjGztv_gFjqp
vDpxkiwytsLjw[uzebvtrjitHli|fuobuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!vDbevnultn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
2QDEKFr[aT7)w!kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbfFkaIOgp*ilvugwKgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqt
=lBObfFkaBNxd%kEjipe?gTBNjd|kxfevnGuatHid^BmmwcyAuhsNmi!SmdkpyGzi
oyqngrwuutNns+fAgbCRr[aVBfv@iFftkxLpdLttj!ztfbunPgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfL
yqmgeywka}tHl@xmdvgwAzuBwxd=llBO&xrBtxLxd*tlujgxwgmBvwe/oqtb)e8yjGwnt@r
CmzubF5gjLtgi*tsawujvg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpe@LDV3F{!zqbobqwhexL	d@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMO?bfKzpvCfx^fopqtiAubMIw{
Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz.sAfz^fmalqnFAaILjw^tFbvktFbasZnv|zf
hKaycDrvgsCsx/upvevnGu.s$JG{OMagzuDhjGyid&kDacpirMSXYREi-EatqqwzaBH
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[mga`ywz*tsartnFjjIuqp,fmtbcsrvcLywz^xfaXGHUPBsBfw
gEtkuywkaPCyl!ztfbgAssvtNns+fBsqljuAaHzeEh lqnchAuhsURd$uxmgeyAvoLtnr!g
BmskgyQgpytim'lqsgpyrzjMyxd@xAvpfeLofswty+zDzbcsvgixFum+mluqbtJnbGCEi!gze
oyqngrwuusNme:fBsqljuA?stKV KYBPbmszauyjr!gzacuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKttj!GY
gzebjfKgcxysd*tHpnxjvgqKCsg*vmmnAeOpuAtyl^fuovgwHyfMuym<klncvjJpbEM	
vDfrcwAuhsMtq^fAgbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebjPojuCyw!gzebrwAuuxxel*yFptkhss
ozgqtrsAjHHex&gFacehGtqtHni|fMNbcsvguAuyd*ylsgszwzuxxef,fGtgtxmga#YHGdG
gzebHWWLNT8ew&gDffbfFldwIye-fAcugwNhuBIsw!iAoegwFpoztFQ!CuujbuMimBwey|kDt
uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultnteR=zIjvjxLhowCsk!glgckwDFaLNwy$zGsgfewCbEOfx*uz
ozarttyyfLM	d#uFibXJUJJTtfr%fRSGGRSUavBtw^fzpvbyGgsxJtv:fAobuuwjjyChw!oz
zqsoueGmaGOrf^xE.bgyub.svjg@AEfbvmwFayyqx!oFaycxrApHtje/rKakpeLof
kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbyGgeHtxs8

GYakuesuaxFjg:xAokeesydACAi!urartnEhsRtxs;xofbofLlsBuqw!lDpobyzla5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLM	d|kxfevjvgdHFqi$zuppueJlqKyxi+zuoibfrCbKCjx,fAgbhtJtbMM][
vtpvqlJhqAM	d"xmqjkhrhsMM	d/koptfjvgtHOsh7fypvktFgqBwyy/kE.bdwGheLCii| 
gzebutGu.sJfq[nxfvuesuesvts)ygabKsrAfKGxd=llujgevltBAsd=llujkxrzzLNjq7
ztfbksLlsILjx@zuwgbjPojuCyw!nmwgbgwlosEjt:fEfrcwsAfszws_fFigbuJpntLD
xqtqwwultmtBm:nlhqqiryftMtr8flBeetEwbGSnr"fFikueuvmEyhx*uzactjrwsBHyi%
jAdwojFAbMCtr!gzebwxwyazOnh^yfacueOlmEtfw!mGjfgxrAitNeJmKQNCPeHyfIuwi%frpt
zqbejjJzaLIex&gFavjjQgntSef^muobwxAuhsNmi!iAovgsLgpytyl^fEzuvjEgbMttr$kg

2QDEKFrkfLwwm#kpavjjrlwtFze:oAobrwGqfvNef^lAsgbysslBHld@hAvvbyzlaIOgp*i
AEftueGmaT7	d-oyjvksygixLev^smsmueLvaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	d#kobwujrMSXYREi
CAvnfeLhmDtrs/kltrghAmjvuqp,fmcqwyrzdAItp|frsqoeCpowywk@xFfpbyGguPyqj:n
mDbfge}R_"*[	!flIcxnFnaLNfv:kpakpeKwsBHldv#&2?byzlaxPfp;gFjqpeuBsKysx-E
ozwqnAwzaMyxx*tsaqheLofs7fg*tFpujeAtqEyri+zmukqsrvgsUR	!f5jpejrAix
vDjocwQghHuqd=llujkxrlwtFze:oAobkxrApsxjx^xyjpgeLofsGtw:fmqrttHyjtNj
gGekgsulaHLee;jufpejKggHLeEh lwgtDrkjyzjv^tFaukywzaPywi!yqmgeywk?stYl*y
smlguewCbEOfx*uzafkkxpdNFyd#kobwujrvgsNmi!BmsAksygexAwi^ylphbywjiGIqs"E
ruugtfuFatGtr"fFigbxAAfLoed?SljubxAAvtNjh!ozahqwLF_yIzv!rAdcvnGutmttj
CtjejeKpysuwi!vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEacpirzjQNji+fmsgbxuopHFx	!f4frtjKloMyi
gyppieLofsMhl=uxtbcwwgfEyri+zmsA?eBBoBIwd&osi?bfFkaACll!yoiqqqKb
JutvtnuAaHzkm$kEacnxGgbKyem+BAmxgirposNmi!kHbnwfLppGneA&ooibynDs
iAoenzvlaBHew;syftb6+$4n

2QDEKFrmpvOxi%fFigbwwtbBHii/fAgbjjJgutFpd=tlujgeKpysJzf-ooankgJhsByx{!uzf
urayjnuoawIzf-kEacuesgtMuyi!ructcwQbas@mi,fDfrtjKloMtfd/gzhgbtx
mqpitfHojvtfv^gEacpirhaKusk^fAgbfjEvhKuul*ildjcwsjuxLnw:oot}beXvs
kJborqwaaMBwi^fmsgbqGjbMyid*tlvtdfFgtxNym+mE.bvBGgjGtwy/gxaugyLpozM	d@tp
uzfbksrhaLOgy/hmobujLAjGA d!Glscplwgpytyi$nzjecqrlyIywx*yqakueLvauyej=Aze
gyppieLofLyej@iumkvnwzatMeA^rx?bbKGyaxRfq[rq.bqswgjLtfr!_MqrnjrsjuLfv,fAg
ztfbhzLBsxn-d>numgbyOvaHNmi/ylbtgeJBstFes+k\sqqrrsjuLfv*kE_+ksrvoxneEh
yuuubfLguAyej/uzubfjKraGyCx!zAacbyJhdMIwd_gzvcn 

Gxmbrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrobOyef^kzagzyJlnxFDd^tFiwunszuBw	d|ABqqtyACfmtfr%
gBqtghAhuBPjd=llujgeOvsDtyl@zlBObmszauyjr!jAjpi rgWXWHM?foictfuAfKCEi%
BmskqzKgvLyww2flNquyrBtxLxd*tlqwdqAjaECgv@xufubiwzdKCgi!ztfoujDCfLtfw
mqogtfDgsxuii/ybaqheLofsMyy%kzuubBzvaNMjd?SljpbyzlaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	
ztpugeAuayIzv:nlhtciwgbGxee#uHfbujwtaFIxx!ozugtjKAfwoedkAnmkeeDpcKuwm^y
ozatwwssaLCyi|fFfpfeLvatNyv@iFatgyAyfwtui=vxf?bBzvaAuAi!hqfpbmAniES
xqdgryACfsNtd?SgabWxwytsNjr%fFpbhfDsaBHys!zIpbcivpuBIse-fobvglGyjxM,
vqprnjrpoMywi|zqebksrAixths+zqovbfFkaACxx=xudcneuvoGIye:oAoubtxguAyxi
vDjocwQgsxMty/iqt?bfFkaMBtw^frbuenFhuxxef,fFigbywjiGIqs"EgabVmwggHLre:
xqdgkAAuhsNmi!sAtvbhGtnxHyw!nmtbdjwuaFIym=tlqkeyMyfLoedonqacfzDAaNMjv|fuo
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEactjrtpKyeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fUCObhGtqNNjv| lxjgwwhtsSty+m
vqprnjrzfxGeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fqjvjjJgJU7es/fYbeksLvtAnee-ztpwimrtpLNes'
ztfobxwlnsNtd$uyfbhwGtattRe$ozuqumribvElv=Aze}be`ojLtxe_klugpiwudRtnw
lAvpfeAuaMBjd|itpqnxm

3tbvbpAueLttj!ztjpixrkpsOxi/yleqbBAAisUR !fUobceHBcEChd-onsctDrAixLjd@xq
zIpbofAuazIfp|fAsbyfQzaMBfx!GYakuetljGAey|kp;bbfKgbGtnr%oHjfwfDgmxuwr*ts
zApn?esuesuxd@fxfkuzJlatwym<oFz}beSkvENep^gDokplrDbLttr^fmsgceLobMt1I{IUB
CAvnfezphAFnk&zlbubfrwpLMnf-klbrrqAjbMCtr!lAsbceLvpEtxy$nlbubF5bas!mi
jqtetntlesuet@zDppbtxgbsLzv@rlqwdqAjaECgv@xKayjtrjpFyxd*tlfxgwQgetSes+
nutbnzFjisBty/fmofbqAAfKuqp,fDfcfxrHNmtri:nAekefDszsAtm+mlujttMnisNmi
iAmnghLppGtnq@mqadAeAtbzy d!GFavjjrlowttj!nutbjtMyaAyeq@qqtbcsrlmxwyv=tud
hApmofJr.sJzx|fuubksrojLtus$qqu?bfFkaKyyy/tEavqeOvsDoedonqapgCLgetSel^
iAngueAuatHid/kEvogxrDixLjd&klmghyrvgyoeddtFftgxLpozFD{!ztjubrsuaAui
tqwgtetlfGtnr!ztfbnntybKSef^lAsgbmwgvLyid?SgabKsrhoHNmi/fEncnqlgsNLfp
ructcwQaaMBjd$uAsfkssApKtwi[uDuubyzhusURd*ylbbrtHBmtLee$zuwkvDrmpKtxs_k
uravjjrvmwyw{!xquktjvgqxIup^fuobvmwgdHGry+oFz?bBzvaHLim+gDjnAeOvvExer=z
AEfb*yzvtxtyl*tst?*]	jpFJzx^xE?bbFFvuAywd^Dmnrnjrvgsuiy-zlmgcwFpoztnr
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEakuetvpDtlv=ABt?btFlaHzeA&ooi?bnFgqtLym$Axbt?eAzaNMnr"fMN
gEarcwLgpytnx|fDfcfnFnaHHem+jGtvtnssjSuym=tfakpywnstNns+ lbpfeMyctHnD@zupp
ozavjjrlbKFDdv#*~u}

UzfbnntybKSev^vAsvueLobMtfd'gyjnAeAzaNMnr"fMNbvtrofEJei%AobvgeLofBL
itjnfwwu?stNr!gzpvjjJgjGMye+iq.bksvpwBxze-ylgtqrrhaEIhe-fyvugzEgdtGjd*t
zAawujrHNsNtd[xqqctjrhosyCl*huubqsrApRMes'fFigbuszunteX&kEfbvBGgfQurt-kE
kyqjcxAGfsNmi!sutuktFgpytyl^fBvdnnugmBvwe/ElbubfrjvENzv@rljpuyAAvMCtr7
xqbejnFnaHOyd:ulqgquDlaPBtd%uloqvezhwxtyl^fEbogeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEyex=
ztpugeOopsFnz^fuobceEluKIus-oFbpbfJlbsIwd&gHfbchultLtys!glncltJgmBvwe/Eg
UzfbtzJhmsFnf/gDzbtjHvsMMex&gFalwsAvssBnk&fEdjqtDgtMOii+zEakpeDhszy
tGndgwKgdtGjd*tlppgesmuxLss=tluqbzKlaT7ej=xlfpvjJAbBHri+zgabCeFBnuywd=l
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEatguGyuxxek/kmubksLlsxMyd@sAoibuGzuvuwh!iAmnghLvsLtnr!ztf
JqutqnLgdHFqi$zupp?eOojvBeA@ylfuujFAjtFqC!gldqnqwjuBIsd=lljoclwzaNMjh!uz
vAtvefJktsuws;tpavjjrAvKHes'fFigbhwuuNLD	!f6scksrivyzxd@xqaukrAsbKFD
ozugtjKAfwtgi$gGtgbyzhusQfw!glukojrvgsAwi@zljpvjJltMtnr!xmjnttskjGA 
VqprnjlgjMtBe|frpwpilgsxFfx^fFpbvmAuhLtyl@zlujgDrroHQes'frjtuyzhowoedauD
kJborqwaaBHef=ztatwwssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeA&kDfbCRrDbLtre%klbxcnDhcEy	
untgtAwytsLjt=xFffbyzhusNmi!uxegteHlpIFjd>oFibrjJzpGuqd/kyfodwsudxMes'
ztfbvzJuaHzex&kldgpyMyzsQjv^fsscxnLhuBHld:ulujgeVluKInx!iAmnghLppGo
ZtfugewEbFJqi|fEftxjvguHtzr%kDteqwwgN2WMIgY1O&ueGitxLAe:oAobtjrAix
ozugiwsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbcsvgjwyfwT/FicveHlpIFjd-kmspbgwzusQmi+
ztfbofLlsBuqd/kxbvgxrApsMtq^ztjpieLofRtpr=Cg

2QDEKFrtbwyex&klgkpfDgqHCsx!ztbvbnFgntHDd$gEfubF5gtxLAi|fmtbc
vGcnkh	yfEuym=tEavqtDggHLex&klqwdqAjaECgv@xufubyzhusuwi!zqtvksygjMoeddt
uzfbefKl.sURd*ylcgksygvLyid@ylbbxjzpdEyex=fEfewwwgbwxnx*uzbnbkMueBHld'uD
ztfbnntybKS d!OzacptLofKthe|kfaCOezhtsMjv<kpacuesuaBHxt*xmukqsrApsNmi
yFbhheGmattre(uDanqhssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyzsCsd:nqaUqzLoaMIex&ozlbcgGBusQfC|fFp
smlgbnLzaHQsd$uxmgeyAvosIkd[nAuqiwswiLtrs/klbeejKzjuFjd:ulujgeHBcECh	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe?[(}{+

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
L4FGOF6g(sURd@tpacthzpwtFei-koutqsAjaKyxs;xofubnFgbsMhl=uxagpAAypGGjr:f;
WGfuvnGutswtr$kDokplrjpGNjB:f;aSwjKAjHHxd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smu
oFtgnkr[aVIrt;zqsbcsPpfMSe_!Godguxrhowtfz@oxbdkqAAzsIkd:nqauAxLlns{
NmsfyfJla}tXx/kzhvjxrnbBHjh!ztsqwlzguAyey|klphbfJjiBPfp!xqtqwwultsCs
yoiqqqKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XqjvgwsAjGAee+fAcugwNhuBIsd_gpfbdDr3FVWNE7fFicveSTaBMee+fmsejnNhm
xqtqwwulaFuii!ABaqheHyjFuwC!smugtnsstsQnx&fHftAeDpuMFjd*tFftrwwAbMCtr7
L4FGOF6gtMuyi%fFicveLofsJws(koubjfKgbMNjq[zqebvtrisBxli!ztfbifHgcxNBi^t
ztfugethsxtuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|fmofbfrzdAItp!kzwkttFtfGN	d@tpakpeLobMthe;yq
nmtbewwhuxxek;opffbnFAsHxzg:oAoubyGgB6ths-rqdvktFz?stQs;jlegofFkayLtq!ztf
kpvecyAvotFeg=syvpkyQaaswmm^lxzbhwGtaMyfg&kDtbytJrjGAeA*ztavjjrBqIyw
mDbfgxrvgsyqi_kzuctDrzdAItp!ztsqwlzgiBAmd|itpqn	rnsxyyi%fFigbfFupNHhi_kzu
ztbvbF5gxHOqh!hqavgxLlesuws;tpavjjrjpNHyv,a

L4FGOF6gsxJtv:kpapqyrvoESes+fIicveOhtsFje/tqebcgGBusURd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGN	d#AFacnxGgpGtxi<kDbnbzFpwxLxe-fCvguyAvoLtyl@zlxgtjrybBMjh
iAoegwFpoztfv$nuwcnewsfvNws+ooatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstnteW&klekuhMztxx
yqwgtfDgtMLjr"zttbqkrAiBMex,vqaqheEhuxLne-fuobceKjiHIqd^tHjtqsEloMtfw
uBqqujvguHtfd&osinAeKAsNwyy/kpatgxGBsvyex&gFaqhkwytsuep*suugfeFBnuywd=l
vmujueLvayIqp=Cg

L4FGOF6ggBLxx!xmjugirzfOywe-fCvguyAvoLtff=AFawunFnaT7em+fmauemGvm
kzwkttFtfGN d!ZtftgeAzaHzyi+fEpogevpgyChy-zKakpevlwxFtt*tsacbxwutxttj
CtbvbyzlaLSxx^sldqpyspoLoedhgzzbuyMkfGNxd|oFafqBFgbMtfd$uyqwvjJgsxMty/iq
gzebcxKBnxtyl@zfadghsBtxtFQ!iAnguexypFtyl^fXjdtfJFaHzeG=tssguxlgbEFes'
GyftkhsuaACxx=xKakueFvxsuyd:nqjtbkAuhxLym[ygabCxrhaKyxy-zlphbyzhusMtv:fAg
sutvcpwuaCOik_kzu?bxGtfsMyy%kzuubfJlaDHtA+fFpbetFjmNxjd:nmubCRrjpGNfm+y
tAujksygpytzw^fFpbvmwtaPBjr!ztfAbqGvlsztv!uzfbqwrAxHtyl*tstbcsvgeHtss:
luofbyzlnnteM:futbfnxmjvOqx!zAafkxuvwxLex&gFaokivsfsAws;tpayjjJlaHHjd&gE
gltgpxwgpytBl@zlujgeKFtMyrd$uzucksKbas!tq^fEuwfjFAtsAws[kluqyfJkaMBjd*jqb
uracpesydACAi7fmapgBrpexuex=fFigo	rzjGwjd:nqzbjfNlaGIyd[xqwkqzKsz
kJqgtnwudxxeA&gFakveElbGMex=ftbxgesjdxMxd:ulbbxfKAauIiC!urauqrwDitN
xmofqrrpoyIwq@zupp}

UFigteIBfLNns+ylsckxwkauSeJmKQNCPeuvovywr^jlujgewsfvNws+ooahqwEhusCyw^rr?
LAsbksKAbGwj{!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCyd*ylphvjFgeBzkm$AxubdtLoayIw
zqbejjJzatHid|zGegpyKguHtle*tlbbujFzfsIkd>nmubkyrptsNmi,fmsgbAAlxBHl	
ZtfAbzFkfKMye+jlujcyrpusCxd@fHjuwfDgjFuli7fnvvbyzlzsxtd+uFapghwzttLnp,
qzpybyzhusCyd*ylbbrtKAdtLid'xAnbvmwguNLsd=llujgeuloMOwC7fmarcsGybFCh
vtpvqlJhqAnes/fqwgpeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlaMyCx!uracpewphANji+zt_egsLBsR
hDpcfxAkfmtfd:CqovkjLo_vysx;xKartnFAfwtgs=qfaqtesgoBHjx^kzuj+hwuuNLD
jubtA rgUAuyd%oEukphLppGtnw!urugpevpgyChy-zlgqteHlpIFjd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGNex=fsscuumgaUyhe;yqaqheLobMnem:fAdecxAvotFqC!hqdqojKgeBzkm$Axu
zAaftfOgdHHhp;yuppuexypFtBl@zlppgeAzaOCjA*ts?

L4FGOF6gbEMtd+uFffbyzlaHvAm=AEahgfJgpytyl^foporzLlsmtBl*itaeqsKAjMOyi|fm
jughkhMsuRtnr!AEjpiesuaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^alaVjtMnisMyy%kzuubnFghxHjv@r
juebptLgtNzki/frsqoeLojLtfr\oquA?eKlwxLfp!uxegteKAvwysx|frfctjvguAuyd:nqz
CqsgbhGtqNNjvToxmkvjJhuxnee+fmtuwrHAjHHex&gFadghstfsMjp'/rvnhnDsjGAeA&kz
ztfAbxwhsvBjh!lAsbutEluACsk!hGubhfAsfwtys!luofbnLbasZWI SMObufAkaLBj
hqmkgAwkaMBfx!yAngbywhdAyww!gxtqbkwhsswtq[AFftbwwzpNLhi| lcgefMzfsNmi,
hqmkgAwguAyDd-golbetEwmxNjd$uzutqqmgaY`JIhGZatgqsAfwtyl^fqycouDlaHz
zqbejjJzaLBts*tsacyfQgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx!CmtbptLguAynv!zungbyGgvLyex&k
yKtvgrmga!Bnw!Cmtbceuhtxtnr!CtjejeLofsMnx;gFjqpezhesNtd#klfzvwwtfES
yFsweyMyfwtxs!ztbvbyzlaMyfg&kDtbytMsesHtx!lqfnbyzhusNmi,ftbfbqGzusNmi*x
mDbureGuaPBfx!ztfbuDKAfFths+zmjpgim

GlgkpfDgrNyxx*uzatcnKlesvDdaXQFOCSrjpGwjv+kpacehwztsush!gHbknftpmBNDd=l
ztfbuDKAfFoednnqapqywkaMBjd=iobuktFhmsyCm|zqoegeGmattle[fuobetEtvGChe:oAo
hquygjFgtvBts-fxjdtfJpbGMee+jlugchzlsLoedjlFfpbF5gtBNxd*tlbbuhzvpE
ructcwQgbGxex&klmkdwsyjtHem|fFigbuwytHHev^yBppuntsfsztv!sAokvtJpoztyl^
yKtvgrmga!yfg&kDtbftrupMtfp>gKtbvfClaBHys!ztfkteOvsExer^Clmkdwsyz
xqtqwwultsugs;zlxjkhzguAyep*hDbtkfFgjLtjB$oFff}erPowyjh7fmubvmwgtBNjw
CtftgeSTaAuid#kqobwxwkaFIxx!krggeyACfESeA*ztjpbfrsjuLfv, lujgeDpcKuwm@t
CmtbtjIBjKyid:ulhqbyGgtIyhm'ooavgfuofKMee+jljpuyJBdMtyl^sljpbnLzaNMj	!fMt
glsguzDA.sMjz^xmmbCRrzjMyxd>oxmbjfNlaBH]w^xHjegeKltLCtr|fAwgtesgtNGri/
