Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+ddtpfzksygbGxew^gDdjcgAsjMSes'fmmnbJFnmBMmd>uDeubnFgQxLxi;yl(
YqwgtfDggxuyy/kEaqhe8lsLyzw!7g~b)e~lwxLfp!rqwgnxrvgswzw:uyjBcyAvo
vAtukgDla}tUi/yqvubzKlesztv!mqogtfDgfwOhe:oAob)e8lsLyzwNfqghghLzaHH
kpvecyAvos{eG=tFfzvzssaBHks/smukqsrpos0jv|kGtb)e5hjGthl@rxfpijrhow
kyqjcxAzaHzeT^xEfwue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqwgtfDgqHCsx|fqngtlwkaBHex&klekuhMztBIsd:nmubhtDspPyidh5XPPCX\zaILjw^tFbvktFb

Gxujqzyoa6'QSiG5ajcirupMtii_uztvtfLles0jv|kGt&bftpmBNDd:uldtqxK|txuwg&
jAdwojFAtmtxl^fopphnJtfwtyl@zlbnneWuhECxl!CAsfueAua9yww^AEactjrpowyCi%
gzebefFgcxtxi@xoigf rgTHnej=xlfzcrHsfmtxe$xugkejrjpNFid&gHfbdjwuaLyfv$nqe
ozacnqrAfQNx{!ztfbjnKApKChe-fqtucDlgbGxee-rlujgeuhutFtk;klfpvwAltsQnx&
ztfktevltvLnt:oAou+]AuaLBtv: ljpbfDsaHzeT^xEfwu 

HApngfFgmHAng!oEapqyrpos0jv|kGtb3 =gcNNeA*rxadgeskexxex=fFigbswEu
BqsuktFaatFyl=AsibcsrlgyIwx!oEadgnFnaFuii!tAubvtryfLNwm$zlQgtxwBtsNtd@
jmucdfKlaBHeA&ooibqswgkNMyd[kDgqtrKgtxuwg&ozh?bGGvmxusd=xlpvjjJDjLy d!OF
oEarqxKpcEyex=fypxgeDhuxLfp-ElujttMnisNmi!jAdwojFAtsvDd|kxfevnFnattBs/j
uzfbkxrpoMywi|zqebksrhowtxi-koukplrhosuwi@fAgbksxvsFuym=tlppgeAz
ozugtjKAfwtnr!gzebvwQpoztys!rApmbyzhusQtv%fGqbksrAitNee/km?

Yuoege8lsLyzw!CmtbfjNlmHJjh!ozaJAuwyDtLi{!yqwgtfDgmxPjp|fAgbezKApFCEe:oAo
gDfbrtKzjuFj	!f5jorqwgbNNms/ozhbvtGstsyCm|zlujcyrhmEIBd=tqavqeuyftNj
gzoqvfLlesJfx&ylujttMnisNmi!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nudjbfJlaNMjj;rlgqteFvuxaye)ozh
gzebhtJghNCii%fFpwtxrmpKtyi@itjpieHBsIIxi|fmofbkGyaxRus|oFptAeOyjMCsk8
3uujbfrsjMNqi!sAsgbnFnfGOnx,fuubkxrwpLMnf-kluqbgwnjGtys!gpebqwrzvuMym:AFf
smugtnssaBHeT^xEfwu 

VqsugzKgitMer=zlcggsrBtxxew=fyvejexvsswqe|yudubjvBdtNns+fmtbhtJghxHjv@r
kpvecyAvomtBl^xqakveKlfFyid:ulicxjrhosCrt@iFaqpeLofsMyy%kzuubnFguAyeg=xq
iAvtujrhus2fv<gDeb-frnfGywe-fDfswnJleswty/yqavjfLgtMOii+zEaowxLgutEjd*t
iqsvcnFgbKyfwSalaUvzvloMMeA^xqacdqwguHtzw^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommbozuoaFIwi8

ZtfbRjJzfNMeT/uvfevezhtsusd^BmmwcyAvosNje_fmubvmwgVGCAi/yuuAbtxgNtLDp@tp
ztbvbmszauyjr!jAdwojFAjGAeT^xEfwu)rlgyyhx|fAobgiMjbMCtr8flQgtxwBtsCxd<kDz
vAqwnfJaatHid@tqdfqyssaxPnh^tofbksvpdtNjw!ztbvbnLgjLtme<ozhbcsrlgyyhx!gF
vxbegxrvuAywd:nmobJfJCbKx	d'uDagzfEwmxnex^yFaukywzatNeF@rxaUvfLl
1zjxgwKpuRneH/ADzbEtDsfzy	d@tpapwrwypNMew_gxmbrqsjfLtBl^xqaqruGyuNHnx*kE
zAawujrCbLNee_uGovueGmaILnq@xKafcysgntSer=zlfzkxLbas9si!jAdwojFAfwtjj'kou
oEavjfLgbKwme^uxpikhss.susx&xAqqntypdtF	d@tparjnDvmHAng@rlsgujsydAtnw
hqjpievvoxtgC!ztfbufElaIyww=tljpuywhesIkd#ElujtjwgeBzki/kzubrjGwmxo

ZtfbetFAfQNze-fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlQgtxwBtsCsg-ApfubfFgpOywz*kIaguxsF.su
lmjtnDrsjGyfv!nutvqwAjbEtjw|gKaqpeLofsznj:nldgpyMyzsV G8fFicveHypOCii|
ruomueAuuHtyl^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommb-jmn?mtMi/uppvwxlgUAOhC%opfu?esue
Vxvvcwuo-mtAm@fEncnqrnstSey+jqsuetJpozt=s+fFigbxuyfxH[d=llmkppwk
vmtuclwz?stYl^yqactjrobGxre%klmkppKgjGNtd=ztftbrsAfKCfp8

ZAafkkxlsxHyd^DFfpvxlgnHMyd=llujgeHypwOhx*uzayqwCgxtMeh=tqacveZhsOuwh7
CtftgeLofsJjs[rqacpirAixtju;oBngpyrhsxtqs$gFff}erTvvBes'fFig
iAmncgGybMCAi!goukxnLFaBHAs-BqebffLhavIqp^iFjqpesuesMyv;iFvtksyaauyhe;yq
ztfbofAuavBfp-kzhgbfFkaMBjd^sBicunKgpytUi/yqvubnKguAyek@ztftksygpy
vDjocwQgntNjv*gx.bvmsAaBM	d#AumfksygbsOxi'AxagpAAypGGjr:frptbxLBeRCsk
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq.betDsfvNnr"fpbvc	rhowtre)ozhbkyrBtxzzp8
YKtvgrK|cNCqh*tsakuevlgBHnx^rKapqyrAixtre*tldqphwyonteX&AE.bozuoaHzex&k
CAsmbmszaBHAs-BqebywAAjGAei|ymzu?euvmEyhx*tsakpkGyntNns+ lsgywAAjGAem: 
gzebvfynjGAem:alaVjfLgdtHef^fpppgeGmgsMnx^alaVjjrjsxuym<klmkpprmpKtyl^
uHftxnwDaxMxe,fmtbyjDsatMej=xlcqvmrzzLNjq|fmofbisAbsQfw!iAmncgGybMCAi7
gzebyfKggHLli%fHjcbJ	tbBFee+jlqcrjJgntCqd>oFibrwGmfLMtv|fmubRtEvottfr%
HAxfqnFb

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
IMMCNZUHa}tUP	-EartnFjjIuqd'uovubfFkavIsx/onvvktFguHtxg&uxbtumAwa}
2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbrwwwbKuys/EluqbgwnjGHnr"fFigbuJvkxwydQfNbukxrmpK
vDplghLg(sVfw*ilswnjrposwtr<kDukplrWMWt+d{uzdgtsAuhsNmi!oybigxrpos0QH!=
XGopksygQ5Xey+jqsbceNhsByyC!uratgyJpfOuqd|uruycwwza}tJr$upjpieLof
jmucdfKlattme/j\gqwlzAaBMxy^f;aXcwAvvLtki@zGsguevlnHHxx/gFffb+rPnIIwx@tof
urawujJgeHwzq^tFbvktFg(s6nq*zmukqsKgpytyl^fOE+TT5gwxLxm=tl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KDjebHSSB5#HE7fHjegeHyfLCii+zfaEjfvDzvE]L^gxfA?e1udnneh^sAouvwsAfwtf
yAgvyfJlaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosIkd:nqaRcyJvmHAne!RmukpfrKbMuge|kl)RNI{bas0QHNy
vDjpenHhmsztg;ylgtqrrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi!vDplghLgbuIzx!ztsgg]sue u]l@rr
EqbtuesnpsQfw!uzaeqsNlsMCsk!Suhpg)KgMtNnr!yqskgxlgbGxem+fFigbjFk.
IMMCNZUHaLOlk^yFff?euvoOyww*uzaqheLofsNjB:fIjnnetlaMBjd_gvptbhGuuKCgy:oAo
zAauemGsbKMmm[alaECQSSVVUew:xqtugirAitN	d@ylqquxAimRtyl^fAonAeHyjOuyi
vGcnkxzpozttv"gzjBcyAvosuyd:nqaYqwCziHJ	d{nmeyAhC|Ixuqi,ftbfbxGBhANer=
lqegtfDggNHiw!uDapcyAvotFej=AzecvnGuaLOut=xFadgkGyfsyrf@xwjpieMwpGtyl^
vDplghLaauOyd*tEugcirobwtwi-oqebwuGuattlv^gFafgfDgpytms_kIptmesue
smsmgyAuhsNtd@ioporqAzisNmi!zmtmbtxgdHHAi/yupp}

KHftbxAudxtyl^fBpuuntpmBNni|fAgbetEwvMyw[|kmsejnFnaAuAi!kyftijvaaLwms-gDt
ozavjjrmjxFid=llmcvjrhovCjr:fmofbjsymRtri%oqwcneKAvwCjw![BikntKvqAyww7
ztfqntypbGM	d$rmtukhAzuLnee+jlujqxwgtMOiC*tsavjjrojLNtv,fAgbpfLBstFep@C
gzebvmwgiBMys/ElphbyzlaEyle-fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llXguywyoswnz*ruAcvnGu-sBfz^
hqfpbqGuhBHld'uDacbkMsmRtxi@xoicdqwgwxLxm=tlphb2wzuxLsd-oFftcyMyfmtks/
kJborqwaatFqd:nqavgCLzaHzeE;mGtvkswgbGxeF^xzbtfeGmaVFfm/BmvzbfFk
HAfvjnMz.sHtx!zAaogsLppGtfp-fFigbxwjpGxfv,fmofbywyuBuwC!gGujqwKb

2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbcwGzfmtHEgGXVECeKhjwoednnAvnfeGufswtr<kDubOnyufo
YtpwnirAixtie:gnbugetlaxHhs%kp}bbNKgjMtsi$kEtctDrApsxtd:nmu{beZvxsMms;rp
oFadgevlmBPjv^jhabYmsAatvty:fOE+TT5cas!nr$klujkxrptsuex/gztkvnGubE
sqekwrlgxASei<kzadqyzlssNtd$xqbvgeKvgMQfv^fFpbtzFgpGtfd{J\SQOargTBHhi
kHftAgGkzsEss>ylqgquDlaPCqp!hqapgyOvsDCsk!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nKaiqeLvaMBj
zDpwdqw|_PBng&futbhfJghKyfx^xlxkvmrJE `TQ!ztbpbBAAisNmi!vDpfwhLppGttj
smhpgyAjawuye9flGkpfDszmtms>fppgueGufsGfo^fFigbisAbsuAe*rmcngargDtHeq@tK
uravjjrovKxqi|fFpbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrpoyIwq@zuppbyzhusMtq^fBvdnnKofKMel@Bq
oyqqujvgvIIsd%gFbdcxwzauyei-oyjpcywk}

ZtfbRQVgqKIoi$zlxcuethtxxes+fFigbuJpovCup^fFicveuvnIOyi//Efcthzpozttj
zqyvueAzaFIxx!krggeyACfsQmi+fuubkxrkpGyeA*ztacbqsyhxtie:gnbug rgCxwfy|k
VXEbtjHyfLysx^jlbbetDsfvNns+fFicveKlsOyxd|ulncpDrkjLwnt-ozfubfuypLMew=
smoAbuwyjHxx{!oFaycxrpsKyxm|zucng 

ZtfbdfKpdsLzp^fuobetFCfKNnr"f2MFbBszaMIeh=fzpbjfJt.sNtd@BAjfbyzlaLCsw!ur
ozutwxAvosCsd|Aoibcevhutvfw^.lapqeAuuKIiy$zuppbtxgoxQjv!kpjvktFz.sHt
uz_vjj	zqHNeg&gzhgu	rupsywe%oobvksygpytfp-fBpuuntsfszfp|ktpqfxrmsHGee+
kpjvktFbas@my| lQNFeAzaGIyd:nqahksssatwyd*tlfnghLypGChd[AnmkumAuhsztv
ztjubiAzdBJqm+kfadwyrzjFJqC!ztfbdjypoGCsk8flUjgeuvoOyww*uzaqhe8SEsBfw
kHpmgiruvFyws;ylvpcsLpdBJfx^jlrwgxLppGM,d!NAxbynDsaBHks/smukqsrifsOxi%b
3tbvbftvvMtsi:CAsmksycasWfr!ztfbtnyouLttj!glecvfthtxtgi!vDpvghLleo
Ytpwnirvoxtuv=zqdvbyzlaKCll:ylphbfrkbMuge|khabJtOgdtHem:fnfbofvl
gHbknftsfo

ZtpugeuvoOywx*tsaRNIrhmLIex/oqebvtrhwHCid:nqauksKgpyttq*yEjqp	rAitNem| 
kJdnwiAuhsJtv:oAoubtxguAyeg=rxfevnGutsIwd>nAmgbxwjuBIsw8flXjcyrhcHOyd:nq
oybigxnga96Id*ylgwnqrvgsCre"kE.butElatLjd^DFsgojDFaICty|
tuogvjwuuAahi+zGsAbwwwsxMjr:gFjqpxrvgsNmi!LmujgwKaaPBnp^fAujgwKgdHHye*t
nuhjnDrpoMywi|zuoibjDlnxHyw8flUjgeyvbEtBe|fFpbetNlssuqp!ztfbvjPAaHzeQ*mzf
[uoenzvpoztss:kE.bksrNsxypd@tpakpeZlcKyB{!ztfbnfLAfKttj!Ctjej	rpo
vmsvkhMsbKneg@AEfubuJvcEyrw!ozaetjsAjGAee!yqbtemrzuKOhx;xq-?bfDsaMBj
ozekejKaatHid^BqobvmwgjFuli| lxjkhzgbKyef^ozhbuhsuoxxem+fEfrcwsAfES
yqbtemsimxtkm-kE?

YqwgtfDgOHLyl!GyftkhsuaBHxx*zGukqsKguAuyd&gHfbrqsjfwtfg]AutkvnGuaKyvy^yFt
lAsbvmwgQ5Xeh@zmccujrobOyev^wGfuvjvgjMtnr!smhpgyAjayIwq!CuujqzLgtHzyA@xq.
CtjejeElbGMex&kKactjrhmKyfh,fDvppnFnaBNeA*ztpwveKvgMQfv^ lxkvmGBu
gzzvjnFnawyrs+yFscvjvgbMtyl^f9ptmxzvqn

3tbvbhsuoHNet/goukefDszsvjd%uzfbkxrnpsvfg)fmofbwwjpGPjv:fmofbww|fGwth^
jmuc?esguBGj[$uztwonFnatHid^DFsgojDFavIxx-ElfpvjJwsBMj	!fOBNCQ!JBsMji|
VXEbcxrhawuye#gEfbvmsAavus{!gzebumGBmwnef^fDvpbzFkfKtfd<gDjgvDrvg
xqutkjNhmsMtj:Cmsgu rgUACxd>oxmbrjJtjMtyl^fIjfgxLgqHMxm#rqaugfJjixM 
IAougvMloMFD{!ztfbpjwkaMIet/upvegesgDWaWShfAgbRQVaatMeA^rxacueLvawyAi-uB
yAgvyfJlaMBfx!iAvnfezhowFjd|uyfb3 &ghBAff,zqaqhezlbOCqC!kzdqfjvguxRy{
jqwgntHlesIzx!uraeqsNlsLuym=tEaykyzgdHFqi$zuppbiwCfEIuq^tFacpiryfyywi+iq
ructcwAhoLtBl=fIbpvjvgtHzyA@xqadqyzgdHGue|yuppcywgfGIzk&frptbyzl
vqeguyJpbGtgy:fmmuqeuhqtvqi!urakphGyqHLfx*tsavjjrtpLNeh^zmjngi
rqyketyybIBng@rltvwiAltsNme:fmawujJgexMnv^yluqbhGueNwy	!fUobvmwgfGx	d:nq
kzdqfnFnatHid$uzwgtxAvosIkd:nqafcysgxBFqd[xAwgbyzlaFIxx!kzewtnFn
zqtvcrwuusNtd:nqaxcqMlaHzex&klqtqowjun

ZtfbgsuveBHld=llujgevhutvfw^fIbubfDzpsuel@xp_hqzyousCxw;kaabFnvguAy
jmucdfKlaGyjh!zAadgewudHxjh9f9ftgeLofKyer=xybvkAwgtMLzg:ADfubkGyaxHhs%ozh
nGncpnKAaMyCx|blaUjtMsesCyd#klTIOQnga$Bfx!gnpwveLofs@JMT/IjnneAAaEuxx7
CumnbnLgqKIAi!AEfhwqngaVUQEg1OBbgCHyfLMjh!yAngbrAupKtis;hFtbcxrApsQmi:nqs
glecvfribGEeg@tlcgbkMsmRtYId/opphtJtbGN d!KHftAewmgHLyd$gzadgeEhexnef;z
ozavjjrlowtys!hqaVGN	jpGztv_gzubojsutsNtd@iofrveLofsHji%fFpbofClaLIri
lusobjFjpwCsk!jqdkunGutsNme:fobp?eAuexyi{!hqafkxHBuxx d!ZtfbVJ1gqHCsx|
ztfbrztsjLBjv!ozacbuJvqxLeh*xqdvktFgcNNeh=kEapqyrwsxMzq^fFpbofClatFqd:nq
jqdkunGutsztv!nunbqwrofKoed yEfpvnssmRnex&klhqcqrvgsysg=juoibBszaMI
kxjokssAfmtfw!sGdjbfKgqHMxm#rq.bvmwgiBHiv@tofubyGgjGztv_gFjqp]FluPIwo*ts.
yAavjfLgjytfr!oztvkyMAjHHee$wGjtgxrhawuye#gEf?bjNlsRvth,fmtuqhAhuxxeA*zt
ztfbksKAjMOym=tldcpezhwxtfg$kEtbvtrpun

IMMCNZUHawyrs+yFscvjvgbsJtv:oAobqkr3pEOri!7^~?bgwjbNMjd*zlicfeLofsGtw:
gzpocqAltsCsd*zgabVmwgtHzyA@xqaycxrjsxuyi%fnzbGqwjuKIsm$fNpqm
ZqdjptDvhByxd=llQtqAAkfGwj{!XU.bcsvgjLthe-rqebFDFhuxRy	!f6igbxGmuPuwi
CAsmueGumRtBm:nlTIOQ	jpwyid%gFb}

2ufyksygbsNff-klphbhGuuxHyw!uzavjjrzdKyjr7fFigbfMkjxHhi!ymxbjtOgERHfx^DF
zDfcvxrlbvBei-kyfpveszattgs=qlbpfesAuxGux|fFpbunEwmBzDd_uHfogsLguALty"nlb
BAmwojmgaYurm-omskvDrDjMBex&klQcvwGspzCfd*tlqtksLg)Boj	7fFigbywEumtnx|
yAvtejlgbGxex&klffkyAvoL eA*rxaocpwguAyeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^fHftunGutsBnk&rK
AEfhwqmga{!tj:CmsgbBAAisue1*tppyueswqEChe:oAobyfKgtHOll:frptbU4K.
IMMCNZUHaLunh7fnfeczKlaMBnw!CmtbvmwgntCsd:xqofbkGyaLwms-gDmAbzKl?	

IMMCNZUHatFxs!jqnqpxLybMyid&uIacbzKlsswfr!vqshqwEgbsPfv*kFzbqkrzftLhl^y
gzebszAjlESeq=BqavqesuzsJfv:fAgbceNvmNGj,!ztfbntGr_NJew$xqfpbuJvwBxjw
yAngbgszjvnew*sBmgbBGye Mje/itjpi 

IMMCNZUHatLly^jlujcyrvoxttj!ztfbofBvssxnj'oovnvnwzaBMer=zlujgeKvgMQfv^a
XmujgwlgjGthv^gFjpiesgqKIiy$zlujcyrDjEFef^fGtgfetFaLwms-gDtbtjHyfLysx*ts
glctqfvgtIyhx/AyaqheuvnIOyi/fEprjnKAjvuym=tfabwxwyawIhy_kzucvnGuaILtz^y
zAadgeLofsGtw:funrqwLhoMtxi/BudgbtFlavusd[xAwkfjm

IMMCNZUHaGyCx!oxmwuyJhuxxee!zDvpefLlesMje/itawpiwyaFSxx^xuvobBAAiBHex^t
CAsfueGmaOCwx;ylbpfezvxsIsi!CAvnfetlatvqi!zAahksvgjMMeg=tFfpvxrAiKIzk&uGu
ztfbgsLpsxtie:gnbug rgIxtxe*jlujcyrAixtjB$oFjpieLojGAee#uGubRQVgjLtyl@z
smoAbtxguAyee[vxjecyAvoLtnr!ztfbtjLyjxPfp!yAgvyfJlauynr"fIskvywuayIwd*z
CumnbjPjfxxex&kldcrftpmBNni|fAgbvmwgtHzyA@xqagouDvzxxer=ClgqteLofsWI[mUY
BqsuktFbas@mi!IP_TQRrmbvyxd"kzvkpjrsjFCye:oAou?eAuaMywq|fAgbuuwlesush
iAnrtjzloLCAi+kEt?bnFguAyeg/kmukqsrvgsuev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqavqeJBosCy	
IMMCNZUHaLunh!nqajquwkaMBfx!ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtueOpmEtis>txpcfeLofsxfx@ 
oravjjQgxBMm{!zAavjjAyaIyww=tmmbetEwvMyww7fmofbmsCfsLje%ElbeejKzaMI
oyqqtysuusNjB:ylppbfrjpGMye+zlccunKaaPBng&fFigAeOpmEtgi!gnmgbyGgvLyem+
ztfkteJltxuwg&fmofbkJvnsQmm$nlujgDrtjzByd^BqobdjrhcEyex=fBvdnnKo?

[OBNCQ!JBsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^fnmwgeFBnuyww!xqqtgxwuuxxeQ*mzf&ueuvmNGsd+Aycgtxl
CtjejesyfsNmi!yFbpffJkaLwms-gDmAbwwmfKysg^ygabRzDsjGAey[fmapqywaaAyew:gFff
ztbvbyzltxtyi\zEaygwwgixuAm-ElffkywkatHid:nqakofylayCqi|fIpwnirhqIyfv!yunrnD
gEacbsGAfsuxd>kxm?bxGguAuyd=tqaeqzDkaJOng)rKacehwztsusd*smhg}[

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YW< X9B1b+rZfOywe-fBsqdqwttsQnx&fIikemrHNsCxd|zumnbBJltMFnr"f;
2mskqzKgtxuwg&fmofbwwAsByAe-fobrcgAsjMCjw!=lJnnzKAstNns+fAgbczLvntNng
yFfoonFnatHid@fFswphsAfwtxi@xoib)eST"Ltfx:kyqvbyGggBHid>gKtbvtrjpGHjg:
imucntypoztys!ztfbvjPAts{eEh-EaitfNputNns+fFpycwvza`1RP!=lTvtnCpoztf
hmmcphwgcxNBi^tlrwcsLpuRtfr%fCvcnnLFa}tMs>fMNbhzJujLBjw!AEftueJldHOww^fFp
oybigxr[aVIsh;iFjpiesgtxuwg&fuobcexBmEayi\zlfpxnJvoFysx!=lNcenFApLBee+j
ONNbrwGApMSui|fAgbCRr[a6Oqx*sqekceszqxwyw!uraCOe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GlegotFzuKuym=tlphbFElsBwfr!SqnqtDrizsCyw!iAptfnFhuHL	d{gDmbHQWPTV2MEpK4.
gzebTnurzsYW1?5facuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKneP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt?bhGudEOii%
ztfbotJujGAew^yEjqp rgCxAnr+ozhbynLoatths-rqdvktFgpytgv=gptkfjKggKIrd:nq
IAovkswuutFeG=tssguxrhowtyl^fOppuyAAvMCtr@rlDqpAwuuBIs{!ztfbqsDFaMyCx
iAmnghLppGtnr!glqtgxwuutvqi!lAsobfLguAyex*sqaqheLofs%tv)ytpr?eXSF2!HLcG7FT
nuhjnnyouxxew^BqscneGmaMBjd[xAcngrKgxBNmd>nudjbF5gjLtxx*rxaytjKAmBHl	
[UobkyKggBHfp!lAso?eLofsxnw)fIjnneuvoMunr!zIpbetDsfvNns+yfapqyrvoESex&k
hDpcfxAkfLtgy:fmmuqeLofszzp-fFfzveOpuAtnp-AEutcyAvoLttj!gltgveGm
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*~bCkJpdtH]E_kDjecsrwbFJmp^zEahttEguAyet^xupfb6_@~sNtdv#!~}_

GEaHTJWTB7tme%fqyrnfAufwtje/ruft?eSTaAuxd@zFforywkaMIey|klbburssmsurs;tF
urakpywyqKyye:oAobvtrpoMLth;iqaeqqDldMCtr|alaKpeLofsJwi|kzubefKl.sNmi
iAovtfuApKnee!iAnrcsQgotGjh!WGjeme~vvKwj{!ozaUkqNlss!uv*ts.bOImaaNMjh
yAgvyfJlavuqp^jlUqqqtvpDtfr%fBvvbyGnfMBjv!glnqfjKAmRtnr:kDbevnNl
ozutqiMjuBIsd:ulujgeuvmEyhx*uz?bbQArfsNmi!zIpbrwwjfwCsk!yBfcmjJz.
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@xsvgfeLobMtyl^fDfcnesztxNeA@ylujgeMuexLqC*tsaeqqDldMCtr8

LXFKUHZOB@YWd[xAdggiwkaMIeh^yoskdjrCbKCty|fEfcthzgbGxev^zDjgxfD
imqcdnDpuByxd>numgbJ04B^tBs/qqebvmwgdHGuy:kD?bbNFguACxd[gDukezDhssJfg)gsf
ztfb*lGguH?et;rx_fqBFgbEFtA^jlujgeMzfKtnr!krggeyrApsDzq[fAvvbtxgUHIqf=uw.
CtftgeLofsCsx^xmdvkAwgqKIlv@slxcueDvdtNjh7fmofbjFAfKtyl^fFikti	wbKND
yAgvyfJlaNMjh!hKaCOexvssNmm|fFfzveuvmEyhx*uz.bymAjisCxd$gxmgfe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAhonteX&oEaycxrAixt2m+jAxubAwytBIsd=llQgtxGubEtQm#xmskcslgb
yAgvyfJlatJup*imukqsrwvMtys"kFigtetFatths_vmoAbnFgSHwpz*rxf?bRvb

YuoegeLofsvws@jEjfgxrjbFyej/uyavjjrYfOIqy:oAoctDr4bKtui/oAe?bfrzftLhl!Cmt
iAofwhLlesOxm+mlujgeOvswMeF/oFjujeGyaPuw{!Cuujbyzlawyke;rFaqrjJhuHLev^yqu
gEaqt rgG5YNW{NTBWGWrkfFIsw:xmugfetvuAtfy:uybvkhrzuxGrm+ml)yjnuoayCsh|
uFigtexvsFMes'fFigbxstfsLts:]lbpfesguKOsg@zqebujsydAoedjtqaqhe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAho,Mew:xAoigxLggxuyy/kE.bvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGA	d>gEatguJltxHyi%fnz
gldjcwLguAuyd*tpjecywkaAIBd=lFfpbBGyeLtgi*tsauqzyousuut^gDffbnF
jAdwojFAtmtBm:nlujgeGufsLjg^oHjpieLofsGtw:f|ikvx,gpuNfm+ozhbvmwgiBAmi|z
yoptg rgUAye)&oFankxL+aMBfx!oEauwuHsjxxex@qqtbvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGAem+zA
godqwsLaaFupm+mlujgexpsLNel*zfakpewmgxwy{!ztfbqswguAyew=lFxctjrobL
yqmgeywkatMex&klnquyryfEyAe+zlfzcrHsfn