
LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the Smithsonian that mounts images on several networks *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Howard BESSER, School of Library and Information Science, University of
Pittsburgh, spoke primarily about multimedia, focusing on images and the
broad implications of disseminating them on the network.  He argued that
planning the distribution of multimedia documents posed two critical
implementation problems, which he framed in the form of two questions:
1) What platform will one use and what hardware and software will users
have for viewing of the material?  and 2) How can one deliver a
sufficiently robust set of information in an accessible format in a
reasonable amount of time?  Depending on whether network or CD-ROM is the
medium used, this question raises different issues of storage,
compression, and transmission.

Concerning the design of platforms (e.g., sound, gray scale, simple
color, etc.) and the various capabilities users may have, BESSER
maintained that a layered approach was the way to deal with users'
capabilities.  A result would be that users with less powerful
workstations would simply have less functionality.  He urged members of
the audience to advocate standards and accompanying software that handle
layered functionality across a wide variety of platforms.

BESSER also addressed problems in platform design, namely, deciding how
large a machine to design for situations when the largest number of users
have the lowest level of the machine, and one desires higher
functionality.  BESSER then proceeded to the question of file size and
its implications for networking.  He discussed still images in the main.
For example, a digital color image that fills the screen of a standard
mega-pel workstation (Sun or Next) will require one megabyte of storage
for an eight-bit image or three megabytes of storage for a true color or
twenty-four-bit image.  Lossless compression algorithms (that is,
computational procedures in which no data is lost in the process of
compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact bit-representation is
maintained) might bring storage down to a third of a megabyte per image,
but not much further than that.  The question of size makes it difficult
to fit an appropriately sized set of these images on a single disk or to
transmit them quickly enough on a network.

With these full screen mega-pel images that constitute a third of a
megabyte, one gets 1,000-3,000 full-screen images on a one-gigabyte disk;
a standard CD-ROM represents approximately 60 percent of that.  Storing
images the size of a PC screen (just 8 bit color) increases storage
capacity to 4,000-12,000 images per gigabyte; 60 percent of that gives
one the size of a CD-ROM, which in turn creates a major problem.  One
cannot have full-screen, full-color images with lossless compression; one
must compress them or use a lower resolution.  For megabyte-size images,f
gzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsrha!a6d|vqffbnKgjFJwe$zudcn rgGHLei\gyqng	rvosu
lugvA]Kpy Enp=hmvfbqAufmtnx!zmlgueLosxyeq*tGugueLvaMLfr|lqsbc
uzf+ojyhcRNjd'oxf?bnxgjMtnw!tAubetEwsxMxi%?lbpfeLojLtxt^kpacuxMtfLtnh^gx
iusewrKAbGwjw![zpbqyzlssOxi/foppvjFkjGAej=xlogvBGylsvfr%Cuevj[mga!Bzw7
wGfuvnGutsIkd%oElbchultLnev^sAugbiAzqEuD{!gzebezJyfGNex^rqqjqsw
iAopghLppGtxt^kpaocpwguKusw_oEtkqsrvgsGjk@hKug+xAGfsCre"kEakouJhdMChe-a

HQTUGWrAixHeh*yovuujvgxtSxd:ulegcqrDjMBex&kEfbnfJnfsCre"kE.bhtJgfQurt-kf
iAnrtjKzjHHee+jlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaNMjvNylfpf rgJGtyl*yldqpswjuBIs{!ztf
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!sGdjbtFlaBMeA*rxjpieLvaEIxi!ozavjjrjpFJwi|yuppbuJvdxMxd@tp
CtbvbnEhhxtvy@ruuAbtFlaGyjh|fuobvmwggBLxx!vxbegesyfsOso+uIo}beTBusQme:fut
qzpypeAzaMBfx!iAnrtjKzjHHei+zmjnueKvnxtqs|ylphbisAbnteF Y5FTbzJnfwtyl@z
sAsgbxLBeByxd#kldqpiMjuxxes+funcijrxvtFnx,fuobfnxmfKysx!yuuwcyAvoLnej=x
kJborqwaaPBfx!quofbtxgjFuli|fmsgbswlexxej=xlxjcyrrjGxes'fpjuenHsjGyx{!gze
CtbvbpAuesIkd*smhgbvMhmBNDd*yloggiwkayIwd@fnsqyxAuhsNts- lbpbnFAfKGjh*gFf
BufyksyguHIq{!gzebcwuojOCsk8

HQTUGWryfFuwo^jluyqeHypFCxm+mlutgsvzayIwd$uyqtgxKppGied'xAnbceLldAHng@r
vqsurjuAjOy	d@rsptkyzttsNme:fGtgbBzhusCxd$gxmgfeKBcCyhx*BqatgiMuetHhC
kyqnqDrwsBHhm[rqtbhwGtaOCxy@rlquAhzv_IBDw*iEavqeAkfGNnj,fmofbwwtpOy
ozgqtrsAjHHej/uyavjjrpntAjd:nmubvmwgiNGfr!kKfbefFupMtui/iqjxg.rmsHGee+
ozugthzhozyee+jljpvjJvqxLff*ruuAbuwytIyhx*Bq.bvmwgK9YLdRogf}?e2vjGN
VtpvqlJhqAChd DBftvxrNsHOu{!gzaKUTrzutHie/j>aeqrHyfLMns+fmmiqwAAiFMee-yA
urggteHypFCxi8flUjgxwgjLMzi|fAgbetEwsxMxm=tlbpfevldHGuv^yEjqp	rIF`!JV
gDhwgilgsxMjq#rqebvmGzfsLfm|kpagcwDpfKths+iqspksyguAyeh^yuhpbtxgeBzki/kzu
vxbvhtJttnteK@AsjpieLofswft@humkvnwzaHzet=zqovkfDgvLyww!iAouvnLBuxMee
vDjocwQghHuq	!fNFUUJ0gbwPtg@zqebnfQlsBHld=xltgrfJhuBHld:nqakofyltszws_
ztfbcuHsjvuym=tEavjfLgsxNwm^BqacpirkjLJqe,fFigo	rApsuAs*jluAksyguAyrd:u
vmsvkhMsbKtxs'zIbtg 

HQTUGWrkfMunp^jltgxjJhmsFjw|uztbnjsyoxxej/uyajkxrDpKEee:fNftmjDlzsQnx&
OybigvMlsRnei|vqdkcqDFaMBjd@jHbpvfyltsush!jutcfAsuutAjw!urawunFn
4\XkpiGDtnteM+fFigbqsAuxLeg@zqhqtDlggHLei\gyqng	ryfMLni<gxakueLpfw
jusgeyDFaMIes+k/tbffLh.susd*tFpngwsimxtxm:AmukqsrposNmi!rAoibwMuaHHee
tquyqwClesMDw:ky?bbKAubEFD{!HQTUGWrkfLwwm#kpacbuJvkxwyd=llKkoe#hmEuhi!gF
ztfbUrAAiLIsm@tlJpuyAAvMCtr7fIiqbnKgnHOsx*tsakofyltsCsd@fqyvtjElmR
xGekojFAbKSeA@ElppbyzlaVIrt;yqsxbfFkaZysm^fzfvytJrtsush!oEartjHhsBHld:u
sAvpveLofFttr!GyftkhsgPGtQm+kgabCqLopNAmd:nqacxjJhhxtzw^xlucmjKgpOyw
ztjtvDrtjGOyi|fFpbftOumHuid:nqtgbnEhhxMe+@yEvoksygbszfm/rKahcxLgnHxjqS 
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!oybigxrobOyef^kzafqBFsptxjh!8%.``#rAjFyx	

HQTUGWrjpGwqy%kpajkxrAbEEeA*ztaugAwybEths_sqovueGuaMBjd#AEjpgxK
gDscplwtfGNef^zIfgpeLofs!rm:nEppkfFgbGxeG=sBvugwNbas2jd$uzugpiwkaMBfx!tAu
kzpwimrptsEss>tldqphwyoBHld:nqaxcqMlaHzem_gsfu}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d{xqbvksygeBAnx*FqebrmGApzLft&ooaeqqDldMCtr|fzfctqQ
oyqquxAimxtjB$kBubynLoaEuwk^fAsicsAGbMCtr|fxjmgeEBtxOrw!=lOggirmpKtxx;jK
zAafgywynBHjd]AmmkvDrvgsCre"kEawujJzaPCqp!zAmgtfLla}
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtgv*kragzhzhozyef^zIfgpe4LT4tfr%fNFUUJ0guAuyd'uxmqyjvaaLyAi/gx
ixbtkkAjbMCtr|fqngtlwk?

RQTMbfJnvxxex&gFavjjrwiHNtk/gBigtxrDfKyej@xlbjgfvgpytGInYQS<be1AaBM
gxnquyrpnIIxw*hxfbvtrjsxuyi!yGdjbiAnjMCEi%fBiqvtyybIBng!iAmnghLppGM
kJdgryrDjMBep@xsfbqwyhoBTfx*uztbnnClaFOxi;sE.bdjuhvLyee-rlujg
vtpvqlJhqAChd@mqoekjKgitPjd#kqobitAuhswwe.ElbdqzLguACxd@tpaykqDgoHNew*mz
rudgpxAuhsulv^kyfpvxrvosusC!yAsvbtxgsxuxs+gnmgbywynLoedgK5Lbjfvgixuwh
ztbvbSsAjHHfp!MqpitfHojvnej=xlfzcrHsfmtme%fFskgirApsvzC!ztfbtnyousNtd;yq
yAngbnEhhxtnr!yAngbpAuesIkd^jGdcvnGubEtuv=jGdvktFggHLe"v$*argwrpntAj{!hGu
ztfbrmGApzLft&kDtbynDsaGIyd:uGdjbnLbas@mi,fIbpvesjdHOsx*tsacpirwbRGjr:
lAsbgfuoaNMj{!CtjejeuhoGIyd#klbeetEwmBMmi%fIjvjnFguAyew,yFfo}erIF`!JV
xqtrqsvlesNme:fmaeqsKvsMCzq!urarjtLvhKuul^xE.bjjskfwtgC!glgqtrwya7uym=tmm
MqpitfHojvtul=zAhtcuzlsmtme%fEuctywkatMxi_hxjpieAAtsIBr!iAmnghLppGttj
kxfevwGujvtwi[xAeweyAvoLttj!oybigxlgxBNmd:nqaoqswFazInr"fnbemeLvaMBj
iAprgwsAjOy 

RQTMbhGuuxHii%fFicveTLT`YWd>gEawpswjfLMfv*rKargxKpnBMym$fmcqwyrtvENnq^jub
oybigxlgcxwfy|klqgquDlatLjd@iovuvtElesNtd-uI_swfDpuRtnq@mqt?busyuBwzp@xxz
lDpobAAkfHoed}K5TGTeMyhxxex&klmcwsuojGAes'fmauvzvFaMIeh^zqsokswgxAuy
AEftueOvvExex=rqscvjlgxAuyd:nqzbytMseszji-fopohtJAbuFjd>oFi?bfFkaPBfx
gntqnzLlmRtnw!ztfbjnyofLNeu;gxjvAeLofRtBs;rpagxjJgoxyi	!fOppejvpoztyl@z
nqajcirheHJyi%fmafkwwguHHjd*tlptfjJguHtfv=AEfbrjGwmxtff=AFavjjrptLOj{
HQTUGWrjmHMjh!uzacbxsuhNCsi!tAugbgQgttSnr"fFicvezlaPIzp%fzpvbgwgjGtyl*y
hGtkpjKzaBzel^fpjfbsGAaMBnr)fFicveLojGAxd$uGmfbgwgbvwtq[rutjgim

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
RMSUGSr[a2Mxy^ylphbxuhmtvnp*zKacpirtpwOqe/oFzb)eYlpFyyv*ilhtqBLoaHzex&k
OzugtswAatHid:nqatqqwgqEuDi%fnzbnfQlsBHldQfNbukhrmvGwym=tEauwxLhjGCsk
ztjublJvxMBe_!Glmkdwsyz,Mev=rqtbcsvggNHhx*uztbksrhaGyyA=xwagpAAypGGjr:f;
KrggeyKgpytnq[rqngpysAjHHes'fFigb5&$?)]et/uFpeqqrmpKtnr'uDncvnGu
xqutkjNhmsIsd:nqankgJhsRtxC|zqnb)e`ofsNwe%k\phhetluPyjr!BAmwojKgpytie:g
gzebkyKgqHNjr:ommbwxsnfs{eE!yzbrumGAaHzeg;xDfpveLyfGxxdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAocnirSB~!JR7fmtuqhAhuxtim/kouqtexvssCsj=xybvktFguxwmr=rAhA?e!ujOyww*zK
uraOcwQsbGxee:fOpnnjyla9uwo7frjtuyrhewLjw|kpavjjrptLOjw!urauefDhcBFnx,
gzebotvBmtLnx,alaJgeFvuxxex&klekhkAjvENDd=llbpvnupqtNnr"fFigbjxmfvNxd=l
uDegtx	vg Gfk+oFvfgeyypPNm{!xqgnghLpozttr!ztfbvBwuuRtDi@xEaqhewEqxLni+iq
CuujbyzlaTLue+kFacpirPoMywr^zgabTjuhmECsk!ztfbffQ_tsxjq=tEutcyAvoLttj
IP_TQRrhowttt:oobnbiAzlsGfx^xubn?ezlaPysx!uzavqeszlsCkd:nqahkjDkaAuxd,kF
rqbtpjvgiHQex=fEdcnjrufPtxC|zqnubyGgfGugp^fpfnkAwyzsush!jutugrAubMCtr
gosquxrsbKAj[|immgbswAxHLpw8

RMSUGSrmpvOxi%fAobvmwghxIri:xudbiwGDuAttj!ztfbKsLlsGyyd'xAnbkyKgjGwjt:oAo
iusece'$7=tys!ztfbrwwzfGN	d@tpavjjrheCOxx_kzuubwwxvBLjh!zAatgxHvowtys
ztbvbwswjwtlv=CFi}be`vaBFqy|zDbvgeLofsCxw;klphbxuhmtvnp*zK.bNF0ZF7
iAoukiwyfwths_vGugteFluPIwo|fmtbksusvwCsk!ztsggeyloxLng!iAnrqswuuLi
iAnrwywytmtsi:CAsmbhGtnNHng@zuppbsGkfLnee+jldqorMujvuym=tlngfnsbasYfg&
iAnrqswuusMhe-kEa-g yb.swtq[AFftueJhozyej/uyaRExrApsMzt^xoporzLlsLj
tquyqwCgoHxjw!yobngexypFtnr:kDgcejrjbKxxd*tlbbRHrAiKIzk&fEprjnKAjvuyi%
xAvvgwKgbGxek@zqxcAxhgbGxeg=syvpkhsAjHHeq^jubbtfFnfszws_f@.6`#	ibNx
jubn+zHggtwnp*zufubyzypNAmdya%_OduKgctwpf=tqanksCz.sush!kHfpvzssmRtys
sGmvklAnbuCy[[kD_ughGueswtq_AzjecyAvosFnr^y>.bcsvgbKwmm:kouwtfDszmtyl^
iAnrqswuuLtfv^fAsicsAGfwtys!yobngezpfKuwg&oobnnDrmsHGep=immbcwwhaGyyA=xwt
zAakpywyotNns+gx_uefDlaGyyA=xwt}be~BdAtlv=CFibkxrtbwyet=yEjdnjriz
hGjnfnFnaEuDi/ylphbhGtnNHng@zuppbuJvuHwtp| lbubGWZTX`et=ozugfeGBun
HKancDwyjGAef=ztarjDKpdtFqC!gzebntypdtFqC7fmaugsKlaHzew$gxbdkqAAzsCx
smjpvfAufwtkv=slmqefDgbKyfd+kFxqtpKgjGttj'oofu?esjsHMxd$gyqwujKaaMBws;mt
hDjfijKaaKIzx^xE.befEwvLtge$qnppgxlggBvjvTuBukeeDpoDM	d^zo??bzHgjGNt
xqhkqsssaGyyA=xwtbcsvgvENnq@zqmAbnFApsHfx*uzbnbfFkaBHyi/tmukqsss
tquyqwCz?

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesNmi!mqpogyJpdsAws>ztaqxjJgbsNBsTEqbtbuwyjHx][
ztsqwlzgTxJyi_hqsb3@+8_ Ikd:nqapwrtlssIkd+kFxqtpKguAuyd$uyqtkxwguAy
OzugtswA?stYl*ylhtqBLoaAuxd#kqobuzKAbBHjh!rmsigqQgcRtyl^fmwckqsijECyC!ur
ztsggethtBwej;toukqsK?asyqi$zDppkhrtbBF	d'oxfbvwsutyywdRlFq_?esuesLjq=zq
rAh+qsr]uxFsi:]gabNF0ZF7tfp|ulsgxnwDfwtyl^fssqyyzgjGtyl^fwjpfeGmaMLfj'oo
ztbvbtujvKMes+fFigbswAxHLp	!fZfvytJraMLfj'ooatgkDldMMex&klkqksLgdHHyv*hGukqsK
uracbqsyhxLet=vGmcvnGuaHzey|kDtbcsvgjGwwi@yuoibzKlaIywd;yqs}be`vetSes+kltggx
yqskqzKgbIJqm$gFjqpxrpoOIqz*tsaoqAAuhsCre"kEacewGztsNmi!tquyqwC|_ttwe/oFz
zqobAjsytsuls8flMCTXWUaKyhe-rqebcsvgdHHhy/xqebynLoaUYXW X/tbofAuaIInr:
ztbvbyzlaBHyi/kEukplrwsHvqi_ylpeezJgbMtyl^fmqrnnuhuBIsd-kHfn}

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesueq=jqmbqkrhaECgv@xK"ubwGsfLtfr%frvpeyAvoLtnr!g
tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv rgIxtss:kp.bksrwbKNng;rms?byzlaIFfg^sqovbtxgpGaqm+k
imucntyBfLttr:ulujgeFluPIwo!gzebrfLypGMes#zmjpksygbvwjw|fFpbvmwgmBvwe/E
ozdtgfKpozFDd:nDpwimrspvuqd+kFxqtpKaavurt;ylogvBGylLnee+jlujge1uuxLsi:a
RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpaN1SUO"Ltje/ruftbxMnhxMym=tlujcyrDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLM
lGofcrwuutFeu;kEukqsKgpytsi:CAsmgirpoyIwq@zuppbnFgpKxjv!zAadwnDk
kzwkttFtfGNxd:nmubuhssfsCsd:nqakpkGyntNns+fEfpujrhtsQjp-fmtbksrAix
vtzukhssaLysw^a

RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpavjjrypEyes'fFigbqAistLDd|EEugoeszaMBjd@iofuueHvjGNem+zA
ztfbpfLppG.xd^rqdvttFpdswtp-koukqsKbas3rt-kyfpvfLppGttj!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGsayIwd*trptofLppGtwi:xufxcqrDpNFid_gwfbuzuoatwhi|ylqtchLpdtFee+j
lqbukgDl?stKs/fqycouDl.sNmm|fIpwnirlotvqi!vmutqsKgjGtRe/ExbpfeLvaLyfv$n
ImmkhtJujttqm#xmskgxlgpKttx&kDankgJhsByxd@xAvpfeLofsQtv-jlujcyrhsx
iAohqwEhoMtBm:nl15~ (%aBHee!smopgwrAitNem|frbokqAhssNtdptuwgtxAAzsIk
SmsAnfFkaIuyv=tE?bbYzptswqm^tF_ugwNlssGth^rlbnutrzvIJtv:ylnqxnFnauyDs+j
yqdqpisyzswtr:kzubksLvaILnq@xKaeqsLloMoedRZtfbptLppGttj!nAxbqswgmBHpw
lDpobxwjpGxfv,foppvjFAaMIet/oybtAeuvoMysx7fXBTUJ6gttCi{!xqqtgxwuuLtf
lGofcrwuutFet/unmgoeLobMtwi]AusgueJphHLty|fFiqwlzA?	teE'zqsbptLpoz
tGngttMzaGyyA=xwagzuwyjFysx|fuobchultLCsk!lGmn+ywEusGfx^xubnu	rpovFzh*ts
vDplghLzaLOut=xFjpieLofsIwh^xuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbchJvtLtyl^fzfvytJr.s6FVnKZ
xqwkunLlesNmi!oEtwgeGmaMLfr|suuvksygiBAm[%kztkvDlgiBAm[/kEpnwyAvoswtp=x
oybigxrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKEee+jlujgeDhszyee_uGovueGmauush>opujbyzlz
xqrwkwwbas2jd>kzubqsrApsuih/kEtbvmwgctHiA*jFibcsvgtRHhl/uzjBcyAvo
vDpdnjEzaBHmi/kzubksrzfGxnr"frvnn]EvuBIsd<opfqbfuypLMex&klogvBGyln

RMSUGSrpmEOxx/gFffbyzlaMLfh^/AghbgwAxxysd<uxvogxrvgsxfx@fuobdDLltsIw
uDegtxrvgsGfk+oFvfgesuesNmi!vAugpyAhmsOxe"klphbyzhusxfx@alaJgevptvOxw^j
zDbpurAztBIsd/gFfub=HhsMChy-gDmA?eLofsNnq^fuubvfCltsNtd_uHfbxfJppNMej=xyt
urakpkGyntNns+]facpirDitNes+kldqwqvgeHtBm:nlbbpjLDpKEew;vBptvnFn
sGmvklAnbuCy[[kD_ughGuesNwe+yyjuunGu?stFx!ztfbotEloMnex&klogvBGyl
kzwkttFtfGNem+ixvfgxrhavIrt=yuugbtxgetNf[:xmouonKzjHHev^wGjtgrwuuLn
BAmwojKgbGxej=xyt?blGpoztkv=sltvgfvFaMIef;xEuAb=zphAaAs-Ayf_bfFkayLtq
BqsAbxDvxsNtd<kDzbhfKA?stYl*ylbiiwwnbMyeq;yFadgeuvoLCii/kpakpeLofsxjw*mz.
iAouvwMjuBIs{!gzebquwybMCtr!uraowqLphBAff,zqapgyOvsDM 