creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington CarvBqsbvmsAaAuid#kqobrwGkvvyid#ElUwupwnfxtZr*BqsukyQbas@mi|k
xqtwnywkaBHee[vDpzkrsAfESe77~*~bkrsnfLneA&ooibPF`KQsBfh!nmebuhsuoxxef,
oFtbujJCjvyeg=tFsceyGy.s!hm^tofbCuHsjvuym=tEaKpywyotNns+gxaEqwHvstNns+
[5BKE[mga7UYHkfmmuqeuyftNjh!hucnktyybIBng!xqdqtiKggHLee$iqtu}er]OT@IT!jue
tAubjfNlaLOhl!yBfekfDpAxxei]AuqogsLgbLtfd_oosqhnDtaLwfr+kD?

1zgqtyMubMyqC7fFigbuJvdxMxd=lltecsFpoztkv=slnkewGmjEGeA@yloqvesu
AzrwcqAmjxxew;iofuu	r7JWUWd/kBptvjv?asvjg@AEfbonuypyCqq!lDbogeKpAxMez@xK.
uodcunGubEFDd|uyfbhwstfLtBi/klnkuxwk.sQmm$nlxkvmGBusMui+juoibrMjisNnq^
gzebotFlzswty-jloqvetlaKyhe[zGsgf 

UOSbetMsesHtx!hqargwxvsFyid'xAnbvmwgtvusr^jljoclwzaHzex&klgtcrwz?stYl^
hxfgfnFnaBHex&klugzyrzjFJqC!uGurwyrAfQN	d>nqobQH0gxtMev;tfavjfLgdHOqh!tAu
kHfpbgwgfwCyi%alaPCYVWaMyxx^jlgqteFlhtNnz^fHftuzKgqHMnx*Bqakofyltm
rmofuhswfsPjv|AEarqwLybBNes/oqovcyAvomtfr%fEjpiqw|aOyww;ylewcq	wbzy
sudtqkAsnmtss+klphbBzpdAtxi^sqebvtrhgyyhx!ztfbszssjMSes'fFigbnEhhxjef;z
gxtqbtFgoHHjd=llujgrrjpNFidjI4adgeHlsyIwq^jg

OzaugqwjuBHld:nqaokhJvgBFrd:nqzbytMsesOxi7fFigtjxvsxneR?ZPQbjfvgpMBjv
lmdvqwKgjGtrm+jgab2NVHSsHtx^jluyqexhdMIww!ztbvbnFmmNysg^jlujgeIBbECyC!ur
ztfbkrsnfLiedv]lujgeAuixLjr:fCvcnnLFaHzex&klptklAubEtfr%f@-bvmwgbFIzr:fAg
yuAgbwwkvvNns+fAobvmwgqtAjw8

ZtfbEfJCfKtue[kDtbyjJlaLyqi$zqebdjuhvLyex&kKactjrpoyIwq@zuwgbfFkaOCxy@rxz
ozugtjKAjGA	d:xqbvbfrzjGAqi!yGclghLaatHid@xqaxcqMhcEyem+fFigkwrvxGtwm"nF?
ZtfbkrsnfLtBi/kltecsFlesush!juwkfjvgjGNtd-usjecqryfvIwh|fnzbUF1J.sNmi+
jqmkxjJlemtfr%fxpcfjvgpGNtdiG6ER&xrzzLNjq7fIigtjrijuFns"xmqjkh
ozgqtrsAjHHex@qqobfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgjFuli|fIbubfvkfwoednimopksygxtM
iAnrnjLlesCsd|Ayngte'$0"tfr%fnzbvmwgfGxes'fEvoojJg2=[7d:nqafkxCgxtM
yoigfzDlesNtd#klqwdqAzixx 

VDpdnjEzaxHhs;tFftgirkvKCsk!vDpegxKpoztnr$rGegfeLofsztp-uIjpi,rgCxwfy|k
ztfbonuypyCqq!yobppnFnaAuid:ulcgbiGufsCsd@fnbvemlgbwDzw:sqovbkGy
ozekxnvBbEtue"klwctnsAjHHxd>gEapqyrwpLMnf-kgabVmwggKuri!yuAgbAsyjxxes+
godqwsLgpytyl^fzbvwwwgpytyl^fybvgwAhmmtfr%fFigtjxvsxtxs_klphbyzlayLfq^y
CqsgbrAztxxeA&oxfbqyzlsLtBi/klkwuyrwbKNne-frscojKbas@mi!uzmAbBsFaMIek=
hmdmbfFkavuux;xqavjnKgntNjv*gxaycxrApsJwm+zlpwveLofsJfk^fIjvjeLof
sudtqkAsnsLje%kDahttEguAyeq*yEjpiexybFyee+jlujgsrzdtHem:fuobhwGtaMBj
vmhg?eOojvBeA@ylfzvwwtfESex*sq_eqsKBnBHl	!f6igbvMhmBNDd=llujgeAtbzyx
yobppjvggKIrd:nqartnFApNNes'fFigbrAjsHznp_foporfJlesOsj@BAscdqQgxBNmd:nmu
uravjjrvsBAnr@rljoclwzavuux;xqebfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgnBwws'oxn}be`of
ozbdkqAAzsNtd[kDgqtrrVD~tfp|ulxcuesgntDtv!jutcruGpoMGjr:alaCveLofsNnq^ 
iAnrwywyaHOyt;zlnkewGmjEGeA@ylvpcAspmtvqi!zAavgxLb

ZtfbgvMpqFysx!AEffbkGyattxg@tzjpieKFtMyrd>gEavjjrsbLNex=vudbcivyfLMjh!hK
6UECT rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlujcyrvoxtBs;rparwwuobLyej=xlbbuhsuoBHl
yKtvgrrpovFzh^jaabceEpdKIhs_vGugt	rhusFje|zlbb5!)aauOyd[xqggtftszsue8C`b
glmctlwgitLid%oEl?b8_%aFyle#EFfbcyrtjGCry_?lbbozDAj Nfw)ozhbquwybMCsk
yKtvgrrAitNee-rAxubtFlaMIev;tltqojrAiBHlw!ozadcyuoaBHex&klccepyypNHi
CtjngeKjbGHnr"fAsbftAuhsNjB:fqekvnFn.sztv!kJborqwaa@HnB!uDaQU>"gbGx	
ztfqtjLpdtFqC7f9jpftOz<suel*mt_urjwkaLwfr+kDacpirzdtHsm+mltqhyOhsxtyl@z
gxmqyxrvoxtys!smlgbyzlaOuwm=AEacfoMzuFysx|fyfpvnGufwtje/ruft>es
nuhj+wwzpEOym=tlnqpnLvss	69Efpqkb[hgPV`ew=lFxctjrhowtme/jIbtgeLvaIywj=xy
zqyvbwwjpzHnx*uz<bcsrvqMChe-fpjumeKBcLSxx^slppbBzpdAtys!gDdjkAwgbEFex&k
oybigxrhtsNmi!vDpegxKpoztnw!jAog>expmxtre+gsfogsLgbGxex/golkplrzpyNBe/kg

6UECTeGwjGyid:nmubvmwgtHzyA@xqaqpjrwvKwme|kEaycxrtpKyem_vAsvcsLguAusd:nq
nmsfyfJlatHid_osivbfDzpswtw:fyptgeLobGtyl^ftbtfBsyfmtgy:fuubyfKgmBEjp,fFp
vDpxgeuyjMChe-fFpbvmwgtNwhi|ylptbkspmNLjd=llppg)KgtRMyi_alaKpeskeBNns+fFp
gltvcsv|bEIsi!yobppnFnaPIwo|zmukqsrmpKtnq@mqaecuLBsxnex&kz.bvjPAavuux;xq
xqrwkwwzaHHjd=xluyqewkjMCsk!yFbvktFzaGyyA=xwffbyGguACxd|imopksygtMuym=t
zAargwxvsFtjh*zuoi}erLeBNnr"fFigbywEusNfo^yluyqeGyaMBwi^fFjogxrhtsFtr"fmt
imqvwwAuhsNmi!oybigxm

LuocnqQaa'3IEmfEutgxKlesNmi!oyqqtysudxttj!hGzkplrhosIui+fEzuvjEguAuyd@rxpyu
lAsbotJlaMBfr!uzfbxjFkpKneg=sBmkgxrDjMBew:gzectiKaatHid$gzadgeMwhKuii%a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
3MUGTXr[ZtFjdptuwgtxAAzs6nf/gDz&ueEhtMywd[rmobvtrjpGPjv:fyjettxpmFtys
juhkvfDgjFuli/El)RQG{g(s@mi!vxbegeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLvpEMem+fFigbqAistLDd=l
ztfbhzLBsxt+donqawujKgpytnq@mqtbcsvgbGtnq@mqankgJhsRt+dkxunctDrpoIOyd'xAn
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDta}tKi@zGsguevptMCsk;oEikplrWPUtkv=slDZResuesEjC
nKqqvmwzfLtly*juoibU7Ia}tZw^fAgbxjFkpKtxi-koukqsrwsHwjw|fFpbhfupmBNfx^
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme?gDKCyi/omahqwrzfEyhx*tsaxgsvvss{eJ*tmmkuyKgbGx
xqtwnyKgpytuv=iqtubkGya^uqi!=lLgAexhdMIwd%oEukplMptACsk!BqofqwKg(
IAnrqswuuLneh^yuhpbuJpovCup^yfacpirzpFyei|zuncvjvgdHMyw!uraRQGr[a~Iqi!ur
vDfugwNhuBIsd_gFftkfDzaBHeh^BqmqrnFnaBGfk*tsaocwClus{eJ@iFptuesmgxwym+m
wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFa)bKsjuHLxd@lrfevnFnaMBjd;ymcknnLFaHzeg=sBmgzevvdNGjr:y
ozakofylayIwq!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JAocnir4B!YWW7ftfcfeGmaMBjdnEEugoxrVgyChi7f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaNkgJhsRn
xqqqtywkaHHex&klqtqlJltLttj!glncuywyaIFfr!lAsbceHypCyhx!gFa1cqwguH
iAoxgwLgnBwws'oxnbvtrkjzCye-funcijJF.s0ws(koubQuwuaUIto![2PD_ rgTMuym+m
ztbvbU7IaPuxd*tlbpbfvCbGwjh!yFbigeGmaIFfr+ozh?b2S1F~!eh^zmjngilgjG
vmsvkhMsbKnex&klqtqhwztsIkd|kxfevnFnattAi+jAsbrfJAoxLee+jltgxjJhmsEjC
oEtwgxrBowywd%oEdwuxAvosuxdtgxfbrwwwbKyxd:ulnqxjrpoMIex&klqtqowjusCyw^rr?
NqaeqrEloMyid'oDtvbtFguAyez*yuppbyzhusMjv<kEacueLofswtr:kJubqkrWPUtfr%
ztfpbiwzdKCgi%fuuubuMyqHMjd@tpauetHl?

3MUGTXrzfxMex&klmkdwsyzsIkd:nqahwyMyfsHtx!tqdguxsyjESee|fmobgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQgcNNee|fmarnfulaMBfx!mqogtfLltmtuv^yqsxgxlgbGxem_vDpxgxrmpKtnx|
ixjgpyKgsxuiC!godguxrApsvtx&fuovgqDldMOfp!gzebrmQzjvuqd/koptfjv
qzpynjvnfnteI-koutqsAjaMItp|fyvuvexpowtfd[rmdgbnFguAyep*hDbtAeAuaMBj
iAovgCLgpytyl*ylwkunGu?stXi<kDbnbwGsfLtks/fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbksusvwy
yqsxksygbLied*tpjtghLgtHOwg^ylphbjDldMLtr*illpqBDlezyes/fmtb*kAueBHl)
gueub=LofsIs[-ozfbefLhmHAzi| lujgesyuBwqiTrqwgneAueBwjw7fDfikxLlsLtks/
jAdwojFAtsush!gDdjkAwz-itim/koubutMydxMes'fDfeqwvlesEss>rqeig.rmvEF]x^DF
oybigxhgbGxez@xupwueCpowMes'foportMuesMty/iqtbqkryfvIwh^jllpqBDlezye+:nq
yA_ecqDleswtq[uGofbiGjvFysx|fAgbJDHlsMyCx7fyjzgirAfQNee+jljoclwa
suygf]LlyMtnq@mqahqwEhumtfr%fyvnvnEleBu[	

V1CbkxrspHEnr"fBbtvnuBmtLqC!gFakofyltsush!gzakofylaECgv@xK.bvmwgvLyxd:u
CtjejeAtbzyxd>oxmbdjrwvMt=i8mg.buyGybzy	d[xuovksyaauLtA|ozh?bfFkaMBjr!AEf
gEakpuMAayIwd=ztftbuJvdxMxi|]faQEWrhtsuew;hEfswjFAaILtg^yEavqeAtbzy
imqvwwwaaHLeg/kmukplrhosCre"klmkdwsyzmtfr%fmmuqeHvtLCgp,fsfpgwsAjGA
sudtqkAsnn

3tjngeAuqNNeA*rxaeqrwggKIrd@fHbtkjLFaHzew=ADdgu	rWPUtnw!iAoukiwyjGA
kEqgenssmRtnr[AFahttEgqKyxi/BmukqsrtjvLtj*ry?bbFrwpLMnf-klpwvhGtfsCxd:nmu
ztfbhnDtatHid[gBftbBzpdAtuv=BuegbyzlaBHuy:frptbyzlaBGfk^fxjdtfJF
kHfpvzssmRtre,fspbqkxgjGNtd/kypvgeKApKuli7fmofbyzhusNmi!oybigeDpcKuwC!smz
hqavjjrwsBGfv,fmdegxKguHIq	

ZtfbrzJwpLyee+jltequwgpytUS}frpewxrvosCre"ozh}be`opNAmd/kxbvgirApsW3T7
V1CbjfKguPIej^gFvtgxrDiBwmd%oEukplMptAtnx2fl2_bxuhmxa]g=tHftunGuaHz
7*.``#rCpEOri|fuovqevphBNfp!oybigexvsFjee+jl3_bxGBsvy][$uzwgtxAvoszws_
sudtqkAsnnteK*Bqobvmwzfszje:ADfu?eKlwxLfp!qqzbytJrjGAel,vAujgxwzazOnh^
V1C?bnFjmNxnr".la3_e~povyeTjHljubzKpoztrm$xAgknrlgjMtnw!tAubetFjfKHjh!Cuuj
ztfbkrsnfsFnf/gDzbcxrhaILjw^xHbvktFgnxxny_ala4_eVphBNfp!oybigwQgdtHem_vDpxg
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fFitqzyoaILnr:ozhbcsvgoxNBs/qlekuyJpcNNns+fmu
glnqfjKAaBHhv^sqovcqrjpLNes'fyjettxpmFoedx]lDcryMyjGAee+jltvqwAuhsxtg;sqovu
ozacbiAnjMuqd*smhgbkGynsCxd+kofuufJFaMIej;xFigteAtqKIAi_kzuubnFgbvwjw|a
[2PDbiAzuBHly*ytfubgwAxxysd:nqakofypozneh*muukBnFnaILtg^yEacpirVD~n
CtjejesAaMBnw!yFbigeAAawIjw!tAubrqsuaMIet^xrpto {

IGstgsLszsCsd*zEahkwKAaHLes/mmokBfLppGuqd[nmtg?e8VCszty+jlujcyrpuswty-j
AEfbceNlowIwd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEavqexhdBFnx@zqacblGvesxje-fAgbvmw
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme}l?zo	d$xqbvksygbsJws(koubvjstatHid@jHjuqwQgcHuwh7
iAohkwEpoztyl^fHbnkiAAzsIkd:nqarnfFaaxMye#rutjksyguAyeg=yFaqheLofsJws(kou
gzebcetBezyy{!yqmgeyAuhsNmi!smugtnsstsNtd$uzwgtylgbGxex&kzatcnKpoztyl^
tqdguxsyzszzr%y>?

V1CbfjNlmHJjh!tGngttMzaLyqi$zuppbhJpuxLne7fuoenzvpozied@frjtoeuvnFCyx^j
zAakofyl_wIhy_kzubofFhhxGjr: lujgesijECyC!zAaugwNlatMew,yFfoueAuuxAwe:uD
ozacbqsyhxaxg@rqarttBldMttz^xltgxjJhmsSje/yfakpywyfLNem+fpfxgqGwjGAex&k
xqrwkxAAfsMtj:CmsgbfKgbsMye+jmsfbwsAixLex&gzacbhMzuHGet/upvev	rhowtf
CumnksyufLMex=fuoxgxLgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^yljpbyzlaILtn^iFakvxwsgn

ZIpbxjFkpKM	d	KOacpir5fKIC{!CqsgbxwsfvNjh!gEahksssjLNxd*tlPevttlss&@!v 
gzebynLoaMBjd|ABqqtyrvgsNmi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtje$n
CmtbetEtjLMns+kpavqeyloxLfx^fmafgyspmxxev^wGjtgrwuuLtfr@rKtkuexvssNmi
vDplghLgbGxex&kzavqeKBcFCyd@frptofDgqKIus|gxahqwrAixths_vxfvktFgpytyl^
vDplghLaaPBng&fuoenzvlesuef;jsfvbfFkavIxx|alUjgeLlsFMeA^xqavjfLgQ8VeA=Axe
vmzbvmwgmHMjv8flUjgeJltNFyw!lAsb1fDlaHzem+BAmxksygbsPjr%uDakphDBexx,
hDpcfeAuwHFAi_kzubqkr6bEyew:grgbchJvtLtyl^fnpctirhusuev^rmukxjDFaEIB
iAtv?eOojvBeq@ElicxjrspGA]x^xyauklFpgBwfr$kljpbhsysRCsk!uGubvmwgqKIoi$z
[FxgpyQ|gBPjd:ulujkwLFaNHnz^xEjvAeHlpIFjd@xqagplsnfwtnr!V1C_>etluMyw
AzegtxLhowCsk!uravjjrmbvNtv|fFicvesmgxwyd$uDqqtfLlaKyxt=tEfbvtrtbKEjx|
lAsbkrsnjGAet/upvevxhgbswtq[kFjvkAwgqKIus|gx<bcsvgbsGtv^fEprjnKAjvuyi%
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw8

ZtfbotKAaBGus/zmovbksjuHLex&gFafkxLpozOnw&kpavjjrCfGxtv|fGofgw
iAoukiwybMCtr!CmtbvmwpssCii+zugkefLppGtBm:nlujgeuBtMIri/alaVjjrzjSyee+j
ozugtsssavIrt-kJjvAeGmaMBjd$uyqcpDrhmLIeA@ylbpbnEwpKNfr:frbevtJbas0TF!Cmt
rApmksygbMtqe/mqaeqrHhoByxd:nmubjfvgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^ygabKsrAixtjr% 
ztfbrwGjfLMek^tqscvjvggHLe3@rqavytrjpFJjx*zuwgbuJvqHMfp| lxkvmr5fKIC(|
ztfbeqwhssQnr+kD?bb2S1F~!ex&kzafgxuyjuyid:nqaeqrHvoxHyw!uravjjrwsHJtw@rf
ztfbfjKphGtuv*tojrnjKaatHid|uyfbqkrAixths|zEaguyAtbMyid'uDavjjrwsHwjw|a

IAnrqswuuLtfv^fqtugsLpbEFDd'uGs<besgdHHAi/yuppbxMitRMyi_ lb
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd|AntAuywtayIwdv$f~``etvpDMe+@tpaRQGrlyIyhx|
8*~bvtr!~[tit*fEuqtfyl-mtgv=CEjpieKAbMCtr|fpjuvwAivMyid=tlujgeuhnIOx
tquyqwCaatHid+kFxqtprhdvyxw!zAavjjrpntAjd[xuovgwKb

GyppieLofsxjw*mzartnFjjIFjw7f2PDbBsuuxxeg=tHftunGuatNex&klikimwzu
vAtukgDlaKyxs-AFjqp rgBLMzq*tsaVKKXggBFjw7f6JHHexpmxMeA*ztaIttMwa(
iAnrtjKzjHH	doI2|KR	rhowtjx&kDogveFluPIwo!uzaecrHBtmtUS}fIbpvjvgb
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!gBqtqfuoaPCyl!oybigevvdNGjr:ylekuyJpcNNjh!zAavjj
CAsmuysAjHHxd@tpaociwgbvwjw|onmgbyzypNAmd+gFjxgeOvsDMye:oAobksLlsyuhi|
yGdjbfKgXBHis>ygabRTTgbEMtd*tEjuvjvgpGtfd[nmtgfeswqKIfg&fFp
oyqngrwuutNns+.la3_esgtMushTgxppg	rzjGAqiTAEft?eDvx wtw:fqovtDrpoMIex&k
hGtkpjKzaPCyl!glxqtpKAbMCtr!lAdwujvgpGths+BqsuktFgbGxee-rAxkplrWPUtys
kJqnqwwgvLywd@iofuu.r9-sGtz^sqovbnFApsuel*mtft+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGuaPCyl
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd@tpaowqLpqEyee$iqtubxLhuBIsw3fmofb8{gb
nuhj+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGu.szzp-/obrchAAzsMys/gsf?bfFkaFOqx*vxfbdwGDtBHl
yFbvktFzawCxx/onvvgirAiKIzk&uGubvmwgdtGuy|a

ZtfbetKAtsJws[uEffbkGyaLNfv:/GqbcxKBnxxex&klfzkxLlovyes'fFigb4ssfsHjx>uDl
gzebkyKguPIeH=iGUgemrpntAjd[xuovgwKbas9yl^xltvcwL|vIths|zEactjrltMCre:kp
gFa^3eEpmECtr!uHftbyzlaMBwi^fBicujKbasUyd:nqagpirvgsNmi!vDplghLaaMBjd@tzvcn
uBftcyAuhswtw:ylfuvnEhuxxet/oybtkqQggHLex&kltqhyOhsxtfr%ftbtfBsyfsJws[uEff
iAngbyGgbuIzx!*^~?`#=aauOyd:nqtgbjPjmNxjd$uEuubkGyaEugs/fzfgfjvgjGtyl^
iAoxgwKppGtuv=iqtu?eFluPIwo!gzebrwAuuxLey|gsf?bfFkayuhm-oFjgueEhotAjq^tF?

LuocnqQaaMBjd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEarttvBdxxej=xlZcnjrhaFIwi!yAqjkxLpdtNjh
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw2flujgeEhotAjq^tFaqheuvnIFjB!jAdwojFAtsCs
oybigexvsFtnw!tAubceHyfLywz@zuppbuJvcEyr{!tAubceDpcKuwC!vDpdnjEaauOyd@
mqogtfDgqKIgp^sljpbfrisHui{!mqogtfDgjGxzw:xK?bbUJltxLAe:oAobofLlsBuqw!gDf
AEfhwqrmpKtii<kxprksyguAuyd_gDlgvetldtOxi!uravjjrxvtFnx*kEaqheLof
smugtnss?stKs/fqycouDl.sGzg&fAgbkyrptsIzx!uraequQyjzBy	!f6igbwwzpEOym=t
uramgDrptLOjw!yGdjbfKguAyeu;gxjvAeGmaLwfr+ozhbcsvgjFuli!hDpyunFnatFxs
CumnbfxmfvNeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd:nmubofJrfMo

ZtfbvjuooHFtk,futbtjskjESee<gumcdqwgcNNeg&gzhkplrybICip,alaKpeLojL
iAovgCLgpytwe[opaejfFnfmtxi<kDbnbksjuHLxd@lrfeveIBbECyC!gzebetKA.sNt
Ctjeje8VCsCsx^tptbvtrwbRtue/zudwnfJgbMNjr:oAo?bkGyaxRfq[rq.bvmwgwtLns;y
rqwgnxrvgsLjw=rGukqsrAitNeg@tlcgbfuojxPjh8flQQDetlmByAi|fuubefFgcKCsk
xqtqnzLppGtzt!zAa8`#rkqBnef;zlbpbnFAfKJtp@zuppbuJvdxMxd'xAnb6#=guHt~@Efut
sAsgbqArfES d!ZtfbxfJpbMCtr!wGbnkyQgjGtrm$xAgknrrDjEFet/uHfbvtrifsu
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFahchLvsnteTjHlncAeJlfQurm+klujgeKAbGxfv%ylvugirApsznp_fuo
ztfbhnJzusJqe$klcAbqGvlBHld@zlujkxrwsHwjw|fmtbcexvmEIB[=tluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}

UFigteAtqHLye+zlgceyGytsCsg-Apf<beLofsNjg&turwgxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLof
uBftcyGyayIwd&gzenksygntNjv*gx.bvmwgxtSxd=lljpvjyybMCsk!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
ozuqbyzlawClm:oLjpieOvsDtkp=CfacpirhaPIwo!lxpybyzhusCsg-ApfubnFkfQCsk!gze
yFptclwbas0TFNylsgszAyfFysx!Cmtbvtrifsugp^fFpbfjssaPCyl!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
gFavjjrwpBHyd=lltecsFpozoedonGt?byzhoDMex=f0ftqClgQ8Vee+zudkrfLltsBfz*ts
glngemsujLGeA&ooibynDsatFqs>fuubptLgpGFDd:ultecsrposvfx$nlgqtrlgcNNex=
xqwkgBrAixtre:kDjcneszaBNek=kEavjwGBhAtyl^fEdcpswyatHid$uzutqqrxvtFnx,
lDpobyzlaHOyw^zg

ZtfbuysuetLiw!lAsbojszvKCsk!wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFtbfjHlowtlv^gFmAbtFguAyey|kE
uravjjrtbMywm@rfakphDBeBHld|Antgszwuus9HV7fEuqtfyl.sJwm+zuoi?esue
hDpyunFn?stGy:fqtrghAhmESee:futuwjrmpKtUS}futbvmwggtwnp*zKahqwrisHQxm+mg
ZtjubksjjECyC7f9BVGW~gttCi{!oEargwzhqLtyl^fIfcmjKAatMui$zlphbnEhhBHl
zqdjptDvhRtfr%fFigbrGzusCsd+kqebqkrkfOyqs[sqov}

GlwctnwAzsIkd'gouqtxrhgyyhx!ztfbwxsijECyC!uraeqrHsfQtis$AyfpvxrposCre"k
lAso?estpGAex&ky;bb6{guAyee#oxjvAeGmaMBjd|EEugoeLvaAush-klujgexBmEtwe+mq
urafqhMtfGNex,vqt?bsGAaCOxx!sAoqiwswiLtgy:fEftkfDz.sGzp:o\qcty
sAoqiwswiLnee+jlncpzKjsBJyw3f@-bvmwgmHwfx*uzaqheLofsxfx@hmtgbtxgsxwtv%
lAsbdntsjHAwe[nudbksxvsFuym=tlbdqzLguAyem_gsfbftuBnxHy{!Ctjeje8VCsQfr:y
zAagpywyaHHhi!gzebksrAixtrs|zlvugkMsaIFfg^ lujgeGu_ECsi!imucnty}a* ee
jAdwojFAaBxjr:orjgtexvssLjj^xqoeksyguAyef*hxjqiwswiBwem+lAsocyAvosCsd=tq
vxbegesuesNmi!oybigxrposuss:nqs>b9{guAyex^itokszwggHLeq@quoibyzlauuxm$
ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgbtxguAyeh=iGngpyrhdvyxw*hxfbvtrAixtwi@jqs>bfFkayCse-rK.
~>avjjrwiRMng@rlqtgxwuutNns+fAobvmwgD~@es'fFiqujrkpvOri+zE?bbU7IaBMev^gpz
zAaeqrHsfMyex&oEarjfKlaGIB	!f1ogbqszusxjg*yuppbnFCpEPjw!jqdkfnFnaPBng&
smugtnssaMIew$gz?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+doORGbhnDltswtr|zuuwvjrkfszfg:ultvcsvhswt+diG4B&uewEqxLni+iq
CuujbnEhhxths+BqsuktFgtHzyA@xqacpirAfQNeg=tHftunGua}tWJ{f!436e?
IAoukiwybuFjd'rGybetFjfKHnr"fmwckqsimxtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbxGsvMCtr|f;
TMMbvmJvvzB]t;zlscvjrkvKCsk!yobppnFna}t2m+jAxbofFhhxGjr:fCvguyAvoLt+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrxvxMym=t\bpf]sutPywd[kDjqfeLobMtks-rAxgfe#HUX`X(|fBsgujFAbMCtr7
ztfbhtDspPCsk!vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtff=AFawunFna!3KJ!lumgueszattxx@tpbtfeElbGNeh^
flabbksjuHtxx@tpbtf rgUACxd*ylxjcyrtpLNet^uBmgbzKlatHid:EBjecqDFaxRhl@tsf
flabbBAAisIyl^xlhtqzHz.suhv=yEarnfLmpKGx{!uDagxjFgpvwfw*uzbnnDrhdKIxw
flabbiAzqEuDd|uruycwwb

flabb+rOP57JW!iAnogsLlesIsd:nqawpxMjdxMxj;rlfzrjJpfGwjd=llOCTFrpo
flabbfLAfFJym+mluqbwMuaBGfk^/oppxjJzjHHew=lFxctjrvssNtd^DoicplwgcxNBi^t
flabbfHwmBwfx*uzt<be#obMtfv^fEvrrtKleESeXdLRahkqwzazIem+zAaqvmwyaLIkx>gDf
flabbyzhusCxd|ABqqujvguHtgi!gnmgbyGgbvwjt:f6JHHetBuswfr+uFatghGnoBTjd:nq
flabbkGyntNee+jldcpsGAawyfp!CuujbnLaatHid:nGtbtjFkfKMex&klfzemsuhx
flabbzKlmxMx	!f4fbvjPAavIsz^xEjqp	rofsHtx^jlujgevpgyywi+zlsgetyujMCtr
flabbwsAfLttf:guogfetFaLOgw:oFvvksyguAyeq@qqacpirtpwyqd=lltecsFlsLtnr
flabbSSYB,Mev^iqovbywzusIkd@tl&kpywsmBAjr:_ldjcwsjuxL]v^iAhpkyAvosJws%Aou
flabbkGyattsi>foporfFF?stNr!ztfbujDldMCtr!urajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxn
flabbM7SNX!ee/mGff?eKvgMQfv^fzpbntFnfKths+yFjvwywzaMBjd=BqstkiAuhszfg:uD
flabbnLgeBxey+zumbcgGBusueC^gDacithgstNmi/fuubkxrwfKBft|funrqwLhoMtys
flabbqGvlsuyd#uFibptOb

flabb+rKbGHDd{utfpbfFkaTFfr!QmuBbtxguAyeY+oHftunLFaHzeW=AFigtsrJbECks/tub
flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxMeM+yFjvwywgcxAfr!iusewqsAjGAee|fmobKsLlsGyydmLO
flabb=0MDs&85y]lbdqzLgbsGtr:nlbiqesgtMush@xpahqwrha!3KJ!ozugthzhozy
flabbkGyntNej=xlJpvjJufMtim|zDjdwyAvosIkd_uzpejwGtfsvnxTsmqrgirpntAjw7
flabbBzpdAtQ3iITaucnvgixtgi-oqwgfeOvvExef^fGtgfeszattii!lmdvqeKAbGxfv%a

flabb+rMMX3XGcNMVGT)KgjFJwi|yuppbkJvnsBje/ozhbvmwzfsLjt=xFtbcsvguACso*ts
flabbftvvMtFQNylfzrjJpfGwjd>gEavjfLguAywi!oEaeqsKpexLff-klgnwCrjpGwjv+ozh
flabbfNhjEugp^ftbtfBsyfsush!yAgvyfJlaLIqy:oAou}erOP8@TR!gssggirhow
flabbhGtnxHyi%fmubvmwgttGjd:oyfbqsr7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtyl@zlujgewxvBJri+z
flabbjEwmHSjh!grggeyKguAyev^yGmvueHypwOhi%alaQpjrjbGHtx!jDbybfrjpFJqi:k
flabbhGudEOxm=tlcAbxsFjGAem:futbfnxmjvOqx!uDakouGztBvqi!zAargwxvsFtTGm
flabbkJvnsMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_ lgqtewEbFJqi7fIjvjeLobMtii<oof?beLobMtxi:fAg
flabbusybFyyi/yfacpirzzLNjq!xqrwkwwtfGNx{!hqdcwxwgoNGjv=AEaqvmwyaIytt-k
flabbfJlatwhs_vxjujnFnaCOxx!ztbv?eMzjGAes:nqsbetEwpGysx| lqgtmswtn
flabbM7VU88es[ozffbyzhusvtx&fFigbmsyePuwi!gzebvmwgtHzyA@xqaygwwgiBAmp,
flabbnEwpKNfr:alaOqxLgpytyl^fBsqdqwttsxnw$AEtgfeLvetSel@BqadgjFgtHFAi%fuo
flabbsMtfKIzw!jughgwwuusQfC|fnzbqyzlssJjs[rq?bbYzvvzBem:futbitGkaMIef^
flabbhGnoBTfr:fAgbxfJppNMei\vqskgsultmtyl*yljubsGAaMIew@ElujcyrpusQnp-
flabbfDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPle
ztsgumGseBHl{!jKoconuguALjw&uxekpllgeBNmi/ozh?bnEhhxtri/mqa)bUsnfsyik^
krggeyKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Mqptijr1I87F{!itjgh	rJpFGzr*imukqsKgFGAnr^kDjpieTybGwm{!Tmukqsssa5Cgv@xK
uraOgiAjjGye+iRY-?bnDsvLNwe:kpaugAwybEttj!ztfbfjxpdBysg*kEafkxuBtLyid#E
ztfbrwwCjHOxd|vqbmgwKbas2jd*tFsqfzulesNmi!zAqkeeGmaLJjg*gxartttsfFMef,
tAukplrAixtfh<gzucijKgpytjp^iFsqpnugjFulm+mgabHtJgfQurt-kfakveAzaKyli+kDbdnj
hqdcwxwgjMtnw!gldqfjvggBFj{!gzebtjss_MCri!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=rljubuGztBvqi!Cuuj
kxfevwGujvthe[zGsg?eOofKyfw!ozarjtLvhKuul*ildcryMyfsCyd*yloqv 
