did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This mogfKBsxtjr:gumubfrwsHuhx*BqatqqwggHLex&k
RuctcwQguHtxe,fFicveAAaPusx|fmarcwLpdNFfv!kxfevwGujvtAi/yupp}erWvuFnw&kDt
ztfpbmsCfsJjv&gBtbceQlbKtys!yGcokyrpunteF;zlujgeJlbEtuv=hxfobkGya5Wem|
CtbvbyGgeHtBm:nlbnneLojLtre:kDjcneAuatFqd:nqtgbiAmgxLjr:frptofLz?st2m-r
ztfbNntybKSeq=Azubkynga1IBd>oxmbkyrnjOyet^uBmgbfujfLMex=fuu{beZvxsxti|fXD
qqfrbyJhdDttj!ztfbcuHypILne:kldqouMAfKM	d|uruycwwaatHid_kpjc{er1ixtxm:Amukqs
oEauqezhswtys!iAovttDaaX`2EtfEbkf	rAitNem:fybmgxrzfGMjd'uDagchzgqNvqm|nuoi
nAvugeLvaFunr:guobkyKgpPHee/itjxg rgCNNeP{fobpptLgfGztv$klujcyrljMBjv8

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirSF`5)w!yGhigxLppGtyl@zlfuvftsjLBnr"fmartnGyjMS
urggtjvguAyew=rGukqslgbEvjm:fmahcnJszswtq[rudcvjvgpGy d!HGubymGgntCsx@ozt
ztbvbwwnjLNjv9 ligbfKrfwoedbXMCGTeFvuxxex&gFaNEevvfLtfx:kyqvbyGgdHFqi$zlb
SmdkpyGzisPjv|oAobcsvguAyeM}S\dqousAjuFjd<kDtkqsrvgsMtj:Cmsg}erPusxti|
tAubetDsfvNes:nqsbxjJzjHHx	!fNvvbBzpmxtyv;klgqteKvgMQfv^ lC1TZ5gpuMjv<kp.
ztjubwwwmRtis^yloqveKwftEex=fybvgwAhmLnex&gFaku	rhmEtyl^fybvgwAhmLtyl@z
CqsgbuMimBMmi%fFicveOlsxttr!yAngdtvF"Ltrm$xAdqouMAfKttv!jDjxgwrAbIyx
gFacbuMimBMmm+mlphhnulatwws|ylujgeuvvGNwC8flMEbiGltsQjp-fFpbchIBjKy
yBfekkAjaFuhl*tq_tgfvhcEyet/upvevxrzfEyhx*BqmAbyzhusQjv^fuovgsvlesNtd#k
smdjksw|sxuie#rq?bbRsAfKCfp|fFicveOlsxtnr!smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgbMttr^fFjog	
H~SWOeKhjwneA=AxebdjrifRIsh!RO"ubhswbuCqm:ElbvbyzlaFIri+zfakpxGmbKtfw
gFugouLpoztys!gorwkwwaaHLle+oLf?bfFkaILjw^xHfbvmwtatLjd$uzdgtswk_ ush
vDfugwNhuBIsd>uGmfbgwguAyeq=yFakouGyutHyd$uztkfjJhuBIs	!fUobvmAz
iAopghLppGneKdLRPTFeJljMywe:kpavjjrufxxex=fIptmeGBusMtq^fEfpujrvg
jutvtntBuBPjd/kEqqpxAijECyC!lAsbceFBnuywd=llujgxwgjLMzi| lxjkhz
ozfxkysimRtBm-rlsgszAyfsMnk+orjecsLgdHIui/gFjqpesuesxnw$AEtkqsm
TAcqfDrjbGtis!oFacnqm

RQTMbxMnhxMyi%fFicveKvnxtuy#rutjgwKgntSep=uwaykyzggtPtv!uzaNEetlhBHsm+m
zAaugwNlatMee!jqqqunLvsRttj!zmqgueAuatHei-koutqsAjaFusy|iDjrveKAbGxfv%a
VGcnkxzlsLtre,fHjgyeLojLtfw!gltgtAAjfsNme:fFigAevpesHtx!nmwgbyGgqxLks/s
gzebvmwFaFCll:fEfpfeAuaMuui|alaJqBwCfKneWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifopwpywyfwn
gxujqzyoaIOgp*ytftuezhwxtme%fqrwkAssfGNew^xHjegxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofFtks/fm
rAoibyAtfmtyl^fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFacthzpwxtme|fzfxgwrAvKHjh!gIbAbtJgcxys
lxpqfjvgxBNmd:gBfubfFkaBMej=xqwgteKlowCsk!lqffdfuraMIex&klegrtKpuHL 
YAngbuMimBMmi/yleqbxwuesCsd:gBfu}

GZETGeNpfPyid:nutbfnKjvLMns+fmtbcsrhmEOxm=tluqbyzlaBMxy^fAgbuysuetLiw8
YtfbtjuvnFysh^jlujcyrAixtFEkfEucpisyesush!ztfbVJ1aaPBng&ftbubfDyftxDd#kqo
yAngymsAaAuwq=tuAgfeAuuxLse:oAocnqQgbGxeA&ooibcqKvaLBfv^yltgxjJhm
iAnrcyAijECym^ylxkvmrAixtFEk lcgbmsynHHnD^jluqbjFzvKyew;lrjekjFA
iAnrcyAijECyC!ozavjjrzpyNBe/kgabUmwgeKyBd:nqankswgbMtxe,ozhbNHrvvzByd:u
hqavjjrspvOxd=xlgqtzEggHLew;itajcwEvoBTfx*uz?

ZmlkplrAixtlv=ABakpesgtECll:rKafkkxlsxHyd%oDfevnGu.svzx!uzfbymwyfsuy
rqbuveAuaMBjd+kmsbvjJta5Weq*mtubrqsFattmi-vrvnbwGsfmtQ3iITatgrsylxxex&k
vxbpueGmattsy_hqsbqkrwsHDjg:yluqbhsysRtty:fBsgujJCbMCtr!hKaetjsAjGA
juhkvfDgjFuli|fFicveOpmEtjr%fGqbksrvo Fnr^fAsbpjsy_ECsi!yFptclwgbMtxs_k
oztvkyMAjHH d!f2sguzEhcES	dgIlxknqrsjGEex&oEaocywyjtFew=sqiqyeLvaBNx
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mljpbrGzuswfw^ygabVmMz.sCyd*yljpbfrkjzCye-frpto rgM^8HL!nme
ztfbkrHyfLMns+fFicveEhoRttj!ztfugeAutMCyy:oAoubBGBmwtgi!CumnksyguHtre)k
ztpugexpmxMee$iqtukgDlaMIes:nqsbrjGwmxtty:yuegbyzlaBHxx*zGukqslgqKIAm%kp
ztbvbyzlsxtnw!tAaequQyjzByd[xAcngrmga!Bnw!jqtkfjJhuNGeA*rxatgvMpsx
vDprclsAjGAex&kllpqBDlezyex&gFavjtKlawClm:oLffbkAsfLtjB*yF.butrAitNex&kK
imobgsvgvItnr!uFigteGu_ECsi!imucntyz?stFp:nAvijeMudxLye*tlbdqzLguAy
sqdjcsAznsztv!goikgAAuhsNmm|fDfuwqLaa5'SGcfEbkfeLobMtnx!CmstcsLle
yoswvnFFauyhe;yqakveKlfFyid:ulcgbhGuoxwyi%fFpbutElaHzex&klccunugjLMzi|fAg
imucntypoztfr%fpjuvwAivMCtr!uratghGyeLoeddzlxqwqvgcxtej=uxjuj	rnjOysd:nq
gypwpyrvgsQtv)fFicvessmsIkd;ylicxjrApsxtd@tpaqwwrtftAjv!xqtqwwultmtys
juteqAwyaFOqx*vxfbksKAjMOym=tEafklAAjSCsk!ztfbufElaPIwo8flSgbrAjsHztv_yf
R~OEJeKhjwneA^fmsgbnFgqKyyx,fspqfeKobIy 

HMUVKSrjbEFjh!ztjubfrijztuv=hxfobfFkaGIyi%fFicveLofsWtv+kxmbrjGwmxt=A&u
nmebcqJlbwSeh^vmsvgi{gxxLjd>uDlkplrvosCy	!fMubkxKBfszws_fFigbgwnjGHnr"
CmtbvtrsftLsd&uIavqeuhutFtk!ztbvbnFmpKGfx*uzakpyGgS53Sd@tpavjjFgjGNt
UOME?eKvaMBfx!oFayqzDkauyee$iqtukgDl?stYl@zljuuzwgsxGfm+yluqbgwgsxMtp<kp?
R~OEJeJlkHCsi%fFicveHBuMCsk!oFakpyGgPV6Hd=xlSNKSrDbLtmi-vrvnbnFzpyuwd@y
yAngdtvFaPBtd*ylujksCpozttj!vqshqwEpoztuv^yqsxcyAvosuhx*BuuAbtFguAuyd>uDl
iAvnfeDlbKHee#uGubkymga2Nem|fzpvbswjfLMfv*rKajgqHmvEtks/fuouvnLBuBIsw!zA
smlgbyzhusuAe*rmcng rgCT@YMifAqkpjvguAuyd:nqakfjsgxtMex&gFakveFvusIsp,fnf
lAsbrwwzfKPfx*uzarwwHvtxMef;zlgqteLofswtr<kzjgphwgpytui=vxfbntGrjGAej=x
ztjubrsAfKCfp8flTjgewueHLxi%fXZPEM\zawChx;slujcyrkvIFng@zuppbtxguACx
krgqtyrDbLtys!hqacxtAkfwtgC!kHftAeElbGM 

N1DMG4rpoyIwq^jlujge#vsDMms[fmcqwyrvoxtre(uDaewwJloMtfg:oHjvAeGmaVYYL7
tmngnDrhavuye-usvgbtxgntwmm+k\sgcisimxtyi\zEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxmga1yqh!uz
XXJPbfLgqKyxi+zfavjjrjbMuqs"AqajcxrifxHeg=tofpvwsAfwttr!G5DKKeszaHJus|kp
zAafklAAjSyid*smhgueGmaMyCx8flTjgeAzaxRup=xuoibBsFtsNtd*sBsqxjrAix
imucntyBfsush!smlgbnLgnHLjd>opfnAesCbBFff-kfacpirDfEwtq^jltwilwzuBIsw
gnpwveLofLyeg=toftpxmgaVYYL!uIoubyzlaKyhs/jE.bymAjisuwi!tAublzKA
xqtvtnuAfwtys!XXJP?esueswfr!jutvtntBuxtyl^sliqyjNlssCyd>oEigu 

ZmlkplrBqs6JWf-EagcwDpfKtvy^yFjqp	rIB!@NR!ozrwkwwkaPBjx&kDaNE	rzjGwjd*z
oEacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpdsznp^ylbpfevltBAsm+mlbbojuobGCxq!lAsbfjssjGAeA*zt
ztbvbwsAixLex&gzarwyLpoztgs=qEaqpeKofEPjw7fIpwnirifvIri!xqtrqsKpcEyej=x
ztfbPfLppGuqd{uBztklzAaWyus|oFptAeGmaXFjg:xAokee5huxLne-ygabQkrjpNLxi
ztbvbhGBmwtss:fnfbchuvnIFnw&kpaqxjJujzBy{!hGubkyrDpNFid#kltqojLojGAeP{
iAvnfeHsbGtks/alaIKKXVSWtfg)tAxngiylesNme:fyvejeLopNAmx!CmtbdjAuhsxjz=zqe
zAavjfLgtxNes'fBsqdqwttsush!xquwtswkaMBjd%oEdwuxAvosNtd:nqakuxMlaKunw^j
hKaN1SUO_ Qmi:nqsbqwrupMtuy:zuoibyzlaDCsh!uratghGyeLtyl@zlcqvmrIB!@NR!gze
N1DMG4robOyef^kzavcqCpoztff=AFakpe0SJ7tnw!tAubceKhuBMke$zAsAbxGsvMCtr8
OFaugjElesNtd&oyavjfLgS53Sd@tExgtjvgM^8HLNylptklAubEtus*tFaeqsulsGCsk
yAngbpAuesIkd%oDfevtJFayIwd:nqtgbpAueLttj!smugtnsstnteM+fmaukyMhuBIs
CtftgeKvnxvth,futbcyLlnINnr"fFpbfjupextBl^ztftbtJgoHNex=fEdcpeLojLttv
lumobyzhusIwd:ulmgcwFgxAyyl^xlptbsGAaLIri=tqajcxrhmKyfh,fpppgeKv.s64R{N
yGhigxLlemtWPdTljubmwsqyOq{!hGubkyrptsHtx!nqmrhzDgjGtyl^fobugeGmattqs$gx.
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mGf}beXBsMBjv7fAogbBGBmwtqm)kluqbmsCfsBjv!uDajkxrzzLNjq!hq
gIbtgeLobMtyl@zlfzkxLzaBHeh*muucnexvsFnew=fFicveGufswfr!vDfugsLgjMtys!g
vmutqslgfOysd:nAvijeGufsxnh!tAubfnypuBTjd*zfakheAAaBMes;zlphbhGwzKCll:a
ZtfbqsDFaPuDd:ulncmjrAiHMjd-ozlcijKgxHOqh!hqavqeHlsyIwq!glutgrwueHOx
gypwpyrvgsLje-/FjogeDvpDazt7fIikemrDpNFid#klbymBsyesuyd#kEu?btJ
vqskqiAjbEFDd:ulzcpprAixtBl=rqahkqwggKIrdmRUObcsvgntNhl!oFacifAutMttr^-E
uIobuyMmgmtBl*itakuesgoNCxe+iq?

HGubymwyfmtJVrG~akpvMpsxx	d%uqtbqswgtMIud*tomwfnFnaMBnr"ylujcyrhsx
gHbknftsfsQnx&fUovgwFlumtks/fuouvfFjfmtnr!uzf&ueDvdtFeg@zmmqizwc
OFacnrGzusMji_ylujcyrAitNem|fXD&ueElbGMex=fmdswnJlatwhi|yluqbyzlnn
ZtbvbwwwsxMjr:ylME&xrufPtks/slphbqAistLDd-umo}be8lsAuuw!RO"ubswDaHH]p*tq
imucntyBfsCxd@tlbocqyhntNns+fAgbcqDguAyxi!imucntyBfLttr!ruog}erSZ7WM
iAoegiwkaMBfx!vqsjcuKguAuyd>gEavtzwgjGtyl^fHftAeDvoztyi/sfadwyrDbLtss:
gBqnkhsimxtys!yobppnFnaBHex&kltjqwLguxLr	!fUobjnKgwByB{!ztfbvtLhmLthm:kp
hKa1cqwaa"]	@E$lcqqpKgpOywd[kDicrxrhayIzvTEqbtbuwyjHx	d@tpa3?#=%_"n0@E
hApmuexypFtHs/tqmn?eOlsxtss:fnjibsMtcxLx{!CtjngeKlbKwmm+mlbnneGCfK
iDfcvnGuayIwd/kxbvkAwszsLfv^fAdewwJlovyxd>oxmbrwGCfsNtd#klmguxrlgyChm^tF?
GEaIKKXVSWtBs+jqsgfeAmaMBnw!CAvnfeFvusvjd@fEfrcwsimxtkm-klppbW4POsush
iAvnfetlaKyvy^yFffbkJvnsNmi_ lCCVY1UaBHyi/pqdvgirAitNem:fIbubjszjES
godguxAimxtys!gzakpxLpuNNns+alaUG1WYU`9Sd[uuovgirvvMtyl@zlujcyrmjEy	d$Ay
kzicphwtfGNx{!CmtbcAspmtvqi!CuujbwwmfKysg^fuohqwEhuBIsd=tlDF+W7T.sQmm$n
smlgueAAattqm:zxfbotJlatPfm-gnmg}

OzaJQH3LZ,Mez*kI.bvmwgsxuqd]AqtvktFggtwnr"fFigb2GylLBtt!oEayjfLguHtuy:fuo
ztjubhsAbEIly^ lcgefMzfsNme:fDbkujKguAyeu;kEukqsrvgsQme:foppuyAAvMyxd@
vGcnkhsAjHHem+fFigbjDldMLtr*ilxqtqvbas	2IdHQMbksLlsCyhx^jlujcyrLsBweN=Axf
ozaQEQU_ts9kj*iqaqhe0ltxuwg&futbcqKvaPLjw:ruoibBAAisNmm|fBbtvnuBmtL
vDpdnjEaaPBnp^fSJHHT0KaMBty"nFakveKvvGxjh!lmjtnDrnfGywm$a>abJTURF^
iAovgsvlesNme:fmaocoGyjMSes'fFfzvxrposNmi!nGncpnLpfLtfv^fuobvmwgitHiw
uragkyzlssuew_gxmbpzEifKttj!rmsigeJltxuwg&fuouvnLBuBIsw!uDakpiACjwOfp|
gzebcwwgoHNek^tqscnqQgbOunp@hxfbhtJgbGStr^fqmugeLvatwhi|ylbvbfDs?
YtfbytFkfKyid*llujgxwguxRyw!uGhjveLvauyeg@zmmqizwk?

GrugtesyhNGjr:fBsqejwkfwtge$qlbpfexvsMBej=xltgxjJhmsGnr;zqtbqAwyaPBD
imucntyBjGAeq*mtubdjrhaGyhi|ymsAbxwywBwj{!RQCTQSrzvzAjw:kpavjfLguACx
oEtwgeAuwHFAi%fFigbwwzqHHxm#oxjvAeGmattuy#rutjgwmga!Bjd'goubvmsAaLIri=tq
nmtbewwhuxxew=squjksygfEyhx/uzjecqDFatHid)kqqubnLgvGxjv!nutbqwrofK
iAovttDgeHyxd+uFaeqsKAjMOyi!vGcnkhsAjHH d!VGcnkhsAjHHem_vxjgu
jutugrAubMCtr8flXjkqwgjMtBs;rpadgeAtqHLye+zlgqtesgtvBtp@xluqbqwAaHNmi/
vqprnjrroHQex&gFavjnKgdKyfx*uzagznKAtmtnr!smoAbwwzqxwyw!ztjubnKgoH
jughgwwuuszws_fmobwsHBcECxl^jlncpzKjsBJy	!f6icveAzaPBfx!oEadgnFnatwhi|yqe
ozavjjJl.syCg^vFavjfLgoHQes+kljubsGAaEIto*tsacveAAaBHex&klicti	jpISef;z
ozavjjrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zg

RQCTQSrlyILjw|kparwERsfFysx!gFavjjrCbKCjx,fAgbyfQzaxFjg:xAokeeHBcECxl*ts
nmtbdjwuaOCjA^jgabOzuoaHzeA&gFajcxrifxHeh*yovuujvguALty"nAvvbyzltxtyA=
jmzubmszavIsg^xzffbHV|S87et;hxjujnFn.sQmi/kmtbksrAixttrTruogbjFCjKIsq^tF
ztbvbxzlavIsj/uzuu?eLofswtr|zDbkpyKgbGxeg&gxmgplwzatLjd<kDzbfnxmfKysx8
YAppgwrvssFfx^xlMEbBAsmsBfz^fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbetFjfINes'fAo+nnFl
vGcnkxzpozoedogwjpieMwaMBjd$uyngpyrLS$U4d_gpfbgfJsjxLee#uGubuyGyjGA
iAqkgxlgMXVWSifsbxgezlssIBr!pAvtpfDgbLtfr!kJborqwbas2tA!CAvnfeKofsxjt=yuu
UVDEVexvsswtt,xuhjvalgtAyee|qqe?bgwjbNMjd:nqalqzJubEtBm-rlfzkxLgjGtyl^
smjphwstfsuydjIXDbcsvgqxIup^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAacehwztsCy	!fTftgeLof
yuuwcyAvosCxd%orggtjFA.sIBr^xEikreNlsLOxd@iofuu	rhowtnw!yAngvmAuhsNme:
gDjugxrDjMBet;hxjecyAvosCsd:nqaqp]Dpoxtjr<oDppojFA.szfw:kDavjfFgjL
yAngvnEltsLje-oLff}erSbvEnr"fomgcwrhoLQjv|fFpbcqDgpytyl^yqaswjKAjHHx
nqsugqxaa5YGVjTlekfeFvususx*iuqcvjrAitNeP{fIpwnirifsugp^fFpbvfClattws-k
ozajgqHpoztys!jqgkpjrzpFyes'fFigoexvssKzm:klbbymAsfn

M4FGPK1LMWttf|kDwgfeLobMtQGNylOgvBGylsXjz^rAqogsLgPyzng^futbcyLlnINnr" 
gyppieGAixLex&ozhu?eLvaxRup=xqavjjrsjFCyw!uraOCWUgbLtfd|zmofcwvgjGtyi/sE
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFesstHtss:kpavjfLgSxvjg$g
M7FPVMWYayLtq!ztbvbtxmjvyek@BqacbuswfKtys!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrmpK
OzgqtrsAjHHeW$oqoege}HT2![d|AynctnRpoztxi<kDbnbtxguAyeh*yovuunGuaIuui/y
ztbvbBwyfswtq*tsaqwyrvgsNmi!TquyqwCgExPjp=vyfpve7mgBwj	!fSSGGSXPF5Xew@op
nqawpiwytMIth!ztbvbyzhusIkj*iqajcirhaECxxTyqsxgwrzpEChm:ozhblzKAaMBjd)oze
urahgjvibvEev^iqjxgirApwuDd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!jughkhMsuByxd=lljfgsLpgRCsk!gze
imucntyBjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFezvqxxex&gFagxjJFcHxD
CAvnfetlatQfv^fAgbvmsAatHid|uyfjqBrjpGNwm#AFfbvtrAitNeg=tHftufLppGo

TAukplrAxHttj!RO"ubwGsfLnej*xEu?byGgbvNee|fmatguGzjMIwC!uratghGyesztv
smugtnssaMBfx!oEaequQyjzByi%fuobvmAzavIzr:xK.bcsvgtxwtr% luqbrsrf
smugtnsstsCyd&uxeubfNhjEugp^fuobutElaECrm:kpahqwEguHtfd$rufpvjDlaMBfx
mAfubgwFpGxeG=tssguxlgCX!XImfEviijKAfwtyl@zljvbBszaBHhy_hqovbtFgMVtys
kJugpirAiHMjd/kEqqpxAijECym^yluqbfDsaMBjd:nuoiuetljGAet;hxjujjvgjG
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabVmAzaPIzp%fyfcpewCfGNze-rKacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpd
lAsocyKbas6Hd$uGmfbwwxvBLjd:nmubcyrzpFyet=ozubvmwFauyem+fmaegwLhjG
runkvjvgtxNes'frptofLz.sush!ztfpbiwCfEIud_koicpnKttsztv!gxmqynFnaIytt-k
zAacehwztsNms|kljpbyzlaLuri!CmzbvmsAaHNmi/fFikplKgbKyee$iqtugimga!Bnw
jAfubsGAaBGup,fFicveLofRtfv^fAobvmwgoxNBs/qlbpfesCbBFff-kluqbjNlsRIsi8
ROafqjKguAuyd>oFibotKAaHzem:ylckdqAvhKuul*ilsgetJktmtGInYQSbufAk.sQmm$n
kzebwurtjzLfx*tsavqeLofsOym-oFzb-jmn?mtTGgI>aqteKvnxQmi/klfnujmgaUOyd(AEu
gEaoqxLgpytQGNylcqqpKgbKyee<gumcdqwgjGtxs_klgqtrrAiKIzk&fuovgwDpcKuwC
rAbpbtJgtHGjd=ztftbrwjitHnw_ ltqbnFguAyew@sqaycDrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMMes;mtu
zAadgesCbBFff-kluqbtLofKMem+fEpogexvsFuy{!ztpwimrDjMBew=sqaequQyjzBy
iAoukiwybMCtr|alaDGX~LSsQfw!tAubuzynfLNnr"fFicveLofLyeq^itbpkxEzauy
kEucdqAzixxex=sAstqBlgpGFDd:nmubvmwFaLyjq^jluqbkssmsQnx&ozaNE)KgqNLAm^Cf
gzebvmsAaMBjv^fEiqwqvgcxtqs+m\scplwgqEusw!zAaguysimBMmd:nqn}

GolpqBDlezCsk!ztbvbyzvtxtkv=slMEbnFguAyev=uyaciwwlesQnx&fNFUUJ0
iAoegwFpoztyl^fzfgfeLvavIsj/uzubfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGutmtLMaL1SFbzFkfKMhs/kp
ztfbofyujMOii!uravjjrwsHvqi_fAgbymsAaMIeo^kBacpirDitNex=fEfnghLbas1NJaU4E
tAugfeLobMtQG!iGstgsLszsLjg^oHfubxGtfs(6{E$*akvjEzaIywd%gK.bptLgdHOsx*ts
kxfevwGujvtre:kDjcnxlgbGxee/mGffbkGyaFOhl!sAsgbiAzuKCgy:kpatgxHvoLCgm-oFz
ozaqtiwyaMIeq@ozucksrhowtxx=xqagnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHH 

HQTUGWryfLJtr%kpavjfLguAyee|yqndnjvghKIzt!iAvnfetlaOCjA^jlbubfrzutLym+m
vAjpv	rDiHMjd*tuukcqrvqxLfx*tsartjEptxths;rpadgezlmICsk!zAaoqAwgjGtyl*y
jusgeyAvosush!jqgkpnFnaAIBdgIldqwqvgeHtxs7frptbjPhnIFj{!ozactjszaHz
yFbpffJkjSuym=tlptbiAzuKCgy:oAobqkryfLJtr|onjnkyQb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@jpffbyzhusURd>gEahwqDFaxHle"kp.bywwzuECsk!CuujbxGtfsIkd:nq
wGfuvnGutsNme:fBftvfAuaMIex&kldqpAwytBIsd=llpnfjJgiBMys/oobnbrsAfKCfp| 
CtjejeOvvExef^fAogbyzpoztyl@zlujge4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMeq*mtubftmga`yAi/gx
vAjpvxrtfGNns+kpadAeTLT`YWd@tpaugAwybEttx&kDtbqsrAiBMeu;kEukqsrobOyee
sGdjblJlbMywd*sBbeveGuaMBtw^fIiqbfJlavIsg^xzffbBAAiswfx@rAhwksygbGxex&k
tquyqwCpozttj!hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d@ylxgnqrhtsJwi|kDwcvnGuaBNxi-lg

YBfcmnFnawCwi$zxzbvtrHNmtBl*itajgeuvoLCii/kpaycxrhaEuwk^rKawphGwzKCll:kp
jmucdfKl.s64R{NlvtijvgexPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBO?eGy
iAoukiwybMCtr!uraocpAuhsNmi!jmucbnFgjMtfz@oxbdnjrApsJjs[rqakpywyfLNjh!oz
jAjpieFluPIwo!sGmvkrwkjtoedjtlbeetMuusIkd:nqaewwJloMtlv^gFaujtJAbzyes'
juhkvfDgetNfd:nmubkxripMBee[vqbnksygbGxey+kzdwogwyfwtgC!iAnrnjPgsBAmx|
vDpdnjEz.sNmm|fopwtxwgpytfg:oAobetMsesBfz^fmauklFpgBwfr:fqghghLgpGtre)ozh
tquyqwCgnNFym_kpjcbfryftFnx,a

OzavjnKgdHHsi$zupp?eXSF2!HLcG7FTbwwwpKNjh!uzacbkJhhFysx@xKarttLvuRJjd*t
RO"ubTxmjvyes'fUohqwEhuBIsdokoipqqGnzs!jv<oofubyzhusuyx^sBuubyGgbLMtg*gFf
juhkvfDgjFuli|fAgbrmGApzLft&ylxkvmrjbMuqs"AuoibnFmpKGfx*uzakpeOhzLtyl@z
CAsmbBAAiBHee!rAdcnesyfttsi:CAsm+]sgtMyu{!yAavqeKhzmtys>gDebCR\z
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fmdegxKbasZzv:nqs?bF5gitM
gFugouLlesNtd;yqauvfFkbKxeh@zmahqwEzaBHes/jqsbvtrofEJeq@qqavjfL
jutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsuhg^yEavqtDzatHid:nqawpiwymRCsk!jmuc?esuesNmy|
hqmkgAwzaMBfx!ztfbffLhctMjd*ylogvBGyltvqi8

Glegnnuhuxtfr%fmhqpnRpoztus-oozbszwzuBIsd'uDaNE	ropPyAi/ lxjkhzgdHGjw
hmdmbyGgsxMty/iqtbcsvgvGztv:AzbvgqQgitMee+funrchLgpGtyl*yfakueLvayCsh
yAngbfHwsHJwm@zq.bjtFvstvqi7fmofbqwnbEths|z\sgetNlsRtus|yucknnLpfLoed?
iqsvcnFgtDCyx*ytoguxrjpGwjv+ozhbetKA_Kyhs<kDzbjfKgntxjd[kAqngeMutNLj
kJbevqQgxAuyd:uleq}erHNsQty-jlcgbmAniESev^iqqvkAwguHtim|iGtuksyggNLyl^x
R~OEJ)Kgpyzjv!zAavgxLgpKtii_uztvtfLlaBNxd%gFbdcxwgjGtfd+kFxqtp
kzwkttFtfGN	daRQJUEMZHVX`ew@op?

XquwtsAuhsNmi!jutewxKppGtys!CtbvbxzlaOCjA^jlbubyzlaOCye-futuwjrvg
kxfevwGujvtii[uEjv?eTHU!3Sd/kopoojFkfwtyl@zlMEbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBw
vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqebtjKwpGMnf*ruuA?eLobMtnw7fnskplrApzyyl^x
ztfbfnKAsBvzx^jlptifFpAtNns+ylbpfeKlusOud@fEuwfDrnsHOud:ulmqqprhusuqp
ztfugeAztNyxd@tpaugjrDixLjd>klbubfrubMCtr!ytpwnirtpOy d!ZtfbdwGhexL
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!CqafgfDgxBNmd:nqaocssnfFysx!uragnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHHeA*rx
tAubfnKhqIyfv7fnvvbtFszsAws>fIptujm

RQTMbyGvlsOud:nutbvmwtfsush!yGhigxLlesNme:fXDbcyLlnINex=fBftuzskfsIsi
smkqteDpcKuwC!ozagchzgtMuyi!zAafgfDgxBNmd*zEauvfLlaxKzm<gxfpveHBcECxl^xf
CtjejeEphANet/upvegesgdHIui/gFjxgeHypCyhx!ztbvbBGBmwtgi!kCvkvftsz
jutvtntBuxxee/uGofbyzlavIzr:xK.bcsvgpGyem+fIikemrSDsQty-jlcgbiwhmBHld>oFi
glnkpnEhmsHzq#kDaqheHBcECxl^xEacpirtjGCre-foprAwAniMtuv=hxfou 

M4BDGWryfFuwo^jlujgeJldxHyd%kHfnquEloMtnr!ztfbuhAloMCkm$fopoozFpuRttj!g
CumnksyufLMex=fGtgbXYTMsush!kuujgwrkfIIxm:fAsbksLlsvBfr"klppbfrmbBLqC
yFbpffJkjSyid'uDncv rgIxtBs+jqsgfeAmattxm_oxbtbrGCfFysx!CmtbvfCpoztup@iq
ozavjjrovFusm:oqt}beSsuAIzk&fFigbSsAjHHfp!RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexvvGxes+rK
glggyeHBcECxl^xEavqeuvpIywe:kljpbfrsjDyez^tFvtgeLDpsIwd:nDfgbDwhsLtfk= lb
tqxbgkxvsMtrm"nFaigswybMyee!sGdjbqsyhxLer;snftbBAsmBHld:uldqquwybMy 

QUNDCQ4gsxwty+zqebjnKgvGCy(|f<NcemAuf `je%gnmgbHGsmxwym=tEaTgfvpoztWs=s>
zDpwdqwzaPCyl!ztfbetEtfKwne-fBvdnnKofKMes'fqmgeyJvoBweq^jubbksrhdJOnv*ts
smugtnsstsztv!RO"ubhGsmxwym=tE.bksrwbKNng;rmsbvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&exlbKtyl@z
ztfAbBGBmwtss:fnfbcgDlaMIeg=Bqsbvmwpsswtw:ylbpfeOvvExep=yqaeqsLypEttj
ztfkteHypwOhx| lujcyrSDsQty-jlhkxjrAixGee>gKaqteKlmEtyl^slbpfeEhlx
vDphkyKggKIrd:nqn}beZlawIzf:kpavjfLguAyet;hxjujnFnaBHiy|zDzbyfKgqKyue/kp
zAaoqAwgjGNtd:nutbcwwhatNex&klnqojFA.sAnz^tljvueJltBMye+iqavqessmHQnr"fXD
zAawujrpuLtre$nuog+wwhetvqi!smugtnsstsuxd:nqaNkgJhsRtBs;rpankpwb

ZtfbetHFsBAmx!rmxbptOgbwxwi|yqtbetEwbvNeh*ywacuesgnxxny_ lbpfe4Javus
xqrwgxLgpGyeg=vKaqheLobMnes/fFxqbhGwjxMem'fuubkxrAixttr-ElwgtxAvomtfr%
imobtjIBfLNeg=vufubtxgtHzyA@xq.bdzLguAuyd'gumubyGgbwxwi|ylncifRpoxMes/
hApmueGyatHDx&ozhbnnClaMBfx!CtjejeAzaBHeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^frpto 

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirAixtyl=xzzbpfLBsxttj!ztjubnKzvxneA&ooibjjrpmEOxx/gFff
CuujbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofswzq#kDtqojrwsHwjw|fuoxqqNlesCsd[AFukplrhavIuC!urac
yojgpyAmjvtie:gnbugeGuattQEifuobNH\zaLwni+iqatgfvpoztws=sgabJjrhmLI
golpqBDlezyid:nmubNHrufxxxd&kxqbcsvgdHOqh!kzmkuyrAixtjr^xsjguesuesNfp^tFt
uraYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtnr!ztjpmnFnaMBws;mtacbsMtcxLes'fFigujrwsHvqi_yg

MUGHQWVgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAobvtrnfMNnr"fFigbnEhhxtfr%fFfzveHlpIFjd:u
ztjpmeLosHOll!zAhgvmwyaPBjv^fFigAeOhoMtys!mAakpeLofsFtr"fFfto rgN^6TR?Y
iAoegiwkaMBfx!nqsbgCHlsBysg^fmubvmwgQBywg^f5zortKpvFtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fmu
MqptijLvxGtZr*BqsukyQgbGxex&oEaygjCgbMtQG!nmebhtJjfwtmi/fFpbtjwCbEOfx^
nqsbrjJzqxwym<klppbyzlaNMjj;rzfuueGmaMyCx!gEakofyltnteQtR1OCUexybFyid:nq
oEtwgxrposuew^xufubtxgrNyxx*uzt<beZvxsxtd>klbeszAyfsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFj