
10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documentAtnteY+lAsvwssAfES	d_AoibqkrAiBMer^ClugemFvmHADd*yloqvetljGAey|kp
ozavjjrwmtHsm+mltvclwzaHzel*yFptkhssaILtn^iFt?bxAtqESef^imvugeEhoR
nutvqwAhoLtfv^fmxctjrvoESem+fFigbAsnvxMyd>gKaqheAAtsyCm|zqoeg rgBMtqi@yF
zIpbofBvssHjA!nutvqwAjbEtjh*zuoibuJvkxwyw!gDfbetFzjwywm+mlnkewGmjEG
kpjvktFz.sMnq[rKadghsBtxtyl^ElbtgeFvusuBe/klphbyzlaIIxw*humkvnwzaHz
kxfevwGujvtfp:kDocvnNltsush!ztfbciNhoMuli|fAgbvmwgoxQex^itoqntyFaBHex^xyt
urahnjPpcBFnx,fmofbwwzftLhl!vAugpyAhmswtq[gDffbyGgnBwws'oxn}be1uayuhx7
zApbofFFaHzey|fuobjnKApKSee+jlmkvjJhuNLjd@xqauvnDsatNex&kltvclwgpy
yFswilDpoztBm:nlpwte8JtnteX&kDfbcwwgntHDd&oEuqtnuhmsyim:uDjcneHypCyhx|fuo
vDpitjKzaILjw^tFmA?esuesusd^wGbnbsMtcxLes'fxjvgwsyzsJws(kouu}er4iBFjd:nq
zIpbhnwseLtme<kltqojOobMtim'lqsgpyrhqILte$nqtbvtrAfQNze-fqekvnFn.sNmi/k
gDfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibgqwjuKIsm$fFfejsGspzSeg@tlcgbtxgtxLAm$kluqbgGAin

YuoegexlxsIkd:nqagfnLvsLtnr<uxwgfeAuaMBjdauGofksygGtNmi/ylDF+W7Taxxnx*uzt
gDfbvjuooBwfp!kJqgtyKgjGtfr,fEfpujlgJsBtt^fFpbrtAuusIzx!ozaoAevptvOxw*uz
uraqwwrlyIywm^tofbjtOgntHDd=llujgxwgfEyhx/uzjebnFupOuym=tEaecsrifsOxi%
yGdegxKmvEFDd#EltejtDhsLtBl=fmsgbsGCjvyxd*tlujgeOvsExes'fzfybywjiGIqs"Eg
UzfbqkrAixtre(uDaeqsulsGMes'fFigbxHvoLIww!uravjjrtvENnx;jqaqheFlx
yoiqnfJszsyim:oAoubnKguAyep*suugfesBeBysg^fDfcemwkauSex&klqwdqAzixx
BAmwojKbas7tw:fAgbvmwzfsyim:oAoubfJlauynr"fBvdnnKofwtnr!yybnneIBbGNnx*kE
gzebvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&eHyjvyej=xlujgrrwvMMex&kyaqwyrvgsNmi!xqbejeFvusIsp,fAg
ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtuetBusIkd_uEubrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrhowtfp-fnvvbyzlaEuwk^yF
kpvecyAvotFem+yFjvwyAvoLoedcuIfxgwlgmBNyp^fmuvgsLppGtnw!hqjpieypwxHex=
CmzubnFgxAChl!zqdjptDvhRthe+fnzrcxKgdHHAi+zuppcqrwvuFng@zuppbyGgntEj
nutvqwAjbEtfr%fxjvgwsyzsxtg;sqovueEvsxtBm%kxzbcAspmtvqi8

3tbvbfLAstwyi%fGtbotKAaMIex&klDF+W7Taxxnx*uzaqhe`ofs0ft^xEaqheYlpKAj
3mtjksyApGtBe|fFigbksjusNme:fPbxkirWbvEfv%-EackrrDbLtys!smlgbfrjpFJqi:k
kpjvktFgpytfp-fAgbvmwg2*-	@E$leqezEloMMeA^ftbxgeuvmEyhx^jlbxcnDhcEyem+fmo
ozfzrjFzjOyej=xybvbyzhusQty-jlcgbuDhdxxem+fBvdnnugmBvwe/oqt?bxEhmE
iAmnglwz.sush!kHfpbmAnisMhl=uxt}be`ojLtBs;rparttNpextfr!gGekgsulayuw
hqzqpirvvKtuv^yqovb6l%~[ahs[Efa^60rwvuFnw&kpagfnLppGoednozdgbyzlaVX]VjS
kpjvktFgxBFqd$gDsAbsGufsIkd:nqagzuDhotNtv,fmopqysAjHHex&gFacruwhsLtnr!ztf
vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt?bBwgbEMtd'kqmbvmsAaMBjd;yqaqheLofsWI[mUYaykqDgmxuid_gzz
xqtgcwuofKMex=fEfgmeGBusNmi!vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt}

OzacfiAAjHHex=fuhpqwsudxttj!tqxbvjuooBwfp!gpwcphwz.s3el@BqahqzFkaMBfx!zAp
smoAbjvpuHLx[TgzebjnKApKCfr|fmofbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJz_ uwi!xqtkuysuusush
kHfpbmGzuBFjd:ultwilwzuBIsw!ztbvbjDldMLtr*ilugemFvmHADd_gKagpmsudxtyl^oD
CAsm}erPaBHyi+jluqbiAzdNMxd|uyfbqkrAixtfv"AyfpvxrAstxnx*uzbnkxLzatLj
gpwcphAuhsNtd/kEjuveLldAHtp=mK.btfFnjGAej/uyafkxLyvLNes'fFigbxHlfwtBm:n
CtjejeAAavBfr"kEa-yjrhsxtfp/kmeAbBGuexLnr"fIicveAzaHOyd:nqsgbyzhusCx
hquvgwrAitHeG	/4PO_eLvaLOxt*iuppbtxguAyex^itokefDgmtHly@mqawujvguH
jqtetntlaxFjg:xAokeevlwxFtt_kzuu}

Smskce4LC~9S

ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+zlDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bfrqpBHyd<kzuwtjrvgsNmi
GyftkhsuaTMxs$omukqsrmpKtyl^fMexcsulnxHyd=llTekjFjfs	FE?Y>acpirAixtTr-ozf
IAnrwywya5Cgv@xKaEgsLlsmtNr$al)QEQU/.sCxd:nqahkwKAaIyjvTxqwkgBwkaCIzv+gx
zAarttNpextky-rlugzylgutvzp@xlncvjJpbEnee+jlmkpjrpmEOxx/gFjqpxrvosFnr^a
ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobynDsawCxg;yEavjjrnfGyxm|fmofbxLhsMazt!vqskqirvgsNmi
pAvtpfDbas@tt*iEaqhevptvOxw*uzaykqDgjGwqy%klikuyGyjvuqd=BqsxkjOa
jmz+vt	kbRtre+gsfogsLgpytyl^fqekvtJpbEtui^xlsgxnwD.sush!smowuhJpqM
zmhiksygbGxet;hxjecyAvonteE!jqnqpxLybMCtr!uravjjrqpNLse-fmofbnLzayyfx;xqt
CumnbfujpFJfr,fFigbuJltxHye:oAo}

RKopge8LS`9SMpY

IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuAbQAistLD{!IAspgqDgJGztv_gFjqpe`ldAHtp=mufu?esues^jv=D
IAsrqwsAjHH	d>oFibvmwgtNJus/zlphbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbG
