to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunications transmission time.
Anything slower than T-1 speed is impractical for files of 1 megabyte or
larger (which is likely to be small for a multimedia document).  For
instance, even on a 56 Kb line it would take three minutes to transfer a
1-megabyte file.  And these figures assume ideal circumstances, and do
not take into consideration other users contending for network bandwidth,
disk access time, or the time needed for remote display.  Current common
telephone transmission rates would be completely impractical; few users
would be willing to wait the hour necessary to transmit a single image at
2400 baud.

This necessitates compression, which itself raises a number of other
issues.  In order to decrease file sizes significantly, we must employ
lossy compression algorithms.  But how much quality can we afford to
lose?  To date there has been only one significant study done of
image-quality needs for a particular user group, and this study did not
look at loss resulting from compression.  Only after identifying
image-quality needs can we begin to address storage and network bandwidth
needs.

Experience with X-Windows-based applications (such as Imagequery, the
University of California at Berkeley image database) demonstrates the
utility of a client-server topology, but also points to the limitation of
current software for a distributed environment.  For example,
applications like Imagequery can incorporate compression, but current X
implementations do not permit decompression at the end user's
workstation.  Such decompression at the host computer alleviates storage
capacity problems while doing nothing to address problems of
telecommunications bandwidth.

We need to examine the effects on network through-put of moving
multimedia documents around on a network.  We need to examine various
topologies that will help us avoid bottlenecks around servers and
gateways.  Experience with applications such as these raise still broader
questions. How closely is the multimedia document tied to the software
for viewing it?  Can it be accessed and viewed from other applications?
Experience with the MARC format (and more recently with the Z39.50
protocols) shows how useful it can be to store documents in a form in
which they can be accessed by a variety of application software.

Finally, from an intellectual-access standpoint, we need to address the
issue of providing access to these multimedia documents in
interdisciplinary environments.  We need to examine terminology and
indexing strwe:ksjgueLobMtBm-rlbnntOgvLtys!vDpxkiwgbvwjw|fFpbvmAzaFuyi/omm
ozacbhJvtLaim|iuqnkssyzsQfC8

XAocnirSB~!JR!flabbergastIm/koukqsKgjGtMm"n\QgtkGyntHhi!TquyqwCpoztks/
flabbergasted!flabbergastQm#xmskgx

ZtfbrfulatNeA&ooibetEwvMCsk!zqdjptDvhRtme|fmexcsulesIAi/fFigbuszusztv:E
EqbtueKopPMer=fEjipeGmatvfx*ts?bbWGBhAFDd|vqbmksyaaxuhl!luwg+DwhssJjv*up
nmtbAnwsexxee+fAsfgw	vg Gfk+oFvfgeAtqKIAi_kzubksrwsBwjd@tpargwxvsFusg^fAg
iAnrwyAuhsyvy*vyfpv rgOHtky+jmngpyssaAOwh-kEactjrsjDyqC!zAartjNloMtyl*y
vmdgbkJvnswtr:ozvkplrmpKtfx!rqbuveLofsHjB:fpfeciwbas3yd*ylppnDrposNmi
vmtvbkACfsSje/yfavjtMnimtyl@zldqouMAjGAel@ylcgetElaNvnu;oFpwueAu
ructcwAltmtfj'koukplrhmEtxx@lracpirwbMLtr| lektjuAmRttv!ozektjuAmRo

JGskplrAixMjd|gyfbhnNlaRyfv| ldqorMujvuym=tEatcywzaHHex&klJpvjJufMnex&k
vDjpenHhmsuhe%kyjebhGtqNNnr"fzfvytJr.sBfz^fssqysrmsHGe9AfwcrueLva"o0
Snqu?esuesNmi!T5GPgyribvEgs+kljubsGDaKOsr*tsa67e5iqLoedjBqsbvmwgoxRyd'oHf
Eqbtu	rjpFGzr*imukqsrybMyxd=tlujgethdDvtr^fmsgbjPwfvNjh!zAagzhwles&eK#vE?
MDpyvmrposvtx&fFigbuGwvEuym=tlphbswAxHLpd;yqsubfFkaMBjd<uxvogeGmaGyyA=xw
zDbhhnugaAuxd$uzukpzwkaMIek/uIaigtEluKChe-rK.bcyrybMyxd@vBsqchzpozt69
vqsegsLgqxLeq=tFi}be`ojLtkp=upaqheuhqtwnx,fmofbzKl.sFno^tqebdDrzpFyex=
_pskppAuhszws_fmahkwwopLy	)!fosgcywzaBGri+yqaqruGyuNHnx*kEacpirjitFqi+mqt
lAsbnntybKCjw8flMkdwsyjxMeq;yFacpyAjjIuyi!ztfbhzLBsxtnq[rudcvnGutsIkd:nut
zqdjptDvhRnet@xFjekusAfsCsd*zEafgAwspIGjr: lbpfevlqEIDd*zluqbjFzvKy
godguxrApsNmi!CAsnf)KgjGztv_gFjqpeJltHOwg^yg

ZtfbksxybLNwy$zGsgbkGyaMBjd*trptofLppGtfk^futbdjAuhsJzx!ozarnful?
RuctcwAltszfg^fEutcywnjvtii$oEjqpxrhcHOyd:nqjtbwGsfsCsd:nqafgAwspIGjr: 
jqqnqDEloMnee+jlvugeGmaMBnw!ozgtcxLyvvNzv^alaVjjrlnxLlm+mljphwszuKOhx;xq
oEaowhzgnHLjd:nmobetEwvMyww!gzebetEtvGChe:oAobnnFltnteM:futbotJlaMBfr!ztf
gnjnkyQguHths_vGugbfLgbsLjq=zqaukywaaLysh!kxfevwGujvtre*rluqbfrwfxL
gosquxrAixths;tFsA?eGyaFIAi!glgknjrmsHGes+klmkdwsyzsNtd@tAujgwmga!Bjd+kJu
luwgbDwhsLtBm-rlxkvswztsMzf|zmovkfDgexPjp=vyfpveGmaMBjd*trptofLppG
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbvmwgoxNBs/qg

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeswqKIuv*gFfbnjskfKMmm[ lmkdwsyzsJws'kEtkqssstsGzw:
nmwgbfrmvGxfq^tFbnbzFkfKMye+juoibtxgbGxee[vDfekfLppGtks/foporzLls
tquyqwCpoznej/uyanqhssatLje!tquyqwCzaMIex&klOcvnGubEtWi|kmsejesue
KpvecyAvos8jx>uDlb-S0LO	oedonutbrwwzfGNfx*uzacfiJltLyxd:nqtg
lGofcrwuutFx{!gzebjtOguAyDd/kxbvgeLvaECgv@xufubyGkbRtfr%fuobvmwgoxuw
lGuwtjm

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMlabbergasted!flFnghLypGChdgonsctDr3jLCtr|fmofbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$z
