
The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, and the explosive increase in publicly
available information databases.

For example, OCLC has become one of the largest computer network
organizations in the world by creating a cooperative cataloging network
of more than 6,000 libraries worldwide.  On-line public access catalogs
now serve millions of users on more than 50,000 dedicated terminals in
the United States alone.  The University of California MELVYL on-line
catalog system has now expanded into an index database reference service
and supports more than six million searches a year.  And, libraries have
become the largest group of customers of CD-ROM publishing technology;
more than 30,000 optical media publications such as those offered by
InfoTrac and Silver Platter are subscribed to by U.S. libraries.

This march of technology continues and in the next decade will result in
further innovations that are extremely difficult to predict.  What is
clear is that libraries can now go beyond automation of their order files
and catalogs to automation of their collections themselves--and it is
possible to circumvent the fiscal limitations that appear to obtain
today.

This Electronic Library Strategic Plan recommends a paradigm shift in
library service, and demonstrates the steps necessary to provide improved
library services with limited capacities and operating investments.

SESSION IV-A

Anne KENNEY

The Cornell/Xerox Joint Study in Digital Preservation resulted in the
recording of 1,000 brittle books as 600-dpi digital images and the
production, on demand, of high-quality and archivally sound paper
replacements.  The project, which was supported by the Commission on
Preservation and Access, also investigated some of the issues surrounding
scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to digital images in
a network environment.

Anne Kenney will focus on some of the issues surrounding direct scanning
as identified in the Cornell Xerox Project.  Among those to be discussed
are:  image versus text capture; indexing and access; image-capture
capabilities; a comparison to photocopy and microfilm; production and
cost analysis; storage formats, protocols, fmofbxLhowuwh|?lbpfeLofsOxi!ur
ztjubxuhoGCsk!zqdjptDvhRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!vGsrqxwz?

Ztfb8#=|eICeh*muucneAtbzyxd[xAewejvgjGtyl^fOptpjDsa%yws\f2sqljuAaILtz^j
nuhjnDrhdvyux@hxfbhtJgdKyfx*tsarcuwyaKyup@iqngpyKgpytii:kDjqtfLpoz
uDjikssstnteX&kl2?`#=gtvusr^jlwqnzEltsJws<opffbfFgbKLfC!urakofyl_vuux;xq
itbnnjFnfLtyl@zlbtgeuvnFIsd:ulokpjLlfGNm[$kzuwtDrwsBHym+mlugemFprNyxd@tp
kyctkyLsfwtre:kDjcn	rhowtyl@zleghDrAixtzw^fAgbvjPA_vIsz^xEjqpeHypvyxw^yg
ZtfugeuobEFjr"kEakphDBextim_ozjujjvgdHHyv@yFadgyOlfGtyi\zlbpfethdDAws;tp.
lDbikqwgbGxeh^zqskqwsAfwtue"kE.bwswCfGtuv*tFjpi	rlmtvtv@zqavAuwggtwjw7
lmjpvesuesvtp%fFfzveskktwjr$EfajcsvDsBNyi+fFfzvesuesusr=zmukqsKaaGIsV=smo
rmoiwfyltmtfr%fmarttDpgxLfx*uzaqheAsmNMyv@zqebofLlsBuqd^snfffjvgjGtyi\zg
ZtfbnfLAfKthe:ksptAeAudEOii%ftjij]xyfJOjr$ElbpfeDvx zwi]AqoeAezhmyNtr^yf
iAovksMvvLtys+klqjqyGnstJmw7fuovtnuhuxtre:nqncvnuhmsxwe>ozhu?eEhqLn
kFdjksyz.sLjz^xEf+rtDhsBNDd%xmxkplKaatHid^tsscxnFntn

ZtfbZjJvysJws:uFzrgeKjbGHnr"fEzuvjEgqKIAm%kpacbsMtcxLes'funrqwLhoM
lqbvwwwzayIwd$gBuwtnFnaMBnw!juwgtxwgntNjv*gx?bbYwjiGChm@tEawujvgnNFym[rq
ztsgumGsesMjx:ozhu?expmMyww7fxjpgesyusush!nmmhvtFlawykm+oFjqpxl
gGuqujytfGNfx*uz.bynFkpPCsk7fmofbxGmuPuwiTkpjvksygqKIlv@sEavqeGwuBGnD^
oybigeuhqMOwi8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?eLojLtuv=pqdvbkGjvLyid=tlqtqiMjuBIs	
ZtfbitssaPuxd:ulncmjrzdtHsm+mlbubfxmpKxff-klbpfesjdxJye#rqacu
vtpvqhGwzBHld@tpaokhJvgBFrm+mlgqteHyfLywz@zuppbwwmpKGfx:ozh}beS
zung+fFk_vIxx!yFvfAeuvowOhx^jlewtnFnaMBjd-gEubvmJlfsGtr:nEaqheLojL
vDplghLgdHHkm/sqebvmwgfvIss_ooaxkftpmBNDd=llekinLhmsMhe+tuoi?esuesNmi|k
luofksyzaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyid&kDf}

LDpobyzlaHOyw^zfavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:fIbubuJleBwfx^jlppbyzlaNMjd=l
tAorttHyjxNfv,fEucpisyeLtfr%fFigbzKlaHzeg=syppbuJvuHwtp|fIigpeKAbGxfv%y
juebptLgfQCxx8flEkinLhmsznp^ylxgtjrjsxuyi%fmtbVNXMaBGfk^ylxjkhzgxxLj
iAnrtjKzfwtuv*uDavqeKApKuli!AEjpieYypNJe8!IOJVVeuvnILjw|oAo}be`ofs^jv=D
yAgvyfJlaBMeQnfPPUbgszfwtfr%fGuknnRltsIkjTztfbumwsgsJws"xmnubxMjisux
SudtqxGmus%nr%uItbcsvgXtHlddsmhgb2AGbKx d!ZtfbfnyputFep*hDbtAeAzawyxm"tqe
zAadgezhswQfv^/uofguwuexHyd@tpavqeHypOCii!ozugthzhozyff*ruuAbBAAisIyl^x
oztvkyMAjHHxd:nDpwimrufMQtv)fopppjuAjHHx	!fMdegxKguHtyl^fpjikyssayCqi|
ztfoujDCfLtnw!zIp+vnwyfwied}onmkqlJhqAChd/koptfxrmpKtyl^foporzLlssznp^y
gDfbewwhuxxem+f4MKPesuesWtv+kxm&ueDvdtFew,yFfobfFkatwhi|yljpvtrAixtfg:Amm
juhkvfDgjFuli|foporwAzjGAee!hApmbnKgqKIAm%kpavjwGBhAtfd%uovogsLgdHHyv=r
yFsweyMyfsush!glogvBGylxxem_gsfbhnDl_Lywz^xfadqyzgpytBl*itaykqDgcx
jqtetntlen

ZtfbrwwzfGNfx*uzaykqDgdHHhp;jqaykyzgbsxnw$AEtkqsrvgsMtq^fAgbvmwgjLMzi|
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmaMBnw!zqdjptDvhRtfw!glqtgxwywtNns+fFpqne}zuHLfk^ 
xqgtgxzpoznef@iwvr_ 

VmngnfrHOW`Jd@tpaLwiAAis"NH?X

ZtfbPfLppGuqd?mDjewqLBstFeP*hDbtAe}UB5 el@ylicfewEuxHxm<klfzrjJpfGwjd>oFi
xmtvgwrzdtHsm+mlphbuJpoMyid_gFftkfDz?stXm+iqa3~!-aaMBjdgonsctDrobL
vmsvkhAwbMyid*tlujge6huBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!ZqyvbIAnjMCEm+mlQtqowjus	SEoJ2-
gldqquwybMCAi!krgqtyrifMQji+fZBNbfFkayIwx,/rjxgeDhowtlv@tFawpnNlsLCyC
ructcwAltnteE+fAwgtAAlxsIkd:nqarttBldMtBm-rlcgbuJltxHyi% lhkxnFnaBNx
nutvqwQgbGxeR?R/tbuyJhuxADd'uDavjjrmvMOwi8

Gzakp]vlqMBeh*yovuunGuaHzeR?ZPQbynDsayIqp=CfakphDBeBHld@fpfuewAwuBIsd=l
ztfbuhsuoBHld[xAdguxlggKIrd:nqaicyzlsBHld=llujgeHyjGNjh!smugtnsstsNtd:nq
gDdjkAAuhsIkd:nqagnjuAsHHng!vmhgu rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlsgszAyfwtks/fm
yFbpf]sspGyew$gzokplrDpKExx@zuppbfFkaMBjd*sBptvfFjfsIkd'oxfbofFhhxGjr:
yAgvyfJlaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyi	!fUtuwjKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaBGfk^ylujgrKlmOyxd>oxm
hqacfiJltLyid#xufhnDlgtNwmd@yljoclwggHLre:?lcnchCgbGxeA&oFfbxjJzvLths-uD<
mDbAbxuhmxtAi/yGtbfnLofKCsk3fmofbwwzpEOym=tg

GxtqbiwzdKCgi%fIjnnetlattxx;jKaewwJloMFDd*tlqtqlJltLtgC!TMMbvtrlwtFze:k
ztfbwxwmvEHjw|fAgbetFCfKNnr"fyjettxpmFtys!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbksrvswywd:u
oyqtqAwgbvwjw|alaYkyzguAyeg=uBftcyAvosIkdoAElgijwgVGCAi/yuuA?e6HMsBfw
yqmgeywkaMBwi^fDfgnxrvgsGng/urjnoexypFtfd$uxmgeyAvosIkd|oJuA+xwCfGtwi^rE
iAovcnFpoztyl^fBbrgwKaaEyyx^xE.bcsvgeKuBm+mEaqheYlpKAjdrgEikplLvosWfv<kD?
ZtfbvmJlfsLji-ylxgtjrjpGPjv:kpakpyGg4m-#@!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbwxAuhsu
yBfekfDpAxxeq*iDphkqEgtvusr^xgabVmwgtxFjg:oAo?bkAsnBHl{!gzebksvlyBHld=l
ztjubrsAfKCfp!CumnbgwgeBMhy|yqe}

JAocnir4B!YWW

VDplghLgPIysd}uAl?byzla^uqi!1zjxgwKpuRtQm#xmsA&xrlgyIwx!zAaeqsNlsMt6@7
$*~bdtGrtszws_fyjettxpmFtys!juhkvfDgjFuli/EfakueuBsKysx-EljpbfFgbwPfr$kp
yFbvgeGmaIFfr+ozhbcsvgpKAfr*Fmukqsmga!BjdtgxfbNntybKSel@yltgnjuAfwtf
smkqteNlowIwd:ultgtAwgbLtfd[gDupgwrposNmi!vDplghLgbGxee|fEzuvjEz
ozugiwsApKoeddtljvueHypIIxe- lujgeKBdvyxw'AxaxgsvvssBjp[kpakutDhuxtfv^gE
uratkxCgbGxey+iqsvcnFAzsuxd>kxmbcxrrfRtnw|Aqtbvtrifsuih/kEtgfevBsBHld:nq
ruggbtxguAyet/uvfev rgUAye3@rqaNkgJhsRtnw!tAxbrtAzfwtys!jqdkfjrDitN
smugtnssaBNeA*rxaeqsNlsMtys!juhkvfDgjFuli!lAsobfFkaMIew^kwahwsvpozn
ozjvkfDszsztv!ztfbhnJzusJme|klbpfeLofGtks/fFigbjFAjKyet/uvfev 

ZtfbrwGwpLuqd:nmub1fDlatwhi[zqebhtJguAyem_vxfogsLhuBIsd=llQtqowjus9ui+
HApmbBAsmsJws<opfbcyrAixtjr%fAgbvmJlfsJme|kEacbhGuwxLxm=tltwdxQzuxG	
hDpyunFnaLNfx*uztbfnKAsBvzx^jlppbyzlavurt;ylogvBGylsQnx&ozavjjr6bEy
RuctcwQaattxy#yKtvgrrmpKtxx=xuoib6=a~[]ef=uwtbcyr9~[tfr%f^~`biGAtsJjv
ozdj?esuesHjx>uDlbchultLtys!ztfbkrsnfsJwm+zqsu}erWsBwnr"frptbyzlaLSxx^s
oyqngrwuutNns+fmtuwrwzaMBjd^DutvgsulaHze3@rq"ubhstqNMei:nqspgyrufMQtv)
gzebkyKgiBAm[|vqffbnEhhxtuv*tFftu	rhowtnr$rGegueGAixLev^wGjukywgitLiA@xq
gzebutxAxtLj{!gEaygqDgbLtxC|zqnbksLlhKuym=tltgtAAjfLoedkxAqqujvgpIywe:ozh
iAtvueAudEOii!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgntCsx^tmoeg	rivMtis!tAubksusvwy
kEukofLltsztv!ztfbhfupmBNni|fybpclwtfGNes'fFigbxLvstAjd%kHjegxrhowtnq@mq
yqsxgwKb

5mmgbxwsfvNjh!oFtbxjFkpKtue/zzftbnFgbsztv_gxarttultLnet@xFmAbkMuexxef,
ztfbEtEtjLMns+frptbUJltxLAe:oAobcsvgBvwjw|alaHqqDvxBHld@fDfswjKAayIw
vDprqxss.sNmi!5mmgbQAistLDd|kxfevjvguPIez^tpptueszayCse-oEuubyGgxHLpd>oFi
5mmgbxLhgytys!mqogtfLlattii:gumgfesubESxm|fAgbtjIBjKyri+zEahqwrWsHDjg:
UBfpbGGvlnteI@itaxgsvvssOxi%fFigbwwzvENxd=llujgeJlrNCwi_kzuubfFhmRMnw!zA
mqogtfLlatHid|AnnkvesggHLre-fBsqrtKhmsztv!ztfbgsLpsxtuv=pqdv}er1iBM
iAnrgyAAjOyet/uofuueFvusIsp,fqocdqwkaMBjdtgxfbNntybKSex=fEfnghLgjMM
vDjocwQgwxHis/fBbtvswyauOyd@rEpbtjNlbEyid_AoibcgGBusNmi!yFbvgeGmaMBj
oybiksygjGxzw:xK.bcgGBusNmi!BmsAksyaavIwt=xmugbhGtnBNri+zEavqeLofsGfv)kFt
lAsbkrsnjGAex^itoqntyF.sush!gnpwveLofsPfv,ozhbqwyhoBTfx*uzbnbiQubFChw
ztsqwlzgxAChl!smkqteuvnIusm^ylbtgeJltIIsh*tsavqesuesMji)ozhbvtrkfOyqs[
ztfugeEhsDyyw8

VDplghLgPIysd}uAlbkxrmpvOxi%fEqgenxpdtFqC!uzavjjrjpGPjv|oAobqkrpntAjw
lDpobrAjsHznp_fFpbfnyputFej=xy?bbYzlaMyhl+uxpiAexvssMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_fut
xqbfkqQgbOunp@hxfbdzLgjLthl@tsjpieJhqBxqC8flJpbnLzaILtn^iFatgvMpsxGjr:yf
ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKagouzhtBTjh!lqbvwwwzaHzex&klugemFvmHADd:nmubckxldMtyl^
zqdjpnuhmsKze-oFzbqkrkjzCye-funcijrwsHxzg:oAobcsvguAyeg=yFtbqkrjsxuym+m
gzebuyGyjGAex&kljoclwgmBvwe/EaabYmsAaEyAi-ylphbiAnjMuqd/kEpnwyAvoswfr!hq
goikgAwkauSew$gzokplrtjvLtj*ry}bbMGDawIjw!BmskcyAvosCsd:nqaswfDpuRttj
sudtqkAsnmtue/zudwnfJszsCsd'oxnbrwGkvvyid:ulqtgxwywtNns+fEucpisyeLn
grggeyrAixtvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyx !f9icveLldAHtp=mufubhsuatH
uBftcyGyaxzki$zuwgnDrhowtjg=tAnkefDszsuut-ElxjgsrzdtHsm+mlgknrrAp
yqqctfLlaMQt[;vljoclwzatHid:uldqpyJvmsztv!gzebetJyfvNem_gsf
oyqgtkwjuBIsw9flIqyeuhosKze-oFzbetFAsHFef^yFadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyG
juhkvnRpoztBs/qlgnqBrAitNem+ixvfgxrkpvOri+zljpfjPpoztfr%fEuqtfyl}

ZtfbchLBbEtfr%fqyrghLlesOxi|fAgbfnyputFem_gsfu+]KApKuli7fnsqyxAuhm
vDjpvnFn.sush!UOS++mwsqsxjx^xyjpgeLofsMye+jmsfuexvssGje|ADjpieLofBL
wGbnkyQbasVws>yuoibnKgfLJjg*gxmAbnEwpKNfr: lcwveLofszfg*ruukgxrhwtCqe#rq
lAsbtjskfKMex=fnsqyxwgjFuli!jAdwojFAtsCxd[kDicrxrAixtBi@qqtvbfKwfvNes'
oybiksyguxwmr=rAhAbfFkaFIxx!ozapgjvgpytii<kxprojFA?stFw!oFafgkAufwtnx|
xqrwkwwtfGNx{!ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKaeqsuloMLfx^jlppbxGtfszzr%gyfpvfDgbLJjg:y
urawuftpmBNDd'uDakofylawIhy_kzuu<erKpxMex&kltAuywtaAuAi!yGghkhAloM
lxfzkgAsjMSex=ftbpfqwguAyej;rxatcsylaHzeh=iGngpyrAzIyx{!ozdnwiAuh
sAoqiwswiLneq;rFj+rfJAatHid_AxukxtDBnxtxi:yfacpirzfKCfp| lbubBwsmsux
smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFz}st2l@zldqpAwuuBIsw!gDfbpjultLuwC!zAakfjFAjySee
jAdwojFAaNHnu;kxzbhtJgtMIwe"klbpfeJluKCjz@rhabYmwyfsCxd:nqafcysibLyes'
xqdqtirmpKtxx=xuoibgAimBIlv@vtjebnFmpKGfx*uzacdtMAaMBjd*smhgbiGjvFysx9
NAxbcwwgctMng!ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgueGmawIhy_kzuu?eKBdAtfw!vmhkpfLppGneq@jq
godguxAimxtys!ztfbtjskfKpedcuIactjrAixtnq@mqafqhMtfGNxd[nKtkefDsz
vDfugsLlesIsd:nqauewwlosNtd:nqatgfvlso

Ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKafgxAnoxxeT/uvfeve7wfGtGs=qlppbyzlatMxy_vFjqpeLobM
sudtqkAsnsCxd_uDfbvmsuatxju;gFfbcxrhaFyim;slgqteHyfLywz*tsavjjrjpGNjr:fAg
jqugtnGybMyid-onsctDrtbMywm@rE?bbFKgqEusr*tsakpeLofsJws(koubjfKgbwPfr$kp.
oFakueAudKyfw*tsmAbhDlbKtyl@zlujgeuobEFjr"klphbiAnjMuqd*smhgbywjiGIqs"E
gzebvmwglxSex=fFigbxMjdxMxd=llfhhtJAtsFno^f2sqljuAa8Jjr!HApmbnKguH
vDpxkiwgbsGje+ylphbgGAisJwi|kDwkplrhowtnq[xAwkplrhdvyxw!zAavjtKl
jqugtnGybMyid_gFftkfDz?

YQTUKT6gJ#aG

Mqptijr1I87F

OzavjjrBtxttj!kxfevwGujvtnq@muoibkGyawIhy_kzubrwwzfKPfx*uz.bvmwyfsuwi
yqwgtfDgjLMzi|fFpbetFzjwyw{!yGdjbfK?asysw;xuoibfvlrNuyi!oybigeIBbECyC7
smjpvfAujGAew;hEucpyAhmswtr<kDtkqsrybMyxdRztsqwlz|qNN[{!vDpxkiAuhsOsm]Aq
opfpvnxpdtNns+frptbfMApFuyi%fmdegxKgbGxev^zDjgxfDaatHid@iopootvhuBHl
hAvpfeNvmNGjw!gzebhwsnjEyeq@zqskcqm

ZAaocnFAbBHel*mtakofylaJOfp*zK.bkrsnfsJws$kEtkplrmvGwym=tEactjryfJOnv^j
zAaeqwJldMtyl^fpfhkhAlovCjw!ozavjjrzdtHsi%funcijmga`Iri!iAnogwupbEFD
gHbknftsfsMDw:kytbksusvwyex&kEfbhzFjuBIsw7fIiknjrzpFyeh=fzpv}er1ix
yobppjvgstQem_gsfbozKAauyet/uofuujvguHths/xqdvbhGuuKuxx!jqgkenwudByx[T
hAujbuGvssIAi/gxmbetFAstMyd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!ruhjveHyjGNee+j	ptbisyl
hmdmiwGBownee+jlwctnsimxths+zDbuveJltNFym+mlgtqrrzutCsw!gze
hxfgf]LosHOll8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fFigbxuhosxjr|oFzbozKAauyee%kCvcvjrApsuqp=C
rqhkdnDpuRttj!vDjpvesuesMzj'oojgpyrmjwyqm:EljpbyzlaIMjy%u\icnkLvoxxek/gK
smugtnss?stGs/jqsubtJgqtAj[^jsfbgkxldMMeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh!lAsbdtLo
iAnrchLpcBFnx,fmofbfwzuAyym$ygabRfylaLEjA!sGtvbgwgdHLwi$zqebhtJgbxMyl^zud
xqbuqsKgbGxex=fqocdqwgbvwzv@zqaejfJhdMywd/kopipnLppGtnj!jqtktjvb
IAnrqzFkaBGfk^yldqpxAzuBHld=llcqvmrAxHays+kpavgCLgbGxek/gK_uefDl
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!sGtvbgwgqKIhi|yqebcuHypILne:kxzbvtryfMunr!ztfbszssjMSes'
kmdj}

YQTUKT6gJ#aH

PqbpbGSYP7UX

YFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC!yojgpyAzuLnei+muoggwKaatHi
hGtkpjKzaFuse"kDtbksrHtLIhm@zuppbkGya2Hks/smukqsrhowtNq@mqaOcssnfFysx
[MJKO[rzutHie/jEaeqrEpuMyjw!imobdjrhqIFni%fFpbgqwjuKIsm$funcijrtbGuli_kzu
[QJO_eHypvyxw^yljpeqMkjGA,d!jAdwojFAa{Cre"k>avtfFzgxL	d/kFskgAssatHi
kHbnwfLppGjes[zudcnevptDtfr%fppewrwuusMhe+tuoi>esuesxtg;sqovbiwzjzHee+j
iAoxgwKppGoedrnqobetEijGyid>oFibGN5gtRMyi_fBmcpsAuhsush!uBftcyAvoLn
yFbpffJktswfr!gEtkuyrposAjr^xmukplrpntAjd%gFbdcxwzaMBfx!gDf
ozugthzhozyff-klboqsygbsPfv*kFzbqkrzzLNjq|alaVjjrhqIFng@zuppueGm
jughgwwuusuut/umdjgxrmpKtnq@mq_vclypoznem+jqykpllgdHGuv^yEjqp	rhow
zDbpukwyaHzyi+fobwujrBovywx@ozuAbhGudxLsm+mlFKOeKFtMyrd$uyqcvntpmBND{
immkdwsAjHH	d[kDgqtrsudxnee+jlvryfJkavIrt@zucknnLF.sOsx*rltvcsvhsw
oyqngrwuutNns+fBbtcrwAfKMee/klfuvftsjLBjh8flUjgeSPJ6txx@tpbtfxrAitNee/k
hqjpievlwxFtt^jlgqteLofLyee[vxjecyAvoLthe+fnfbwxwkaMIeh^iDfcujrAix
AzdgtyspoMS	d|AodguxxBmESem+zqhtcywgjFulm+mlqtqhwztxM	d@tparttEvuxt-s[kz
yKtvgrKb&stFMdSljubfFgbvwwi%oFffbFElsBwfr!Tmukqsssa`Nfr%gDeubNFzuBNzx^
[MOUK[rzutHie/jEafgAwspIywd>oFibotJlaMBfr!zIfpvDrjpFGnx:kqtbetEwsBMjh!ur
9*~bxtDBoMyjv|fDfrtjKloMCsk!AEftu	rCfGxtv| lbpfeEhoNzfg:ADftu rgUAy
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzaMBfx!gDfbfjNlmHJjh!ozavjjKlavIrq*zFfguezhwx
tmukqsssatwhi[zmoegesuesJws<opfbvmwgctMnw!lAsbksLlsGuym=tmmbjfJtpGCEe:oAo
ozavjjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgoxQeM+zqspcyAvotFeS/mmokBfLppGtks/f5ucpisyeBTfx*uz
[UTQ_eKAbGxfv%yg

ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobfjKjsBvjw!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbF1PN,MeIdSltvcsvhswMee+jlb
tqxbgkxvsMtfx!GUJO?esgetNff@yqaqpeKAbGxfv%ylqtqowjuLtnr!glxkfjrmstGjA=xw
urakofypoztnr%AEutkjKgjGwqy%ozhbefHAvKy	d/koptfnFn.sJws$kEtkpll
jGqnkhsAjHH	d%oEutkgMAjHH	d%oEqncDlgfOuqy@zupp?esuesJwi|kDwcvnGu?stYl^
GUJObNEhhxLDd	gFbdcxwgxBFqd$uHftbnEhhBHld|zmofcwvzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC
smoAbtJnbGCEe:oAoubnFgntHDd%orggtjFAavIzr:xufu}erPusQnp-foppvfAu
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFz"sxfx^yfaqtnypoLnev^rmugfeFhuBIse-fmof
ozugtssAjHHfp!vDplghLz.sMye:AE.bmjQgxHLiw7fmofbftzuKuhx|alaVjjrHO`3eM_gsf
ZqdjptDvhRtXx@tpbtfxrIptLid/kCvguywkaMBfx!yGdjbfrkbMuge|klcgbjKAbuFnw&kp.
gEafkirAixtNWj\UovgwFhuBIse-fQmgeyJvuxwmr*immbEtEtjLMns+fVpkpyr1bLEeJ=xof
uzaKofylsRoed?OUNbynDsaMupi!uzavjjrsftxjv|nuqbttDlayIwd:nqafcysibLyee+j
iAptfnFhuxtnx|fpfxgqGwnxHyd>oFibujNlstFew:gzectiKgexPjp=vqsu}

VmutkhAhaUUYXdT

flabbHzhstwyi/oEukexrvgsMye+jmsfuexvssxnk*zmmbkrsnfKS,

flabbergas{eR@zGsgbtxgeBAnx@rlugemFvmHADd*sBmkgxrjpGNnr;ozhbxtDhuBFnx,a

flabbergas{eT/kojrkyGBtsMye+jmsf+xwAuBHld+uFarqxKpcEyee+jlqtqgsimRtss:
flabbergasxjw*xmcng 

flabbergas{eW:gzectiKgbKyee!iAnrnjPgjLMzi!ozwqnAAuhsNmi!sqekwrlguAy
flabbergasBfv%Cmsg?eLofsMtj:Cmsg?esuesNmi!zqdjpnuhmswft@iuuAbkGy
flabbergasLjt/upvevnNlayCii-oFzbcsvgdEuwm:Eg

flabbergas{eX&klqtqlFvtBMej=xlsgnnsimxtfv$nuwcneKAbGxfv%yl)cuevlgBHjh!hK
flabbergasFnf/gDjcpx{gjGtyl^frptgxwlbuFjd'AFvtgeAzaIItv8

flabbXAnoBzng@tFarqywuuBuqd@tpacvyJhdMCAi+kEtbqkrkjzCye-fFfejsGspzSee|fm