     (202) 707-5389

     Tamara Swora
     Preservation Microfilming Office LM G05
     (202) 707-6293

     Sarah Thomas
     Collections Cataloging LM 642
     (202) 707-5333


                                   END
      *************************************************************

Note:  This file has been edited for use on computer networks.  This
editing required the removal of diacritics, underlining, and fonts such
as italics and bold.

kde 11/92

[A few of the italics (when used for emphasis) were replaced by CAPS mh]

*End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC ETEXTS


This is the February 1992 Project Gutenberg release of:

Paradise Lost by John Milton

The oldest etext known to Project Gutenberg (ca. 1964-1965)
(If you know of any older ones, please let us know.)


Introduction  (one page)

This etext was originally created in 1964-1965 according to Dr.
Joseph Raben of Queens College, NY, to whom it is attributed by
Project Gutenberg.  We had heard of this etext for years but it
was not until 1991 that we actually managed to track it down to
a specific location, and then it took months to convince people
to let us have a copy, then more months for them actually to do
the copying and get it to us.  Then another month to convert to
something we could massage with our favorite 486 in DOS.  After
that is was only a matter of days to get it into this shape you
will see below.  The original was, of course, in CAPS only, and
so were all the other etexts of the 60's and early 70's.  Don't
let anyone fool you into thinking any etext with both upper and
lower case is an original; all those original Project Gutenberg
etexts were also in upper case and were translated or rewritten
many times to get them into their current condition.  They have
been worked on by many people throughout the world.

In the course of our searches for Professor Raben and his etext
we were never able to determine where copies were or which of a
variety of editions he may have used as a source.  We did get a
little information here and there, but even after we received a
copy of the etext we were unwilling to release it without first
determining that it was in fact Public Domain and finding Raben
to verify this and get his permission.  Interested enough, in a
totally unrelated action to our searches for him, the professor
subscribed to the Project Gutenberg listserver and we happened,
by accident, to notice his name. (We don't really look at every
subscription request as the computers usually handle them.) The
etext was then properly identified, copyright analyzed, and the
current edition prepared.

To give you an estimation of the difference in the original and
what we have today:  the original was probably entered on cards
commonly known at the time as "IBM cards" (Do Not Fold, Spindle
or Mutilate) and probably took in excess of 100,000 of them.  A
single card could hold 80 characters (hence 80 characters is an
accepted standard for so many computer margins), and the entire
original edition we received in all caps was over 800,000 chars
in length, including line enumeration, symbols for caps and the
punctuation marks, etc., since they were not available keyboard
characters at the time (probably the keyboards operated at baud
rates of aroun+jl235	rtftHnr"fFigbyQwjLNxd&gpavqeLFqxtxp=CxzbhtJ
ztfbmjQiptLid:ullggurBq	o

ZtjubnKguAyew^iAofbAwytBIsd=llQctfvptxtQs|zlsgnjszfwtgC!VDplghL
MGugpgwyhnteX&klgktxLgxtMev^rqbugirhtsIzv!UouqdjJaa"[@5!kFfzv 





VmscfnKla5Ixx




HApmbN


UraOcs\zayCww:fpjuqgwkjxHhi7fmofbyzlayLzm:
UravjfLggHLgm%jqobvwwlaPBtw^fyptvfDgutMyi
HDpwimLgexuyl!ozuqbyzla$Iwp% lbpfessmsIzv!CAf?
3uujbqGztsIkd jqo?byAsmsIsi!mDfcvjJgNtH
XqtvqwwgvLnee+jlsgifAuaMBjd#rutuhzDgtxuy{
Yuoi?eZlbOysp,fYvug	rAitN	d=tlujgeKldKyyd:uB
UraQtjtaaHLes'f5jpcnlgeBxxx!oztrkww
ZtbvbxzlqAywh!CtpbhnJzusNfy"nFavjjrjiHMjr!yqff
OzavjjrifzCsr*tsajqBrAixtmi@BqoubfFkaxuwx&
XAtgbtMAaHzeG&gAt<btJaaBzeW*uzajkqD
JqmkimLguAyjd_uDf?bfFka`Cqs@-EadttGraMBfx!lxpygi
LmtvbgQguAyes/gomgbtxgHHx	ddfFigphw
OzwqmjrAiRtfm%fFpboDrheOysx;xAvubxGuhm
ZtbvbBAAisHtd_opengexsjzByd*tFfpfxrApsMte/
GnpxgeLo"sUtr*gzaoqzFA.sQmm-kljvbuMytNyx
ZtjpixrBotNyi_vFffbDwAaBHet/uEfbqwryiRGj	
GzebemAlgESex&uG.bQe~wjKCy{!ztbvbiGzusJwi'kD
HqgqtjrhmEtyi_vxfubyz_aNJwm"nFajgfJAatHid[ADf?
OztvtzuAaFy	d'uDavjtMglGIB(|zbavjtMggKIrd:nqahkwKA
3mtvbuJltxHy{!gze?bBAAisGnk&zKayksyzaHOyw[xqbf?
JAwg+qArfsMfxNyFadttGkjGAes+fFigbAszusUgC|yf
Gzebofv_tMtnx!vDfipfFA;sQme:fuobojrptsxfv)
OxmwonFl.sQme:futbntOgstCxi!gzebuzHwpKN.
Ztbv?eLvaMBjd&kuhjveGmaMBnw!mDfcvesyhNGjr: 
OlncAesztxLyd zqspcqrWsHPnh^tof?
GzeblzKAjySex&klxcAxrvgs1th!zAaogsm
flTcAexpsLN]['uDaJgfNlosBnh^yloqvmAuhszws_fFiAbAAlxm
TAsbvmwgexyud:xmdvbtxgIxFq[TymzbhnJzusQme:fobwuj
SAwgfeGBssAwe+jlqctjFAtmtnr!ztbvbmswqRtxx@zq.
LmwqwwwkaHzeL^gHfpbxGgiBAmp, luqbkssmsIkj
LDpobyzljKtHv^gFpt?esuesNwe+yssguxrojLtBm-r
LAsbqswgsxMyv@ozu?bqGyeLttj!ztfbYtJsesvjw*jqt}
3tpbhnJzusMjh;iqebvmwtaMIex&gFahqzDgsxPtp:b
flUj&eAugxLse-f5ftrjFA<sBjd*zlxcueOopLyek;oxf?
YFjttjvgvItBm:nlfpxDrhowtwi<kzhg?evldxCAi%
ZtfbotLofKttj!smomksvaaPBfx!zungbmAzaILnh^
NmebefKAaACrd=AFahttEgIxuAi+ lxkvmrhmEtmm|ftpuv
UratggwsaTHli-yfadAeOopLyee*jfacuuAyjGA
ZAaugyrojFMjp'fuobiqGyzsugs<klikueHlfKM	
NqavtzKAfwtys!nmwgbjIBbEFjh!ztfbOtKAa1Cll7
OrajgeGwqHMjh7fmofbBAAisurf*zupwuespn
GsbkpxLguAyex&xAogbfFkaFIse/itzbqkrNpwn
XmjugirpnICty|fIbtbnFgIxuAi+fmofbgsAuEyet/uGe?
3uujbAsposuyx^sBu}bMAtaMBjd?ryjijyQgQHQjv
NGsngiroftxqs+mlgncrAuhszws_fFi&bjLofKyfp!ywz?
3uujbmAkfHOxd/AuobcsvgdHGgy|zupp?evvxG
ZAadqyLvnEyxw!vqsfkyAvomtyl^xqavqevDfEF
OzacffEhoMCsi!itbkpxrhowtui+gxahkwwa
3tpbfzJzusxjj,fFi&bTEujIIyi+zluqbfJttn
flOkpjrAjFyxd:nqaurfulaMBfx!sqbuwwwzawuDd@tpapklzA
ZAaoqwLhmsGjr7ftf?bBAAisBnw!nAstkirjsxQ	
RmzbxfFxvBMmi% lsqnqAuhsCsd:nqahkjJFazOqj7
IAohqzFkfwnex&uGhjbnEtpKNfp8fNvvbmAzawItq
XqtgtAwkaACrd:ulnqtjrDstNm,!lAsbptOguAyex&uGhjv
HAujbtxgmHMyd&gBqkpjKzatHid-gEukplrwbBH
ZAsogsLzaACr\!xAvpfezlaMBws>ylikuethmxzzp!kKfu?
ZtbvbBAAoxMxi%ftvigesmgEChx*uzacpirkjLGfC7
SuygfeOpuAttf%ADbvgeHyjwyee+jltvgfvmbLNel@zq?
GFaqphwaatMej@xlbubFFnfEMeo^tfajgeNpfPM
ZtfbfnKtbEtxm:AmukqsrDbLNjd@tpaykqvb
GlewplwvosBtv/onmg?eGuatFqd|opfubwGBown
GEaqpjrnsxuyd'ADocejrmmtGjh3fKfvbkJvnsNms|klgncrwz
TAanklzA<svzx!xmujgwrkbKEsi|ylwkuntsf
YqsxgirvoESex=fpjuetNlssMnk&zEaqheOvfm
XqhkqsKgpytxs/xAx?biGsfyOqd|nmegu	rDixLjd[kmdg
GzebtjKAavusd+kHftbiOlmEnel=vqapgAwyavIri|
ZtbvbhGtfLtys!gxm?bgMAaMIwx;xqaykyzvvMtjr%
YFjnneMyhxM	d@tpacbkAlsRtii-Asf?bkwk
3uujbjNls vzv+ozhbuzDwiNLey+iAouwrwk?
YGdjbuDhdxtJx^xzbnbOMzuBwjd&gEartjHhsxx
LAsbvmGzfsLjf^rxjqwxhgixLjd:nqjtbuJptHHes/jmjpgi
Ozawvywyawuwo+kEt?bfFkaMBjm/fBptvnGuaLyy{
GEahcwryfFIAi%frsqoeYvesush!ruhjveGma1yfz^t
GEahttEguAyeg^tFsgbyzyjvyex=fFi&bzLtpLNet=rq?
UtajqBrBoECpi!ztfbrqsjfszws_fIigphwguAyDd'kxm#
ZtftgeLofswtq[gzjqpxrvgsBnw!lmmn?eG_fKQmi-sqe
3uujbkDvpwMee+jlxjkwDDjGxxd=llugouwzuNIzw!lusg?
NqauqtFgeBMhi/tE<bcsvaaPyqx^xuoibgQgiBMew*jq.
UzfbpjPAaACrw^rrakpeHvxxL	d@tpapgCLgjGthv*sq.
RAoibfxAfKtpr=Czakpe8hmxMym+kfacpirubFyi
HqfnBjtBcntYs!Ctpobyz_aTLhlTKzfoA	
Gzebvmwudxtnr!NqbxgsrjbEFjh!Ymucp	rDjMBef=rpayqwvz
HDfcmnFnaMBjd&uDskfeKpmxHhi7fFiwuetlhtH,[T
fl&KheLopNtgi^yFajg]	ivMtTd&uIahcqDlo|tms>foicplwk
LDpobmAtaPBt{!ozavjjrobIJDd/kmmoueGmaECll:
IxpvjjvgxBNmd:xmouejFkfGNef/osivpjKz.sxnh|zlpwvxzpox
SKskciKaaMBty"nlctklzA@ anj!nqayjtEgnNNze-fxfcizwa
1zjvgirAiHOll:ylbpfeuvvGMjp| lfswfDgiHJj
GzebjfRhswtnr!ztfbiqGyjHOxd^tFftrwAzf
PAjpgirDjMBeq^fAoeg	rupPtrm|kDzbjfLoaCInr^j
OzagszssaKOnr3fuovqeOobMtum:fFiqweKlfLN
LDpobBzhusBjm"nFahcqDlohtxs!sGdjbyzlaLNws+mqsbrwGCfw
NqaykyzgiBMex&Azegt.rhowtym-rlujgsrDiHtpr^C
ZtfbhtJjfsIkd:nAtgbiAyfsuwq|blZgveFvusztv!ztpug	
TAsbymsAaMBjd[uFfpve@pdMIwd*tlikueJhhx
ImobgqKlaBHkp*iF.bftrPaKyui+zfaqteuobGAj{
ZtpwimrjitHli%fuobqzLDbKxep;yFsg?eLobMtkm\kpaoksva
GzebjnyoawCxh@ozahttEgtxHxi!urakpoMyfwtri/oF.
ZtbvbBAAisNmi!SuhjvnwzusLfm|kpaogeLvavIsx^tp.
GzebvtrAixtkm^xofbetFAfGNns+ylctqzyousuqs+m
OzowojJhcEyej=xofbqkrZqBLnx|fmsogil
ZtbvbiMytMtim|rulgbmAzaKynk+ lbpf	rtfsJwi'kDskpll
NutbwyEvtMtus>kDaykyzgbwPjv|klqqyjJgpIJtw^j
OzafwgAvvLtge:zxfbqsrAixtup@oztbqkrOftPjr7
GzebumGvlsBnw!ztsqpjmgXAuyd:nAvijeLofszni-jlcgbqGzuo
GxmbkxrupMtqs|z\_vjjrBovIsu;kDbdnjrDjEF	
GzebuyMkzsIkd/kHfpijlgjFGtv:gxajcywa
GzebetMybzyer^BqsbvtrzvuGnx!uDaAkjDk;
GzebymsAaBMei-yqapqyrApsvjd=Bqseqrwc
ZtbvblDvsRtsi<kDaujfDsaACxd>xmujbtJgnBAmx
KJuqtyrmsHGeq^alUqbgGDatHid|Aqahqwrnstwj
3uujbxMwqECfr:fwogg	rhowtii*lKajkxrwpPyw
3tp?bkJvnsNmi!zqstqwrvgsNmm|fmso?eKvaEuyi
JAvdvjvgiBMei_vusg+]LobMtBi/klmqyeAuexyi,
ZtbvbBwyfsusd*mzpoksQgbGxew&gyfbdjFlbMB
ZtjubiGDoyuqp3fEjpejlgcRtke:kfavjjrzuKysk:nlphbLGktm
GzebvmAzaxGuC/kmmbuDtzutHhi7fobpptLggtCq,
Yuoeg	rAiKIzk&fqyrgwAlovyes'fFikueyyftNei<kzu?
OzactrKgoHNeA=xEf?bnFggHLjw*mtubozuoatxAe+iqe?
3qaocDrDjMBeq=xqauwhultLzzp!nAqgbwwzpEPj
ZAayclwgcRtks/iqaqteyBjEyei:kDocneOhsm
ODsgetFjjEugp^fFpbqzJghKush!LAf?
3tpbptOguKCzq[nE.bcsvgjGtylNfqyegxKgpytos,
YAmgbwwphGCsk!nAmfueLofsNDv@tzzbqkrOftPjr8_
flTqbxHhlxtylNfmqquysAfsUsk^rfavjtMnisCsd[guo?
2mvpvnFnatFty% lcwveJhdDyid>oFibfjwwawyxt@oD<
GzebjnEguAOxd@tExgtjvgtHIsd&oEadqqvgdHGui^xa_+
fl&QbUJpovy	djfOikgkrvgsGfr,fFitqswka9IBi/y
ZtbvbqwkaMB)d^snbvvqwka`ywe[nunbvtrDbK
1zegteLozswtr%Aou?bfFk.sCsd%xqbfhzDgexyiw
LqbtnjKz.sysh@tsftgirOftPjrNylqgtuwAvtFeO*ts.
GzebrzLguHtuv=urajkxrojzBew;vDfochQa
3tfvjjJgvIBjp%fnzbuyJlozNm{!uDaejfFjfmttv!lmug?
ZApbyjDsa2txi^fmofbwMlaMBjd%oDfbgAwuu
Ztbv?eOpuAtxe%fAwgtyzypPtfr%frpwnevlgxuy{
NmujbqGzusOxdckmwgp	rhowtfp-fFikueEphANDd&uE
