



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well.

  Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly, for she
had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to
wonder what was going to happen next.  First, she tried to look
down and make out what she was coming to, but it was too dark to
see anything; then she looked at the sides of the well, and
noticed that they were filled with cupboards and book-shelves;
here and there she saw maps and pictures hung upon pegs.  She
took down a jar from one ttj!ztfbumwswxMee|fEigbusztxx.d*zlxcu
rmcgnqwka/9WEiMQaOCW5HMTXJ(7fnvvbyGgixLek/kmubfnKhqIInr:sqovbnL
CmtbgrHAzhtew&klekfeFvusFno^fFpbfwGwaMBjd(gDahqwrmftLes'fwjnnnFn
yAngdtvF.sMtd_gzbigirApsJzx!oFakpyGgpGyes'fFigbhMwcHuwh|fmtbumw
lqmnbuszusCy	

fl!YgqD""sNms;mtubCqAjfsNtd&kDtgnklg!tzyi/fEvejesggtFqd@ylujkxlgJ
ytbnneLojGEer=ztjpieGmaMOrf-ozhbftOuaLNfm/y-abJtOgcKuAi!ztfA&qD
gxmbvmAulsGjd@zliqoj/ga$BD{!Olxqwqvu"Mtxe,fmoAvmAuhsugs;zljv?
kHfpbnxgJszjp-fAghbyzlaMIud=llujgezvvLy^(![9ikemrDbLtAi/ElmkmjDF
zDvg}[

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er4pNFid:nqahcqDgOX$JV!iAngbyGgbGtjr%'la@K
CAofgwropPtre+ElnknjKgJ,Pjd'gxmgpetFaMBnw!zung{)rzixtxe*jlbnqzvb
^UaowxLgcxtli:zuoibxGtfPBjv^fzfcteLofswjr:xqaqheLofsyfv:ngabNjL
sqaugjggaMBfx!CAvnfetlayIzv!ztpwufFkaFCqi|fppyp	rPaMBnr)/\"b-kGy.
EAvbujwaaTFng^ftbfbqwhsGNew^BqscneLojGAxd=llujkxrzpKNem+ftft
rqtuqsKgjGtyl^fEdjqtDypHG	d@tpavjtMnisNmm|fIbubsGAatt1Im5lhqqi
uBqqtyMujMSej=xltjqBAuhsIkj!nqsbmsGDmxxli7fmtbvmwyfsQfw!tAaqpjrAp
rutvgsrApsBjv7fEuknqrpusQfw!mApfbuJhdMChi!zAaucDrpusIAi/]l!++Dwz.
ztbv&xrhcHOyd:nqatklzAawCxx@tof++gMAaMBjr!OlxqpiwyaPBfx!Rmukvzvl
uDaNqsypuNxjdd-HfbitLguHp)d![Mmkejrobwtss!opfcbBzhus6fx*zGegbBsz.
uDaNqsypuNxjd^oFigt	rivMtyl=AsivbyzlzsQjv^fzjegeyybGxeA=xptbvt
ymz}_

flQtgxwuuESew&klcgifFgbzunr8fl!KbBGuexLem'fUaujfDsayuqp!xuhjv
ZTSQWLZguAyei@xFi#beZvxszzr+Eljv&qDgtxyrd:uldqojrvvMtfq=tsavjj
vqprnjrAitNeA@rwaykyzguAynv!nqbfuevvxGQfv%'laVjjrHoMCue:nufu?e1
ztjpm]	_a{Mmi!CmtbtfLofKtlp@jlujgwwgXT!er=fAogbqAzuxHnr" lujkx
zung?eszaBNeh*jz"vbxGBowtfx!gxmbvmwgsBAmx!CAsf_e]|_uOyddfEicnq
nmwgbyGgbLEex&kyayjfLguAyer@sqaqheLofswty+zDzbkxlgzHOeo+uI?
VxfcujlgNt.fq7futbvmAza7yBdukmmcpirvssUzw:xmmkca\g)tHid|nqavtnwk
zAaewwLzfRtfw!ytfbuuGrf ake+iKaEWW`ZF^3SK!gEaAqz\yfszfp-ozh
ztsqwlzguAyee*x-abFtrFpNtyl*twaAqzrjpNFid_gzbigeAA}	te$?tpayjfL
gzakisGybGNep*zFmgblAymsMmiNrxavjnFraFyej=xlbumnFn@stSs7fuu&nq
tqwgtevvaMIee|qaabrjJobIMeM!ytbnneKlfsCyd>xuuvgsrBqsMtq^Ctftg \

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er1ixLjd>gEapqyzpoztjp|kluqbiGaaLIeE-oofbutGu
hqhcpeLhmDCsk!gsbkp rg!WCse&-xmbonKzaFyez^xKaowhzguHasm"nF.bK
ytpwnirAiBHp%Nfl)FkssoaPuxd:nqaecym/as|Nd&uBfbvmwF"EFev^sqndgw
nqsbufMjfKttj!summbfLguxu]x*sq?bbIAubAtrC!jqbt#erPaPCxl!EAvbyjJl
jAxpbmwyfsQnx&fyf#be`ofKyee/kloqbrAjfsCsd:nqackwlgJ,Gee'xmjf?etBu
EAvbonyouswfx$nlbbdfLaatHid:nmu&ueNlsRtqm)klbbotMzfmtDs;fwoqy 
HGubftrjbMMei@zlccvxlgJsQtr%kD}&beSuesBjv^fMmkejrifzusd:ulhgv
xmujgwrzmxyuC7fmofbBwuusIsd|gKjpieLvaAyww^rr.bksrhawLje_Eltqtyrvg
Cmz?b%Vvavuyw!kmubdfLz}stIs!imuubjsAauuyw9-lbpfeKvnxNnq^yfa@Ft
hmuubjsAavuyw9-lgqt	rFpNtxi^ lbubxzlavIzp%t/ubcsKDfKtjm:nqs
wGfuvnGu.sCyd%opo&veEBdAtre:zqsbymAjisQfC!ytfbrzLgjMoednnqahgqL
ztbvbxzlaPuxd%uLjpieGmgmtfr%ftbfboMzusvjk;tluqbiJlbFtyl@zltjg
CmtbyfDrjGAel@tpakpezhowtBm:nlEkpfzaatHid|gKjpieLvaAywd<kDz
kmspgxLszmt%R=CfaFksso.sNjp-fyfbvmwguKOyl2flekfeQvvsyAi/fqbvbf
hmu{&eOofGtxy%jqonA	rAiNGu%!ztvor^rkpPHew&kldcojrBqHHee!nqbrbtx
yFjemxrhowtiv,fxfcxjKaatHid:nqahcqDgxtMes<kD?

flBnkhwgxtMer=zlbbdnLgiNLy{!gzebumwgkNGui%fGqbqsrApsBjv!lqfvbnFgb
sAngpyggaLBjd-uAlgfeMw.svzx!oFaycxrhmEtie/qlpxgwzlbwjef^lAsgbmwy
CmtbcsGAixLep=tsarcxKhhxnee+jlujge#ojMyeV@hnjvbBszaLNnp-fuo
yuhjv	rovKLDm+mleqysrpunteX&kDfbyfKgoHNee!sAngpyrApsvjd-uEu<
gIbAbBwuusUqm$klmkmjrAixtBm+jfacpirDbLtoy|zljpbyAtfsNtd&kmsbky
ymz?bfKgjMtyy/tqebceuvsGyw{!^1iboDrlbKMee+jlxjkxClsLnel=Clmcvj
oF"ublwAuBHl%NflTjgeOhtswqs|klcgjnFkaBNeA&kzaujjrAvKHjh!ztf
iAspgwlgcNNex&klScdgAAaPuxd+ulmqplwyaMIef^fEfgp,rgtAyej=Aze
nqsugqxgjGtfd-uzh?bqGDaAuqp7fIikemrDbLtqm:fGqbdDrhaKIBd=llmcouK
nmoiksyggKIrd:nqatqtxb

flUjgwwgxxLjd%uAsubfDsaKIzr%fFigbmssmmtgy:fFigAeOlsxtfp-fxpemjv}
gzebymwuaTFng^ftbfbgwlosuqp!ztfbyfQgeHQsd=tqaukiwgbGxey[fFig
uFigt	rAsRCsk!kHftAevvpKnew&klxcnpwkaLuip,fppypeLofsGnh%rq.
CAofgwAuhsBtA!ytfbyfKgfOywd:ulhgveGBusule*tg

flTwfiwumRtxl^fobogeMwpGtfd-oFungeLosxy]p^msffbysimxnee-rlncfjrvg
yAmkfeysbLM.d:nqsgbBszaGIyl*tsaqpeAAaxRhi[zlbbvnFFazIqh^tllgA	
gzebCqAjf,Mej*xEubvmGBhANeA@ylujcyrpusGnk&zlcgntFnaMIes+klphbyzl
jAptueGmaMBjd&gxm>bgMA.suqe|'lfkvmwyaMBjd-uolubBwyfsNts!rmsig	rvs
ztfbmjQgxtMex=ultocqDaauOyd@zlbpAeJhuxtnx!CAvnfeFvusIui+fmoAbtx
ztfo}erOpPyAi/ lppbyzlaLyhs+jlukojrypNHi{!ytfbefElaNJtr!glmqy
iGsvcnFgtAyel@jloqveFvuBwjh!hqgqtjlgbGxef^nuofbnLgxtMee!ruuvnj
jAptbftvvMtkm'zqfpbnFjixMel*mt;bbxzlaMLni%fFigbqAAuEyek=rpfpbpwF
ozavjjrspvE	d@tpavqezlssAwi@zlegnnyousCyd'oFugf^

flBnkhwgpIysi%fFigbiGvssush!lAvpfeLobMtnx!rqebksLvattxq@rx
vmtuclwaaGIyd_AoibnfJnfKtyl@tlbbtfL|iHFj\!fEigbpFlmMtis>tlbpf
rApmgirhmHHld:nqarcxKhhxtnr:ulujgeDvwxFni|zlhctiwuaRIzd^BqsbufOb
NAxbumwgmHHli%fFpbijLgpNNes'fFicvevhsDtme-rfacpirDbGxjv!gnpwv
gyppieLopLyef^jEaqhetyjzByd'rAxgtxrhowtyl=yqaeqtDggHOsx@ozt?bgMA
ytfbetMsesHtx!kHfpblwAaAywd&kmebvmGBhAtyl^fppqtBsF<s|fr%fqwgpeAm
sKajgfvgxHOqh!mAavjwGBhAn)d:nAvijyrwpHLeE-oof?b%AAaPIzp%fnfbqk
BqsAbqAAuEyey|klxkvmGBusGDd|nAvnfjJz?stTl7ftpybNrDjLB
OldqwqvgtAOyd;vlmkmjrhaMyqi|iAqg#erPaMBnr)fUaeqzDk.sCkddfAonA
qzpybmGDaMIef^muo}&erMpKneC=Altgg	rzpsGfr,fAvv+tx|uAy]A@Elujksyz
nmebjfHwfGyid-gFfnA	rAitNeE-oofbjfvgcxAzr!zAavjnFraMBfx!BqsAbkwD
ztjpixrpowyjh!CqsgbwwhmESem_vAtukgDl?

flUjgwwgtxyri%fFpbdjrupsOxi!ozaycnLpoztgC!ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfauqeKof
CqovbgsjlsNtd:nqavcgDl.sBfp'ftprksygtAyeq*mtubhnFkatHtx&kDamgDrvo
oF.bqwrhususC!xmugbfripHEes'fDvngxrmpKtxl;zFjpieHlpIFjd;vlmkmj
zqmguhGwfLied:nutbvnElaLBjd'uGofbfrsjMNqi!hAuvnjrvosCy{![)xjkhz
iqsvcnFszsQfw!tAubjjJlauyks/kf"bufAkaTFng^ >acpirypNHid:nqapghC
uravjjripMNqi!CmtbceHhqxLep@hqm?bBAAisNmi!CAsfue]KS28PdhK/
hqbwvnxBmESet/ozugfeGuaBNem+fxbtijrsfMNjv|a

flJvbBszatFqd<kDzbyjDsaMIew@El!FtnFraFy	(!hGubvmwgxBMjd-oFung
GxjegeOhtsHtx!mAjpieLvawIeXcG6akpesgiNLwC8fl!Pq	rP"EFep=uw
lusuv	\gtAyew@op.b@fFkaLyjd>nqujgwrpu,Meq@xwffb-HvjLIs)!uDapqy\}
lAsbumwgitxev^gpaugAwybEtsm$klmkvyDlaACxx=xufubftvvMthl*rpsgpeOop
nmebitLgcNLsx7fmofbjsAfGtzt!hKaykqvgcxuxx|fmofbtLofKtzr[rqbucsL
ztjpixlgbEFef^imvugeLofRt2SpRPapqyryfFyrf^xlujgeKpnIFjd/Axfu
ztfktexyjxHiw!nmebvfMniMtyl^saabuzuoatM	d:nmubceJle Btx!vAlgt
CumnbgMyosSty!oraAqzropExem:fFpqbqGuhitfr%fFicveAmaRIzd$AFaAqzJ
luoigwr3F~'eh^kBmAbBAAisueo+orf?bnLgvLOfp-Elcngjvz<sush!ytfbjfv
tqwgtexvszIyx^tlujcylgjytDs;fpskpprtvvBej/uyacbgGAuEyeq@xwff
^BpkutFa"sCyd*ylbnotKAavywx@ozavqevpttAwi^fIjvjeQvvmtxs=tqsbqw
rmugt 

flIqyjNlsmtyl*ylcqvyDlaPuxdiU6aocwCles|us*yAo?&eKvaTFng^fHfpvzJle
zAavcxLlaBN	d@tpahksvpoztnx!BqsAbsAjfmt=m:ftbf?eAuayuhx7fmauqwL
uraokCwkayFfz=ADaqheuofKLD[:gDu?bhMzutLi{!vuog+fHwmxnev=gEu
zGsmgDlguHzki^ lbpfezvusvzx:kDffbyGhtMn[d|nqaxgwQgtHIsd'ozjujjv
oFaqhkm

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbhjwsjGA^(!ymjfbFDpdxje$dfyvuvetlaLBzx:ozhbwu
rulgbfrAfEyxg=vq?&

flBpfeKvaBNeA@yljpfjwk;stxl^fIbubsGDaHHqC!zqobksuofLtmm"nfacpi
nqsbhfulauLnk&zqogfeMwatNex&klujqzyousNme:fEigbBszaGIBd:nqatklzA
yuAgbkGyazInr"fFiqwlzguAyep*zFmgbiGvssCsx=fFicveDvwxFDd"gDegp 
Lusuv	ropPyAi/ ltjgeOhjMyid'uDacbkwDaFCsy:kEavqeKlfsCkd|nqaycx
mAjpieLvaLBwm+qlbpAexBsMBjv2fltjgexlmMtfd-oFungeFlsOIzw!gnpwv
ztju>e]mpKtnx!suhjvewuemtDs;fwoqy	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfa@ksrtz
mAjpieGBusuqx=mqujgwlgmBEjd@fobpfqwbas3eA=tpftbBzhus3ew&uGmfbgw
rulgbyzloo.ed?tpaujjrAsByid:ulgcphQgxAuyd:nqahnfElaHzee!imofnjrpt
rulgbfxAfKtyl^fobpfqwgjLtgp=CzaqwylggHLew&kldqwqvgoHNev^sqndgw
kHftbmsCjGAew^kzauwhzgbsNmm+mg

flBhvjJgbsQmm-kfahksvpoztyl@zloqvmAuhsGtv^ftbrrjFlemtxl^fpfekiwk
uzaiqnFnaBHys!ztfbifJkfGtfx!uzdg>etBumtfp@ylgqteHvpKtFp*iq@bymwu
ytfbitLguHtyl^fppqt	rzixtks;tpajgezhesztv"uFugpeLofsFnx:rqaiqqvlo
qqz?bfFkaPBjr!ytfbyjFAauuho!zAavjjrAbuFjd'uDakv	rzixtks;tpaujj
iAvnfeFvusJtw|onmAbwwhdAtnx2fltjgeuvvExew^kljvbvMpuxtup@ozmA
ztsqwlzguAyek-gEt?bfFkaLBjd:xuffbmwyauyxx!zAaennEiaNJes+klphbyzl
rqhubtxguAyex@hxf?bgMAaBNeA@yluqqeKsjIJjv,?lbpfeOofGtxl^ftbf
zusgfezlsLyqj!uGubynLoaMLDm+mfavjjrwpHLep*zFmgbyzpoztxe:fppypesue
iDjgf 

fl!EqrwaaMBjv^-EapqeMzfsCsd$xKjpieDplxtyl@z-"bufAkaTFng^fFp
nqsugqxaaKuyl^xltjcwHszit%M!gpwkujrFpNtys!rqbxgeGmgsNmm|fyjpwyw""
YtfbijFlstFqC!mmwgbmwytxFkd<kDzbitGkatxAm$kfa-vmGBhAtxl^fHftA
yqmfqrrmpEFtA^jljv_	rhowtxs_kFjogxrzixtxg=rpffbmwytxFkd|u
yqwgtjDFatMex=fnskplrAftLxd*tFpbjjJgfRyx,!gzebqsulaLBjd/kyfodjJle
zDzkplrApsvtB!nqsbqBFgftLxd'uDajcAAuhswmi@zqebjjJzfEzem+fmaicrw
uraettIBfMtxl^fIbubuDhzBHld@mmjpuyrofKMjp' lgqteLojLthy/oAvu
itjnfeOhtsPjv,frppfeGmaILjx^tpjpieLvauyex>ulqgquDl?st%F;zljv&xrup
AEfbptOa"sNms;mtubrtGyaTFng^ l!vqeHyfMysh!zAadgeLDpsJjs[rq@bb2zF.
ztftg)KgitLip,fqoqwlzgpytri!rqgvbyGgntEjdjTQatgxHldMugp^
vqsuqs/_

flTqqsrofKtjC^frfnneGuattqm:zxfbiqsztsvtB!ztbvbBszaESnr"fGofgw
ztfbvftsfhtew&klprgswkaBN	d@tpahqzFkaBHem:fmaxgwQgtFuqp!imlg?eGu
CtjejeLofsQtv%yl!GCYrTF,tBi/klcgczLpgNFqC!smsmgirposwzv/gzuu}
^9fnn	rP"EFei@zljv?)rzbBxeE-oof?b%suesCkd*zlncmjKgnxtlv=Clmctlwy.
OldcpeJlbvBex&kllgA.rhowtnj!oFaocpwzaFyek/uIauofDsfKneM!imobewwlq
AzegteLofsxts/?ltqbjAAixLeA@ElJ&nqrnfMtnr:ulujgeyhswys{!gzebK
jAo&veuhsxtBl*itajcuHloL:)

flTjgesAfsuep*zFmgbgAA.sush!ymjfbfFEjHOxp,fFpbjjJzfEz	dG3tjej
Cmz{be#ojvBeA@Eh"?bmGseBHld&kDajcsvgpGtyl^fFprbtxgixLel^gpavq
lqfnbBzpdAtBe,fuubyfKghKIBm+mfacpirzixtBe|fCvkvjrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbyzhusMmi!xqnckswkaMBjd|gyfbunRl;stys!hqauwwwaaMBnw!mqogtfDsz
nmqrgsKgxAysd=tqagcyKgdtEj{!hGubCqAjfsBfh!mAubutrtvvBem+zAavjj
CmzbqkrlyIyhx*tsapqyzpoztgy:fAvv+tx|uAy]A@ElujksyzaMIel@vBfp?
ztbvbnLgtxyri%fCvkvjrkvEFee+jltvwuAkayIwd-orfbvtrnpsIsd*tlujg
iAnoqsrDbRo

flTqbxzlaLyyd:ulxqtplgbGxez^xKauqtFggBHnw&kpaqhkrAixthe)kg

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+




flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ

flabbergasted!flabbergas@mi!VApnbtxgUxuww


fl!EwwAvvLywd@tpaewwAvvLyw%NfoskgirHmBwjdRytfbyfKgtHtry$n
yGsrtnKlemtyl@zlgqteLofsGtq^tFaujjrxvBNjd'uDhqvezvxsNtd|vqbmblGve
Kzhnkxz/<s|ss>fU"obtHloBHld=AFankpwguAyep@xsfuveLlmxMhs[klujcy
kHftbBsz@stLs=j\cAg	rmfxN^(![rptbBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPHee:ftft
lqfv?eLofRtxi^sqebvtrifsuqq=yFaqwyrvgsMnk&zfavjjQgxxLjd"kFukplrzp
lmsbqkx/?st%S& lnAbuGvssFnx:rqahgjLaa2tBs+jqsbymGgxBFqd[AFaqp
EAvtbxzvfLtfr%fEuqepAuhLtks/fKpwbsGD.sxje/yhabK)EgtNLjdUO,aujfF_u
hqacdqw"as3ew&gxmbdjrhazLje:fpfcneLvpszfv!urgbvtrAsHOgp^fyzugqx
gnpwveQvvhteC=AlnwuyrtbGuli!ztfbdjKAaPuDd,uGaecshg_ vzx!Olnwuyrif
quofbyGguAyr{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!qteHlsAuuw!ztfAbBGu"MtBe-qlujg
CmzbKeOhoMtys!mA@bbQwAaFyew^kaabK)DsazCAi!ztfobfrufPtue*xlph
hApvuewCfKSeG&xutvofKb"

flBpfeKofsQjr:fAobrqsuoBHld:uligtxwsgsBtA!ytfbytMsesGfr@mqakv 
^6igAeEBtMtls!hKavjjrjbKLni/ /aujjrAiHOll:?l!cpiropPtky+tKakv)Ds
yqfo?eKlowCsk!vDfugsLzaMIes+k/tbqBFggxyy%!fMofbmGDaHxid:nq
jusgeyAvoLtBm-rlmqqp/

flabbergasteEgOOF&Ue0PH1@eJjU6.bGX9b
flabbergasted!flIGCW`OS@1	
flabbergasted!flabbe6LB~tYL fRFPFJ0a
flabbergasted!flabbergas	2MoNlBNKHW_Ts6TZ ]g

UtafgfJaaPBfx!tAougsKla2.rd:gxlkpl/_

flKwuyrAixHel^xligcirzuKOho!gsbkpxLguAyev=uraqheLofsBfp-.lakp
lmdvbxzlaPuxd+uIaoqwwguAusd+ozfbhjwAaACll7fmofbxzlatNes+iqavqtC
ABavjjrsjMNqi!mAmfgsrrfRtfr%ftvttnwkaHzkd:ulujgeyhswysd%uAs}

flQqqwrHmBwj%!fUubyfKgbLtry$nlbubxzlavIzp%fpp?bqQpoztis>tlppbtFl
yueg?eLvaEIto!ztsqwlzgjGNtd:nqaicwvlosQnx&fAogbjQl<svzx!zAaigy
ztsqwlzgxtMeq=xqajquwsfLMex&gzagxjJ?asMmi!ymubftOuatHid#ksbpbyG
iDzbclspon

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmyn)d|guebCqAjfmt%e!mDfcv
musnbqArfsSty7-l)ujjrtjzByd>kxmbufQguACx=7f)uqblGgpGthv,ozhbks
ztjubBsF@stXx=vlujkxrtpFysx7fUavgqDgzHO^(!fNvvbxzlaPysx!uzacnq
ztfbufEl.sMmi%juoiblssmHHxd=llugcwKaaNHym-fFigtjrDbLtfd-gDhgbuGvm
gxmbttMuesBjv7fmcqwyrmpNLem+itfubiwlqsush!xqbejnFnaAuqj!jAxpbyzl
nmmn}

flBhvjJgbsNnq^fEigbmwhswtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusCsd:nq
jutvcsul.sush!ytfbjfKAjESeh/oqebjjJgfRyxd:ultggeOobMtBe|fopoksyb
OFaycxrAixt2l*zqaTcgtpusLjx;xzjpi	rzqEysh*jxzbfwwztxx	d>oFibc
vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLtnr!uzfbjfFkatHid@fxbtijrmbGtnr!ztf
uFigt,rgixthe_klutqyLpoztfp=tsakpesghKyfx!nGstA	rtvMNjv*tsavq
nunugqxgbLtmi!imng?e]Vi|tyl^fPvejjKz.sNmi!JGdjgxK"a8B^d>uz"vbxzl
hqaucAsnfsCkdd-HfbmjHAaAywd>guukpl/_asUqm$klggnyrzpsxjw[kDbvg
ztbvbxzlaPuxd/kmeAbyGgbLEel^rBaqhesuzsIsi3fEp?bBzlosNmi!Xmcdky
imngbswhssBjv7fEigbgwnbGnem+fmanqBlguBGnh!BAjeg	r'JytDs;fBmgcxwa
yus++)rgUAyeV@hnjvbxLhsMyid<oAmgpyDF.sxws[vqebvmwgxACyi!que
mxpxgxrhowtyl^frbp?esuesMpy/xuffbfOhzsCsx=fFigbisylGyxw!gEajcwv
gEajgeuvvExek=a

flBnkhwguHIpd;vlujgexhosush!mxpxgxlgbGx	d@ylujgezhmEtBe|fHftA
nAu?bxzlaDyux!lmopksygixLxi-llbnneLofsNnq^fEigbBwuusIsd:gxlkplg
^Pfct	rkftL^d!NAxbszwlssyAi/EFikplrptsNt[%gK@bbFFkaRyxx^xpbA
ztjpixrDfGNes+fvvuveszaNMze-alaKbBGuexLem'fU"xgetlfGthl@tsffbnF
ztfbpnyouoteP^zlngbyzpoDied>gEaKbyzlaLuri!CtfpbNrnpMtzt!ztju
sAspksycas3ee-sAtvbyzpoDtNd$gzatgrwtcxLej^kxjpiesgmBNyp^
jughgwwuunteF;zljhbN\taGIyd:nqaucrwaaMBjd+kJubszwzuBIsd*yfaYjtrpo
ztfbytJsesurddblaCj	r1IT@)W!ztfbiwwhusJzD.rq@&beSuesMmi!hqhcp
ztjpmnFnaHPjv!gxmbvmwgdACqh/kzaujjrroxQex&gFaygwwgpytyl^fEbogesnf
gEajgwKlmynex=fEfgbnxgtAyeg=AxebjfNlauyjr!itbpijvggHLee+Elph
ztfo}

fl!K&rrzvKyeMNsloqveSkbm.ew&kltckilg!yIwd&kDajcnJghHyxd*tltwem
rAoibwAuhEyyw7fmofbrAufsxti|t/ubitrposLnr"rquubfLgbEF.d@tpaK&r
yGsgbNrjbG.yd#klNcdjDaayIwddfwoqyessmsMtv:ylphbyzpozM	d@tpaujjl
ut@bumwglGIBw!yGdjbfrCfKSep*zFmg#erIfLCii| lTJG)~gtAy	d@tpaK&rrP.
gze++tzgexuw{!nAxbrzRGmBHld*zlbnneAz@stN(-rlutAeAma2tpr=ClbnneLof
ztjpixrPaNMjh!zAamptObas6jx!sqaugjggayIzv!zunguexpwxtnw!zIfnxjl
gzebhtMyaMCri|fEjzbnKguACwx^kz.bcsvggHOwd:oyfubxwCfGtnwT/Aibfjsy@
OltjcqDgoxPjv!mqubvtrAxxHyC!gFavjfLgstNj%!fTpygAwy.sNmi
SGmvkuDpdtNns+f6bdnjrkpxMs(:fEjipnxF;stqi:-EavtDrNfHAwe[nK?
RAofqsrptsNmi!imqkvfDgpytUe/oE.bcsvgQtLnw!oEavjjrjbICye-fAgbTtEl.
gzebTtEl_ Ht{!ZTBV&XrhmEtBv=ts.bK)EgdxLye*t-abKeEBtMtme<klcggs
itbpijvggHLeQ@hqm#be1_mEtyv,fmofbxsFa.2tA!jAujbyzlaECyx-k\_*&
gzebumwgdKIxw^jligtezhowMes+ftftbqswatMem'fEigbBwyfsMfC*tsangxKvoLn
gzebdjyhosNtd/kBfcveAA.svzx!nqsbxtAjfsMty+jqebjtsytxtfr%
yFscplwaatHid:nqayqwvzawCid+uFaeqrwguAyew@sqacueLofRtzw^jluqbiG?_ 

flabbergaste$cuIafqyzguAyep*zFmgbhJvdHxnp^
flabbergasted!OyqtqAwgiBMew&ozjpieLhjEn
flabbergasteE+jlqqwwrAixtBe:kDtbqkrAixtSm-k
flabbergasted!UzagxjJFazIqh^tltecqw"

flabbergaste$cuIaejjwygNFqC!nqaugjEzaMIek/oz.
flabbergasted!NAxbpjsAmRtxt/kmebjnKgdEuBw7
flabbergasteE+jlxgnhGtfsFnx:rqahkxzltsCs
flabbergasted!3uujblwuuESew_oxjpieBhxL:)

fl!K&rrzvKyex&uEfbcwwgoHNex&klskimLgxHLiw7-ltckirwpHLeE-oof?bfFk
nqsbgDwzayCqp^jlxkvmrAftLxd@mmjpbfKgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'JsGzw:fnfbOftlm
grugtessmmtfr%fUaujfDsaAuAi!zAaiqesuesFnz^fuobvmsAaIIpC!ruuvnj
nAvug	rhowtme<klogzyrApsHtd:uKtbvtrwmtSeA*zt.bcsvgpA:ei<kDauq
smoAbqwztHHxd:ulmgcwF"as8t{!O/wgbrskfsOud_ElnkpirhcHOyd*zbakhe1_n
Smcgn	rP"EFew:gKafqBFgixLj%!fUu&nqrifsHtd;yqavjjAyaIOyx*tsavjjAy
nqbfuevvxGtfr%fEbAksyg&VIri!ABacifAu.sxje/'|abKeKobEFes+rKanqtC
ABacpirzbRt-1&ulbobNrAixHad!ZqmnbrwguAuyd'oDtv?esuesNmi+ ljhbN
rulgbgwpoztyl@zlqgtxGu.s3)p-fopogeMw;stnj!tAu?bN\smsMye,fppyp
nqsgbyAsms3)q!yAngdtvFaxFxiO/\cwv	rvisxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^ lxkvmrh
yGefgsrivKMyd=llugcwKaa/3eh=fIjujeLofRt2SpRParwyrAixCwd&kmeu
jAxp#erPatGew=f8FT1eLpsxxes'fnfkplrhmEtfp=tqajgww""

flBubxzlaLunh!ztjubxzlaEIto^jleqysrhusBjv!nmofu	rhowtBe|
yGsrtnKlesNtd|kqavjfLgtAyel@jlqwveGuaHHjd=llujge0hcuCy(|fxjvvqw
CtjvgeCpesAqs<kEayjnDlaLBjd>gEavcqCpozoedGNAxbEF6gJsBfz^fpppg
ztbv{)rzixtyl=Asiv}er'JsGzw:fnfbiwGDjGAew_gxmbclspon.ednnqaiqyrBq
gzebyjFAaMIex&klucdqwguHtri@yGsgbmwytxFkd#Eljv?esueszty+jlujcyl
gEapgfJszsuxd|nqaeqzDkazOjw| ltjgeOhtsHtA!gnpwveLDpszji:ftjij	
gzebyfKghHCsk!uzaujwAulBHld/gBjfnDggaLBjd|uAobhtMuesIzx!ztbvbyzl
imvugeGmaMBnw!CmtbvmwggtHew&klxcuezvmwCsk7fmofbxzlawLtt[kpakv
nmtvkqQaaCOxx!ozavkrwguHtfz=opaujwAulBHld@CmzbcqLvhxNmi/a

^6icve#HTsuer@xDpybjKjbIy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee!mApfbiwhmszwm"nFfpgirhu
ztfbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMAaOywC!mxbfbyGggBHid&kDtgnkrzuBFqd*t
kJjuvjFjfit%e+jloqyexvssNmi!mmsfgs/_atHid|nqatcsrDjMBee-rltrgjv
hmdmbyGguAyep*zFmgbiGvshtef;zfacnfK"aMBjd-oFungevvpKtBe|fEiwv
gsbkp	rhowtyl^fxjvvqwghHFii+fwfAbBszaESnr"fAobvmwghEuxw!zmcngesz
hqgqtjlg!tHid:nuoiuesyfsQtv|klujcsrlwxL	(!ztpwimLguAyet=uDaejnDk.
^rptbNrufOywd>gEauqeKtbEFee|fFikuetlgHLj{!tqwgt^rgBGxeM!jqdncww
oF"ubyGvauui{!ztbvbnLgjL:)

flBubxzlaLunh!ztfugeOvswMel^xlgqqyrzmBJui% lbpfeAuatHtx&kD
sAngpylgtIFfw&'ltjgeOhtsOud:uligteuojGtnr!ymmvbBsAfKoedcklgktxL
opfcbBszaMBfx!ytfbjfvgtHGjl=ClgcnqwuaBHys!ztfbujsaa/ush!ozavjfL
imtgbNrjbGtls!hmdmbgQgstCqA@Ef"bumwgttCid:uligtxwsgnte+?rudgbmsk
hqfpbyGguAyew^gEjfgeGudxtnr!nqsbnnxl.sush!nmebetElaMIex&klhgpjJhm
iAoenzKppGnex&gFayjjJlwxLeC=AlhqbyGgpGtyl^fQoinnKoavIfw:fKpwbkAue
glowogwyaHzef@ztjpieEhdACsi|fuobvmwgtxu	d|uyfbemAseKysd%oshkplrpo
ztfbufFkaPCyl!CApfgsrzqtxjw7fFigpesgsHQes'fxpfinFnaAIzw^yfacpi
hqikpirAixGee!xmjnyfQgtMuym=tg-bbMGDfOyw{!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
ytfbyfKgjGtyl^fBpqneGmaMyfv|fIikemrzixtme%fIfrveOofGtxl^fIbubsAuf
lqfvbmAnin

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbhJpfwtxs!sGdj#)rzbBxeE-oof?bfKgtAyew>gyacdtMA.
zDzkplrApsznr%ftftbBsFaHOy	!f)Jbumssmsvjd[AzjujjvggHLem:fzpy?e1
yGqrqxwaauSef^ozhbfwGDoxxem+fyzbqBFguxuwwHflUjcyr4J56ef^fmaswjwy
ztjpi	rApsvjd|ADf#beZvxxPjv7fqwgtDLojGAem|fCvggwrAp xfC8-

flKwuyrAixHew&kligcwvgtHGjx&ozhbuuDhtACsk!gnpwveAuaMBjd[uAmbc
ruuvnjrDbRttj' lbpfeKofsMBe_fzfctjJguHtre)klpwveOobMtnx!Cmt<besA
lusuveKofsNms;mtubkyrtvLNef^fmaycqJBtsIwd&oBqqrtLhnNM	d#AFavjjF
ytfbtjElnuywi%ftpybxEhmEtxl^fIbubsGD.sush!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
oFaycxrvoESee!sAvugeLobMtme%fEmkruwkaBHep*qqajgwKlmyo

fl!YqzDkaBNef^fAgbcsQgvLy	d+uI.&byzvvzByd?rudg?e]ApsMui@qluqbyzpt
sAvugargFOywC:nuoibnKgtHtty:/Ag+vmw|xtSeh=CzajgwwaaMBfx!OltjqzDk
ztjpmeNlsRtqm)kxzbkyrjbGtye-qaabcyrhoRtwe:kfavjjJl"Ltss!nmsobnF
zDzkplm_as!td|nqadglsu;st%S!SAvug	rkpsSty!qzpybyzlaPuDd=AFaqh
ztjubuGvmoteM!gyaxgwQguBLjh!urauynEtjGAee#uGubjjJl.s9eQ=AEf#&
[MmkejrAiHOll:fFikueEBtMtgi!ztfbtnyousQfC!uraurjsrjGAex=fmaoqzKl;
ytfbjfvgoxPjv!jAogbxMjisuex&ozhbdjxvsxnef;zltjgeJlnxGgi/kpajcAAuh
yqfpbnFgixLef/uFigt)KgMtNnr!MDboofJaa/Ueq=AEf++txgbsGty|k\_vqes
sAvug]	haFIzw^/\PbotMzf|.edonqaOqzKlaEIto^jlbvbmwyaKuyl^x
ozrwkxAAjOyqC7fmofbxwlnxxex=ftftbyGgxBHpd>oFibqswgpytnx|fxjvvqw
kKfu?etBusCyd|guebptLojGA 

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!jAfup)LgvGxjv|zmofbJFnmBMm{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^?l!K
jmsgufQgjM.xd@fRsgphzgnHOxi7fopogeGCfKtBm:nlXknqAhnsNmi
IAoswjJvsn.edRLAs?bBAAisuqp!nqsbmsGDmxxli!urajkxLvsRneE-oofbjfv
tAaxgwQgdEyfv!tAukqsropPtqs+mlbiqesuzMBnr"ftbfbmswqxHjh8]laUqeKof
hqhcpesnbBH,d!^1vbgxLgntthl@zFf{&eOojvBeA@ylujgexpsLNew^tFfpejrpo
nqsbHwwudAtqi|yAo+dtGr?stYl^fYpwujrnbOyee!yGefgsrsftJes;zlphbyzl
Cmugt	rhowtxi^sqebvtrxvBPjv!gxmbqAwyaPCyl!lDjijymga/9m{!Olcgi
EAvtbusyeHH^(!iDjgfeSsjvyel@yFjnA	rhgKunh!ztbvbxzlaAuid&ADubvmw
vAptbfFpntF)w!lqfnksyz?st%M!wGjvgexvszIyd,uGafkiF_usFno^fobvu \

fl!PqyrsjDyeg@zE@&bhJpfwtyl^fYpwujlgjGtfd|nDjnn	rwbLMns+gFf
BAjeg rg!$Izp%f~PWbqArfswfx|fugbAtMgxxLjd_kh"

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEapqyl_aLunh!GxjegeAuattxs=ztjpieLvoxiedGjAo&vetl
gzhtAesipNNem:alaCpirFfMtNd>oEibKeuvvExew&uIaAqzrvvKthe:fPjpcmg
OlujksCgzHO)h!zmlgbfrmbGwDd:uldcvxrpgsSty!iAvnfeGumRtxi^ftft}
YtfbkxrzvvBee!jqbtbvMpfMtyl*ts.&bFDpdxtBi+zlpp?ezhmytys!nqsugqxa
gEaujjrzxtGep@FumAbftvvMtnr!ztfbrtGs.s|fr%fEigbxAAtsJzv/ozhbut
tudgnDrizsNmi!lusg?eDpdDCsk!nqsbrfOzatHid>gEikplrofKtke$k\_cpi
ytfbkxrzvvBee!tudgbxGmusNmm+mluqbsMytxa]e+jltjg)KgtNwmd@fobrkyss
uzfbhtJgdtNhl*tsaokhw|_HB	ddfnfibDGBssJfv%uz@&bhJpfwtFp*iqacifAu.
lAsbvmAzaMCri!ztfbOtMzfsQfw!hDjuvqAuhsuqp!uHft?esuesMmi!lqmv
iqsvcnFgjMtry|zlcgbwwhmESes'lqofgimga/%jd>uz"vbysslsugs;zligtesuz
sAsgbnxgzHO)h!xmujgwrupMo)

fl!YgeAuexyi%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bymGgxtMex/kycnksygeHQsd:ulujgewue
urajkxrAbBF d!^MtbkkrPaPIzp%fFbnmeGuaLOhl!gltwdowju|teS;xlgconDF
gxxcAxrOB!YId$gFt<beFhtMS	d-uI.bxzDnbKtyl*tst#beVvo,Nep^zlngbmwhs
ztfbpfElatAfm+'/

fl!KbBGu"Mtnr%kqe#&eKhjwtFp*iq.bksrhazLje:ftvttDrApswme+mqavjj
yGclghLgpyths+BqsucyAvonte$?xqaAqz	|bKyeC=Algqpi	|pya]s'fppiua\
ZtfbOtMzfsxnh!tAubcsKDfKnew=fMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF;st%X&kDfbkx
yGdjbfrujvyep*zFmgbiGnaGyfv!uGsbjtMzfs3ew&uGmfbqArfsNtd|nAxbAtM"
GlmkvyDlauLnk&z\fAgirAfKLni/ lzqweCupPneA*ztaqj	rzvvBep=tsaewwDF
hDpypezhjK:ed?tpakv)Dsayyyg&fFikplKgxAysd,uGavjwGDaMBjq7fmof
oF"nneKpusOud@tpadglrmpKtnx|fpjppjJaatHid@rxauqwLzaHzex&ozhu+]1
imo&veJlnxGgi/ftbnheGmaMBjqT/mofbnLgcxFtr"yluqbfrmbKGjv7fKpw
qzpy?esuesBjd|gKtbky\zaLIey|krvn?eAA"LtBs/ztacbmMueKyid[uGofu^
NqaucDKgjMtpm-rEacnqrAixtwe:ylbpf]	visxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^fuobc
yAstqBxBmsNtr^ l!K&rrhgKunh!O/wgbtxmfGxjh!oFacifAu@,teJ=xlujg
SAvugeOhtsMBm_suoibfOhzszws_ftftbfKgitLid@yljvbhGBmwtls7fmof
smlkplrxvBNjd@fopootLppGtnr!ztfbrtGsatMem:fIfpv 

flTqbxzlavuqp^jltqhyDFatzyi/fuu?b%5vvLyeh^gD@bbIGgdHGjd#gol
gsbkp	rhowtBi!CAo&veLhmDtff=AFaecyKgpKtis"ylfkvmwy.sCkd,uGafqs\A
rulgbyzln|.edrnqobvmwgNHOxi!nqbtfeLojLnem:fFvtpjvgsHOsh!gzebuBst
yxpynDribvEex=ftft<erpuLtke$klxcueIBjMyet@rqa-ynLoaIuxw*uz.bCqAjf
ztpwimL/.sush!oFaucnvgjGtfd-uIavtjEimBHld<uudg?e]SfMtzw!mqubvt
ztfbumGyfmtfr%fFigpe1_mEtyi-rlzqweEFaACxx=xK.bcsvgzHO)p-
AzegtxLhowtBl,fuubkxrPaAuyi!imuubfFkawIlw8-

flJvbBszaACll!zungbyGghHnej=xlujgeHvpEtBe|fsfvvnFnaJOnx^fosqyiwk
CuujbyzlauCwh|fmofbfFpntFxd:nmubjfvggtFqi+fuovqeAA;styl^xqaygwwgb
JGdmbfFkattIs%ufacbQGyzsush!gzaGclDlumtfr%fEfxgwssaHNmi/fovtktMz
iDfcvzJltnteE-oofbnjvguAyeA@EfacpirAixtBl=rqarcwLFaLQfq!zAavjj
ytptg 



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ2

flabbergasted!flabCeUhvvOx[mgofbcsvgbs6tr"f6bng


flUjgDrDfKyem+jqffbfrxvxyw[-uAlkplrwbKNDd:nmubcxKlnuFjh!uzavjj
hmom+]Lofsvnv%ylxkvmrkstAlp^jlggcyzlsLnex&klbpkrsstsQnx&fFigkw
lGsbeqAuhBHld$rAtgbyGguAyr{!gzebcqDgeKCut*tsaygylgdKIxw7fmof
AzdqokGyutvqi8

flUjgexpsLNeu;kEukqsrvgswty/yqaycxlgiHQex=fsfvbiJFatAfm+.lavjjQ
nmebceuvoLOqx@zuppbftvvMtyl*yfacpirhgMywd@frfybrAuvMyxd*zltggrwk
wGjvgeFhuNLfp!zAaCnnulaMIej*tpajgwKlmytye-quoibkstjECfv-Elxkvm
ztfo?eszaBzew&klicfeCupPHex&kyacnqrofKtqm'kgabKsvlfwnew&klicf
wGjvgesgmHHld@xsvogsLgxBNmd:nqaNqwQaaPBtd@zlmcuyrAvKHjh!yGmmA	
gzebytMsesIsp,fEbA?e]PatGes-jqsbvmsuaRIz{!gzebozKAaDHtA!hquvgw\}
gzebvmAzaTFng^fIpwnirupMtfp-uIaykyzvvMtpr=CuoibmGDaHFid*zlxcu	
gze?bfKguAyeP=xKarqxAAjOyqC!xqgwujvguHtyi-rljvuesnfmtyl^xqaycxrup
sAsgbyGgcxtxe*jg

flBvbqszusNmi!SAvug	rDiHtxi^sqebvtrifsuet^xEppbtxgbNNms/oFzbcrGuh
ztfo?euhmEyid=AF.b@XAAawIBr7fmmnbtxgzHO	d@tpankxLlosNtd_k-abK)4S
yAppbrsrfsSty!jDzbgsGBhA:)d!ZtfAbfDsaLuyd%uIobcyrvovy	d*tlbbnfJnf
xuoi?eOpuAtyl^fYpwujrposNmi!suefnjmgaTFng^fwfrvezlssyDi|
gzykqzKszsznB^jlppbnLaayIwd|nqahgqLgtNLjd|nqayqzDkavuyg&fmadci
iAmfbnxgtAyeh*jloqveylusxwC!BqsAbxGvon

fl!CjjE""sMfm%fFigbRGBtxtBm:nlbpbnEwpKNfr:fmjt?e]hsxtDs;fmmnbwwheRp
ZtjubnKguAyeh/oqtvbyzpoztNd)tAx}be~pmxHhi!gxmbttMuemtnj!EAvbrqwhtx:
_9jnnnstaMBjd{uzrwgwGy.sQms|kldcwxwgxtMej@BAvtgirizsNmi!vAqg?eOht
yAppbxMinBNyi%fFpbdDrAixtJr"rutj?eOopsQfr:kpangfvlsLnee+jlicfetlfG
urancywgnNwmd@iovuvtElesNtd;yGsrcyAvosush!iAoswjKA?stJh>ozacpi
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*g\_*&

fl!Wim/_aLunh!ztfbNtJF.sQnx&fmaujnNlsn

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqs/_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfmtkv=Czjpi	rivMtAi/E
vAmkvjDF;st%H*jlzqweKwftEa(

fl!PqyrP@,txe*jlujge4vsRtme|zumA}

fl!KbyzvvzByd,uGafkil_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfnte$T/UarttulfwoedOKpxkpesue
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*gfafghDhsxxej=xliko,
gzebgAwua`Nnk@tp.bvmwgqtNwm=zudbcwuocBMms[fAgbEfFAfKvzv, lgqwsv
oFacfAAzbuFj[T_/

fl!HqzFka$2FX9-ltckirAixtIy$qg

fl!HqzFka2@	(!ztfbOtMzfsLjt-oqebtfLofKthv=yEmA<er'pyths;xEfbAtM
qzpybBzhus?nxOfyfcpxm_

fl!KbpFvxsQme:f|jv*eElbGMeA^rxagptMnimtBl^tlJbhnFkattyl*ts.&bxspe
ztfbFzur;st%m:-EaigswybEFDd@frsqieGyattBs/sgabVmwgrNyxx*uzaku	
CtbvbiAkaMBjd@xoidkxzvqsznr%b/

flUjge5vvLyeh*jloqveFvuBwjd:nutbszwzuBIs{!hGubjzJyjxxqC!CqovbtFa
^|_+htMuesCyd@jHjucgDlaMIek=fIjvjeWkhtLeE:nqmkplrApsGji:f9jnnnst
gzebqkxlssBnq!ztfbewGDonte1*rxjco)KgdHHiy$zlbvbkAytMtBe|
sAegtfLl?stGy:fFigbnFzpEysg^fAgbjnKgOHLre+y\_*beZvxsuwi!EAv
mquvksygpGtss> lnAbiwhso.em:foppvnFBfwnex;xzjpieLvaTFng^fmtbky
yBpmg 

fl!CueOlusuxd^Bqs?&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesgnxFfr$nAmAbyGufhte$*zleqgxF_u
yqfobyGgeKSeq^fmubcqDb"

fl!KpeLobMthe|kf"bufAkaMBjd	uppbutDlnGFD{!xutkplrApsCyw!lqfv?e]P
sAwgbyzhusNmi!sqfvksygbwDty/tfahqwrAixtnq_kpjcvjrheHJym=tlphbrGyf
kzftijLpdsLjq^jufu+]\





flabbergasted!flBNKHW_TsUIZ T6VTGXrPOs%TR	K4MCPI

flabbergasted!flabbergasteP^CutbEfJypEF

flabbergasted!f6IGbR1SMX8SMpSlGWNH02NsYIMoO1Ob4 +




flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gJ

flabbergasted!flabbergEHQsd:nqaTcgtpu 2tp^


flBnkhwgxtMef^muopksyguHtli:fHftAeLpsxxes'fEjvvnFnauSel^xltkuywy
uzavjjribGE	d@tpaqhezhwBHld+uFikplrApsxt\!fAoegeGyaMQng^fEigbmsk
vqfrgirpoMIex&klcqqprofKtxm|zqsbyfKgsxuim+mfadwyrpusBfh!tA
vudvwwwzaHLeg=tHftufLppGMem+fuu?b%suesQme:futbvmwgvLyes'fmadqtCa"
ztpwimLgBEChi!^IjvjtMAaIChx;xqtbqwrjpGPjv|gFjqpa\

flTqbxzlaPuxd$uztkfjJpoztnr!nqsbqBFgnBHidRgEaygqDgbLtxl^fopwnil
lAsbvmwgiHNeh@ElncfjrofKtki^rlwgtDrzmxyuC!gzebuyMwjw 	d>nqujgw
ztfbrqwhtNLjd=llncmnFnattie*yK_ejfAuaPIzp%fnfbytJAisNmi!zDpwdqw
uraigyLpoztzt!gzebrnurjGAex&kleckxAltmtBl^tltwfiwumRtfdrnuug
XmcdkyrDjMBet*twagAjKgstHeg-uEfbdDrofKo

flUjgwwgxtMer=ztjpieKva#YW3!xqnctpsimxtnr!ztbv>eFvssxnh!Gxjeg
ztjpmeAAaLIeZ X~aowhzgpNNes'fFigbBsFaMIel^gDavjjrYbuvnx!ymzbvt
oFtgnklg!8Beh^gD@bbTzgexuw%!fUaujfDsauyep@zq@&be}DixHew&klujqzyou
oFaqxjJgbyNjv>gDeu?eAAaHwhy/xqebvtrofKtyl@zltjgeGBhANex=ftbxg
CAofgwwkatNex&oE.bdzLgbMtyl^fFjogeAAatFqd|kqngfeIBjMyer@zGscn[h
hGubymwuaMBjdmgnckvesjuNuqp,f6PQMeSgXT@HL!U7UbQKrPU`t2EdY6DQCY	
V1DMGYlgbGxep=uwffbfLgjMnee+jlujgsrovKLni%fAo?bFDpdxtxx@xFffbyG
nqsbhjwA.sztv!oFahnfKofwtfg/uEtbjjJgnBHid:nmubumwgitxer^Bqs
hqgqtjrzfxHee!xmcdkyrDjMBei*ztftbfrDbBMyg=gF_rqhClumttv!glxcvhzguH
zmlgbtMAaHzem: lbpfetBsGCsk!CuujbhMyjHMnx, ltjgeJhosuhv=yEavjj
lufnfesmuxLem: lbpfexvsMOse:kxzbyfKgkNMyd*tlukojrApsMji!oFarqu
jAxpbfrsbKAjd/gnckv]zvmxtzr%kDavjjrofwAj	

flJpbfFvuAywd_uyfpvevvxGtBi+zlBnkhwgbyNjv!oF.bpjNlssIsg^
iAoukiwyjGAel=CljpbyzlaPIwp%fEigbBszaMIek^zlpwvesnbBH 

flUjgeJhcuCy[&uxfbyjFAaLNwe*mtubqsrsjDyee!zGopgqrmpKtxs_klxcA	
gzebvmwuawCut^jltwfiwumRtis>tfauqeKBewysp,fFicveSsjvyel@jloqves
sAngpyrApsNmm+qlbdqzLgtMIut*tsajgwKlmytgi'uDfbumwggHOsh!nqsugqx
lmmnksygeHQsd@fHftAevlfItBi-rg

flFkvmwyaMBjd>kxmbyfKgwxLDd%kqq?btJgtAyej^rxaxgwQgtEIBp, lgqteKof
nmebrqwuuRttj!zungbfKgtAyeA^tFafqBFguHtqs=qlbdqzLgixLee+jluq
CAofgwrDitNeA@ylhqksyguHtme[vqobpjPA?stKm/yF.bumwguKCjh!zAanqtC
jAxpbfFkaFupi!uGubymsAaLBjd>gEaeqrAuhsNt{!hGubkyrDbLtys=fpbtmeLv
yqfbcsQAiBHl,!ztfpbxzlaEIto^jlbvbyzlaLCii|fAgbvmwgxxFq{!gze
tAukejvguAuyd:nqzbyjJlayCqp^jlxkvmrjvIvte/jEacpiripHE]w&kxwgu.
nqsgbfFkaMBjv^fEigbxsDaFuuw!gzebrnuAvKyxd&AzhbwuGuaIylw8flTjg
zApmbiGDosuen@xlgtqrrvoxttj!ztfbumwswxMee|fEigbusztxx.d*zlxcu
rmcgnqwka/9WEiMQaOCW5HMTXJ(7fnvvbyGgixLek/kmubfnKhqIInr:sqovbnL
CmtbgrHAzhtew&klekfeFvusFno^fFpbfwGwaMBjd(gDahqwrmftLes'fwjnnnFn
yAngdtvF.sMtd_gzbigirApsJzx!oFakpyGgpGyes'fFigbhMwcHuwh|fmtbumw
lqmnbuszusCy	

fl!YgqD""sNms;mtubCqAjfsNtd&kDtgnklg!tzyi/fEvejesggtFqd@ylujkxlgJ
ytbnneLojGEer=ztjpieGmaMOrf-ozhbftOuaLNfm/y-abJtOgcKuAi!ztfA&qD
gxmbvmAulsGjd@zliqoj/ga$BD{!Olxqwqvu"Mtxe,fmoAvmAuhsugs;zljv?
kHfpbnxgJszjp-fAghbyzlaMIud=llujgezvvLy^(![9ikemrDbLtAi/ElmkmjDF
zDvg}[

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er4pNFid:nqahcqDgOX$JV!iAngbyGgbGtjr%'la@K
CAofgwropPtre+ElnknjKgJ,Pjd'gxmgpetFaMBnw!zung{)rzixtxe*jlbnqzvb
^UaowxLgcxtli:zuoibxGtfPBjv^fzfcteLofswjr:xqaqheLofsyfv:ngabNjL
sqaugjggaMBfx!CAvnfetlayIzv!ztpwufFkaFCqi|fppyp	rPaMBnr)/\"b-kGy.
EAvbujwaaTFng^ftbfbqwhsGNew^BqscneLojGAxd=llujkxrzpKNem+ftft
rqtuqsKgjGtyl^fEdjqtDypHG	d@tpavjtMnisNmm|fIbubsGAatt1Im5lhqqi
uBqqtyMujMSej=xltjqBAuhsIkj!nqsbmsGDmxxli7fmtbvmwyfsQfw!tAaqpjrAp
rutvgsrApsBjv7fEuknqrpusQfw!mApfbuJhdMChi!zAaucDrpusIAi/]l!++Dwz.
ztbv&xrhcHOyd:nqatklzAawCxx@tof++gMAaMBjr!OlxqpiwyaPBfx!Rmukvzvl
uDaNqsypuNxjdd-HfbitLguHp)d![Mmkejrobwtss!opfcbBzhus6fx*zGegbBsz.
uDaNqsypuNxjd^oFigt	rivMtyl=AsivbyzlzsQjv^fzjegeyybGxeA=xptbvt
ymz}_

flQtgxwuuESew&klcgifFgbzunr8fl!KbBGuexLem'fUaujfDsayuqp!xuhjv
ZTSQWLZguAyei@xFi#beZvxszzr+Eljv&qDgtxyrd:uldqojrvvMtfq=tsavjj
vqprnjrAitNeA@rwaykyzguAynv!nqbfuevvxGQfv%'laVjjrHoMCue:nufu?e1
ztjpm]	_a{Mmi!CmtbtfLofKtlp@jlujgwwgXT!er=fAogbqAzuxHnr" lujkx
zung?eszaBNeh*jz"vbxGBowtfx!gxmbvmwgsBAmx!CAsf_e]|_uOyddfEicnq
nmwgbyGgbLEex&kyayjfLguAyer@sqaqheLofswty+zDzbkxlgzHOeo+uI?
VxfcujlgNt.fq7futbvmAza7yBdukmmcpirvssUzw:xmmkca\g)tHid|nqavtnwk
zAaewwLzfRtfw!ytfbuuGrf ake+iKaEWW`ZF^3SK!gEaAqz\yfszfp-ozh
ztsqwlzguAyee*x-abFtrFpNtyl*twaAqzrjpNFid_gzbigeAA}	te$?tpayjfL
gzakisGybGNep*zFmgblAymsMmiNrxavjnFraFyej=xlbumnFn@stSs7fuu&nq
tqwgtevvaMIee|qaabrjJobIMeM!ytbnneKlfsCyd>xuuvgsrBqsMtq^Ctftg \

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er1ixLjd>gEapqyzpoztjp|kluqbiGaaLIeE-oofbutGu
hqhcpeLhmDCsk!gsbkp rg!WCse&-xmbonKzaFyez^xKaowhzguHasm"nF.bK
ytpwnirAiBHp%Nfl)FkssoaPuxd:nqaecym/as|Nd&uBfbvmwF"EFev^sqndgw
nqsbufMjfKttj!summbfLguxu]x*sq?bbIAubAtrC!jqbt#erPaPCxl!EAvbyjJl
jAxpbmwyfsQnx&fyf#be`ofKyee/kloqbrAjfsCsd:nqackwlgJ,Gee'xmjf?etBu
EAvbonyouswfx$nlbbdfLaatHid:nmu&ueNlsRtqm)klbbotMzfmtDs;fwoqy 
HGubftrjbMMei@zlccvxlgJsQtr%kD}&beSuesBjv^fMmkejrifzusd:ulhgv
xmujgwrzmxyuC7fmofbBwuusIsd|gKjpieLvaAyww^rr.bksrhawLje_Eltqtyrvg
Cmz?b%Vvavuyw!kmubdfLz}stIs!imuubjsAauuyw9-lbpfeKvnxNnq^yfa@Ft
hmuubjsAavuyw9-lgqt	rFpNtxi^ lbubxzlavIzp%t/ubcsKDfKtjm:nqs
wGfuvnGu.sCyd%opo&veEBdAtre:zqsbymAjisQfC!ytfbrzLgjMoednnqahgqL
ztbvbxzlaPuxd%uLjpieGmgmtfr%ftbfboMzusvjk;tluqbiJlbFtyl@zltjg
CmtbyfDrjGAel@tpakpezhowtBm:nlEkpfzaatHid|gKjpieLvaAywd<kDz
kmspgxLszmt%R=CfaFksso.sNjp-fyfbvmwguKOyl2flekfeQvvsyAi/fqbvbf
hmu{&eOofGtxy%jqonA	rAiNGu%!ztvor^rkpPHew&kldcojrBqHHee!nqbrbtx
yFjemxrhowtiv,fxfcxjKaatHid:nqahcqDgxtMes<kD?

flBnkhwgxtMer=zlbbdnLgiNLy{!gzebumwgkNGui%fGqbqsrApsBjv!lqfvbnFgb
sAngpyggaLBjd-uAlgfeMw.svzx!oFaycxrhmEtie/qlpxgwzlbwjef^lAsgbmwy
CmtbcsGAixLep=tsarcxKhhxnee+jlujge#ojMyeV@hnjvbBszaLNnp-fuo
yuhjv	rovKLDm+mleqysrpunteX&kDfbyfKgoHNee!sAngpyrApsvjd-uEu<
gIbAbBwuusUqm$klmkmjrAixtBm+jfacpirDbLtoy|zljpbyAtfsNtd&kmsbky
ymz?bfKgjMtyy/tqebceuvsGyw{!^1iboDrlbKMee+jlxjkxClsLnel=Clmcvj
oF"ublwAuBHl%NflTjgeOhtswqs|klcgjnFkaBNeA&kzaujjrAvKHjh!ztf
iAspgwlgcNNex&klScdgAAaPuxd+ulmqplwyaMIef^fEfgp,rgtAyej=Aze
nqsugqxgjGtfd-uzh?bqGDaAuqp7fIikemrDbLtqm:fGqbdDrhaKIBd=llmcouK
nmoiksyggKIrd:nqatqtxb

flUjgwwgxxLjd%uAsubfDsaKIzr%fFigbmssmmtgy:fFigAeOlsxtfp-fxpemjv}
gzebymwuaTFng^ftbfbgwlosuqp!ztfbyfQgeHQsd=tqaukiwgbGxey[fFig
uFigt	rAsRCsk!kHftAevvpKnew&klxcnpwkaLuip,fppypeLofsGnh%rq.
CAofgwAuhsBtA!ytfbyfKgfOywd:ulhgveGBusule*tg

flTwfiwumRtxl^fobogeMwpGtfd-oFungeLosxy]p^msffbysimxnee-rlncfjrvg
yAmkfeysbLM.d:nqsgbBszaGIyl*tsaqpeAAaxRhi[zlbbvnFFazIqh^tllgA	
gzebCqAjf,Mej*xEubvmGBhANeA@ylujcyrpusGnk&zlcgntFnaMIes+klphbyzl
jAptueGmaMBjd&gxm>bgMA.suqe|'lfkvmwyaMBjd-uolubBwyfsNts!rmsig	rvs
ztfbmjQgxtMex=ultocqDaauOyd@zlbpAeJhuxtnx!CAvnfeFvusIui+fmoAbtx
ztfo}erOpPyAi/ lppbyzlaLyhs+jlukojrypNHi{!ytfbefElaNJtr!glmqy
iGsvcnFgtAyel@jloqveFvuBwjh!hqgqtjlgbGxef^nuofbnLgxtMee!ruuvnj
jAptbftvvMtkm'zqfpbnFjixMel*mt;bbxzlaMLni%fFigbqAAuEyek=rpfpbpwF
ozavjjrspvE	d@tpavqezlssAwi@zlegnnyousCyd'oFugf^

flBnkhwgpIysi%fFigbiGvssush!lAvpfeLobMtnx!rqebksLvattxq@rx
vmtuclwaaGIyd_AoibnfJnfKtyl@tlbbtfL|iHFj\!fEigbpFlmMtis>tlbpf
rApmgirhmHHld:nqarcxKhhxtnr:ulujgeDvwxFni|zlhctiwuaRIzd^BqsbufOb
NAxbumwgmHHli%fFpbijLgpNNes'fFicvevhsDtme-rfacpirDbGxjv!gnpwv
gyppieLopLyef^jEaqhetyjzByd'rAxgtxrhowtyl=yqaeqtDggHOsx@ozt?bgMA
ytfbetMsesHtx!kHfpblwAaAywd&kmebvmGBhAtyl^fppqtBsF<s|fr%fqwgpeAm
sKajgfvgxHOqh!mAavjwGBhAn)d:nAvijyrwpHLeE-oof?b%AAaPIzp%fnfbqk
BqsAbqAAuEyey|klxkvmGBusGDd|nAvnfjJz?stTl7ftpybNrDjLB
OldqwqvgtAOyd;vlmkmjrhaMyqi|iAqg#erPaMBnr)fUaeqzDk.sCkddfAonA
qzpybmGDaMIef^muo}&erMpKneC=Altgg	rzpsGfr,fAvv+tx|uAy]A@Elujksyz
nmebjfHwfGyid-gFfnA	rAitNeE-oofbjfvgcxAzr!zAavjnFraMBfx!BqsAbkwD
ztjpixrpowyjh!CqsgbwwhmESem_vAtukgDl?

flUjgwwgtxyri%fFpbdjrupsOxi!ozaycnLpoztgC!ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfauqeKof
CqovbgsjlsNtd:nqavcgDl.sBfp'ftprksygtAyeq*mtubhnFkatHtx&kDamgDrvo
oF.bqwrhususC!xmugbfripHEes'fDvngxrmpKtxl;zFjpieHlpIFjd;vlmkmj
zqmguhGwfLied:nutbvnElaLBjd'uGofbfrsjMNqi!hAuvnjrvosCy{![)xjkhz
iqsvcnFszsQfw!tAubjjJlauyks/kf"bufAkaTFng^ >acpirypNHid:nqapghC
uravjjripMNqi!CmtbceHhqxLep@hqm?bBAAisNmi!CAsfue]KS28PdhK/
hqbwvnxBmESet/ozugfeGuaBNem+fxbtijrsfMNjv|a

flJvbBszatFqd<kDzbyjDsaMIew@El!FtnFraFy	(!hGubvmwgxBMjd-oFung
GxjegeOhtsHtx!mAjpieLvawIeXcG6akpesgiNLwC8fl!Pq	rP"EFep=uw
lusuv	\gtAyew@op.b@fFkaLyjd>nqujgwrpu,Meq@xwffb-HvjLIs)!uDapqy\}
lAsbumwgitxev^gpaugAwybEtsm$klmkvyDlaACxx=xufubftvvMthl*rpsgpeOop
nmebitLgcNLsx7fmofbjsAfGtzt!hKaykqvgcxuxx|fmofbtLofKtzr[rqbucsL
ztjpixlgbEFef^imvugeLofRt2SpRPapqyryfFyrf^xlujgeKpnIFjd/Axfu
ztfktexyjxHiw!nmebvfMniMtyl^saabuzuoatM	d:nmubceJle Btx!vAlgt
CumnbgMyosSty!oraAqzropExem:fFpqbqGuhitfr%fFicveAmaRIzd$AFaAqzJ
luoigwr3F~'eh^kBmAbBAAisueo+orf?bnLgvLOfp-Elcngjvz<sush!ytfbjfv
tqwgtexvszIyx^tlujcylgjytDs;fpskpprtvvBej/uyacbgGAuEyeq@xwff
^BpkutFa"sCyd*ylbnotKAavywx@ozavqevpttAwi^fIjvjeQvvmtxs=tqsbqw
rmugt 

flIqyjNlsmtyl*ylcqvyDlaPuxdiU6aocwCles|us*yAo?&eKvaTFng^fHfpvzJle
zAavcxLlaBN	d@tpahksvpoztnx!BqsAbsAjfmt=m:ftbf?eAuayuhx7fmauqwL
uraokCwkayFfz=ADaqheuofKLD[:gDu?bhMzutLi{!vuog+fHwmxnev=gEu
zGsmgDlguHzki^ lbpfezvusvzx:kDffbyGhtMn[d|nqaxgwQgtHIsd'ozjujjv
oFaqhkm

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbhjwsjGA^(!ymjfbFDpdxje$dfyvuvetlaLBzx:ozhbwu
rulgbfrAfEyxg=vq?&

flBpfeKvaBNeA@yljpfjwk;stxl^fIbubsGDaHHqC!zqobksuofLtmm"nfacpi
nqsbhfulauLnk&zqogfeMwatNex&klujqzyousNme:fEigbBszaGIBd:nqatklzA
yuAgbkGyazInr"fFiqwlzguAyep*zFmgbiGvssCsx=fFicveDvwxFDd"gDegp 
Lusuv	ropPyAi/ ltjgeOhjMyid'uDacbkwDaFCsy:kEavqeKlfsCkd|nqaycx
mAjpieLvaLBwm+qlbpAexBsMBjv2fltjgexlmMtfd-oFungeFlsOIzw!gnpwv
ztju>e]mpKtnx!suhjvewuemtDs;fwoqy	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfa@ksrtz
mAjpieGBusuqx=mqujgwlgmBEjd@fobpfqwbas3eA=tpftbBzhus3ew&uGmfbgw
rulgbyzloo.ed?tpaujjrAsByid:ulgcphQgxAuyd:nqahnfElaHzee!imofnjrpt
rulgbfxAfKtyl^fobpfqwgjLtgp=CzaqwylggHLew&kldqwqvgoHNev^sqndgw
kHftbmsCjGAew^kzauwhzgbsNmm+mg

flBhvjJgbsQmm-kfahksvpoztyl@zloqvmAuhsGtv^ftbrrjFlemtxl^fpfekiwk
uzaiqnFnaBHys!ztfbifJkfGtfx!uzdg>etBumtfp@ylgqteHvpKtFp*iq@bymwu
ytfbitLguHtyl^fppqt	rzixtks;tpajgezhesztv"uFugpeLofsFnx:rqaiqqvlo
qqz?bfFkaPBjr!ytfbyjFAauuho!zAavjjrAbuFjd'uDakv	rzixtks;tpaujj
iAvnfeFvusJtw|onmAbwwhdAtnx2fltjgeuvvExew^kljvbvMpuxtup@ozmA
ztsqwlzguAyek-gEt?bfFkaLBjd:xuffbmwyauyxx!zAaennEiaNJes+klphbyzl
rqhubtxguAyex@hxf?bgMAaBNeA@yluqqeKsjIJjv,?lbpfeOofGtxl^ftbf
zusgfezlsLyqj!uGubynLoaMLDm+mfavjjrwpHLep*zFmgbyzpoztxe:fppypesue
iDjgf 

fl!EqrwaaMBjv^-EapqeMzfsCsd$xKjpieDplxtyl@z-"bufAkaTFng^fFp
nqsugqxaaKuyl^xltjcwHszit%M!gpwkujrFpNtys!rqbxgeGmgsNmm|fyjpwyw""
YtfbijFlstFqC!mmwgbmwytxFkd<kDzbitGkatxAm$kfa-vmGBhAtxl^fHftA
yqmfqrrmpEFtA^jljv_	rhowtxs_kFjogxrzixtxg=rpffbmwytxFkd|u
yqwgtjDFatMex=fnskplrAftLxd*tFpbjjJgfRyx,!gzebqsulaLBjd/kyfodjJle
zDzkplrApsvtB!nqsbqBFgftLxd'uDajcAAuhswmi@zqebjjJzfEzem+fmaicrw
uraettIBfMtxl^fIbubuDhzBHld@mmjpuyrofKMjp' lgqteLojLthy/oAvu
itjnfeOhtsPjv,frppfeGmaILjx^tpjpieLvauyex>ulqgquDl?st%F;zljv&xrup
AEfbptOa"sNms;mtubrtGyaTFng^ l!vqeHyfMysh!zAadgeLDpsJjs[rq@bb2zF.
ztftg)KgitLip,fqoqwlzgpytri!rqgvbyGgntEjdjTQatgxHldMugp^
vqsuqs/_

flTqqsrofKtjC^frfnneGuattqm:zxfbiqsztsvtB!ztbvbBszaESnr"fGofgw
ztfbvftsfhtew&klprgswkaBN	d@tpahqzFkaBHem:fmaxgwQgtFuqp!imlg?eGu
CtjejeLofsQtv%yl!GCYrTF,tBi/klcgczLpgNFqC!smsmgirposwzv/gzuu}
^9fnn	rP"EFei@zljv?)rzbBxeE-oof?b%suesCkd*zlncmjKgnxtlv=Clmctlwy.
OldcpeJlbvBex&kllgA.rhowtnj!oFaocpwzaFyek/uIauofDsfKneM!imobewwlq
AzegteLofsxts/?ltqbjAAixLeA@ElJ&nqrnfMtnr:ulujgeyhswys{!gzebK
jAo&veuhsxtBl*itajcuHloL:)

flTjgesAfsuep*zFmgbgAA.sush!ymjfbfFEjHOxp,fFpbjjJzfEz	dG3tjej
Cmz{be#ojvBeA@Eh"?bmGseBHld&kDajcsvgpGtyl^fFprbtxgixLel^gpavq
lqfnbBzpdAtBe,fuubyfKghKIBm+mfacpirzixtBe|fCvkvjrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbyzhusMmi!xqnckswkaMBjd|gyfbunRl;stys!hqauwwwaaMBnw!mqogtfDsz
nmqrgsKgxAysd=tqagcyKgdtEj{!hGubCqAjfsBfh!mAubutrtvvBem+zAavjj
CmzbqkrlyIyhx*tsapqyzpoztgy:fAvv+tx|uAy]A@ElujksyzaMIel@vBfp?
ztbvbnLgtxyri%fCvkvjrkvEFee+jltvwuAkayIwd-orfbvtrnpsIsd*tlujg
iAnoqsrDbRo

flTqbxzlaLyyd:ulxqtplgbGxez^xKauqtFggBHnw&kpaqhkrAixthe)kg

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+




flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ

flabbergasted!flabbergas@mi!VApnbtxgUxuww


fl!EwwAvvLywd@tpaewwAvvLyw%NfoskgirHmBwjdRytfbyfKgtHtry$n
yGsrtnKlemtyl@zlgqteLofsGtq^tFaujjrxvBNjd'uDhqvezvxsNtd|vqbmblGve
Kzhnkxz/<s|ss>fU"obtHloBHld=AFankpwguAyep@xsfuveLlmxMhs[klujcy
kHftbBsz@stLs=j\cAg	rmfxN^(![rptbBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPHee:ftft
lqfv?eLofRtxi^sqebvtrifsuqq=yFaqwyrvgsMnk&zfavjjQgxxLjd"kFukplrzp
lmsbqkx/?st%S& lnAbuGvssFnx:rqahgjLaa2tBs+jqsbymGgxBFqd[AFaqp
EAvtbxzvfLtfr%fEuqepAuhLtks/fKpwbsGD.sxje/yhabK)EgtNLjdUO,aujfF_u
hqacdqw"as3ew&gxmbdjrhazLje:fpfcneLvpszfv!urgbvtrAsHOgp^fyzugqx
gnpwveQvvhteC=AlnwuyrtbGuli!ztfbdjKAaPuDd,uGaecshg_ vzx!Olnwuyrif
quofbyGguAyr{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!qteHlsAuuw!ztfAbBGu"MtBe-qlujg
CmzbKeOhoMtys!mA@bbQwAaFyew^kaabK)DsazCAi!ztfobfrufPtue*xlph
hApvuewCfKSeG&xutvofKb"

flBpfeKofsQjr:fAobrqsuoBHld:uligtxwsgsBtA!ytfbytMsesGfr@mqakv 
^6igAeEBtMtls!hKavjjrjbKLni/ /aujjrAiHOll:?l!cpiropPtky+tKakv)Ds
yqfo?eKlowCsk!vDfugsLzaMIes+k/tbqBFggxyy%!fMofbmGDaHxid:nq
jusgeyAvoLtBm-rlmqqp/

flabbergasteEgOOF&Ue0PH1@eJjU6.bGX9b
flabbergasted!flIGCW`OS@1	
flabbergasted!flabbe6LB~tYL fRFPFJ0a
flabbergasted!flabbergas	2MoNlBNKHW_Ts6TZ ]g

UtafgfJaaPBfx!tAougsKla2.rd:gxlkpl/_

flKwuyrAixHel^xligcirzuKOho!gsbkpxLguAyev=uraqheLofsBfp-.lakp
lmdvbxzlaPuxd+uIaoqwwguAusd+ozfbhjwAaACll7fmofbxzlatNes+iqavqtC
ABavjjrsjMNqi!mAmfgsrrfRtfr%ftvttnwkaHzkd:ulujgeyhswysd%uAs}

flQqqwrHmBwj%!fUubyfKgbLtry$nlbubxzlavIzp%fpp?bqQpoztis>tlppbtFl
yueg?eLvaEIto!ztsqwlzgjGNtd:nqaicwvlosQnx&fAogbjQl<svzx!zAaigy
ztsqwlzgxtMeq=xqajquwsfLMex&gzagxjJ?asMmi!ymubftOuatHid#ksbpbyG
iDzbclspon

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmyn)d|guebCqAjfmt%e!mDfcv
musnbqArfsSty7-l)ujjrtjzByd>kxmbufQguACx=7f)uqblGgpGthv,ozhbks
ztjubBsF@stXx=vlujkxrtpFysx7fUavgqDgzHO^(!fNvvbxzlaPysx!uzacnq
ztfbufEl.sMmi%juoiblssmHHxd=llugcwKaaNHym-fFigtjrDbLtfd-gDhgbuGvm
gxmbttMuesBjv7fmcqwyrmpNLem+itfubiwlqsush!xqbejnFnaAuqj!jAxpbyzl
nmmn}

flBhvjJgbsNnq^fEigbmwhswtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusCsd:nq
jutvcsul.sush!ytfbjfKAjESeh/oqebjjJgfRyxd:ultggeOobMtBe|fopoksyb
OFaycxrAixt2l*zqaTcgtpusLjx;xzjpi	rzqEysh*jxzbfwwztxx	d>oFibc
vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLtnr!uzfbjfFkatHid@fxbtijrmbGtnr!ztf
uFigt,rgixthe_klutqyLpoztfp=tsakpesghKyfx!nGstA	rtvMNjv*tsavq
nunugqxgbLtmi!imng?e]Vi|tyl^fPvejjKz.sNmi!JGdjgxK"a8B^d>uz"vbxzl
hqaucAsnfsCkdd-HfbmjHAaAywd>guukpl/_asUqm$klggnyrzpsxjw[kDbvg
ztbvbxzlaPuxd/kmeAbyGgbLEel^rBaqhesuzsIsi3fEp?bBzlosNmi!Xmcdky
imngbswhssBjv7fEigbgwnbGnem+fmanqBlguBGnh!BAjeg	r'JytDs;fBmgcxwa
yus++)rgUAyeV@hnjvbxLhsMyid<oAmgpyDF.sxws[vqebvmwgxACyi!que
mxpxgxrhowtyl^frbp?esuesMpy/xuffbfOhzsCsx=fFigbisylGyxw!gEajcwv
gEajgeuvvExek=a

flBnkhwguHIpd;vlujgexhosush!mxpxgxlgbGx	d@ylujgezhmEtBe|fHftA
nAu?bxzlaDyux!lmopksygixLxi-llbnneLofsNnq^fEigbBwuusIsd:gxlkplg
^Pfct	rkftL^d!NAxbszwlssyAi/EFikplrptsNt[%gK@bbFFkaRyxx^xpbA
ztjpixrDfGNes+fvvuveszaNMze-alaKbBGuexLem'fU"xgetlfGthl@tsffbnF
ztfbpnyouoteP^zlngbyzpoDied>gEaKbyzlaLuri!CtfpbNrnpMtzt!ztju
sAspksycas3ee-sAtvbyzpoDtNd$gzatgrwtcxLej^kxjpiesgmBNyp^
jughgwwuunteF;zljhbN\taGIyd:nqaucrwaaMBjd+kJubszwzuBIsd*yfaYjtrpo
ztfbytJsesurddblaCj	r1IT@)W!ztfbiwwhusJzD.rq@&beSuesMmi!hqhcp
ztjpmnFnaHPjv!gxmbvmwgdACqh/kzaujjrroxQex&gFaygwwgpytyl^fEbogesnf
gEajgwKlmynex=fEfgbnxgtAyeg=AxebjfNlauyjr!itbpijvggHLee+Elph
ztfo}

fl!K&rrzvKyeMNsloqveSkbm.ew&kltckilg!yIwd&kDajcnJghHyxd*tltwem
rAoibwAuhEyyw7fmofbrAufsxti|t/ubitrposLnr"rquubfLgbEF.d@tpaK&r
yGsgbNrjbG.yd#klNcdjDaayIwddfwoqyessmsMtv:ylphbyzpozM	d@tpaujjl
ut@bumwglGIBw!yGdjbfrCfKSep*zFmg#erIfLCii| lTJG)~gtAy	d@tpaK&rrP.
gze++tzgexuw{!nAxbrzRGmBHld*zlbnneAz@stN(-rlutAeAma2tpr=ClbnneLof
ztjpixrPaNMjh!zAamptObas6jx!sqaugjggayIzv!zunguexpwxtnw!zIfnxjl
gzebhtMyaMCri|fEjzbnKguACwx^kz.bcsvggHOwd:oyfubxwCfGtnwT/Aibfjsy@
OltjcqDgoxPjv!mqubvtrAxxHyC!gFavjfLgstNj%!fTpygAwy.sNmi
SGmvkuDpdtNns+f6bdnjrkpxMs(:fEjipnxF;stqi:-EavtDrNfHAwe[nK?
RAofqsrptsNmi!imqkvfDgpytUe/oE.bcsvgQtLnw!oEavjjrjbICye-fAgbTtEl.
gzebTtEl_ Ht{!ZTBV&XrhmEtBv=ts.bK)EgdxLye*t-abKeEBtMtme<klcggs
itbpijvggHLeQ@hqm#be1_mEtyv,fmofbxsFa.2tA!jAujbyzlaECyx-k\_*&
gzebumwgdKIxw^jligtezhowMes+ftftbqswatMem'fEigbBwyfsMfC*tsangxKvoLn
gzebdjyhosNtd/kBfcveAA.svzx!nqsbxtAjfsMty+jqebjtsytxtfr%
yFscplwaatHid:nqayqwvzawCid+uFaeqrwguAyew@sqacueLofRtzw^jluqbiG?_ 

flabbergaste$cuIafqyzguAyep*zFmgbhJvdHxnp^
flabbergasted!OyqtqAwgiBMew&ozjpieLhjEn
flabbergasteE+jlqqwwrAixtBe:kDtbqkrAixtSm-k
flabbergasted!UzagxjJFazIqh^tltecqw"

flabbergaste$cuIaejjwygNFqC!nqaugjEzaMIek/oz.
flabbergasted!NAxbpjsAmRtxt/kmebjnKgdEuBw7
flabbergasteE+jlxgnhGtfsFnx:rqahkxzltsCs
flabbergasted!3uujblwuuESew_oxjpieBhxL:)

fl!K&rrzvKyex&uEfbcwwgoHNex&klskimLgxHLiw7-ltckirwpHLeE-oof?bfFk
nqsbgDwzayCqp^jlxkvmrAftLxd@mmjpbfKgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'JsGzw:fnfbOftlm
grugtessmmtfr%fUaujfDsaAuAi!zAaiqesuesFnz^fuobvmsAaIIpC!ruuvnj
nAvug	rhowtme<klogzyrApsHtd:uKtbvtrwmtSeA*zt.bcsvgpA:ei<kDauq
smoAbqwztHHxd:ulmgcwF"as8t{!O/wgbrskfsOud_ElnkpirhcHOyd*zbakhe1_n
Smcgn	rP"EFew:gKafqBFgixLj%!fUu&nqrifsHtd;yqavjjAyaIOyx*tsavjjAy
nqbfuevvxGtfr%fEbAksyg&VIri!ABacifAu.sxje/'|abKeKobEFes+rKanqtC
ABacpirzbRt-1&ulbobNrAixHad!ZqmnbrwguAuyd'oDtv?esuesNmi+ ljhbN
rulgbgwpoztyl@zlqgtxGu.s3)p-fopogeMw;stnj!tAu?bN\smsMye,fppyp
nqsgbyAsms3)q!yAngdtvFaxFxiO/\cwv	rvisxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^ lxkvmrh
yGefgsrivKMyd=llugcwKaa/3eh=fIjujeLofRt2SpRParwyrAixCwd&kmeu
jAxp#erPatGew=f8FT1eLpsxxes'fnfkplrhmEtfp=tqajgww""

flBubxzlaLunh!ztjubxzlaEIto^jleqysrhusBjv!nmofu	rhowtBe|
yGsrtnKlesNtd|kqavjfLgtAyel@jlqwveGuaHHjd=llujge0hcuCy(|fxjvvqw
CtjvgeCpesAqs<kEayjnDlaLBjd>gEavcqCpozoedGNAxbEF6gJsBfz^fpppg
ztbv{)rzixtyl=Asiv}er'JsGzw:fnfbiwGDjGAew_gxmbclspon.ednnqaiqyrBq
gzebyjFAaMIex&klucdqwguHtri@yGsgbmwytxFkd#Eljv?esueszty+jlujcyl
gEapgfJszsuxd|nqaeqzDkazOjw| ltjgeOhtsHtA!gnpwveLDpszji:ftjij	
gzebyfKghHCsk!uzaujwAulBHld/gBjfnDggaLBjd|uAobhtMuesIzx!ztbvbyzl
imvugeGmaMBnw!CmtbvmwggtHew&klxcuezvmwCsk7fmofbxzlawLtt[kpakv
nmtvkqQaaCOxx!ozavkrwguHtfz=opaujwAulBHld@CmzbcqLvhxNmi/a

^6icve#HTsuer@xDpybjKjbIy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee!mApfbiwhmszwm"nFfpgirhu
ztfbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMAaOywC!mxbfbyGggBHid&kDtgnkrzuBFqd*t
kJjuvjFjfit%e+jloqyexvssNmi!mmsfgs/_atHid|nqatcsrDjMBee-rltrgjv
hmdmbyGguAyep*zFmgbiGvshtef;zfacnfK"aMBjd-oFungevvpKtBe|fEiwv
gsbkp	rhowtyl^fxjvvqwghHFii+fwfAbBszaESnr"fAobvmwghEuxw!zmcngesz
hqgqtjlg!tHid:nuoiuesyfsQtv|klujcsrlwxL	(!ztpwimLguAyet=uDaejnDk.
^rptbNrufOywd>gEauqeKtbEFee|fFikuetlgHLj{!tqwgt^rgBGxeM!jqdncww
oF"ubyGvauui{!ztbvbnLgjL:)

flBubxzlaLunh!ztfugeOvswMel^xlgqqyrzmBJui% lbpfeAuatHtx&kD
sAngpylgtIFfw&'ltjgeOhtsOud:uligteuojGtnr!ymmvbBsAfKoedcklgktxL
opfcbBszaMBfx!ytfbjfvgtHGjl=ClgcnqwuaBHys!ztfbujsaa/ush!ozavjfL
imtgbNrjbGtls!hmdmbgQgstCqA@Ef"bumwgttCid:uligtxwsgnte+?rudgbmsk
hqfpbyGguAyew^gEjfgeGudxtnr!nqsbnnxl.sush!nmebetElaMIex&klhgpjJhm
iAoenzKppGnex&gFayjjJlwxLeC=AlhqbyGgpGtyl^fQoinnKoavIfw:fKpwbkAue
glowogwyaHzef@ztjpieEhdACsi|fuobvmwgtxu	d|uyfbemAseKysd%oshkplrpo
ztfbufFkaPCyl!CApfgsrzqtxjw7fFigpesgsHQes'fxpfinFnaAIzw^yfacpi
hqikpirAixGee!xmjnyfQgtMuym=tg-bbMGDfOyw{!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
ytfbyfKgjGtyl^fBpqneGmaMyfv|fIikemrzixtme%fIfrveOofGtxl^fIbubsAuf
lqfvbmAnin

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbhJpfwtxs!sGdj#)rzbBxeE-oof?bfKgtAyew>gyacdtMA.
zDzkplrApsznr%ftftbBsFaHOy	!f)Jbumssmsvjd[AzjujjvggHLem:fzpy?e1
yGqrqxwaauSef^ozhbfwGDoxxem+fyzbqBFguxuwwHflUjcyr4J56ef^fmaswjwy
ztjpi	rApsvjd|ADf#beZvxxPjv7fqwgtDLojGAem|fCvggwrAp xfC8-

flKwuyrAixHew&kligcwvgtHGjx&ozhbuuDhtACsk!gnpwveAuaMBjd[uAmbc
ruuvnjrDbRttj' lbpfeKofsMBe_fzfctjJguHtre)klpwveOobMtnx!Cmt<besA
lusuveKofsNms;mtubkyrtvLNef^fmaycqJBtsIwd&oBqqrtLhnNM	d#AFavjjF
ytfbtjElnuywi%ftpybxEhmEtxl^fIbubsGD.sush!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
oFaycxrvoESee!sAvugeLobMtme%fEmkruwkaBHep*qqajgwKlmyo

fl!YqzDkaBNef^fAgbcsQgvLy	d+uI.&byzvvzByd?rudg?e]ApsMui@qluqbyzpt
sAvugargFOywC:nuoibnKgtHtty:/Ag+vmw|xtSeh=CzajgwwaaMBfx!OltjqzDk
ztjpmeNlsRtqm)kxzbkyrjbGtye-qaabcyrhoRtwe:kfavjjJl"Ltss!nmsobnF
zDzkplm_as!td|nqadglsu;st%S!SAvug	rkpsSty!qzpybyzlaPuDd=AFaqh
ztjubuGvmoteM!gyaxgwQguBLjh!urauynEtjGAee#uGubjjJl.s9eQ=AEf#&
[MmkejrAiHOll:fFikueEBtMtgi!ztfbtnyousQfC!uraurjsrjGAex=fmaoqzKl;
ytfbjfvgoxPjv!jAogbxMjisuex&ozhbdjxvsxnef;zltjgeJlnxGgi/kpajcAAuh
yqfpbnFgixLef/uFigt)KgMtNnr!MDboofJaa/Ueq=AEf++txgbsGty|k\_vqes
sAvug]	haFIzw^/\PbotMzf|.edonqaOqzKlaEIto^jlbvbmwyaKuyl^x
ozrwkxAAjOyqC7fmofbxwlnxxex=ftftbyGgxBHpd>oFibqswgpytnx|fxjvvqw
kKfu?etBusCyd|guebptLojGA 

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!jAfup)LgvGxjv|zmofbJFnmBMm{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^?l!K
jmsgufQgjM.xd@fRsgphzgnHOxi7fopogeGCfKtBm:nlXknqAhnsNmi
IAoswjJvsn.edRLAs?bBAAisuqp!nqsbmsGDmxxli!urajkxLvsRneE-oofbjfv
tAaxgwQgdEyfv!tAukqsropPtqs+mlbiqesuzMBnr"ftbfbmswqxHjh8]laUqeKof
hqhcpesnbBH,d!^1vbgxLgntthl@zFf{&eOojvBeA@ylujgexpsLNew^tFfpejrpo
nqsbHwwudAtqi|yAo+dtGr?stYl^fYpwujrnbOyee!yGefgsrsftJes;zlphbyzl
Cmugt	rhowtxi^sqebvtrxvBPjv!gxmbqAwyaPCyl!lDjijymga/9m{!Olcgi
EAvtbusyeHH^(!iDjgfeSsjvyel@yFjnA	rhgKunh!ztbvbxzlaAuid&ADubvmw
vAptbfFpntF)w!lqfnksyz?st%M!wGjvgexvszIyd,uGafkiF_usFno^fobvu \

fl!PqyrsjDyeg@zE@&bhJpfwtyl^fYpwujlgjGtfd|nDjnn	rwbLMns+gFf
BAjeg rg!$Izp%f~PWbqArfswfx|fugbAtMgxxLjd_kh"

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEapqyl_aLunh!GxjegeAuattxs=ztjpieLvoxiedGjAo&vetl
gzhtAesipNNem:alaCpirFfMtNd>oEibKeuvvExew&uIaAqzrvvKthe:fPjpcmg
OlujksCgzHO)h!zmlgbfrmbGwDd:uldcvxrpgsSty!iAvnfeGumRtxi^ftft}
YtfbkxrzvvBee!jqbtbvMpfMtyl*ts.&bFDpdxtBi+zlpp?ezhmytys!nqsugqxa
gEaujjrzxtGep@FumAbftvvMtnr!ztfbrtGs.s|fr%fEigbxAAtsJzv/ozhbut
tudgnDrizsNmi!lusg?eDpdDCsk!nqsbrfOzatHid>gEikplrofKtke$k\_cpi
ytfbkxrzvvBee!tudgbxGmusNmm+mluqbsMytxa]e+jltjg)KgtNwmd@fobrkyss
uzfbhtJgdtNhl*tsaokhw|_HB	ddfnfibDGBssJfv%uz@&bhJpfwtFp*iqacifAu.
lAsbvmAzaMCri!ztfbOtMzfsQfw!hDjuvqAuhsuqp!uHft?esuesMmi!lqmv
iqsvcnFgjMtry|zlcgbwwhmESes'lqofgimga/%jd>uz"vbysslsugs;zligtesuz
sAsgbnxgzHO)h!xmujgwrupMo)

fl!YgeAuexyi%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bymGgxtMex/kycnksygeHQsd:ulujgewue
urajkxrAbBF d!^MtbkkrPaPIzp%fFbnmeGuaLOhl!gltwdowju|teS;xlgconD
