half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a little bottle that stood near the looking-
glass.  There was no label this time with the words `DRINK ME,'
but nevertheless she uncorked it and put it to her lips.  `I know
SOMETHING interesting is sure to happen,' she said to herself,
`whenever I eat or drink anything; so I'll just see what this
bottle does.  I do hope it'll make me grow large again, for
really I'm quite tired of being such a tiny little thing!'

  It did so indeed, and much sooner than she had expected:
before she had drunk half the bottle, she found her head pressing
against the ceiling, and had to stoop to save her neck from being
broken.  She hastily put down the bottle, saying to herself
`That's quite enough--I hope I shan't grow any more--As it is, I
can't get out at the door--I do wish I hadn't drunk quite so
much!'

  Alas! it was too late to wish that!  She went on growing, and
growing, and very soon had to kneel down on the floor:  in
another minute there was not even room for this, and she tried
the effect of lying down with one elbow against the door, and the
other arm curled round her head.  Still she went on growing, and,
as a last resource, she put one arm out of the window, and one
foot up the chimney, and said to herself `Now I can do no more,
whatever happens.  What WILL become of me?'

  Luckily for Alice, the little magic bottle had now had its full
effect, and she grew no larger:  still it was very uncomfortable,
and, as there seemed to be no sort of chance of her ever getting
out of the room again, no wonder she felt unhappy.

  `It was much pleasanter at home,' thought poor Alice, `when one
wasn't always growing larger and smaller, and being ordered about
by mice and rabbits.  I almost wish I hadn't gone down that
rabbit-hole--and yet--and yet--it's rather curious, you know,
this sort of life!  I do wonder what CAN have happened to me!
When I used to read fairy-tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one!  There
ought to be a book written about me, that there ought!  And when
I grow up, I'll write one--but I'm grown up now,' she added in a
sorrowful tone; `at least there's no room to grow up any more
HERE.'

  `But then,' thought Alice, `shall I NEVER get any older than I
am now?  That'll be a comfort, one way--never to be an old woman-
-but then--always to have lessons to learn!  Oh, I shouldn't like
THAT!'

  `Oh, you foolish Alice!' she answered herself.  `How can you
learn lessons in here?  Why, there's hardly room for YOU, and no
room at all for any lesson-books!'

  And so she went on, taking first one side and then the other,
and making quite a conversation of it altogether; but after a few
minutes she heard a voice outside, and stopped to listen.

  `Mary Ann!  Mary Ann!' said the voice.  `Fetch me my gloves
this moment!'  Then came a little pattering of feet on the
stairs.  Alice knew it was the Rabbit coming to look for her, and
she trembled till she shook the house, quite forgetting that she
was now about a thousand times as large as the Rabbit, and had no
reason to be afraid of it.

  Presently the Rabbit came up to the door, and tried to open it;
but, as the door opened inwards, and Alice's elbow was pressed
hard against it, that attempt proved a failure.  Alice heard it
say to itself `Then I'll go round and get in at the window.'

  `THAT you won't' thought Alice, and, after waiting till she
fancied she heard the Rabbit just under the window, she suddenly
spread out her hand, and made a snatch in the air.  She did not
get hold of anything, but she heard a little shriek and a fall,
and a crash of broken glass, from which she concluded that it was
just possible it had fallen into a cucumber-frame, or something
of the sort.

  Next came an angry voice--the Rabbit's--`Pat! Pat!  Where are
you?'  And then a voice she had never heard before, `Sure then
I'm here!  Digging for apples, yer honour!'

  `Digging for apples, indeed!' said the Rabbit angrily.  `Here!
Come and help me out of THIS!'  (Sounds of more broken glass.)

  `Now tell me, Pat, what's that in the window?'

  `Sure, it's an arm, yer honour!'  (He pronounced it `arrum.')

  `An arm, you goose!   Who ever saw one that size?  Why, it
fills the whole window!'

  `Sure, it does, yer honour:  but it's an arm for all that.'

  `Well, it's got no business there, at any rate:  go and take it
away!'

  There was a long silence after this, and Alice could only hear
whispers now and then; such as, `Sure, I don't like it, yer
honour, at all, at all!'  `Do as I tell you, you coward!' and at
last she spread out her hand again, and made another snatch in
the air.  This time there were TWO little shrieks, and more
sounds of broken glass.  `What a number of cucumber-frames there
must be!' thought Alice.  `I wonder what they'll do next!  As for
pulliksygnxtty:fAgbvmwgxBHis> lJbqsDFaPCxl!ztfAbH72MW:edd-yauwwwgJ
jAo&veOhoMtys!yFbAbnFgixLjd@tKanqsyls|.

flTjgeOhjMyid'uDauqrwguBGjd>oFiqwyroftLnr"fmoAvmAuhsGtv^.lacv
rmtvbhstfsuev;snmkplrvgsFnx:rqaecwLDixyqw7fmofbyzlaLIzr%fAgbc
mApfbrsuzsPtm$klbnneLhmDCsk!zAhgvmwy;stxl^fybfgeGBusNmi!CAsfu,
^9igtj\zaMBjd=ztftbqskexLa[T3tz?bNrobwH)x!zAadtnFnauOyd=tq<
Humn&xrnpMtyl^fAujgw	|CBFq%!lquejeAAaAywi7fxbf#]	OfKy	d[AFa&grrBq
gFavjnKgdHLsi//\Oq?eLpfs.jq!zAhgvmwyayCww:/\ujgDrkpG.yd/kmdjbmssg
nuhjbjFvvzBeC^z\_Qj^rAixS)p-fppbyjDsaxHty"nbafqs\Aauyet@xFjewqsy_
/Tftg	rIjEF^d$gFdjbmGsesIkd:nutbttHl_ %np-fFigbwGvgsvje/b\_Oksv
ztbvbqGvtxtxp@zq_+QmlgjM.xd$uyjpievvxG:edckmeubgwspP:)dRglmqwi
iDbuj[	|!7IB{!CtpbfnvguAuy T/UubyfKgCBFq{!OlgcphQ|_$Bt(|fFpbit
jAxpbyzlavBnq+kK}++SsF.s3ew&gz"v#e%VVsxtd*z-_+VmsAa2tBs+-F.
ztfp#]	IjEF)w!zAaiqevvxGa]L^xq.bDnDs@sNmi!smtvgwrzbRMeC=A/sgbyG
mAafqBFguAyeg&oyogA^\

fl!Qj^rZpsVnp--EaiqyrApswtq^fppypeLofswmm_tqz?bmszaAya(!ymjf
GxjegeLvaAyww^rr?bb%~ozmtyl^EltggrrApsJzx!kHftAyzpoztzt=tlCknq/
Olxqwqvu"Mtgi!ozaDkqD_tsJqe$klgqtesghHIid%kmm<beLojLtkm/kBmcejrpt
tmstqBlguHtgi!yGsg>etBus3eXcOZLbKeuhosEng)fmankyLsf|.

flTjgevyfPtmi/frpqveszayuwd%uIobvmwgdACrr^ElbubxzlavIzp% lbpf
CmjvgirAjEFew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqacpnEhms	xl^fopwniF_usAzi|ylphbBzhu
yAsvbnLgxtM[d|iDbvemAuhsush!yoscogDpoztff=AFakpeLofswmm_tqzbeqGzf
gnpxgezlshtex&kz.bufQpoztys!nqsugqxg!!Bnw!oEaDkqDa"sMmi!mmwgbtFl
ytbtreCpdDnee+jlxckywkaMIew^klxjcyrDpNFid&gBqgpeFlyMo

flUjgexpsLNex&ozhbumwgixuwh!CmtbceyloxLfp!itptwxrvgs|Yl^xqaiqjK
Humn#)rAixHex&klScdgAA"LtAs*iqacntFn_ |He:itajkrlgzHOef,fFig
nqeig^\guAysd|oxfpejlgbGxex&kzacptLofKths+lGtkqsrvgsPtm$kE_+@MGse
ABajkxroftx][}xmofAeFvx aIs+-FaejtClaACr[TNAxbyfKgjMnes-jlggnqGD}
3tbvbmswqxHjh!zAaAqznga!yqp!AEacnqrhcHOyd*z-"

flMcuyrjbFyee!ruuvnjrmfxvqi7fErwgfCpoztAs*iq.b-%`obM.xd}oxm?&
ztpwimLgBEChi7]l!YgqDaa2tme/jxzbmsGD_ 8td_uDf?byzhoDtDi3fU"o
hquvgwrupPa]f;zlJ&oesgexuqd:uAahnzKAfKyid:ulugnqrFpNa]e-rlJbmsGD
oE.butEluACsk!iAnguesAaFyep*qqacbOsjl Cs[:nq_dqClgbGxey[fUaiqjK
rulgbfrzlRaws$qqu#&

fl!UqeQvvsxnh7fAmfbkwsmHQ^(!ymjfbyzlaHNmi/yg

fl!YgeEBtMtgy/tlujgezvvLyeh=Cz@&bxspesNmi!Xmcdky\zaOIng^?lbpf
GxjegeuhmEyid=AFacueDvvwtfw!ytfbetMsemt%M'fKpwbiGbas3)p-fEfv
JuocjesAaRIz%N

flUjgwwgxtMee!jqbfbxAsfGwjd*tEucpyDF.sush!GxjegeLopNAmx!zA
nqsugqxaa/3eA=tpftbBzhusNmi,f9JNNevvaGyCxHflJhbyzlzsBfh!gzz
yqoug	rAixS)h!zmlgbyzlaKItj!urg}&erHgMywd@fyjpwywgpKtyA= lujgD
hqhcpeEvwBHld@hAvvbfyhjGnee+jlBnkhwgixuwh!ztfbTftijMtxe, l!C
hmstqBxBmsQnp-fpp?byGgcxAnr!Cuuj})

fl!CbgsysHQky-fAgbYMS1},tyl=AsivbFDpdxjef;zltjgezhesHtx!rAoibyG
jAvdv	rmpKtyl^fzfzveEvnxHyd@fEiqyjJgpytqm:zxfbrjtimxMeg@sq
xmuvnnFnaBHee:fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpauqrwgpytyl^slikvezlssCsd:nqahchwb
^U"nneHBusuew:uBavqeLojLn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh?esuesMms;zqebqzLa
^~pw&irifMNjv!tAubftrAitNee"guo#&eOojvBet/upvegirhoHNmi/fpfcf
yumgphwb

flBnkhwgoHNng^jlxkvmrzpFyew;xBskujrAitNex&klqgdgDltsQjv^fmmn
zGspksygjGNtd-oFungeuhlxMee|fFigAeDhzsIsd:nqahntGy.sush!glctklzA
opfcbhstfsCsx=ftftbmwhente$dllJbgfLgpGyes'fFigujrjbDyx{NfEig
ztpwimLaa/Cy(|fEvtgeLvaFupi!Y1NGbhzhozyem+fyzbunRl<sush!gEakv
imo&veHvtLCgp,fybmgeElaEuwk^xfakveEBtMtre)klngbxEhmEyw{!O
yGqrqxwb"

flTqbxzlaLQfp-uIffbtFlaHzex&kldcmjKaatHid>gEafgqAniMyid:ulgkpi
ztbvbxzlauyle+fEitksCpoztim/kounA rgBLtxs=tlbubxzlaPuxd|smmn
kzpwimrApsAjx!ztsqwlzguAyeh=uD.bumwgstHes;zlphbyzlaAIzw^ lbpf
lAvpfeIBjMyee!iDpyfeGmaECyx-klbpkrsstsush!husfueOhjMCsk!uGuukiwb
ZtfbrtGyaECyx-klMkBfJk.sVnp- lxcueAuaMBjd_openg	rifBHld&kxebwuriz
zIpbizAuftaum"yfayjtrDfKyek*BuoibnLgtHGjx&ozhbqzLgpytfd#uFung 
ZtfAbfDsaFuii!glswumrhusUqm$klujgeEvnxHyd|nqacruwhsxx.d#AFaujj
xmobqkxgbLtme/jlbubxzlavIzp% lbpfeKvpGtks;tpajgwKlmytxe'kljpbf
ztjemeOvpwo

fl!VjjrmjKMyd:nuoibN\CfsAtx!zAafq	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfacueKof
Cmofgwwkatvty:fuobvmwgxHIi{!^utbvtrnsHQex=fyzbtnyousMnD^fmhcksh
gzebvmwgtxwtr%fFikplrptsNtd'ozeboDrDbRtnr:ulujcyrspOyqC!mmsfgsm
OlujksCguAuyd>oxmbdjrAixtgi|zlqncsm_

flJvbxGBowyid@tlfzejDsfGNet-gz.bptrkpNvy{!gzebxjJFaGyfx-Elbpf
yunrnDrhsKusk^jbavjjrvoESeh*lrjewqLFaPux{!ztbvbxzlaAuid+uFavjj
yybnnjKAaBxje!nAxbvtrzfMtff=AFakv.rhowtBl*rqaujjrDbLtui^xuoi
gnpwvesuyBIzw-ElboqsyguAyex/kqt?bfrsjMNqi!ytbtrethsDtoy|zlpxgw
nqsbjjskaFuii!nqsbntGraNJem+fmaitjsAaAOwv,a

flBpbjFvsFIzw!vGqrAeOhtsFts)ozhbftOuatNel^xlxkvmrsbKAjd/uGof
kKfu?esueszji#rKauvwwAdACsk!uGubqswgqtQ	d:xKjpieLvaMIzg&ftft}
^2pqteDpuMFjd:nuoi#)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgbswte\ozhbvtFl.sush!ytfbvwAle
nmsfbyGgxACxx-kluqbnL}auOyd|nqaycxrAfKLnf-ElgtklzAfGyid@rxavjj
zungbfLguAyex&uGhjveLobMtnx!suhjvetlaAOsk/EfakpeOojvBeg@yqakv
CAvnfetlaOywC!rulgnDrApsyfx!nqsbwurposMum:klphbfDsaAywd$umykplm

flIctiDFaDHtA*tsayjfLgtAyeh*jfaujjrwjvEjh!ABacbqAAuEyef*zlph
yFjem	rhowtmi-jljvbtMAaMIex&klqwruQ}aPBjv^ABppbyzlaIOut,fvvorjv
ozuqbyzlatCwd=lracnqrpuLtki^zlbvbtFjfmtBm:nlbbAjDwaHzeh^ruhjv	
gzebtzKofwtfx!ztfbuyAjlmtfr%fybfgetlmByAi!zAayqwJFaBN.d:nqobCqAjf
jAeigirifACsh!glhtgfLguACxx-kfavqeClfItmi/yqmhbkJvnsvjm+mlswp
uHft>esuesNmi!sAngpyrzixtft[kmsgfeGuaMBjd=ztftbxAkfmtyl^fBvrrD
smegbfFvuAywd/AEibcyrAixtxx*iw.bcsvguNGgp^jligcirvwxLel^kxtbks
oFtbjzJyzsNtd"kFajqqvgpytnx3fFigpeSsjvy	d:nuomksygjMtBe|fHftA
rulgbmsCjGAee!mmngbtxgqEuDd>oFibceuhsMams/yq.bcsvgfQJjg:ozhbgAwyz
sAngpyrApsvjd:xmnrnjvgvGxjv!oFtbhjwA.sLfr!xAvpfeLofsNmm|zxf
gsbkp.rAixHex&klqwruQgcxAfr!gltgtnwzaHzew&uDubemsyhxMee:fFig
yFjem	ryvGHnr"fmaxgwQgmBNyp^fIbAbkGyxtLiw!kmdjbyAtfsush!glmqpl
Cmzbdfur.sush!hmsmksygiHuww^rKacnqrAixtBl*rq.bvnDsatNep@yFakveKhu
jAxpbfrnpHxeA@Elphh	rwbGNnr" lxkvmrpuLtys+mGfbjfFnjGAes;zlphbnLz
sAvvj	rhowtnx|fssgcyrlzxMel@rraujzLb

flUjkxrzfxGjh!zAaCnnulattls=jlprrtJAvGCyC!lAsbofCpoztmi/fqtecuw}
yAaujjrzfMttj'fmubqsul.sush!xmobvnDsaLBjd>gEaswnLlaMCwi%fmofbtMA
uradtjsAimtfr%fFjnneLofsJzt[E/tbdfJraLIzr%kpaswnLlayunr:fuobvmw
jutvcsul?

fl!CpirFfMtBl@zlbbfjsyaECyx-klqwruQgjMtBe|'/aucnvgBEChi7fmtbumw
rqbpvesnbBHxx!glcwvywydNJex=fDfuvezlsLyqj7fmofbksuoxxel^xEfnh
CuujbtFlaHzex&klmgcAwz;st%M!ytpwnirobOyep*qqebvjsjiBHld*zlutkhCz
BqsAbrMjimtnjT/ugbK)vgpGFDd#kqobvmwgsBAmx!yuAgbyGgeHtnxHflPj
jqbt#erP"wtsi@xxzbhtJnpMNjr!ztbvbN\CfsAtx!zAaittOgvItfk@oz@bbQwA
sqaugj	|iHQeMnfuubvtrifsGfr@mqe{be1gtNJus|klJbqzyousNtd^gFaqt
jDjpmeKvnxNmm+mlptbtLofKjef;zlujgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrptmtBl@zh"

flUjgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrjfKNfm+rKaycxlgxAuy !fMmkejrspHEjh!gxmbttMue
nqsbcyrAixtkp=CqsubfFkaMBjd#rmegueGmazLfw| lcwveKofsxnh!tAubujw
gzzvjnFnaMBfx!rApmgirsjDyex&klskimLguACsk!zAagcyrvssxwm+qlvpfjJ
ztfbenJjvFMye+iqt}be`ofKyeA@ylbbnfJnfsGzw&xApoblJvxBHld+kmsbjjJa
gnpwveLofsMfq^ftfkimLgbLtmi/yqmh>esuesQmi+fEigbmskaEIto^jlvpfjJ
oF.bcsvgpGtgs:nltkfjKgpytnx7fmofbgwojGxem: ljvbtujvKLjh!zAajgw
ztbvbxzlaFCll:fmtbyjDsaEIto!gzebujwgxAuyd>gEaqpeLofsNtt!urakv 

flTjgeKAsxNhl^jligtxwsgsOud=tlukryGl.sush!vqfrgirvwxLex&klffijrvg
ztfbozKosHIr{!gzebjjJgfRyxd*syffkfLlmRtri:fFiqujrvgsuep@xsf
imugtuAsmtL	d:nmubyfKgtBNym+mlppbyzlaMIud>oFibkyKgbKGxd'uxegf	
wGjgvqQgtFIpm+mlbbntFnaAIto@nfacpirAbDCsk!tAubvmwgtFuqp^yFapqyAjf
urajgwrvssIkd@tKujksygfEMj	



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gW

flabbergasted!flabbeSkwBwjd'xAnbceUhuxLum-rms


flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbcsvgBEChi!rApmgirhusyfg&fAujgwrmpKtxs_klukojrpo
yumgphw?asuyd-gEubvmwgDtNjv[oxmcteLvpDtyl^ftpqmfzgpNNes'fuuu
sAvvj	rhowtfh%xqtugirofKtnr!glmcplMpemtxp^kBzbxtAjfn

fl!Yjtrhsxt4Spb/aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

flUjkxrDbLtss:fmobgsuvvKulm+mlprgsAuhsztv!gldqpAwyttNns+alaCnnul
xqqnkjvaaKuyl^xltjAqQaa/3][dftbtfqQglGIB{!yus?boMzusuyd[xqtgpy	|
gFangfKAa2tpr=Clxjqe1gXT!eA&kzaKblGAaNJex&oEaoqwFpoznef;zlJbvmAul
OlnwuyrobOyef^kzaejfFnfwtxi<kDbnbyAtfLtxm+iqavjjFb"

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fyfcpetFaMBfx9-ltckirAixtHe:kDqknqsyaLNjv+rK?
^QyrnfAuaRIzv|kxg#&

fl!Kbhsu"MtjB[rmjpbR%ZF5Z	dd-yachwspemtxm/-ltckirHmBwj{!^nfeczKl
O/nbptLgnRMjp' lzqweKlfn.

fl!KbiGu"Mtxi^ /aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oldcp)LgqNNem:fyptgeusftLqC7-lBnkhwgsxJqm^jlwgtD
vAmkvjDF.s|ks/fUaecs\AaNHii/yFbpfeAAaFSxi-lluqbgwnjGtBm:nbacpi
hqjpieKvaFusC!jughgwwuusMnD^yljpbfrkbRtnw!BqsAbhGugNMnr"a/

fl!KveAzo,N	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzrobOys(:frpwpirpusMtd,kF.&bxspesUqm$kba@dzL
CtfpbDGBaAuAi!zAavwwFgjGNtd@foitAxssjLa]C=AlxknqrzpFyeh@EfaAqz
qzpy+]suesNmi+fmgvgwrAitNem+zAacbgMAuxLkp, lJbumGBmwtyl*twaAqz\sm
lqfnbnLgbsFnx:rqaswjwy.sQtrNzlzqwa\

fl!PqyrhauCy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzJggxyqm+mEaocDrifsxnj'kDfpv	\gttCid?rudg>
^mmnbNrroHQem| ljvbBGBmwtki^rlwgtDrxvxywd:ulNG})

fl!1qz/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xldqpywtqMOty|rK?bb%#opsuwi!51V{&

flXjkhzgcKIzk&zlujgrribvEee"guobvtrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!fMmkejrmfENee!ruuvnjrpsKCye:kpacveLofsWfx^xBjnnfJ_t
smlkplrzvvBeZ X~aujtJAaKyre/qE.bcsvgtAyeh/kIajgwKlmytzt!gzebufAk.
BqsAblJhwxFD{!^UavjnFr.sSty!uGhjveLvaMyqp!sqayjtr6P@tfv^ lgktxLb"

fl!YjDn_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xg

flIgtjrDbLtfr=ztftbuMGAECsk!wGfuvnGu<sush!gEaCnnulavIzp%fzpv
ztjpmeGmatHDd"uAebtjszpGnee+jlbubyzlaVuyi/vumncwrzfxGjh!zAadgeAu
glWGT4rBoIFje|gzubuysAfsIkd_oze?bxzlaMOwr^jlbycDm

fl!Eqrwgctwp%NfFigbHsAfKJnp-gDaecqDlesukx^xligt rg!2.Ai!yAngvmAuh
oyqqtysuusNtd|gK@&

flUjkxrzpNHii%fBsqonKpozneg^xFbkpqQ?asUqm$kluwtswkatHid$gyfbdfur
gsbkp 

fl!MgjHgzHOwd:kyqgt	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

fl!KueLobMtfp-b/aucnvgBEChi7fExcnqGDjGAeh=Czajgwrhozywd@ylxgnqrht
ytfbetMsen

fl!Pq	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneOhjMnee|fEigbmskaGIyl*tsagnxw
zAafq	rhowtui/nmqubfxAfKtfp-fuubonyousNjp-ftftbxGtfMBnr"fIptvm
nqbtksybasZtv!yAngbrAuvMyxd*zlqwhkwkatQfC!CuujqzLgtIyfo*ts.bdzL
gFancxLgjMtzr'uxegfeAAtsuwq| luqqprAixtms=qmibqzLgpytnx|fypwvm
gsbkp	rhowtxe*jfa@UtrFpNtyl*twaAqz\yfswme+mqe?biGgzHOa(

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Olbo?eKpsm.ew@opaCnnul<s|Nd$gz"vbwwtfFvjv!ztjpixrht
Olvugi	|bGxeM!jAo&veClfItyl^fEbogeKpAxtks/fFfpbrAuvMyxd:usfvjjJ""

fl!Ecs\AaKyri_hqsbYMS1aMBnr"yh"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

fl!YgqDaa2.Ai!zDjgfeLvaLuDdON1XbFT`Oa!2JdgO6UNGeT2T^tGI  |adwyrpu
gxmbefElawCkj^xqov#)rHmBwjd/kBmkgirposuez^xKaogqsudAIqC!BAjeg 

fl!Tguwhumt-3j1lBTGe7SEmtKEoNQSbYN4SJT7	)NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

flBnkhwggHFii%ftftbmsueLnee+jlcgifF?_ 

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.bHfLofKt2m-rubo?)rAixtDs;tsaocsrzbBx	
flabbe]HowtDs;xlickwrobLtgi$uyfbxjJFaPBnx^?
flabCsvgzxNeC=AljpejKzbGNqC!yFbpfeGuaRIzv!nqbf+]
flabbeVvaRIzd:nuom?esAaRIzv!gsf?bnLgjLtwm"nF}&

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bKsAixLe1*rxjcoeJlqECjh!zAajkxrzpGn
flabbe]Payyfv^jljvbrAniMtnr(ADfbvmwgcKunr3
flabDzLaaGIBd:nmubK)EgqxLki$zxzbuzJla2tme<kloqpjl
flabbe#ozmtNd%uljvbfyhjGtfr%fmhcksm_

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bLtNd_kzukqswkauyks/kf
flabbeSuesBfz^fssqysrtpLNey+iAnoqsDFayuy,
flab1jLgzHOex;xzffbfribvE]w=sqsuczDAaBHee:fFigbiGvs a
flabbe8ybRneA&gFakueLofsLje|uzaqheLobMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesNmi!ymhg?eszaAyew&uAlbjnKghKyDd-uolu?
flabbe]PaDyux!gxmboDrsjFvxd<kDzbuzHwmx
flabDDrAixtzw^fAgbvmAzaHCsx_kzu++tFlaLBnp-ozhbvmwgcHR][
flabbeSsmHQeq^fFpbujDsaRIzd@fopwrqwc"

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bGxeC=ADalcBKgbKyex=ulxgcp
flabbeXvssusC:nuoibyGBhAywd:nmobuzwA<
flab1jLgzHOej*tutjgirAixtls=yq.bynLoaMBjd#uzfubfFkaMBjd#kml++
flabbe8ybRtms>fpjfbDGBaFuse"kluqbiGgjMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesBnw!lmujgwlg!2tys=qluqbyzlaEuB{
flabbeSuesuwk;kpagchzgdtMjd>oFiboDrDjyy.
flabCsvguAyeq;yovncwrzuKysk:nfayjnuoaBNek@BqavqeEFaCuB{
flabbeZhtsFfw:kpavjjryfLNes'fyzbnnxl?,

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'pGyeA=AxebjfJkmRtxy[vAtg
flabbe`obMtDs;xlfAgeOhtsuxd|zqbfAeszaxPjv3
flab1jLgzHOef@rmoegirhosyjp!uzavjjrlowttj!EAvtbsGzf a
flabbe#obMtre%klzqweKvatQky-rKaenjNlso.

flab@NrobOyee+yIftgirAiKyjd]AqtvktFz.sush!ztbvbnKgfGIzk& /
flabbe~hjwtmm|frbvjjJ}a/xtrNzlhkxjrFpNLxi-llbktx/
flabFtrFpNtyl*twaKbhsuaECxx^tlbnnevhzsNtd|AoibuyMmgo
flabbeTlaHzk{!uDaK&qDglBwpd,uGafqBFgtMunv|'/


fl!VjfLgjLtss:fEbkfeJphAN	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!PqyrXV2@Jd/osiv?e1_nsukv@op.&bxspesUqm$kfavkrAkmRje$|uyfbqkrAix
CAsfuezhwxtls:fmmvgwwk?,

fl!KveAzaPLtr"frsqoetlhBHsm+mluqbjFk.,txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms
jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFigtjrDbLtxm-kzdgbkGyaLIri!suowvjKb

flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbyfKguAyej*xEubvtrzqxup	

fl!YjfLgtBTjd%ulzqweOhoMtys!hq}&bnLgbLEjh8

fl!Qj	rP"Ftss:fBbtvnuBmtLee|fFpbunRl.,tFp*iqajcxLpmRtwi[ruff>
^AonAeGufsxti|t/ubnnClavBfr"ozhbutrvgMys{!EAvbmsGD?,

fl!KbI7U"!tpr=Cf"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplggaLBjd&gpapgAwyauyjr!yAaowhzgdHHyv@judvgirpo
nqsbnnxlauyks/kfacpirzixtki-zlujcyrzixtBe|fxpuksygixLex^sBft}

fl!CtjrFpNths+zqovbsGD},txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms}

fl!YgqDaa2txl=AxebnnClaMIef^fmaNKY`SFsFfv"kD.bunJaaBzeC=A
CAvnfs\AaFCsh7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)ujtjwgjGwmi|futbuzuoattBv^zoigf
nqjijyrApsvj	N

fl!KveAzattAi/ElhqqirofBAmx!ozeggi/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@x
gzhtkqQaaKyfv*tsakvxwsgsOuv*mtubcxrpusMus)kl)kveOhtsyCe$zxzbvmJlf
ozdjgxrojzB[	

fl!DwyrP"Ftss:fGtgfeLvaBN^(!vxfcfjvgqHIwd?rudgbnFgbsJnx^uGtbvtFl?
GzebumwguAIzk&zlphbmwytxFk{!^UaykxzguAyeg/kmuwtjKgxHOqh+-FadgeKv
kmtknDrvgyysh^j-"

fl!1qz\smsAjx!AEffbyGgjMtnr!zung?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv3fmofbnL
vGubvmwgiHIpe&fuovqeAAtsGty:nlbpfetlhtHew_uwjpiesnbBH 

flUjkxrAjFyeE-oofbyfAAfwtue:oqovnDrBoMCqd*zldjqxwguHtxt^gwacifAu?
OzacbrAuvMyes/fFxqbyzlaVuyi/vumncwrApHEex&kliqqpsoaHOyd=lljvu
sAvvjesuesSfA+kpaqphwgpKtyA*iq.bcsvgtAIto!oFtgnkmga!Bjr!oFaiqy
jAxpbtxmaMBjd_AEitqtEaatHid$xmxngirhxtSem+fFigblJhtLneq^xqmA
xqnctpAuhsuxd*zlxgpylg!8Hjd|opfbynDsaFupi!EAvbiwGDaMuqp^xfacpi
ztfbqyzlssMnh^fIjnneEhlxtDs;fssqyeKopKNjv8-

fl!Qpjrzjwyes'f9ICVargUAyes:nqsbunvlaHze1cG6}&byzvvzByd?rudgbyG
nqsugqxb

fl!QheLofsGzw&xApo?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv7fvvuveszaBzew&klicf
gElgfeAAatFty%?lbpfeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuusCyd>gEaqwyrvgsMnk&zg

flBnkhwgsxGfm+kpanqtCpoztyl=AsivhzDszsuyd:nqaowxzypHGej=xlb
suowvjlguKSnr"fFpbofClaHOyd>nudjbBwyfsNmi!zIpbunvltsIkd*zbacpirht
oFaycxrwfKzjg:rKatqzFk.sMmi!lAvpfeLojLtfd<kDzbfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGu?
NAxgxjJaatNep@yFaujjrzuKyyg&kpajgwrhsFMev=Azebkyrhtszfv!gEavjjQ
CAvnfeyv.sush!hDpmgeGmgsuef*zlphbyzlaxxli!CuujbjsjisBfr%a

fl!CpirupPtBl*itakueOojvBa(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	rhowtsm#hxffbf
ruuvnjrvgsNmi!xuhjv]zhowtgm:fFpbvwQguAyei'lqdv<erAixtsi\zlnqojFA
ytfbhjDAattAm=rqovbgDvxsOsh^xzfcvmrofKthl*taabkyrobwtxx/AolbjjJ
lApv#

flTjgeOhtsuek=upafgfDggKCll:kzffbgQguACxd<kDzbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMA
ytfbhjDAaMBfx!ztftgeOhtsHtd:oyfbvtrifsFtw: lbubxzlaPuxd|nDjpmnFn
xmqkfqQ}aLIew&kltgveLvaPIwo!gFaqphwguHtje:fEpogeGmaMBjd=ztftbgAA?
NqsbemAuaPuxd[xqtugirzpswqs|kxzbclspoLNel^xlgqqylguAuyd:nqsgbBsz
nmsfnDrypHGex=fAqgpezlssGty:nbadwyrzixtim%fuubcyrsbLN	d@tp
smocijvguHtxA@rxpybfrtpKMjp!uravjjrsfyNme+jlckv 


flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!EqrwaaFSel^gp"ubkJlfsuyd-gEu#&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesguHHjd=l
jqmkimLaaPBng&foicplwkaBHys!gxbtoeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuumtBl^tltjg
lAvpfeLobMtmi/fEiqwqvlsLtBi/kloqymwyfsNtd#klgqwsv?asuqp!ytfbetMse
yqf?bBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPH	d>gEacpeAtnxHxi!rqoivmrvgsHjg) lxjkhz
yqfogirApsLnw^fxjmgesgtMuqo!uGubqkrhaLyfd=llhtgjFgmxuAi|fFicveDhz
lmsbdjDvxsBjv8

fl!YjfLgDT8ee-rlujcyrnsxysd|zGghbgwc"sMfm%fMmkejmga/Ush!Ctftg
NMWGbrQgtAIzp%kDtbitLguHped?tpaqj	rtzsJts/ftbpfxlgiHQem|fuubK
imo&veKlfsSty9-laUjjrDbLtrs<ozhbvmwtatvty:fmtbumwgtIIpi7fnvvbsG
xqtwnyrzfxGjh!zAahqqDvxmtjB$kBubceDpuMFjd|nmlkplrhnHHld:nq
jutvcsLghKyjr!rqbxgxm

flBubyzlsxtxi^sqebvtrifsHtd$nmoegeGmazyyx*tsajgwrobGxxd;vluqbmwy
nqbf?eKofsNwm^jluqblwAaAywd&kmebftOuaMIex&ky.bcsvgxtMeh^ruhjvjv
zAahksvguAuyd&kDapghCgxHOqh!hqofbftvvMtje|oxzbksrhoRtim/koukqsl
rulgbfrzfKJjr:alaUjjrobwtoy|zltwehwlexxem+fovtxnFnaBNeh=CzakpyGgb
mDbegkMsaSClD@mfacpirDbLtls*tsavqevpwxtnr!gyppieLofsFje<kE.bymAji
ytfbhtMuesNtd#kloqvmAuhsvzx!ztfbvtHzaHzex&klutgjKgvGxjv!CtjejeKof
nmebdjwuaPush^xuoi?eOofGtfd|nmsrbmAztsGfh^ftftbiJhxsvfg)fuobc
nGstA,rgbsFfv"klqkijGuaAuid'rAxpbnFApsBjv!lmdg?esuesQfw!hqbvksy
nqsbxnGsfGNqC!CuujbnLzaPCsk|a

fl!UgwHloM:)d|iDfcojvguAyeT*mqpp}

fl!K&rrUP!tfd|kDqgpy/_aLunh!GxjegeAueBAse+zxz}be]SfMtri!gxppg^\

fl!UgwHloMneM!ymzbclspo|.ev^vqbvgirAixtUm"kAo?bgMAaBHee!sAsg
yGcfwjvguHHj{!gzebcivlesQnx&fmamksvgpytxs# l!K&AwguKCjh!kHftA
Cmz?bfFkaGIyl*tsaugjEzaMIew;oFavjjE""

fl!KbmsCfG.yd:nqangfKAaBxje!CtbvbDGB"Kyex@rwjpiesipNN	(!ymjf
Gxjeg 

fl!K&AwguKCjh!ztfbttGAtsIkd:xqfu?esues3)z^fFskgiribGEx{!gzebK)Nl
zDjgfezlezyx{NfFigbUAnfHHeA^tFaqp	rDjMBty:fmuvgsvpoztys!nqs>b%tBu
ztpugeKlsIysx|'laVjjJl"Ltss!vxfcunFnaMBjqH-

flBnkhwgxtMeq=xqacpirtpKyet;FLmgf	rivMtxl^fFiqwlzAaMBjv^fIbubsG
AEfbksrzbRCsk!gzzvjnFnaFIwi!zumnbyzla9Cli=tlicfexpoBMmi%a

fl!CueAmaBNeA@yz"vbyJvvuFjd^tAvijezhuvBnr"fFigbjyntm.ew@opavjj
Vuhgqshg!uOyddfyvuvetlaHHex&klmqqp	vvMtks/fEftrjFAtsHnk&zlbpf
jmz#be#ozmtNd&gHfp&yrobwtfd>ozlbqkrzmxyud:nqtgbyzyfxtBi^qE@&

fl!K&rrCfKSew=xDzbAtM_wxtgi^tlbpptQlem.ew@opaCnnul.sQms!Cmt
hqhkpsAuhsNtd|kqakvxrtftHnr"a

fl!CpirqvLNee|fU"fbysrfGtyl^ftjijjKAaMLji!ozavjjrDpHx	(!iAovksMle
ztfbRnylpGnev@oEjpieAAtsPtm$kluqbfrziKCjo7f)bpfeBBtMtfw!Olxcu
ztjpmnFna2txl=Axebdjrmsxyes'fFigoesAaEuxx7fFigAeEBtMtsi^jEaeqrw
CDjiiqAuhsxtA+frsqoeLofsMpCHflVij	rZfKJjr:'/

fl!DwyrP"FtSSofmaugwHloMneM!zqmnbDGB@,txe*jlBnkhwbas|N(_fm_+K)E
g\_&

fl!YgqD"as%MEofmsgbDGB},txe*jlujge8phxIs	!f)JbefFgtxyeC=A/sg
zDzkplrApsCsz^tFauqrwAiBHl%N

fl!K+]1_nsuep*zFmgblAymm.ew@opaCnnul.sLfx&kDafqztAgNFqC7fmtbumw
xqngogwyfwtyl^fzvodjJgpythl@tsfubxzlaAuid"uzfbvmJvvzBex&gFafcDm

ztfbpfElatAfm+'/

fl!KbBGu"Mtnr%kqe#&eKhjwtFp*iq.bksrhazLje:ftvttDrApswme+mqavjj
yGclghLgpyths+BqsucyAvonte$?xqaAqz	|bKyeC=Algqpi	|pya]s'fppiua\
ZtfbOtMzfsxnh!tAubcsKDfKnew=fMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF;st%X&kDfbkx
yGdjbfrujvyep*zFmgbiGnaGyfv!uGsbjtMzfs3ew&uGmfbqArfsNtd|nAxbAtM"
GlmkvyDlauLnk&z\fAgirAfKLni/ lzqweCupPneA*ztaqj	rzvvBep=tsaewwDF
hDpypezhjK:ed?tpakv)Dsayyyg&fFikplKgxAysd,uGavjwGDaMBjq7fmof
oF"nneKpusOud@tpadglrmpKtnx|fpjppjJaatHid@rxauqwLzaHzex&ozhu+]1
imo&veJlnxGgi/ftbnheGmaMBjqT/mofbnLgcxFtr"yluqbfrmbKGjv7fKpw
qzpy?esuesBjd|gKtbky\zaLIey|krvn?eAA"LtBs/ztacbmMueKyid[uGofu^
NqaucDKgjMtpm-rEacnqrAixtwe:ylbpf]	visxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^fuobc
yAstqBxBmsNtr^ l!K&rrhgKunh!O/wgbtxmfGxjh!oFacifAu@,teJ=xlujg
SAvugeOhtsMBm_suoibfOhzszws_ftftbfKgitLid@yljvbhGBmwtls7fmof
smlkplrxvBNjd@fopootLppGtnr!ztfbrtGsatMem:fIfpv 

flTqbxzlavuqp^jltqhyDFatzyi/fuu?b%5vvLyeh^gD@bbIGgdHGjd#gol
gsbkp	rhowtBi!CAo&veLhmDtff=AFaecyKgpKtis"ylfkvmwy.sCkd,uGafqs\A
rulgbyzln|.edrnqobvmwgNHOxi!nqbtfeLojLnem:fFvtpjvgsHOsh!gzebuBst
yxpynDribvEex=ftft<erpuLtke$klxcueIBjMyet@rqa-ynLoaIuxw*uz.bCqAjf
ztpwimL/.sush!oFaucnvgjGtfd-uIavtjEimBHld<uudg?e]SfMtzw!mqubvt
ztfbumGyfmtfr%fFigpe1_mEtyi-rlzqweEFaACxx=xK.bcsvgzHO)p-
AzegtxLhowtBl,fuubkxrPaAuyi!imuubfFkawIlw8-

flJvbBszaACll!zungbyGghHnej=xlujgeHvpEtBe|fsfvvnFnaJOnx^fosqyiwk
CuujbyzlauCwh|fmofbfFpntFxd:nmubjfvggtFqi+fuovqeAA;styl^xqaygwwgb
JGdmbfFkattIs%ufacbQGyzsush!gzaGclDlumtfr%fEfxgwssaHNmi/fovtktMz
iDfcvzJltnteE-oofbnjvguAyeA@EfacpirAixtBl=rqarcwLFaLQfq!zAavjj
ytptg 



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ2

flabbergasted!flabCeUhvvOx[mgofbcsvgbs6tr"f6bng


flUjgDrDfKyem+jqffbfrxvxyw[-uAlkplrwbKNDd:nmubcxKlnuFjh!uzavjj
hmom+]Lofsvnv%ylxkvmrkstAlp^jlggcyzlsLnex&klbpkrsstsQnx&fFigkw
lGsbeqAuhBHld$rAtgbyGguAyr{!gzebcqDgeKCut*tsaygylgdKIxw7fmof
AzdqokGyutvqi8

flUjgexpsLNeu;kEukqsrvgswty/yqaycxlgiHQex=fsfvbiJFatAfm+.lavjjQ
nmebceuvoLOqx@zuppbftvvMtyl*yfacpirhgMywd@frfybrAuvMyxd*zltggrwk
wGjvgeFhuNLfp!zAaCnnulaMIej*tpajgwKlmytye-quoibkstjECfv-Elxkvm
ztfo?eszaBzew&klicfeCupPHex&kyacnqrofKtqm'kgabKsvlfwnew&klicf
wGjvgesgmHHld@xsvogsLgxBNmd:nqaNqwQaaPBtd@zlmcuyrAvKHjh!yGmmA	
gzebytMsesIsp,fEbA?e]PatGes-jqsbvmsuaRIz{!gzebozKAaDHtA!hquvgw\}
gzebvmAzaTFng^fIpwnirupMtfp-uIaykyzvvMtpr=CuoibmGDaHFid*zlxcu	
gze?bfKguAyeP=xKarqxAAjOyqC!xqgwujvguHtyi-rljvuesnfmtyl^xqaycxrup
sAsgbyGgcxtxe*jg

flBvbqszusNmi!SAvug	rDiHtxi^sqebvtrifsuet^xEppbtxgbNNms/oFzbcrGuh
ztfo?euhmEyid=AF.b@XAAawIBr7fmmnbtxgzHO	d@tpankxLlosNtd_k-abK)4S
yAppbrsrfsSty!jDzbgsGBhA:)d!ZtfAbfDsaLuyd%uIobcyrvovy	d*tlbbnfJnf
xuoi?eOpuAtyl^fYpwujrposNmi!suefnjmgaTFng^fwfrvezlssyDi|
gzykqzKszsznB^jlppbnLaayIwd|nqahgqLgtNLjd|nqayqzDkavuyg&fmadci
iAmfbnxgtAyeh*jloqveylusxwC!BqsAbxGvon

fl!CjjE""sMfm%fFigbRGBtxtBm:nlbpbnEwpKNfr:fmjt?e]hsxtDs;fmmnbwwheRp
ZtjubnKguAyeh/oqtvbyzpoztNd)tAx}be~pmxHhi!gxmbttMuemtnj!EAvbrqwhtx:
_9jnnnstaMBjd{uzrwgwGy.sQms|kldcwxwgxtMej@BAvtgirizsNmi!vAqg?eOht
yAppbxMinBNyi%fFpbdDrAixtJr"rutj?eOopsQfr:kpangfvlsLnee+jlicfetlfG
urancywgnNwmd@iovuvtElesNtd;yGsrcyAvosush!iAoswjKA?stJh>ozacpi
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*g\_*&

fl!Wim/_aLunh!ztfbNtJF.sQnx&fmaujnNlsn

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqs/_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfmtkv=Czjpi	rivMtAi/E
vAmkvjDF;st%H*jlzqweKwftEa(

fl!PqyrP@,txe*jlujge4vsRtme|zumA}

fl!KbyzvvzByd,uGafkil_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfnte$T/UarttulfwoedOKpxkpesue
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*gfafghDhsxxej=xliko,
gzebgAwua`Nnk@tp.bvmwgqtNwm=zudbcwuocBMms[fAgbEfFAfKvzv, lgqwsv
oFacfAAzbuFj[T_/

fl!HqzFka$2FX9-ltckirAixtIy$qg

fl!HqzFka2@	(!ztfbOtMzfsLjt-oqebtfLofKthv=yEmA<er'pyths;xEfbAtM
qzpybBzhus?nxOfyfcpxm_

fl!KbpFvxsQme:f|jv*eElbGMeA^rxagptMnimtBl^tlJbhnFkattyl*ts.&bxspe
ztfbFzur;st%m:-EaigswybEFDd@frsqieGyattBs/sgabVmwgrNyxx*uzaku	
CtbvbiAkaMBjd@xoidkxzvqsznr%b/

flUjge5vvLyeh*jloqveFvuBwjd:nutbszwzuBIs{!hGubjzJyjxxqC!CqovbtFa
^|_+htMuesCyd@jHjucgDlaMIek=fIjvjeWkhtLeE:nqmkplrApsGji:f9jnnnst
gzebqkxlssBnq!ztfbewGDonte1*rxjco)KgdHHiy$zlbvbkAytMtBe|
sAegtfLl?stGy:fFigbnFzpEysg^fAgbjnKgOHLre+y\_*beZvxsuwi!EAv
mquvksygpGtss> lnAbiwhso.em:foppvnFBfwnex;xzjpieLvaTFng^fmtbky
yBpmg 

fl!CueOlusuxd^Bqs?&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesgnxFfr$nAmAbyGufhte$*zleqgxF_u
yqfobyGgeKSeq^fmubcqDb"

fl!KpeLobMthe|kf"bufAkaMBjd	uppbutDlnGFD{!xutkplrApsCyw!lqfv?e]P
sAwgbyzhusNmi!sqfvksygbwDty/tfahqwrAixtnq_kpjcvjrheHJym=tlphbrGyf
kzftijLpdsLjq^jufu+]\

fl!UrjsraXHlp*yt@&bxspesNmi!Kmhngymga/3eh=t/ubmsGDaMBjd_kmokplrvg
nmmhbyzvtxtqs+mlxqtiKaatHi{!Ctbv&xrtpKy	ddfppp&yrifECjz^fKpwbiG
kuujgw/_asUsh!ztfbGfysfMtgi+zleqysrpuLtmi@jluqbmAkfsuew_oxf<
yAngbtxguAyes:nqsbdnJktsNnx:kDffbfMkjuFD	

fl!YjfLgJsQfw!mAjpieLvaLuD{NfEbkfeLofsXth=fuobcsrvgyysh^jluqpjl
^Ibu?eLobMtyl^fnfuveLojGAex=fsfvbzKgeKSeA=AxebdjrhaVuzg;y\scejm_

fl!YjfLgJ`tfd{gGdwu]Jhdxp)d|guebCqAjfitss:fFicveKofsQfr:kpaowhz
zAamptOaauOyd:nqaFqiGgitxet@AEffbfKgjytnx!ztpwimLguAuydnUYFDQI%
uGhjveLvaLJje) lbpfeFvaHHjd^rEfbujwtfwtnr$ruogfeLvaLuDd@tKujksyb

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv.s|yl^fnfuveOhzsNtd^DBmcksrpusCxd:uleqbnLb"
[Mof?eszaRIzd_osivbqArfsNtd:xKavjjrAiBHld,uGsugqxaaLIri!Cuovgw
jmz?bNrDjEFex^rxaAqzropPtyl^fPpfqeEhotAjh!oF?_

flGktxLgjMtre/qqebqzLgbsLfg^/opwtxwaaBHee!yAsvbtxgdBLhp^ l)@vmw
kJbeveKobIyeh=kEo&veEhuMyw{NfuubufAk.	tfr%fFigpessmsNmi!vmsvA
CqsgbuDhdxxee-uzhbvmwgdHOww^ ligtjrhowtyl^xq?bbYzlsxtBe|fzpb@TFl.
zIp?byzyfxnee+jlbycDl_auOyd:nqzbdjyhosLzr+ozhbymwuaMBjC!rulgf	
gzebnjxAaHzkd>nqobvmwFaECpi% ltqbyzhusCyd>gEapqyrlbLSex=fwoqy
CtfpbyzlaKuhi!CmtbqAwy?stMs>kHft?eOofGtyl^ElicfetlfGtwy+tuoibmssg
gzajqzJgpKtxs7fmofbBwyfsKzm:kletAesnbBH	d:nqaFqiGgtNxii+rKaecqDle
uGub@YzlaKuhi!oEaqxjJ""sush!ztfAbfDsavLtA%kpatqzFkaBN	d[gzukpll
gzebcxCpozne$}AFayjtrobLtBs+b/

flUjkxrxvxMym=tlujgeVveHths;rpapqyrhoLQjv!CuujqzLgbsAwi@zlegcqrvg
ztpwimLaatHid*zltcvexvssuep=tsavkrwgxBNmd=tqahksylssJwi|yqebwuGu
oFtbhtJlixuidRztfbrtKpuBIsd*tlxjkhzgzHOey|AmmnAeKlfs!me)kEqgcwwa
ozavjjrwjvNzv^ylphbmAt-mtBl*rqavjjryfLNeA@oFffbnFgtBFjr$kgabCy
rmtvbyzlaWIis!ymjf?e]LWX`4FjJ~ajcxrDpGnee+jlbnneEBtMtme<k
vDjBgxm_

fl!DwyrDiHtnw!zAaikAwguAyet/oLfu{)rxvBNjd@foiqtzKgpytAs*iqt
gElgf 

fl!YjDlgT1Y	d=lldqwwKl.,txe*jlujgeVveHnet=ozukplrApsUqm$klxkvm
uzfbhnFnfKjee+jlujgeOopEyet@xFzbcyrvovyeg/uIegfeJvvGxel^xf
immnksygpNNem+fmaeqsxBtxxeA@Efa@RwAGfL:eT/oLfu#)

flBnkhwgitxer=fuegceOobMtys!jA.bcsvgjGtii|vmjtbxzlaIOyd&kDajcsv
ozajgwrwpvEjx7fmofbuMsmxxes;zlbbdtPgpyths_luuu?e}svvEnp,fFigbxssu
CmugtezhesHtx!mAubksLvaBN[{!gzebjfFkfwtyl^slsqwsvgbLtuv*Fqt}
ZtftgeOhtsyCe$zxzbqswgb Jni$klbnneJvvGx 

fl!Dwyrzixtry|zlicxjrhaILnD^ftftujDm.sSty!qzpy?)rzbBxex&klNqwxwb

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbIGkpsLjt-oqebxjJFazLfz^rK?bb%#obMtjp|klicxj
EAvbitLgjGtDs;xlqqepwA},tmi!CqovbtFaaMOwr*tsavqeSsjvy 

fl!QpqQgbsNmm_hxf?&eKhjwtFp*iqauciDF?

fl!JcsvgjMttz^xligtjl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv?

flUjgsrAixSee-rldtqBvlesLty+jligteGudxtrs/kfayjnDlaMBjd	upp
yAmgosDFaILjw^tFffbyzlaMBnq#rq.bufQpozt%1^fnfibDGBssuhg^vFbpejrvg
ztjubjDlhtHyd:nundnj\}atHi{!CtfpbnLgitxej*tutjgirAiBMew&uDu
yBfgemlguAyDd@rxaejjwyfwo

flBnkhwguAIzk&zlujgeOopEyex&ozhbxjJFatvxy/jfadwyrAixSee-rlmqqpwk
yAaitfNlaMBfx!ytfbfnvgoHNeh@xqavqeDhvzB.d@tp.bcxrzixths;rpapqy
ztjpmeGmatHDx&ozhbvtrzbRnew&kltkouDFauIBi% lbpfeLvpDtyl^fFikogDl.
rApmksygbLtxs-kyobcxrzixths;rp?

flUjgeFlyMtyl*tsaycxrApsyfx!ztfbetEmjMM,d!ztjubhsBtxxew=sqapqnKl
gzebetFmvLCtr7fmtbvmwgmtLli!husfueuvnIFfm+kpavjfLguAyDd$uGmfbsGA
zmtvgeLofBLx{!gzebvmwgtFuqp!uzfubhzvlxxee+jlicfeLvauyet@zFffbtF
ztfbdfur?stMs>kHft?eAAaPuxd=BqsbcyrsbLN	d@tpavjjQgttNeh=CzacifAu
ozacbwAuhmtfr%fnfiijvguAyeQ=AEfbvtrAfEFex&kyauqrwAiBHld_uDf}

fl!1qzrwsHGnw^jluqbywsmsGjd,uGsbjnKApKS	d,uGamptOa"sMfm%fMmkejl
^mofbBzFaBNem|fKpwbmsAf aHd@tpaF?)rzixtfh%kpakpesgxACxt^xfajcqx
grsckirAitNem:fIpwnirifsIkj^tpffbfyhjGo

fl!OkswgjLtfd-uzhbcsvgbsMfh!zmmg#)rzbBxex&klNqwxwaaMOwr*tsavq
Gxjeg	rhowtxm"nuoi}

fl!Kve1Zattqs+mluckqlgdxLye*txz?&eKhjwtFp*iq.bntGrjGAeh=Czaykyz
CAofgwrhusNmi!SAvug)KgutCq,!^nvvbBzFawIeC=AldcnqrpusMfh9-laCpi
ytfbmjHAaHHet;FLmkplrhcHOyd*zlxjkqwguAyeQ=AEfbyfKgtIyfo*ts.but
ztbvbmwyaBxje!uravjjrAbEyeA@yltqojLojGAep*qqavjnK?_ 

flabbergasted!flabbe]MvKSew@opavqes
flabbergasted!flabbrGBtxneX&gFajg
flabbergasted!flaogyrposNmi
flabbergasted!ftpwujl
flabbergaste)gkFawu
flabbergasted!hAujblGguH
flabbergasted!flmcy,rgJsQnp-
flabbergasted!flabrwGzfvOyi
flabbergasted!flabbe%VVnte[TIAng?
flabbergasted!flabberga2.qp!zmlgbsG
flabbergasted!flabbergasxjr*gx<bYj
flabbergasted!flabbertvLNel@Bqac
flabbergasted!flavtnss;stKs/
flabbergasted!xqbnnDrAiBM
flabbergastrs/tuoibN\Cf
flabbergasHtx&ozh
flabbergaMIeh=a|
flabbergastXe*jlujg
flabbergasted_uGtgbyGguAy
flabbergasted!fovt?e,ZvvB
flabbergasted!flacbyJpbEn
flabbergasted!flabbiwhss!nv7
flabbergasted!flabbergast2m:n
flabbergasted!flabberupsDzv,
flabbergasted!flabqwrqvwAj{
flabbergasted!flxqwqvgcx
flabbergasted!Cmtvksy
flabbergasted=AD
flabbergasted!hDfcvmm+
flabbergasted!f|J&nqrif
flabbergasted!flalwiyl.s3)p-
flabbergasted!flabbgwgkNLD{O
flabbergasted!flabbergastXe*j
flabbergasted!flabbeuBoGCsk
flabbergasted!flabbergpExeJ;xK;
flabbergasted!flabber+J,Fq
flabbergasted!flabberguKSex&k
flabbergasted!flabbergastBl=rq
flabbergasted!flabbergasteg@AEf?
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!fmof
flabbergasted!flabbergaswtr%kyo
flabbergasted!flabbergaRIz
flabbergasted!flabberguH
flabbergasted!flabbergawyfx&a|"


fl!1qzrhsxtss:fmuvgsvpoz:)d|guebvmwgNHOxi!zAaCnnulaLyAi/kxz}
^9icvesyfsSty!ztjpmnFnaHza(

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqsl_aLunh!GxjegeNlsRtmy_hxz<be]FpNtme%fspvbyG
ztfbhnxAisvjr% lJbvmAulo.

fl!Kbmska79Y%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bumsyqESee+jlwgtDrhozLnp,a

fl!CbpFvu|.ew@opaCnnul.suqA@EEatgfvFaMIeq@qqajgwKlmytzw^lGm?bfFk
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusBjv8fl!Qj	rkpsFjx!sqajgqHguHtzr%uljv#)

fl!KbxzhmEtis!tAujksygpytyl^fEptv	\gttCid:nqaOqzKl.sAjx:ozhbwu
gzebyfDrjGAee>gK?bb%%vvsCsw;rFaogetFaMuqo*tsauwhzgoHHxi+yq@&

fl!KbiAko,Neq^gzakv^\gqEyfh^jlqqqwrHmBwj	!f)CwveQvv,Ljd|ulfcunDF
urggpiwk.sSty!qzpy#)

flUjge5vvLyes+rKaittOsfwtnr!xqqnA 

fl!Rnjszfswtq^fnbemesuesznr*ytaAqzJgtMIwCH-lBnkhwgdtFqi%fmgvgw
oF<bcsvguAyes:nqsubfDsaCInr^jljpbhzvsNM	dG5qt?buDlbLyeh='/adwy
ztfbOtMzfsIsp,fEiqqprpuLtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC7fmofbBsslxxee!ruuvnj
wGjemjJb

fl!YjfLgbsJnx,fuubytMseG.yd|zmz#&eKphAyid:nqaNqwQaatMew=uzacueAA
CmtbszAAfsIzx!urauklzA<sush!gzaqnirJstvex=uwavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbtx
ymzkplrApsBjv!jmvijywya/Um{!sKafgfJ"as6jx!ztjubgwgbsFjw|uzavqeQvv
tqwgteLvaEIxi!51VTbywtqxL^(!f)IqnirFpNLex=tsvg?e5h@,txe*jlujg
EAvpieUybunee!ruuvnjrzotJum|nxz}be]6pN.wi!kzpwimrApsNwC!ztf
vmukgsulaHzee+fAzuvjJ"
