deepest contempt.  `I've seen a good many little girls in my
time, but never ONE with such a neck as that!  No, no!  You're a
serpent; and there's no use denying it.  I suppose you'll be
telling me next that you never tasted an egg!'

  `I HAVE tasted eggs, certainly,' said Alice, who was a very
truthful child; `but little girls eat eggs quite as much as
serpents do, you know.'

  `I don't believe it,' said the Pigeon; `but if they do, why
then they're a kind of serpent, that's all I can say.'

  This was such a new idea to Alice, that she was quite silent
for a minute or two, which gave the Pigeon the opportunity of
adding, `You're looking for eggs, I know THAT well enough; and
what does it matter to me whether you're a little girl or a
serpent?'

  `It matters a good deal to ME,' said Alice hastily; `but I'm
not looking for eggs, as it happens; and if I was, I shouldn't
want YOURS:  I don't like them raw.'

  `Well, be off, then!' said the Pigeon in a sulky tone, as it
settled down again into its nest.  Alice crouched down among the
trees as well as she could, for her neck kept getting entangled
among the branches, and every now and then she had to stop and
untwist it.  After a while she remembered that she still held the
pieces of mushroom in her hands, and she set to work very
carefully, nibbling first at one and then at the other, and
growing sometimes taller and sometimes shorter, until she had
succeeded in bringing herself down to her usual height.

  It was so long since she had been anything near the right size,
that it felt quite strange at first; but she got used to it in a
few minutes, and began talking to herself, as usual.  `Come,
there's half my plan done now!  How puzzling all these changes
are!  I'm never sure what I'm going to be, from one minute to
another!  However, I've got back to my right size:  the next
thing is, to get into that beautiful garden--how IS that to be
done, I wonder?'  As she said this, she came suddenly upon an
open place, with a little house in it about four feet high.
`Whoever lives there,' thought Alice, `it'll never do to come
upon them THIS size:  why, I should frighten them out of their
wits!'  So she began nibbling at the righthand bit again, and did
not venture to go near the house till she had brought herself
down to nine inches high.


  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
callngirvvMtnr!glutgrtsjGAez=oofbvtrpuLthl*rpsgp	r'DHGjd@Cmz?brQ
jqbtu^rgJM.xd&osibvnElaRIzd>kDfbcqDgjGtgi%'/abQsrCbKCty|fBsgvjPAt
ztfAbfDsaFIAi%fAgh?esuesUqm$klxcueKvpGtqi'zlbnqswb

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbrwuuBIsi%fPjpcm/_aLBjd|guebvtrofKMjp'fuobc
sqmcphzvmRtys+kgab@SGipwSew^kytbvtrsjDyel^xfafqBFgixLj{!gzebK)E
yGsgbxzl"Ltyl^fnfuveuhusCsd:nqayqwDk@stTl7fyzbfjsyaWCse&'laK
CAofgwrpgs3ew&gxmbgAwyaLyjd,uGacpDrtpKy^(!fMofbmwyfsJts/fMmkej
hqhcpeLvavLDd@mmjp?exvssMmi!lqmvbAwyzsFtr^rKacpirspPaxt*xuugf 
OzacbqAAuEyeA&oxf?bmGDfOyw{!ytfbclsposBje/jlbbnnLAmxtue:zqskplrvg
lApvuywwtsCsd:nqafkxLhovy	d@tpaujjrspHEjh!ABagclwymRnel@rrajquAuh
ztbvbyzla6Izw^ftbfbhzhozyid&oEaoksvaatHid>gEaeqrAuhsvfg)fFp
luokumrojLtxx=xK?



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPW

flabbergasted!flUjge0hcuCydnkzeubnFgbs6nx:rqaDkqD


flJvbBszaMBjdrnuugbWsicBN	d:xAuvksygtEIBp,fnbemesnbBH	d@tp
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusuxd*zlxgpylgbLtnj!oFajcirspLNew=squjksy}
gzebumwgixuwh!oFaowyLlsBHld:uljvujDma/@mi!JGdjgxK"as@mi!JGdjgxK"
UtaoAevlbKtue>y-abQmrtzszzv!gzebymAzlxLx%!f5ig&qDghxNeq^
kJfewywk.suxd|ADfbcxrmfKLjx|fmsgbkwysxNx%!f9igtjrJB7tNd&gHf
jDprrjvguAyr{!Olxqpiwy},teE-oofbizwztxxem+fmaoqrwuusNme:fuubyfK
rApmksyggHLex&klgcpesuesNmi!vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLnee+jltjg
BqsAblGve Hfx;xqenAetlhtHel;tFjpiesipNNej=xlujgrlgcNNex&kKaygww
tAxjgwwguHtgi!yqfp+]wCfKSyl*tsaugjElesNtd&gHfbemsuhxxew*tofbjjJ
yIjobnFguAyet=ux.bcsvguAyek/kmubjfDs.sQnx&fFigblDhtLtye#rqacpi
ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfajcirCbGCxl^jldqouDluxFD	

flWgtDrzpHHex&klScdgAAaGIym$kpaCnnul.suxd|nqaygsLgiNHym+mlbdqzLa
gzebefDsfwtty:fFpbjjJgjGtfr!gzhtAeLvoxne$rnK.bOfJFaTHs{!CtbvbF0L
EAvbftAuhsIzx!nqsg{erYvGtms_klujkxrtpFysx7fmofbkwAdAtri!glqckwrvg
mxpxgxrhowtfd'gz@bbVMpdDner=C-"bbFFkaTFng^fIbubxGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFle
ztbvbxzlaKusd=lracveGudxtnr!ztfbfnJldMCtr!oFarqnFAfwtys7fIjvjtMA
zDzkplrApsyCt-guobvmwgnBMye)kljvbmskaFuii8

fl!JgeLvpDtri!lAsbjnKgiHOxi_gue?&eKofsMfm%fFpbjjJzfEzee|fEigbwsu?
^TpybxMyqKCxi%ftf&nqrifsQmi+ftfbhnFktsIzx!CtpbKest@stGy:fU"f
hquvgwrAbDyel*slikuexhosush!mxpxgx	|uAuyd*yfakhe1gdtHej*tpavjjEb"
GEaujjrzbBxex&oE.bumwgdtGjd;vAobceFlbMtqm:zxfbjtMzfmttr!ztfbftGy
urayjnuoaPuxd@fnskimLgcKuxw!vxbvgeOpuAtyl^fzboge]4?s`FF}O6"
kzhtcAwkaNJtr!oF?bbXzlaPysx!ozaykyzvvMtpr=iwjpi	rhowtmy/xuff
ABtvcnJz.sCsd"xqbvbkwhssFjw:fEigbxzvvExeq^kFavjjryftFeQ@xKaCpsl
gzebdjrAvKHjh!uGubqkrAixtms;yqadgkGyfsMmi!nmebhtMuesNmi!lmobcsv
mxpxgxm

fl!JqBrxvxywd*zltggrKa"sUqm$kltckirApsBjv|kxg?b%Lvauyek=ozh
sqtuclwzayIwd@fDbddnL"as3ew;vBpugeVpotB)p-fnfbujFkjGAeq^fAo
sqtuclwzaGyCxH-laCpirzixtgi"gzahcsuFjGAex&kltqtyrvgsNmm+mlujcy
CAvnfezhqIys\!f)&OkxKgBEChiHflDqojrofKyeh*xqdvnDlgbGxek^zlsgciQ
lAsbAtMyaPuqoH_l&EqrAuhsCsd@fyjpwywaaGOww^'laDwyrP"Oyek=zluqbxwl
ztbvbyzlaFIzw^fppgus\Aazyyd=AF?*be7umRtNd%uz"vbyzpoDn)d?rudgbBwuu
uz.b@yzhusNmi,-pangyrKjGumd|zAqbksrAixtms;yqakheAAauyle+fAsfgwAuh
vqprnjrhcHOyd-owfbvmsA@,

flCAbyzptsNnq^fEigbmskayIzr%ftftbBsFaBHys!glukfDrsjMNqi!xApobBAAi
glucdqwgjGtyl^fIjpftOaatHid=tljvb=szaLBjd&gpajquwk-suej@tlbpfeLDp
uDavjwwlaIunv|fAgbvnFFaPBnx^fwjfblDvwxM,d!ytfbvtGraNJex&klgcpesue
glqckwrvgsNmi!mxpxgxlgbGxeA@ylkwuyrnpBHld:ulmgcAwguAyev=uy.bymwu
nqsbgDwggxFqd;vAobceDpuMFjd#uFungeLobMtxx=upapgfJguAyep=uwjpi]
mxbuu rgUAywi!Cmtbptrsbuyqd:nutbvnElaPCyl!ztfbytJkts|IVdTWaOG	\
hGubpjNlsMBjp^yEaujjrBovIwo^jljvbfFkaIOyd*zluqbmwyaECuw8fl!KbpFvx
Y1NGVM1UHsCsx^xqtvksygjLtxy/kluqbmswqxH	(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	
^IigpjNlss3ei@zlptbiJpoDtfr,ztjpi.rzps3)p-fvvuveKlfsQme:fFiku
hAuvnjrkpxM d!OleqbmGwfsCy(-rlncmjrtfsAws>fxbtijrhhtCs{!lAs
xqbnnDrP"Ftvy*zqavkwwkaHzef^ozhbuzuoattym+ElmkvyDlaMBnr"'/

flJvbiAkaLIem+jqff?esuesGzg&fEpqpjJguAusd|nqajcirlyIyhx^ja
hqgqtjrzixtme%fpswpprobEzex&klcqvyDl.sMmi!lAvpfezlssBje%fBsguxAuh
gsbkpxLguAyeg^oxjpi	rhowtme%fFpbuyGvqsNtd|gHfbjjJgoxwpd'xAnbdjAuh
hDpmgsmga`Bjd&gEuknDrwvMtis>tlujgetvuMFj{!ymzkplrApsBjv|kxg
^6icv)KgrNCyi!kzpwim	|JsBtt^fUaujfF_usAws>fmoAbrGyf aFw!oFaku	rP
imo&veylusIzx!gFavjjrkpHL][dfppbynKoa2tme%t/ubfwMulsKzm:kltq
sGdj#)

flBncx/gjMtBe|fFpqbqsAfsNtd>oEibvmsA@stXl^fIfpveGuazLtA*ts.bcsv
mDpyksyaatHid<kDzbutGuaAuid:ullpgjDgeHQsd=tlujgexspHL,d!oz
gzpvjjJgnBHzx^fFigtjrDbLtss:fqwgpeJvpFtks/fFiku	rhowtxl^fFskgi
ztfbgkxldMttj!rKjpievvxGtBm:nlppgewscHQee"guouveLofsxts/ lbpfeLof
uFigtesynswzv-kpatqzFkaAywd&kme}be~AjEFew&klxgpyrvosAws>ozh?bfFk.
gEacbqszusLjw=ADdg?eKofsJzx!uzfbcwEgpNNes'fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpaqpj
lApvbzHguAyeg&oyogA	rhowtxe*jluqbmwytxFkdGTAxbKeuhosxtd+ulnqtjl
CtbvgAwyaAuut^tE?bb2zhus%NPgfnfeqrwgpytri9-

flMwepAszsztv!Gxjeg	rAixtqm:zxfbofypdsvtx:rqajcirupPtme%fuuubkMsm
krggeylgbGxew&klhtgBrupsFfv"kD;bbxLpmEtnx!CmtbxjJFaNHhs_lAsvcgDl.
gze?bfKguAywi!yqfogirApsvjd+ultqtyrvgswme+iqaqhezlssyAi/fsfvvnFn
uGubqkrAixtws=slbicnFaaGIeA=tpftbxzlayyqx!AzicruQb

fl!KveOhtsGzg&fBmgcxsuuxLee:ftpog	\guAIzk&zlqqqwrHmBwj{!^IigpeGuf
Cmtp&yrhmPuDw!mDpyksygmtLli/fmofbxEhmEyw{!gzebdjAuhsIwh^xqebcgGBu
hKaokhwgbGxev@hnjvu rgJsuqq=yFaykxzgJsBfh+-FaiqswgeHQsd:nmu
xmcdky	opEy][@tpaAgy	|bGxeC^z\_kv)KgstNmi/fovtktMz.sSty!qzpy?
ztjubxGyusIkd-orf#be1geHtBs+jqsbymsAaVUSd&gHfbjfHwfGyid:ulng#
3tfpbNrBtxxex=fDfcfexhjKS]x@rqt?bNrmbGwni%fFicveCpowttj!ztjpi
tqwgtezhqIysi% lbpfeFvxsBjv^fUacoeAuaMBjd_opengeGmaHHj%!f6igtj
uGhjveLvauyee!hApmbBJpuMysd@hAvvbrwaaMBfx!ztftgeGBhAN^d!Gzebymwu
OlhtqBrBqmtN(-rlxtkywgpGy][#AFaK&rrnsHQsd;vloqy	\gtAyee%jqebksrh
yAstqBxBmsNtr^?l!cveDlbLNex&kDf&ueFvaKItq!zAaittOgvItfr,fyptg
NQSG})

fl!DwyrAixH	(!ztpwimLgBEChi7f)tjcqDgJs8JZ XlhgvesuzsIqh^xlujcsrP
gyapqBnga!BfxNrxadgesgdHGks/zfaqpjrDbRa]r^Bqsbvtrifsusd=rpayqrsu_
/nvvbyzlo afp>gKtbvtrobOyep^yEppueLvaEyfv+'laQj	rPaLBty-jz"vbqArf
ZTBV#)

fl!Qj	rFpNtks=rutjbFDpdx:)d|nqacpxOlsxxel^xEfnh rg!1IBd$gzaAqz
rqbtpeDltLIsw!ozajgwwcas%mC7fFigtj\zaAuwh-ElsqqrrmpKt4Sp lbpfeFv
xApobfLgbEFej=xlbpAeDltLIs[#uAlu#)

flBpfeKvaLBjd>kzubqslgutEnr"frjtuyrvoxtxm%klbpfeLofGtyl^fAujgwl
gzebofCpoztvy*zqacbhGuwxLxe:oAobqkrpusuqx=mqujgwhgcNNee'zqsbcexlx
suowvjKgtAyel^gDebceNvjvyes;zEjfg	rhowtxx=vBffbyGgmBMyi+a

fl!OcwQgBGH^d!SmsAbFFu@,txe*jlujgeNvjvy d!^RfvemrtfsGDd"rAwgu
ztjubrGtfGN^(!f6igpeuhnxtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusIsd:nq
yFbktxmgaTFng^fwogyeAAaPuxd:nqaTcgtpuswtq*tsavqeDvpDtks/ftft?esue
ytfbvwwtcEyid:oxmbumwgtAIto!ztfbjtMzfmtvy*zqahqwyluMCsk!ztbvbxzl
CmtbptOgbuIzx!glujqzKhowtym_kEacueDhszyee|fFigbWsicBN	d@tpajcirup
xqbuqsrApsvjd@lDbkfeGmaBN 

flQtgxwuuESex&klScdgAAavuri!ABavqeLofsxts/ lbpfeLyjxxex=fAqgpeAA<
hGu?bfKguAyeh=uDaqrjFlesCsA@xpt?bfFkaTFng^-EagngGDaPuxd[xqtugi
nmsfbfyhjGMyd*zfavjfLgbMNjq[zlqtqAwkattke*rGsg}erHmBwjd&kmsfbnL
ymzbvtrpuLyqj!^6igpe1_mEtls!xAvpfesuesAjx!ozacveLofsQnr%uI?&

fl!VJF`gzHOeA=t/u&byzvvzByd?rudg?esuemtfj:kDaycnLpoztym-rltjg
lmoekjvgtAyel^gDebvmwgStvgm:fvvuveMuexLex&klxkpiGD.sMmi!yGefgsDF
yBsgcirvvMtmi/ftbpf	rhowtre%klbbussAdAtnr!ztfbcnJbas!mi!juebptL
mqubjtDkaHzee+EFikpllgcNNew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqaujwAllsush!glgcnql
gzebceuybLBes'fnsqmjFghEuxw7frsqoeOojvBew&kldqphDBexxex&gFakveOht
pGtvbuGztBvqi!oFajcirmbEFjr!ozuqbfrjvvOrf^x\gtcrwaaHLew=squjksy
uravjjrzpKN 

flOgzyrjbFyee+fmoitDrCpBwj[TztfbTftijM.x[T^2bv#e8hu|te1&kDfbcww
EAv{&erHowtyl^tlbbxtAjfsMmi!nmebpjNlssBje/jlcghtJl.s|Xy/klujgs
O/nbjjJl@stIm"muoibkGyatJup^yfaAgwropGIzvH-

fl!Fklypoztks/fmqrnjKaaBHii^j-"bufAkaMBjdmgnckvesuhKCqC8fl!Jgww"
IAngbfFkaAyqt!sqaqwyrvgs@MMn'/ab-XGBowMes'fyptgetypDysd"rmtu}[

fl!PqBrAfEFeq^ lQcv	rDitN)w!ztbvbnFguAyeA*tppy{)

fl!UwwwaaBN)w!gzactrlgzxLel=tAvt#)rg)1yet/uzpwphwkaBNe$@xDvo}){

fl!CpesynmtDs;fspquj/gas%ms!kHftbxsDaHHjd:nmubunRl}st2l, ljv
lumnueLofsQms-klxkpiGD@,

fl!UwwwaaBNeh=kE.bAjJgiHHty/.ladwyrpu,Mee+fmsobkGyatFqd:nmu}&

fl!YgqDaaBN)w!mAubptrivLCsi|ylujgwwaatNee+ElscvjggazIee+jlucmjrpu
gIbA#)

flUjgwwgxtMee!rAoibxAsfGwjd@lFftbyzptmtfr%fMmkejrjpNFid=txzbjjsy
CtjurjJzaGIBd@tpavjjF}aLOhl!gE.b@XMyfmtNd%uz"vbqArfsCy{!Eqs
nAoqwwlgbMtfp- lbvbfDs@,te$	ulbubNrAfEFeC=AfaAqzrjpPuwhH-lbpfesA
rmtvbxzlaLJwi@jlpwvezlssBfr%fmhckslgbGxeq@jqacptLofKtxr@zoibks
ztfbcnJbas@mm|fFjogeLofKyeA^xqaVYTrsjMNqi!ytskgpKaatHid_uDf
yAvpfxrvgsvws)kzainfKz?st%1&gFacbsMtcxLes'fovewrtls zwe_kEavjjJl
sGtvbgw""sNms;mtubCqAjfnte$dfIppfjJgxAuyd:nqz&nqrkpsHjB:'laCuexvs
vGmnksygnxtty:fAgbvmwgxBHis> lJbqsDFaPCxl!ztfAbH72MW:edd-yauwwwgJ
jAo&veOhoMtys!yFbAbnFgixLjd@tKanqsyls|.

flTjgeOhjMyid'uDauqrwguBGjd>oFiqwyroftLnr"fmoAvmAuhsGtv^.lacv
rmtvbhstfsuev;snmkplrvgsFnx:rqaecwLDixyqw7fmofbyzlaLIzr%fAgbc
mApfbrsuzsPtm$klbnneLhmDCsk!zAhgvmwy;stxl^fybfgeGBusNmi!CAsfu,
^9igtj\zaMBjd=ztftbqskexLa[T3tz?bNrobwH)x!zAadtnFnauOyd=tq<
Humn&xrnpMtyl^fAujgw	|CBFq%!lquejeAAaAywi7fxbf#]	OfKy	d[AFa&grrBq
gFavjnKgdHLsi//\Oq?eLpfs.jq!zAhgvmwyayCww:/\ujgDrkpG.yd/kmdjbmssg
nuhjbjFvvzBeC^z\_Qj^rAixS)p-fppbyjDsaxHty"nbafqs\Aauyet@xFjewqsy_
/Tftg	rIjEF^d$gFdjbmGsesIkd:nutbttHl_ %np-fFigbwGvgsvje/b\_Oksv
ztbvbqGvtxtxp@zq_+QmlgjM.xd$uyjpievvxG:edckmeubgwspP:)dRglmqwi
iDbuj[	|!7IB{!CtpbfnvguAuy T/UubyfKgCBFq{!OlgcphQ|_$Bt(|fFpbit
jAxpbyzlavBnq+kK}++SsF.s3ew&gz"v#e%VVsxtd*z-_+VmsAa2tBs+-F.
ztfp#]	IjEF)w!zAaiqevvxGa]L^xq.bDnDs@sNmi!smtvgwrzbRMeC=A/sgbyG
mAafqBFguAyeg&oyogA^\

fl!Qj^rZpsVnp--EaiqyrApswtq^fppypeLofswmm_tqz?bmszaAya(!ymjf
GxjegeLvaAyww^rr?bb%~ozmtyl^EltggrrApsJzx!kHftAyzpoztzt=tlCknq/
Olxqwqvu"Mtgi!ozaDkqD_tsJqe$klgqtesghHIid%kmm<beLojLtkm/kBmcejrpt
tmstqBlguHtgi!yGsg>etBus3eXcOZLbKeuhosEng)fmankyLsf|.

flTjgevyfPtmi/frpqveszayuwd%uIobvmwgdACrr^ElbubxzlavIzp% lbpf
CmjvgirAjEFew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqacpnEhms	xl^fopwniF_usAzi|ylphbBzhu
yAsvbnLgxtM[d|iDbvemAuhsush!yoscogDpoztff=AFakpeLofswmm_tqzbeqGzf
gnpxgezlshtex&kz.bufQpoztys!nqsugqxg!!Bnw!oEaDkqDa"sMmi!mmwgbtFl
ytbtreCpdDnee+jlxckywkaMIew^klxjcyrDpNFid&gBqgpeFlyMo

flUjgexpsLNex&ozhbumwgixuwh!CmtbceyloxLfp!itptwxrvgs|Yl^xqaiqjK
Humn#)rAixHex&klScdgAA"LtAs*iqacntFn_ |He:itajkrlgzHOef,fFig
nqeig^\guAysd|oxfpejlgbGxex&kzacptLofKths+lGtkqsrvgsPtm$kE_+@MGse
ABajkxroftx][}xmofAeFvx aIs+-FaejtClaACr[TNAxbyfKgjMnes-jlggnqGD}
3tbvbmswqxHjh!zAaAqznga!yqp!AEacnqrhcHOyd*z-"

flMcuyrjbFyee!ruuvnjrmfxvqi7fErwgfCpoztAs*iq.b-%`obM.xd}oxm?&
ztpwimLgBEChi7]l!YgqDaa2tme/jxzbmsGD_ 8td_uDf?byzhoDtDi3fU"o
hquvgwrupPa]f;zlJ&oesgexuqd:uAahnzKAfKyid:ulugnqrFpNa]e-rlJbmsGD
oE.butEluACsk!iAnguesAaFyep*qqacbOsjl Cs[:nq_dqClgbGxey[fUaiqjK
rulgbfrzlRaws$qqu#&

fl!UqeQvvsxnh7fAmfbkwsmHQ^(!ymjfbyzlaHNmi/yg

fl!YgeEBtMtgy/tlujgezvvLyeh=Cz@&bxspesNmi!Xmcdky\zaOIng^?lbpf
GxjegeuhmEyid=AFacueDvvwtfw!ytfbetMsemt%M'fKpwbiGbas3)p-fEfv
JuocjesAaRIz%N

flUjgwwgxtMee!jqbfbxAsfGwjd*tEucpyDF.sush!GxjegeLopNAmx!zA
nqsugqxaa/3eA=tpftbBzhusNmi,f9JNNevvaGyCxHflJhbyzlzsBfh!gzz
yqoug	rAixS)h!zmlgbyzlaKItj!urg}&erHgMywd@fyjpwywgpKtyA= lujgD
hqhcpeEvwBHld@hAvvbfyhjGnee+jlBnkhwgixuwh!ztfbTftijMtxe, l!C
hmstqBxBmsQnp-fpp?byGgcxAnr!Cuuj})

fl!CbgsysHQky-fAgbYMS1},tyl=AsivbFDpdxjef;zltjgezhesHtx!rAoibyG
jAvdv	rmpKtyl^fzfzveEvnxHyd@fEiqyjJgpytqm:zxfbrjtimxMeg@sq
xmuvnnFnaBHee:fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpauqrwgpytyl^slikvezlssCsd:nqahchwb
^U"nneHBusuew:uBavqeLojLn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh?esuesMms;zqebqzLa
^~pw&irifMNjv!tAubftrAitNee"guo#&eOojvBet/upvegirhoHNmi/fpfcf
yumgphwb

flBnkhwgoHNng^jlxkvmrzpFyew;xBskujrAitNex&klqgdgDltsQjv^fmmn
zGspksygjGNtd-oFungeuhlxMee|fFigAeDhzsIsd:nqahntGy.sush!glctklzA
opfcbhstfsCsx=ftftbmwhente$dllJbgfLgpGyes'fFigujrjbDyx{NfEig
ztpwimLaa/Cy(|fEvtgeLvaFupi!Y1NGbhzhozyem+fyzbunRl<sush!gEakv
imo&veHvtLCgp,fybmgeElaEuwk^xfakveEBtMtre)klngbxEhmEyw{!O
yGqrqxwb"

flTqbxzlaLQfp-uIffbtFlaHzex&kldcmjKaatHid>gEafgqAniMyid:ulgkpi
ztbvbxzlauyle+fEitksCpoztim/kounA rgBLtxs=tlbubxzlaPuxd|smmn
kzpwimrApsAjx!ztsqwlzguAyeh=uD.bumwgstHes;zlphbyzlaAIzw^ lbpf
lAvpfeIBjMyee!iDpyfeGmaECyx-klbpkrsstsush!husfueOhjMCsk!uGuukiwb
ZtfbrtGyaECyx-klMkBfJk.sVnp- lxcueAuaMBjd_openg	rifBHld&kxebwuriz
zIpbizAuftaum"yfayjtrDfKyek*BuoibnLgtHGjx&ozhbqzLgpytfd#uFung 
ZtfAbfDsaFuii!glswumrhusUqm$klujgeEvnxHyd|nqacruwhsxx.d#AFaujj
xmobqkxgbLtme/jlbubxzlavIzp% lbpfeKvpGtks;tpajgwKlmytxe'kljpbf
ztjemeOvpwo

fl!VjjrmjKMyd:nuoibN\CfsAtx!zAafq	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfacueKof
Cmofgwwkatvty:fuobvmwgxHIi{!^utbvtrnsHQex=fyzbtnyousMnD^fmhcksh
gzebvmwgtxwtr%fFikplrptsNtd'ozeboDrDbRtnr:ulujcyrspOyqC!mmsfgsm
OlujksCguAuyd>oxmbdjrAixtgi|zlqncsm_

flJvbxGBowyid@tlfzejDsfGNet-gz.bptrkpNvy{!gzebxjJFaGyfx-Elbpf
yunrnDrhsKusk^jbavjjrvoESeh*lrjewqLFaPux{!ztbvbxzlaAuid+uFavjj
yybnnjKAaBxje!nAxbvtrzfMtff=AFakv.rhowtBl*rqaujjrDbLtui^xuoi
gnpwvesuyBIzw-ElboqsyguAyex/kqt?bfrsjMNqi!ytbtrethsDtoy|zlpxgw
nqsbjjskaFuii!nqsbntGraNJem+fmaitjsAaAOwv,a

flBpbjFvsFIzw!vGqrAeOhtsFts)ozhbftOuatNel^xlxkvmrsbKAjd/uGof
kKfu?esueszji#rKauvwwAdACsk!uGubqswgqtQ	d:xKjpieLvaMIzg&ftft}
^2pqteDpuMFjd:nuoi#)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgbswte\ozhbvtFl.sush!ytfbvwAle
nmsfbyGgxACxx-kluqbnL}auOyd|nqaycxrAfKLnf-ElgtklzAfGyid@rxavjj
zungbfLguAyex&uGhjveLobMtnx!suhjvetlaAOsk/EfakpeOojvBeg@yqakv
CAvnfetlaOywC!rulgnDrApsyfx!nqsbwurposMum:klphbfDsaAywd$umykplm

flIctiDFaDHtA*tsayjfLgtAyeh*jfaujjrwjvEjh!ABacbqAAuEyef*zlph
yFjem	rhowtmi-jljvbtMAaMIex&klqwruQ}aPBjv^ABppbyzlaIOut,fvvorjv
ozuqbyzlatCwd=lracnqrpuLtki^zlbvbtFjfmtBm:nlbbAjDwaHzeh^ruhjv	
gzebtzKofwtfx!ztfbuyAjlmtfr%fybfgetlmByAi!zAayqwJFaBN.d:nqobCqAjf
jAeigirifACsh!glhtgfLguACxx-kfavqeClfItmi/yqmhbkJvnsvjm+mlswp
uHft>esuesNmi!sAngpyrzixtft[kmsgfeGuaMBjd=ztftbxAkfmtyl^fBvrrD
smegbfFvuAywd/AEibcyrAixtxx*iw.bcsvguNGgp^jligcirvwxLel^kxtbks
oFtbjzJyzsNtd"kFajqqvgpytnx3fFigpeSsjvy	d:nuomksygjMtBe|fHftA
rulgbmsCjGAee!mmngbtxgqEuDd>oFibceuhsMams/yq.bcsvgfQJjg:ozhbgAwyz
sAngpyrApsvjd:xmnrnjvgvGxjv!oFtbhjwA.sLfr!xAvpfeLofsNmm|zxf
gsbkp.rAixHex&klqwruQgcxAfr!gltgtnwzaHzew&uDubemsyhxMee:fFig
yFjem	ryvGHnr"fmaxgwQgmBNyp^fIbAbkGyxtLiw!kmdjbyAtfsush!glmqpl
Cmzbdfur.sush!hmsmksygiHuww^rKacnqrAixtBl*rq.bvnDsatNep@yFakveKhu
jAxpbfrnpHxeA@Elphh	rwbGNnr" lxkvmrpuLtys+mGfbjfFnjGAes;zlphbnLz
sAvvj	rhowtnx|fssgcyrlzxMel@rraujzLb

flUjkxrzfxGjh!zAaCnnulattls=jlprrtJAvGCyC!lAsbofCpoztmi/fqtecuw}
yAaujjrzfMttj'fmubqsul.sush!xmobvnDsaLBjd>gEaswnLlaMCwi%fmofbtMA
uradtjsAimtfr%fFjnneLofsJzt[E/tbdfJraLIzr%kpaswnLlayunr:fuobvmw
jutvcsul?

fl!CpirFfMtBl@zlbbfjsyaECyx-klqwruQgjMtBe|'/aucnvgBEChi7fmtbumw
rqbpvesnbBHxx!glcwvywydNJex=fDfuvezlsLyqj7fmofbksuoxxel^xEfnh
CuujbtFlaHzex&klmgcAwz;st%M!ytpwnirobOyep*qqebvjsjiBHld*zlutkhCz
BqsAbrMjimtnjT/ugbK)vgpGFDd#kqobvmwgsBAmx!yuAgbyGgeHtnxHflPj
jqbt#erP"wtsi@xxzbhtJnpMNjr!ztbvbN\CfsAtx!zAaittOgvItfk@oz@bbQwA
sqaugj	|iHQeMnfuubvtrifsGfr@mqe{be1gtNJus|klJbqzyousNtd^gFaqt
jDjpmeKvnxNmm+mlptbtLofKjef;zlujgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrptmtBl@zh"

flUjgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrjfKNfm+rKaycxlgxAuy !fMmkejrspHEjh!gxmbttMue
nqsbcyrAixtkp=CqsubfFkaMBjd#rmegueGmazLfw| lcwveKofsxnh!tAubujw
gzzvjnFnaMBfx!rApmgirsjDyex&klskimLguACsk!zAagcyrvssxwm+qlvpfjJ
ztfbenJjvFMye+iqt}be`ofKyeA@ylbbnfJnfsGzw&xApoblJvxBHld+kmsbjjJa
gnpwveLofsMfq^ftfkimLgbLtmi/yqmh>esuesQmi+fEigbmskaEIto^jlvpfjJ
oF.bcsvgpGtgs:nltkfjKgpytnx7fmofbgwojGxem: ljvbtujvKLjh!zAajgw
ztbvbxzlaFCll:fmtbyjDsaEIto!gzebujwgxAuyd>gEaqpeLofsNtt!urakv 

flTjgeKAsxNhl^jligtxwsgsOud=tlukryGl.sush!vqfrgirvwxLex&klffijrvg
ztfbozKosHIr{!gzebjjJgfRyxd*syffkfLlmRtri:fFiqujrvgsuep@xsf
imugtuAsmtL	d:nmubyfKgtBNym+mlppbyzlaMIud>oFibkyKgbKGxd'uxegf	
wGjgvqQgtFIpm+mlbbntFnaAIto@nfacpirAbDCsk!tAubvmwgtFuqp^yFapqyAjf
urajgwrvssIkd@tKujksygfEMj	



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gW

flabbergasted!flabbeSkwBwjd'xAnbceUhuxLum-rms


flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbcsvgBEChi!rApmgirhusyfg&fAujgwrmpKtxs_klukojrpo
yumgphw?asuyd-gEubvmwgDtNjv[oxmcteLvpDtyl^ftpqmfzgpNNes'fuuu
sAvvj	rhowtfh%xqtugirofKtnr!glmcplMpemtxp^kBzbxtAjfn

fl!Yjtrhsxt4Spb/aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

flUjkxrDbLtss:fmobgsuvvKulm+mlprgsAuhsztv!gldqpAwyttNns+alaCnnul
xqqnkjvaaKuyl^xltjAqQaa/3][dftbtfqQglGIB{!yus?boMzusuyd[xqtgpy	|
gFangfKAa2tpr=Clxjqe1gXT!eA&kzaKblGAaNJex&oEaoqwFpoznef;zlJbvmAul
OlnwuyrobOyef^kzaejfFnfwtxi<kDbnbyAtfLtxm+iqavjjFb"

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fyfcpetFaMBfx9-ltckirAixtHe:kDqknqsyaLNjv+rK?
^QyrnfAuaRIzv|kxg#&

fl!Kbhsu"MtjB[rmjpbR%ZF5Z	dd-yachwspemtxm/-ltckirHmBwj{!^nfeczKl
O/nbptLgnRMjp' lzqweKlfn.

fl!KbiGu"Mtxi^ /aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oldcp)LgqNNem:fyptgeusftLqC7-lBnkhwgsxJqm^jlwgtD
vAmkvjDF.s|ks/fUaecs\AaNHii/yFbpfeAAaFSxi-lluqbgwnjGtBm:nbacpi
hqjpieKvaFusC!jughgwwuusMnD^yljpbfrkbRtnw!BqsAbhGugNMnr"a/

fl!KveAzo,N	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzrobOys(:frpwpirpusMtd,kF.&bxspesUqm$kba@dzL
CtfpbDGBaAuAi!zAavwwFgjGNtd@foitAxssjLa]C=AlxknqrzpFyeh@EfaAqz
qzpy+]suesNmi+fmgvgwrAitNem+zAacbgMAuxLkp, lJbumGBmwtyl*twaAqz\sm
lqfnbnLgbsFnx:rqaswjwy.sQtrNzlzqwa\

fl!PqyrhauCy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzJggxyqm+mEaocDrifsxnj'kDfpv	\gttCid?rudg>
^mmnbNrroHQem| ljvbBGBmwtki^rlwgtDrxvxywd:ulNG})

fl!1qz/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xldqpywtqMOty|rK?bb%#opsuwi!51V{&

flXjkhzgcKIzk&zlujgrribvEee"guobvtrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!fMmkejrmfENee!ruuvnjrpsKCye:kpacveLofsWfx^xBjnnfJ_t
smlkplrzvvBeZ X~aujtJAaKyre/qE.bcsvgtAyeh/kIajgwKlmytzt!gzebufAk.
BqsAblJhwxFD{!^UavjnFr.sSty!uGhjveLvaMyqp!sqayjtr6P@tfv^ lgktxLb"

fl!YjDn_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xg

flIgtjrDbLtfr=ztftbuMGAECsk!wGfuvnGu<sush!gEaCnnulavIzp%fzpv
ztjpmeGmatHDd"uAebtjszpGnee+jlbubyzlaVuyi/vumncwrzfxGjh!zAadgeAu
glWGT4rBoIFje|gzubuysAfsIkd_oze?bxzlaMOwr^jlbycDm

fl!Eqrwgctwp%NfFigbHsAfKJnp-gDaecqDlesukx^xligt rg!2.Ai!yAngvmAuh
oyqqtysuusNtd|gK@&

flUjkxrzpNHii%fBsqonKpozneg^xFbkpqQ?asUqm$kluwtswkatHid$gyfbdfur
gsbkp 

fl!MgjHgzHOwd:kyqgt	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

fl!KueLobMtfp-b/aucnvgBEChi7fExcnqGDjGAeh=Czajgwrhozywd@ylxgnqrht
ytfbetMsen

fl!Pq	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneOhjMnee|fEigbmskaGIyl*tsagnxw
zAafq	rhowtui/nmqubfxAfKtfp-fuubonyousNjp-ftftbxGtfMBnr"fIptvm
nqbtksybasZtv!yAngbrAuvMyxd*zlqwhkwkatQfC!CuujqzLgtIyfo*ts.bdzL
gFancxLgjMtzr'uxegfeAAtsuwq| luqqprAixtms=qmibqzLgpytnx|fypwvm
gsbkp	rhowtxe*jfa@UtrFpNtyl*twaAqz\yfswme+mqe?biGgzHOa
