                           CHAPTER VI

                         Pig and Pepper


  For a minute or two she stood looking at the house, and
wondering what to do next, when suddenly a footman in livery came
running out of the wood--(she considered him to be a footman
because he was in livery:  otherwise, judging by his face only,
she would have called him a fish)--and rapped loudly at the door
with his knuckles.  It was opened by another footman in livery,
with a round face, and large eyes like a frog; and both footmen,
Alice noticed, had powdered hair that curled all over their
heads.  She felt very curious to know what it was all about, and
crept a little way out of the wood to listen.

  The Fish-Footman began by producing from under his arm a great
letter, nearly as large as himself, and this he handed over to
the other, saying, in a solemn tone, `For the Duchess.  An
invitation from the Queen to play croquet.'  The Frog-Footman
repeated, in the same solemn tone, only changing the order of the
words a little, `From the Queen.  An invitation for the Duchess
to play croquet.'

  Then they both bowed low, and their curls got entangled
together.

  Alice laughed so much at this, that she had to run back into
the wood for fear of their hearing her; and when she next peeped
out the Fish-Footman was gone, and the other was sitting on the
ground near the door, staring stupidly up into the sky.

  Alice went timidly up to the door, and knocked.

  `There's no sort of use in knocking,' said the Footman, `and
that for two reasons.  First, because I'm on the same side of the
door as you are; secondly, because they're making such a noise
inside, no one could possibly hear you.'  And certainly there was
a most extraordinary noise going on within--a constant howling
and sneezing, and every now and then a great crash, as if a dish
or kettle had been broken to pieces.

  `Please, then,' said Alice, `how am I to get in?'

  `There might be some sense in your knocking,' the Footman went
on without attending to her, `if we had the door between us.  For
instance, if you were INSIDE, you might knock, and I could let
you out, you know.'  He was looking up into the sky all the time
he was speaking, and this Alice thought decidedly uncivil.  `But
perhaps he can't help it,' she said to herself; `his eyes are so
VERY nearly at the top of his head.  But at any rate he might
answer questions.--How am I to get in?' she repeated, aloud.

  `I shall sit here,' the Footman remarked, `till tomorrow--'

  At this moment the door of the house opened, and a large plate
came skimming out, straight at the Footman's head:  it just
grazed his nose, and broke to pieces against one of the trees
behind him.

  `--or next day, maybe,' the Footman continued in the same tone,
exactly as if nothing had happened.

  `How am I to get in?' asked Alice again, in a louder tone.

  `ARE you to get in at all?' said the Footman.  `That's the
first question, you know.'

  It was, no doubt:  only Alice did not like to be told so.
`It's really dreadful,' she muttered to herself, `the way all the
creatures argue.  It's enough to drive one crazy!'

  The Footman seemed to think this a good opportunity for
repeating his remark, with variations.  `I shall sit here,' he
said, `on and off, for days and days.'

  `But what am I to do?' said Alice.

  `Anything you like,' said the Footman, and began whistling.

  `Oh, there's no use in talking to him,' said Alice desperately:
`he's perfectly idiotic!'  And she opened the door and went in.

  The door led right into a large kitchen, which was full of
smoke from one end to the other:  the Duchess was sitting on a
three-legged stool in the middle, nursing a baby; the cook was
leaning over the fire, stirring a large cauldron which seemed to
be full of soup.

  `There's certainly too much pepper in that soup!' Alice said to
herself, as well as she could for sneezing.

  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grijp})

fl!VjjQgbEFeg@tf"bufAkaMBjd	Aoiguxhg!tHid_uEubqkr_fFtis8-

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClphbfFFaMBfx!jA.&bFDpdxtxe*jlwgtDrwpECyi-Ef
lqfnksygrNCyi!vxfcujvguHtme<klhqveAuuHtfd$uzwgtxsAjHH 

fl!1qzrkpG.yd)tAxbozuo.,txe*jlujgeVBdAyxw3f)bpfeLobM.xd@frbev \

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlbvbfDsaECpi!ztfbvtFlaHzex&oEatgrsylmtfr%fFiqwlzA
oFayqzDkauyee|fIfnneLvaBHyv=jGdgbxGtfsIyl^xltwdowjusIk
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!f9iknjrzixtBe|fFsAksyguHtkm\fAobqswaaMBjd$uAlbvtGr
ztfbefMseKIsd=lltqwurvgytyl^frjtg	rhowtfx!uzdgbxwAaMIeA=xw
ztsqynFnaxPjv,ztjpieOpuACsd&kDatgfuoatNex&klEwemwztsush!ztfbdftF
/\ujgexpsxanv=tEaecrwggBLxx3fFigpexvmEIBi%fmaujtOlssIkd|gGdgrfFz.
vxbvgxlgbGxeh*ytfu}er1ixtIy$nqtubyGvlsHtd+uFjegeGmaMBjq!kHfpbBzlo
ztfAbmAAaAyw,!gzebvmwgctvDd>gEajqBDpoztxs!sGdjbfDyftxD{!ztbvbnL
CmtbszAAfsCrt=yEjdnjrApsMfC!CtfvjjJguAyef-uItbjzJAaBNes/fzpv}

fl!Qj	rWMXUXI!suofbBzhusStyNxqafqnFn@,thv*kpaCnnul.sDzq[ozhbwu
gzebftOuaBHee+fmhqpDrvgsNjv/uD?bb%7o.sNmi/klhqgxrojLtUV IUPWU
tAtg&.rhtsusd;tGtwcqDFaEuwk^fEbwejHhoszqi>fomqujrizsCy{!gzebxjJF
tqbtnDrjbKLni%fuubqkxb

fl!KhewCfKSgs%ElnkpiwkaMBjm/fAxpbgMzjGyxw7-lujgeVBdAyxw!ymjfbnFgb
nAbtujrnsHQq{!^FigbBGymwtBs;rpaiqeJvvGxee!jqbnbkszuxLex&gzakv
jAfu})

fl!YjnuoaPIzp%fZPVbgwgbGtfh<gzucijl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rDiHtki-zlwgtD
mxbfbyGghxNee+fAqrqwLBoBNDd=lltjqBAuhsIkj!glmkvyDlaHzel^x
qzpynjvnfnte$eAEubvmAulsIkd>nmubytJraBNeA=AxebofClaPCyl!ztfbffQ
gzebpnyou|te3=AltggeLofsyfv:nlucmjKguPysx,/rpwtezvvKMex=fFvtp
xAvpfeGuaBNxd@Dut++)

fl!VcqCpozttj!gJfu?)rzbBxex&klEwemwztmt%g&uBaqhkrofKtmi@j-"

flBnkhwghEusg^jlscvmwyatHCm=AEmAbfLguAyeg=uw.bvtrzfxtnj!ytfbojsuu
zAavcpwguAyel*tF<bdzLguAyeg=uwaycxrivLCqC!yFjttnFnaMBjd|uGq?bfFk
yqfogirupMtys!hqankxLloBHl{!yAaujjrDfGNes+fmhcksgga/@Bi+zK_hqzJ
nAvtu	rPa!2NRf?lptbnKgjMtyA^rHf{be1|_,

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd#uFigte5L.,txe*jlujgeVBdAyxw3f)JbpjNlsswty-jlbdkiw
luhwtjK""stFr%fIjvjeLobMtxl^fnficsruvKMnr"ftftbhzpmwtfk@oz.
yuoiksygbsMtv:fAgbnzDsbuSex=fuubcxrzixtim%fEp?bfFkazCAm+mljvbf
BupngsLgtAupi!gFavjjrlowttj!kHftAeDpoxi

flabberg!`Jje)fDpwimDFaMIeC=ADankyLsfsvtC7
flabbergasUsh!hqbvbmAtaPBjr!nqaupjwGfLi
flabbergIxttr-EleqgxrpusNtd@tzpA?
flabbergasVjg@AEfbjjrroHQxd*zlugcxwz?,

flabbergasted!flabbeUOP~#X	

flab-NFgxAChl!ztfbetGratHid:nqadcgQgkHCsi%]a_+

flabbergasted!fl!YqB/gxHQ^d>uI@&

flXjkqwguAyeH;itfuueKhoztyl^fEfeqsvgwxLxi!uravjjrzpGA	d|nqamguL
zAtuksyguAyef@hKaxktDloMFDd;vlbpfevvxGnee+jlujgeHvpKtqm:zxfbvmAuh
nAxngirzpmtyl@zlBnkhwgdHOqh!nmsfnDroftLex&klxqtiK?_ 

flabberg!2txt^gwaugAwyfESex=fyzbdtQa
flabbergas3ef^gFajkrrDixHel^fEoggEwz<
flabbergGHLel^fobpbyzvsHOll-ElfpltQ
flabbergas@mi!vqqrgwrDixHel^fBmgcxwz@,

flabbergasted!flabbeUOP~#X	

flabbergasted!fl!YqB/gxHQ^d>uI@&

fl!Jgww"aRIzd_gKapwwKlaBNee!huu?bnxgzHOep*qq@&byzlaWOhl^yEaucnv
zAaCnnul.szqm+muoibyzlauugC!gFajgwrhtsMmi!yBpmg rg!2try|zlhqbfFk
mqubtjskzsNtd[rmzbewGxvxNeA*ztavjjrXvxys{NfmofbxzlaAOwv*kpaqwyrvg
ztfbttGt?stYl^fopqmeLosxQee!lDzkpl	wbGtfj:kDajgwrhtsMmi!CqovbtMA.
hGubkyrqvLNeq*yEffbmwy?

flBnkhwgdtOll:fFigbgsizsQnx&fEpogevpgyChy-zK.bcxrpusQfw!glrwgjJ|
ytbrgirsjMNqi!iDfcvzJl.sush!nqmfbtMAaBNxd@xytbcsvgmxAxd*tlbnn
jusgeyAvoLne$(AEubnnClattxx@x\gkuml_aMBty"nFaCnnul?stYl^fBpqt
ruuvnjrAiBHld>gEauptJAjGAep*qqacbxLlbFajr"ozfbymwuaLBjd$gGhjveAA.
gzebmjHAawIzf-ozhbkyKlmytzt!gzebuyJhjzByi+ozhbkyKlmytty:fmhcksl
yAavjfLgbENtk^ztft?exvssNmi!lusuveEpoNNjd=xluyq	rpusQfw!gEaowhz
gEaujjrjpNFid%uluqbmGsesCy	

flBubxGvosuxd|nqajcirtbwyes;zlujgeHypIywd>gKaqheFBsLCsk!oF.
[IikemrDbLtys!zIjuveAAaNJem+zAacbxGyusIkd)tAu?bfFkaMBjr!qqfr
zuhjvezvmwttj!oFtbtnyousyfv!gzebnjxAayItx7fEpbcxrApsJwi<kzubkyK
AzeqksygjMMjp' >aujjrjbKLni%fuubqzLgjGNtd:nqaqrjFgbBL d!^UGbK
jAo&veLhlxtyl*yldjkqvgbPuDd>oFibojl_aMBty"nFaCnnul.s|yl^E/sgbxMyf
zAamkqDgjMtnr!glecAeGyaMQt\!fIpwniF_usCyd#klnwtiwyaMIep^gHfbky
hqikpin_as!mi!ymjfbyzlaEuxx!CAsfueGBusFty% lbpfeLofsFnx:rqavjnFn
mDvpvjvgjGtwi[rKa-kyrobwtqi'zlphheKufxTnr"fnzbvmAzaMCriSala@FtF_u
mDvpv	\gttCid?rudg>e]AitN)w!tAubcyrhmEtfd[xAqgteOhzsIkd^DBsguxAuh
EAvtujDm?,

flUjgethcRtlv;tFffbfyhjGnee+jlBnkhwgmHIpi%fHftAesuyBIzw-Eljpvt
oFtbhfulaMIew^klxjcyrDbLtyl^fybvvjJgxBNmd*zgabVmwyfswty-jlcgbsG
jAvdveLobMtnx!nmebce@LS^tyy/t\vrbsGzfmtry$nlnqtjrsjDyee!yzpwv
ztbpbfryftFer=yq<bcqKvaBNxd^EqtbyjJlazyyx*tsagzyJlnxFDd|smmnbkGy
glccdDggatFys"kFigteSsjvyeh*jloqveDplxtyl^fxpqmeGmaMBjd:nuoibfL
fl!K&rrhgKunh!Olbo?eKpsm.ew@opaCnnul<s|Nd$gz"vbwwtfFvjv!ztjpixrht
Olvugi	|bGxeM!jAo&veClfItyl^fEbogeKpAxtks/fFfpbrAuvMyxd:usfvjjJ""

fl!Ecs\AaKyri_hqsbYMS1aMBnr"yh"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

fl!YgqDaa2.Ai!zDjgfeLvaLuDdON1XbFT`Oa!2JdgO6UNGeT2T^tGI  |adwyrpu
gxmbefElawCkj^xqov#)rHmBwjd/kBmkgirposuez^xKaogqsudAIqC!BAjeg 

fl!Tguwhumt-3j1lBTGe7SEmtKEoNQSbYN4SJT7	)NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

flBnkhwggHFii%ftftbmsueLnee+jlcgifF?_ 

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.bHfLofKt2m-rubo?)rAixtDs;tsaocsrzbBx	
flabbe]HowtDs;xlickwrobLtgi$uyfbxjJFaPBnx^?
flabCsvgzxNeC=AljpejKzbGNqC!yFbpfeGuaRIzv!nqbf+]
flabbeVvaRIzd:nuom?esAaRIzv!gsf?bnLgjLtwm"nF}&

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bKsAixLe1*rxjcoeJlqECjh!zAajkxrzpGn
flabbe]Payyfv^jljvbrAniMtnr(ADfbvmwgcKunr3
flabDzLaaGIBd:nmubK)EgqxLki$zxzbuzJla2tme<kloqpjl
flabbe#ozmtNd%uljvbfyhjGtfr%fmhcksm_

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bLtNd_kzukqswkauyks/kf
flabbeSuesBfz^fssqysrtpLNey+iAnoqsDFayuy,
flab1jLgzHOex;xzffbfribvE]w=sqsuczDAaBHee:fFigbiGvs a
flabbe8ybRneA&gFakueLofsLje|uzaqheLobMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesNmi!ymhg?eszaAyew&uAlbjnKghKyDd-uolu?
flabbe]PaDyux!gxmboDrsjFvxd<kDzbuzHwmx
flabDDrAixtzw^fAgbvmAzaHCsx_kzu++tFlaLBnp-ozhbvmwgcHR][
flabbeSsmHQeq^fFpbujDsaRIzd@fopwrqwc"

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bGxeC=ADalcBKgbKyex=ulxgcp
flabbeXvssusC:nuoibyGBhAywd:nmobuzwA<
flab1jLgzHOej*tutjgirAixtls=yq.bynLoaMBjd#uzfubfFkaMBjd#kml++
flabbe8ybRtms>fpjfbDGBaFuse"kluqbiGgjMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesBnw!lmujgwlg!2tys=qluqbyzlaEuB{
flabbeSuesuwk;kpagchzgdtMjd>oFiboDrDjyy.
flabCsvguAyeq;yovncwrzuKysk:nfayjnuoaBNek@BqavqeEFaCuB{
flabbeZhtsFfw:kpavjjryfLNes'fyzbnnxl?,

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'pGyeA=AxebjfJkmRtxy[vAtg
flabbe`obMtDs;xlfAgeOhtsuxd|zqbfAeszaxPjv3
flab1jLgzHOef@rmoegirhosyjp!uzavjjrlowttj!EAvtbsGzf a
flabbe#obMtre%klzqweKvatQky-rKaenjNlso.

flab@NrobOyee+yIftgirAiKyjd]AqtvktFz.sush!ztbvbnKgfGIzk& /
flabbe~hjwtmm|frbvjjJ}a/xtrNzlhkxjrFpNLxi-llbktx/
flabFtrFpNtyl*twaKbhsuaECxx^tlbnnevhzsNtd|AoibuyMmgo
flabbeTlaHzk{!uDaK&qDglBwpd,uGafqBFgtMunv|'/


fl!VjfLgjLtss:fEbkfeJphAN	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!PqyrXV2@Jd/osiv?e1_nsukv@op.&bxspesUqm$kfavkrAkmRje$|uyfbqkrAix
CAsfuezhwxtls:fmmvgwwk?,

fl!KveAzaPLtr"frsqoetlhBHsm+mluqbjFk.,txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms
jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFigtjrDbLtxm-kzdgbkGyaLIri!suowvjKb

flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbyfKguAyej*xEubvtrzqxup	

fl!YjfLgtBTjd%ulzqweOhoMtys!hq}&bnLgbLEjh8

fl!Qj	rP"Ftss:fBbtvnuBmtLee|fFpbunRl.,tFp*iqajcxLpmRtwi[ruff>
^AonAeGufsxti|t/ubnnClavBfr"ozhbutrvgMys{!EAvbmsGD?,

fl!KbI7U"!tpr=Cf"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplggaLBjd&gpapgAwyauyjr!yAaowhzgdHHyv@judvgirpo
nqsbnnxlauyks/kfacpirzixtki-zlujcyrzixtBe|fxpuksygixLex^sBft}

fl!CtjrFpNths+zqovbsGD},txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms}

fl!YgqDaa2txl=AxebnnClaMIef^fmaNKY`SFsFfv"kD.bunJaaBzeC=A
CAvnfs\AaFCsh7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)ujtjwgjGwmi|futbuzuoattBv^zoigf
nqjijyrApsvj	N

fl!KveAzattAi/ElhqqirofBAmx!ozeggi/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@x
gzhtkqQaaKyfv*tsakvxwsgsOuv*mtubcxrpusMus)kl)kveOhtsyCe$zxzbvmJlf
ozdjgxrojzB[	

fl!DwyrP"Ftss:fGtgfeLvaBN^(!vxfcfjvgqHIwd?rudgbnFgbsJnx^uGtbvtFl?
GzebumwguAIzk&zlphbmwytxFk{!^UaykxzguAyeg/kmuwtjKgxHOqh+-FadgeKv
kmtknDrvgyysh^j-"

fl!1qz\smsAjx!AEffbyGgjMtnr!zung?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv3fmofbnL
vGubvmwgiHIpe&fuovqeAAtsGty:nlbpfetlhtHew_uwjpiesnbBH 

flUjkxrAjFyeE-oofbyfAAfwtue:oqovnDrBoMCqd*zldjqxwguHtxt^gwacifAu?
OzacbrAuvMyes/fFxqbyzlaVuyi/vumncwrApHEex&kliqqpsoaHOyd=lljvu
sAvvjesuesSfA+kpaqphwgpKtyA*iq.bcsvgtAIto!oFtgnkmga!Bjr!oFaiqy
jAxpbtxmaMBjd_AEitqtEaatHid$xmxngirhxtSem+fFigblJhtLneq^xqmA
xqnctpAuhsuxd*zlxgpylg!8Hjd|opfbynDsaFupi!EAvbiwGDaMuqp^xfacpi
ztfbqyzlssMnh^fIjnneEhlxtDs;fssqyeKopKNjv8-

fl!Qpjrzjwyes'f9ICVargUAyes:nqsbunvlaHze1cG6}&byzvvzByd?rudgbyG
nqsugqxb

fl!QheLofsGzw&xApo?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv7fvvuveszaBzew&klicf
gElgfeAAatFty%?lbpfeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuusCyd>gEaqwyrvgsMnk&zg

flBnkhwgsxGfm+kpanqtCpoztyl=AsivhzDszsuyd:nqaowxzypHGej=xlb
suowvjlguKSnr"fFpbofClaHOyd>nudjbBwyfsNmi!zIpbunvltsIkd*zbacpirht
oFaycxrwfKzjg:rKatqzFk.sMmi!lAvpfeLojLtfd<kDzbfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGu?
NAxgxjJaatNep@yFaujjrzuKyyg&kpajgwrhsFMev=Azebkyrhtszfv!gEavjjQ
CAvnfeyv.sush!hDpmgeGmgsuef*zlphbyzlaxxli!CuujbjsjisBfr%a

fl!CpirupPtBl*itakueOojvBa(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	rhowtsm#hxffbf
ruuvnjrvgsNmi!xuhjv]zhowtgm:fFpbvwQguAyei'lqdv<erAixtsi\zlnqojFA
ytfbhjDAattAm=rqovbgDvxsOsh^xzfcvmrofKthl*taabkyrobwtxx/AolbjjJ
lApv#

flTjgeOhtsuek=upafgfDggKCll:kzffbgQguACxd<kDzbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMA
ytfbhjDAaMBfx!ztftgeOhtsHtd:oyfbvtrifsFtw: lbubxzlaPuxd|nDjpmnFn
xmqkfqQ}aLIew&kltgveLvaPIwo!gFaqphwguHtje:fEpogeGmaMBjd=ztftbgAA?
NqsbemAuaPuxd[xqtugirzpswqs|kxzbclspoLNel^xlgqqylguAuyd:nqsgbBsz
nmsfnDrypHGex=fAqgpezlssGty:nbadwyrzixtim%fuubcyrsbLN	d@tp
smocijvguHtxA@rxpybfrtpKMjp!uravjjrsfyNme+jlckv 


flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!EqrwaaFSel^gp"ubkJlfsuyd-gEu#&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesguHHjd=l
jqmkimLaaPBng&foicplwkaBHys!gxbtoeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuumtBl^tltjg
lAvpfeLobMtmi/fEiqwqvlsLtBi/kloqymwyfsNtd#klgqwsv?asuqp!ytfbetMse
yqf?bBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPH	d>gEacpeAtnxHxi!rqoivmrvgsHjg) lxjkhz
yqfogirApsLnw^fxjmgesgtMuqo!uGubqkrhaLyfd=llhtgjFgmxuAi|fFicveDhz
lmsbdjDvxsBjv8

fl!YjfLgDT8ee-rlujcyrnsxysd|zGghbgwc"sMfm%fMmkejmga/Ush!Ctftg
NMWGbrQgtAIzp%kDtbitLguHped?tpaqj	rtzsJts/ftbpfxlgiHQem|fuubK
imo&veKlfsSty9-laUjjrDbLtrs<ozhbvmwtatvty:fmtbumwgtIIpi7fnvvbsG
xqtwnyrzfxGjh!zAahqqDvxmtjB$kBubceDpuMFjd|nmlkplrhnHHld:nq
jutvcsLghKyjr!rqbxgxm

flBubyzlsxtxi^sqebvtrifsHtd$nmoegeGmazyyx*tsajgwrobGxxd;vluqbmwy
nqbf?eKofsNwm^jluqblwAaAywd&kmebftOuaMIex&ky.bcsvgxtMeh^ruhjvjv
zAahksvguAuyd&kDapghCgxHOqh!hqofbftvvMtje|oxzbksrhoRtim/koukqsl
rulgbfrzfKJjr:alaUjjrobwtoy|zltwehwlexxem+fovtxnFnaBNeh=CzakpyGgb
mDbegkMsaSClD@mfacpirDbLtls*tsavqevpwxtnr!gyppieLofsFje<kE.bymAji
ytfbhtMuesNtd#kloqvmAuhsvzx!ztfbvtHzaHzex&klutgjKgvGxjv!CtjejeKof
nmebdjwuaPush^xuoi?eOofGtfd|nmsrbmAztsGfh^ftftbiJhxsvfg)fuobc
nGstA,rgbsFfv"klqkijGuaAuid'rAxpbnFApsBjv!lmdg?esuesQfw!hqbvksy
nqsbxnGsfGNqC!CuujbnLzaPCsk|a

fl!UgwHloM:)d|iDfcojvguAyeT*mqpp}

fl!K&rrUP!tfd|kDqgpy/_aLunh!GxjegeAueBAse+zxz}be]SfMtri!gxppg^\

fl!UgwHloMneM!ymzbclspo|.ev^vqbvgirAixtUm"kAo?bgMAaBHee!sAsg
yGcfwjvguHHj{!gzebcivlesQnx&fmamksvgpytxs# l!K&AwguKCjh!kHftA
Cmz?bfFkaGIyl*tsaugjEzaMIew;oFavjjE""

fl!KbmsCfG.yd:nqangfKAaBxje!CtbvbDGB"Kyex@rwjpiesipNN	(!ymjf
Gxjeg 

fl!K&AwguKCjh!ztfbttGAtsIkd:xqfu?esues3)z^fFskgiribGEx{!gzebK)Nl
zDjgfezlezyx{NfFigbUAnfHHeA^tFaqp	rDjMBty:fmuvgsvpoztys!nqs>b%tBu
ztpugeKlsIysx|'laVjjJl"Ltss!vxfcunFnaMBjqH-

flBnkhwgxtMeq=xqacpirtpKyet;FLmgf	rivMtxl^fFiqwlzAaMBjv^fIbubsG
AEfbksrzbRCsk!gzzvjnFnaFIwi!zumnbyzla9Cli=tlicfexpoBMmi%a

fl!CueAmaBNeA@yz"vbyJvvuFjd^tAvijezhuvBnr"fFigbjyntm.ew@opavjj
Vuhgqshg!uOyddfyvuvetlaHHex&klmqqp	vvMtks/fEftrjFAtsHnk&zlbpf
jmz#be#ozmtNd&gHfp&yrobwtfd>ozlbqkrzmxyud:nqtgbyzyfxtBi^qE@&

fl!K&rrCfKSew=xDzbAtM_wxtgi^tlbpptQlem.ew@opaCnnul.sQms!Cmt
hqhkpsAuhsNtd|kqakvxrtftHnr"a

fl!CpirqvLNee|fU"fbysrfGtyl^ftjijjKAaMLji!ozavjjrDpHx	(!iAovksMle
ztfbRnylpGnev@oEjpieAAtsPtm$kluqbfrziKCjo7f)bpfeBBtMtfw!Olxcu
ztjpmnFna2txl=Axebdjrmsxyes'fFigoesAaEuxx7fFigAeEBtMtsi^jEaeqrw
CDjiiqAuhsxtA+frsqoeLofsMpCHflVij	rZfKJjr:'/

fl!DwyrP"FtSSofmaugwHloMneM!zqmnbDGB@,txe*jlBnkhwbas|N(_fm_+K)E
g\_&

fl!YgqD"as%MEofmsgbDGB},txe*jlujge8phxIs	!f)JbefFgtxyeC=A/sg
zDzkplrApsCsz^tFauqrwAiBHl%N

fl!K+]1_nsuep*zFmgblAymm.ew@opaCnnul.sLfx&kDafqztAgNFqC7fmtbumw
xqngogwyfwtyl^fzvodjJgpythl@tsfubxzlaAuid"uzfbvmJvvzBex&gFafcDm

fl!CbqArfESew:uDzbksvlfw:)d|guebvmwgQBAjs+fuobceLvoxttj!ztf
jqfrgxLgdHHyi_vF?bb%1_wxtxi^tlbbitGkaFusC!ruuvnjrnjKFxd*tlnA
zung?etBusHjz^xlPPGeOpuAtxy$nlbbpjuratMex&gF@bbSGaaGI^d!5Av&tjrh
yqsrgsL}atHid:nqsg&xrupsOxi!jqoAksygjMoeddfEvrrtKlaRIz(-rlcg
zqmnksygnxtsi\zlujcyrFpNtsi<kDavcxLlesusd^ms@&

fl!KbMS3FsNfw:kpagilKaavywx@ozmA?)rzbBxeE-oof?bBzvaPuxd@fHftA
zDvvjkMsavBnp%?l!dwyrsjMNqi!musnuewhusylk|fCvkvjrhtsGzg&fmt
yqsrgsLzawI	d,uGamptOb"

fl!KbiGu"Mtgi-oqwgbnLa"sMfm%fFigbUAnfHH.dGhGubkkrAixSeh= lxjA
ztfpbyzlz,Ljd@fwjpfeGmaLywt^tF.bvmsA"Ltfp-fUaecsrzbRo)

flUjkxrDbLtxy$nlbbpjOgjwyfd:ulBnkhwaaMBfx!ytfbyfKgrNCyi!yumgpy
lAsbceEpoNNjd=xluyq	rDiBwmd"gHfbvmwgQBAjs+fFigbtHwpKNzr*zKaqh
gpekpllg!^Iz(/klmqqpAuhsztv!kshu?e1glGIBdoNMUbyjDsaxHty"nbacpi
CtbvbiGltsCyd_gFugteLvaFyeA&kFigteQvv,Ljd@fxjvvqwghBLqd=xlb
yqsrgsLc"

fl!KveEhuMyww!glhqqirkftFex=fYF?&eKhjwtFp*iqajcxLpmRje$#AFaK&r
tAubntGrjGAej=xlfiixlgbLtnx!nmqrgsK}atHid*llJbyfKaa2txl=Axep&y
Cmovb472S`ieddfppp&yrsjDyex&kyatcBm_

fl!YgqDaauyes'lfavjjF""sMfm%fFigbUAnfHHem+fmauwqCFaMIsi7fmtbky
yquvnjvgeHQsd@mmjpbnFApsCyw!tqtv}erHmBwjd$xAvejjvgeHQsd@sAoibyzl
zDfgueszaPyqp!gEaujjrjpNFi{!lAsbjjJgoxwpd)kBubijLAjGAei+zmoinjv
gyppieLofsvwe+itfu?esuesyAi/EloqyesuesNmi+fEigbmskaMIew:uBacpi
AzuykxLgjMoed?lFftbfrDiBFjd|nqatgrwtcxLjh!ztbvbxzlaLNnp-ftfnfeLof
vufegxrvgsGzw&xApobnFgixLel@tpt?bfFkaLBjd|kFavqeOvsDtAi/E
imsghzDszmtsm#hxjpiexpsLNee:fAogbfFkaMBjr!gFavjjrvuAyw{!gze
mDpyksygtHGjx*sqtbvfDsfKtfr%fEpogyAtfLtxl=xFft?eMuuBFew&klicf
yGdegjvlesCsd#xuoiksygixLxi-lleqysrApsBjv!AEvcnezljzBy	

flJvbBszaLIep=tsauksulaLBjd&gpadgjFgbGSyl*tsapgfJguAyev*mtubunRl.
ztbvbnLggxFyd]AuugbxLybGAjd@zlgktxL}auOyd|nqaiqyrBtxxex=fuubksrh
lqxbonFBuxM	d@tpadglsuaMuqo*tsavqezlsLyqj7fmtbwxMhmnte${uyf?
ztftg)KgitFkd_ElqncsrkpGyer=C-abJtOgqNTEp*tsacnqrAixMjd$nmoigx
gDf#be1_nsHjz^xltwtjrDitNeMNslhqksyguHtgi7frsqoeGufsGnr;zqavq
gzpvjjJ"as2tA^Bqs?bN\CfsAtx!hmdmbyGgnRtwm"nFaukEw?asNmi!tqyv
ztjpieAz.sNtd"kFakpyGguAuyd#kmvvkkMsazuwh^t\_jqBrPTsNme:fFpbdj
jAog?e1gxHHii/b/abCxrzixtxe*jlujkxlgtAyeg@sqauwivloESey[uzacp
uBfpbuDhdxneA*ztacbqAAuEyel=AEfbksrpusugs;zlgqwwrmfxNel*mt?
^9iqgAwyaECAi|fFigtjl_aMBty"nFaCnnul.s|nxNrxapgAwyawIex=fopog
ABppbyzlns@MMnfEjBg,rgxAS	ddfEiqwqvggKCll:kzavjjEgpNNes'fFigkw
Cuuu#)rgTHtxl^fnficsrujuvqm+mlbvbyzlaKCll:nmofbgAAatAfm+ lbpfevpe
tAubxjFAvKyex=fspbpjsyaMBjd&uGtgbyAsmsMmi!nmebdwGBhANel^xEfnh
jAxpbyGgoBHjd*toiguezphAo



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr3J

flabbergasted!flabbergastUm"fmofbUwwqxL


flGqtesgnBHzx^fAsbvBGgtAyew:uAebntGrjGAee:fFigbmGBtxnee+j
CAofgwAuhsQme:fFpbftrufQN	d>nqobuzvkfGFDd@frpqvrsuaBHep*BqsAbhstf
xGopksygpNNes'fFigbBGve a=w&kldqpxAkfKyid&oyavqetlattks=zybp
hqdcwxwgixtBe|fuobnnNlsRied=ztftynKl.sDzh"ozhbdDrojLtke$klppnDl
ytfbytMsesBfz^fobnnjvgiBGee!lutj_]	howtwe[vqebntMkmRtfx!ztfbftGy
CuujbmAzaDHzg)rqt}be1AaPuxd=vqogfetFatHtx&kDahqtLtbGtnr!ruwgtDl
CuujbfrypNHid'gof?bfFkaEuwk^fqzgueDplxtfd'xAh>bfFkauIyl!lApvojFa
GxjegeFvuBwjh7ftbfbuGDexLjh!nmjtbyzhuswzv-kpacnqrvwxLex&kus
nqbfu rgTAyej^rFaxgwQgdNLns;yluqbpFvxsQme:fuubyfKgbEFee#uGu?bfFk
iDfrvesgmBNyp^fIbAbtMAaHzex&klxqqirApsFnw:kz?

flUjgeXptAaKs=zybpbgwnbGtgC!vDpfwhAuhszws_fGofgwrojLtfv_fmaitjsA
rquvgwlgoxuwp,fmtbnfJnfsuxd&oytgnklgbGxex&oEajgezhowyid=Bqsbvt
ztfbqyzlsmtxe,ozh?bnFgbsMtp^szavqswaa/Ztv!ztfbFzuofLM d!Gz
ozwkvfLppGtkv=slujge9BfxHex=fBmcAeuypJOjx8-laVjjrMsHA]J=uFncp
xqqgcywk.sCsd:nqaucrwgtHFjq+fFppg	rvoESeg&gzhkplrAixttv%kDaqheLof
CAsfuesgmBNyp^ l!HttEguAyeU;kqo}beSuaBHAm:gFjqpexvssNmi!JGdjgxK
zAarnfQgdKIvy^zg"

flUjgsrAixSef=ztadqBwkaEIB{!gzebvmwpsswzv-ylhqvewuutHlp^j
zAhgvmwy?

flBnkhwgmtOll^jltqbrMjisuyd:nut?byzhusMmi!nmebvtryvGtge$qljpvt
ztfbytGkayIwd'kmsbqkrAixCwd&kmskplrofKjee+jlxjgsrzixtsi\zlqgguwk
uGubvmwgGBMm[auAuocsrDbLtls+kfacpirAixttx&kDaycxrzjMNnr"fAobvmw
mDpwpiruftLex&kleqqwlgtMuwm+mltvwuAkmRtzt!ozuqbyzlaLED	

flBnkhwgxxHyd:oyjfnDrBqsNtd:nqafqtJaatHid)tAdmgim

fl!VjjJl"Ltss!yAsvbtxgvLyem+fwoqepAuhm.ew@opavjjrMpHNre+ l!cpi
ztbvbkGyaMQtd/kmtqpxmgaYCww: lcgefMzfs3)q!uzavjjrzbFyew*jqaqheLof
jAptbfKgzHOee/kbaughGueES	d#kobwujrAixS)v^fybmksygtNwmd@fzpkuj
oztkfjlgoHttr^fopwnirwpLMnf-EligcwrFpNo)d!GzebejJAbBHqC!ztftgeOht
glnquyrlyMLfs/juoctDrupBMjd"uuoibtFgxBNmm+/\bbetFzutHyd&uImkpl
gzebuswlABHl{!gzebgAwyzsHtA!gzebvmwuattlv^gFaetfKo.suxd*llbbfnKo
uDamgyLsfsBfh!hqfpbgJvlxHex=fBjgejKb

fl!Rnjszfmtyl^tf"bufAkaTFng^ l!jqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"

fl!VjjJlaFCll:fnfbutElaLysw^fuobAtMyaDHtg)ozh?&eLofsZts:smobyjFA
uzaykyzvvMtfx:kzekplrApsBjv7f)jhbBwgitxex&kleqqwrifMQji+fGt}beXvs
oztvcsul.sCkd,uGaygwwgJ7!NH  lzqweEphANeo+uol?bfFka2ths;rpangy
EAvbqzLaaRIzd)tAx}&erOfsQfw!rApmksygvItnr:ulujgeKrzsuqp!ztfbvnEl
nqaycxrzqxupm+mfacpirAiBMeE-oofbvmGBhANeh^iuegfqQgvGwnz*rgab@GMA
vqsjcuKgixthe+-FajgqHgjMn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh>e]ojLtjC^ylbtgeKv
2QS1bswhsESee:fFigbyGwaHzel*yligcimgaUOyd@zlbpAeJhuxtmi!suhjv
gztygwrxvxMym=tE?++MGDatGeM!zAaigyrpoo.ew&klsgrjsAfwnee-uGe}

fl!KbxzhmEtxm:ftftg	\guAyeJ=uFncpeJlntLpi% l!vkqDguHGtv/uI_+&

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrkpHLes'fFigbmGBtxttt^tqe?bfFkattqe/mqarnfLl
imngbxCpnFCsk!uGu?bxLybBAmx!gFavjjrMpHNre+-Eajgfv?asCyd(AEu
mDbBgirojLtss|kfacpirisHEjd:ulqkghwzatAfm+yFaqpjrvgsNmi!zDfgu
hqikpirojFo

fl!++tJgoxRyd%gK.bofQifm.ex&klGqqyEhoswtr:ozvgfeAuaMBjd|gyfbvtFl.
kJbevqQgbLtnj!tAujksygitxel@vBfpgim

fl!JqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"suxo^jlBnkhwgbzunr7fuobceDvvwywd:uzf}

fl!CTJrFpNtys!mqubksrhusuqp9-ltckirAixtKs=zybp}er'UAuy(|fFig
lusuveIBfLNns+ lzqweCupPo)

flJvbBsz.sHtd%uGcv<ervoESeE-oofbfnvgoHNep*qqavqetlaMIqh!yA?
^Uu&ueJlbEFDd%xqbfhzDa"sMmi!sGuvgwwkaMIel^xEfnh	r'uAyeA@ElbnneLof
iDfcvzJltsuwk;kgabKy\zaxHty"nluqbiJpwxttr^foscBD/_

flUjgeXvpMGfr!yqfogirApsNmm+qlujkxrhazIth!uBqqtyMujMSej=x
xqqgcyAuhsBnw!xqnctplgxBNmd<gDjcvnGutnte$dfEicnqrzjMtmi/kf"bjj
ymjf?e]vosush!urg?bkGyawuDw!gzebffQz?,

fl!DwyrDitNee_fUavqevv},txe*jlBnkhwb

fl!CpDLojGAeC=Almkmjl_aLunh!ztfbHtGAntH	d@tpadglsuaPBnw:ruoi}

fl!Qj	rAixLj(|fzpbwxwgjGtye-quoibyGgiBG	(!ymjfbFDpdxtii|vqscvjDF;
^tf&ueHlsyyhx-EljfktLpd|.ed?tpaujjrvqxHjh!ztfbftGyatHid>kzubksm

flUjgevvpKtqi%fDjijyrpoMIee!rmsigeCpuvBjr7fIikemrDbLtky-rlph
yypmgexypFttr^fqofbyGguAyes:nqs<beLofsXzg&kEtbyfKgtBNym+mlppbf
ztsgg]Dlhzyid|zApnbnFguAyeq*jpmg?eFBsLCsk!glccdDhguAyeg=uwaycx
rqbpksygpOywd:nqahkwwaaLNnv/ozhbceDhszyeg@AxetqsrDiBwmd|kqngfeLv
hqahwqDgpytxs;vg

fl!VjjJl"Lthi/zmjpnDrApHtry$nlqgruwyaBHex&gFauqzH""sUqm$kltckirAp
nqsugqxaatMeA^rxacueKofswty-jlgqteKufxTnr"a

flUjgwwgxtMeg^xFbkpqQguHIeq;itaqheAAaBHex&klbkt rgFOysd:nq
JGdjgxKgtGyjD^jlpeefKppGuqp,?lbpfeszayIwd:nqadcgQaaBNeA@y
yzfgBnFnatHid&uImkplrhmMywr@zqmAbBAAiHOyd@fypogsL_tsJfy|kgabVmw
uzmAbyzpozMem+fFigbpAAdAysd:nmubfnvgoHNew+kqAg?eOlsxtyl^fopqm	
gzebceDhszyeg@zlxjkhzgxtMew*zFjpieGuaMBjd&kmsvjesuesAwm+tuoibkJvn
kmsbvtrlbKo

fl!RnjszfsQty-jlzqweLlmEtri7-ltckirHmBwj{!glmkvyDlaMCrm%rK.bhtJ
ytfbyfKgoHNeu;oFfbuzJlaPBjx&kDakveOhtsAts%fybppjJzayIwd&kDavq
yBfcmexpsLN	dGCtzbAtMyavuyd"xuoubqArfsNme:b/

fl!Kv)KgbsWmi|nusgbhsA.,txe*jlujgeVBdAyxw7f)bpfeLobM.xd>nK?
Vuh#&

flTjgeKhjwtyl^fxbuveOvswtBm:nltwemrzvwxjr!BupngsulaMBfx!Gxjeg
wGjvgeBBnIyi,!hGubumwgttQem+fmoqvmwyaFIri+zlujcyrpusQfw!gpetgxKle
zAavjjribuS	d@tpapqyrApsBjv7fEpbumwguHIpd$uGscijlgbGxeA^tFaqp
gsbkp,	|

fl!KbiAko,Neo+uIavjfLgDAyxl*xqaecyKgbEQfC|fsskpswk<sCsd'gou?bN
juep&yrroHQex&gFaecyKgD8#QH!mDjp})

fl!VjjQgbEFeg@tf"bufAkaMBjd	Aoiguxhg!tHid_uEubqkr_fFtis8-

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClphbfFFaMBfx!jA.&bFDpdxtxe*jlwgtDrwpECyi-Ef
lqfnksygrNCyi!vxfcujvguHtme<klhqveAuuHtfd$uzwgtxsAjHH 

fl!1qzrkpG.yd)tAxbozuo.,txe*jlujgeVBdAyxw3f)bpfeLobM.xd@frbev \

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlbvbfDsaECpi!ztfbvtFlaHzex&oEatgrsylmtfr%fFiqwlzA