
  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into the garden.  Then she went to
work nibbling at the mushroom (she had kept a piece of it in her
pocked) till she was about a foot high:  then she walked down the
little passage:  and THEN--she found herself at last in the
beautiful garden, among the bright flower-beds and the cool
fountains.



                          CHAPTER VIII

                   The Queen's Croquet-Ground


  A large rose-tree stood near the entrance of the garden:  the
roses growing on it were white, but there were three gardeners at
it, busily painting them red.  Alice thought this a very curious
thing, and she went nearer to watch them, and just as she came up
to them she heard one of them say, `Look out now, Five!  Don't go
splashing paint over me like that!'

  `I couldn't help it,' said Five, in a sulky tone; `Seven jogged
my elbow.'

  On which Seven looked up and said, `That's right, Five!  Always
lay the blame on others!'

  `YOU'D better not talk!' said Five.  `I heard the Queen say only
yesterday you deserved to be beheaded!'

  `What for?' said the one who had spoken first.

  `That's none of YOUR business, Two!' said Seven.

  `Yes, it IS his business!' said Five, `and I'll tell him--it
was for bringing the cook tulip-roots instead of onions.'

  Seven flung down his brush, and had just begun `Well, of all
the unjust things--' when his eye chanced to fall upon Alice, as
she stood watching them, and he checked himself suddenly:  the
others looked round also, and all of them bowed low.

  `Would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, `why you are
painting those roses?'

  Five and Seven said nothing, but looked at Two.  Two began in a
low voice, `Why the fact is, you see, Miss, this here ought to
have been a RED rose-tree, and we put a white one in by mistake;
and if the Queen was to find it out, we should all have our heads
cut off, you know.  So you see, Miss, we're doing our best, afore
she comes, to--'  At this moment Five, who had been anxiously
looking across the garden, called out `The Queen!  The Queen!'
and the three gardeners instantly threw themselves flat upon
their faces.  There was a sound of many footsteps, and Alice
looked round, eager to see the Queen.

  First came ten soldiers carrying clubs; these were all shaped
like the three gardeners, oblong and flat, with their hands and
feet at the corners:  next the ten courtiers; these were
ornamented all over with diamonds, and walked two and two, as the
soldiers did.  After these came the royal children; there were
ten of them, and the little dears came jumping merrily along hand
in hand, in couples:  they were all ornamented with hearts.  Next
came the guests, mostly Kings and Queens, and among them Alice
recognised the White Rabbit:  it was talking in a hurried nervous
manner, smiling at everything that was said, and went by without
noticing her.  Then followed the Knave of Hearts, carrying the
King's crown on a crimson velvet cushion; and, last of all this
grand procession, came THE KING AND QUEEN OF HEARTS.

  Alice was rather doubtful whether she ought not to lie down on
her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me giddy.'
And then, turning to the rose-tree, she went on, `What HAVE you
been doing here?'

  `May it please your Majesty,' said Two, in a very humble tone,
going down on one knee as he spoke, `we were trying--'

  `I see!' said the Queen, who had meanwhile been examining the
roses.  `Off with their heads!' and the procession moved on,
three of the soldiers remaining behind to execute the unfortunate
gardeners, who ran to Alice for protection.

  `You shan't be beheaded!' said Alice, and she put them into a
large flower-pot that stood near.  The three soldiers wandered
about for a minute or two, looking for them, and then quietly
marched off after the others.

  `Are their heads off?' shouted the Queen.

  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to mahlxtyl^fmsejjKb

flUjgeuojxzeh*lrjewqLFaTFng^frpwpirhusznv|zlxcueAuaFuse"ozhbjjJ
lxboksyv;stxl^fEveejwkfwtnr!mquvksygjMMef=jKavwhClesuBe, 
iAnhqwLhcESei+uGhj?eMuexLel^xlbto	rDjMBem:ylmgixrobGAnr"fppyp	
hGubijFlstFqC7fvvuveszaLBjd&gpaiqyrpuLtsi$qlokejDFaLNwe*mtugpjv
uGu?bfFkaPuxd"uuoibyGghBPjd:nqajgiyliHAee!hxpybBAAisCyw!nqbf?eAA
31VNFeLDjLNem:yqmhbwGBowtfr%fxpqmeMwaBHel^xlgcejlgxBNmd|Aoibc
vGABnjvgfQJwi|yuppbyzhusMmi!iAvnfeFvusBjp[fnvtuyAuhsIzx!rmvijnFn;
gzebymwuaLBjd&gpaiqyrpuLtmi@jleqyslgbGxeA@ylhqksyguHtgi"ozacifAu.
oFaycxrCfKSet/uHpmksyguHtkm+jlujcyrAixtmi%mqiqiezhesOsv=rxff
oFtgnklgbGxeA@yljpbyzlatwyd=lldtcBDpoztfA@EaabdjKpexMee-rlujkxl
ztftgeOhtsAjr^xmmnAesgsBxli!uDahwwJvxsCsd:nqaycDrDixLjz^xltjg
CmovgirApsMjr%fFigbmwkhxBtk!zA.bcsvaatMex&kleqwgDle Oud|uxekgwK
CqsgbfDDbRMek^zFjpieMwatHid>gxlkplrvgytys!uFigteHhsMMes'fFig
mDpwpilgBEChi!yAppbhstfsNtd:nqaeqsusvLCtr!ztbvbnLgxtMee!BqsA
jughkhMsusAfq^fuofgjvb

flUjgeHsbRyww!gxmbrqsFfwtfx!uzdgbBAAiHOyd>guukplrmpKtyy/tE.
wGbttjDsjGAee-rlujgeOojEy	d@tpahklzAjGAej=xlujgezlezyms"ybacpirpo
glwgtDrziHLyd:oyfbvmwgRNyjr!CmtbksrhayOwm=AEarcxKppGnee+jlxgpy
yFbornFnatvty: lbpfeKopNNnr"f)PhheOpuAtmm|ftfcf^\gpKt%S'llxkvm
nqsbjjsk@,tff=AFaqphwgjGtfd_ozvvg 

flBnkhwgcxAfr!zAahgjDgwxLDd;tqbuA,rguHtgi!yGsg?eKofsBfh!tAubcx
EqubjfvgbGSeh*yBvvgeOpuAtyl^f3vggslgcNNew&kllpgBrAitNem:fyjijy
nmqrgsrhoRtrm+AFf?b%suesNmi+ /avjtMniMtxl^ l!yjfLgxHOqh!hqdqojrvg
sq}bbYzlz,Ljd%xqbfhzDszsztr%fAgbdjzlbwCsk!vqprnjrofKy.d:nqaitjsA
CAofgwrptmtyl@zlujgww_tsusC!uzfbnjxAatFnz^'/

flTjgeOhtsFts)ozhbcgGBusztv!yAngbBsFaHzei|imqg?esuesQtr%kDjpi
CtfvjjJgtAyeg=AxebijLgbPuDd>oFiqwyrifBHld|kqo?bBzlosMmi!tAukejvgb
iGskqzKgbIJje/gzdgbnFguAyee*xaabkyrwvSTqi%ftftbAwyzsGzg&fmu
lusuv	rivMnee'zqsbyfLjiBHld*zlbbonFBuxttv!zIp?bxzlaFuii!oFaqwyrAp
hqacblJpomtfr%fEigbxspesNtd&kDtgnkr'JM.xd:nqaEjjKojKyeG@zaabptOgJ
ytbnnezhwxtxs_knpfAeLvaMuqo!zA?&

fl!JqBrhsxtDs;fsfvvnFnaHHa(!ymjfbyzlaVuy{!gEauqtFgbLtyl^xqaycx
sAvvjewupNAmd'uDakveLvaLJje)fIjvj 

flBnkhwgxtCyi%fFjnneLofsyDi|fmqrgfJlemtfr%fFigpeFvewyi	!f)Jv&xrup
AEfbuuwhlBHld:uljv?)rzixtyl=Asiv?e]AjEFem:ylfctxrobOyeg=sq.bqwrhu
rqbuveGufsIkd:nqn}&erPosuss:nqsbonFBuxtyl^fIiqnjroftxee[vqbtgil
gzebvmwuaTFng^fBvvbiGDosBjv!lxboksyv.sush!hqhcpesuatwhs;tFaqheLof
mmng?exlfECsk!BqsAblDhesMmi!nmebutElpGyex=fxjuvjFguHtmi/alaVjj
Imubujwtfwtys!ztjpmeLobMtyl^xqaycxrloHOll!urakveFvxsCsd|osiv?esue
tAaoqwwgpytnx!gBqgcwwk?

fl!KbiGu"Mtyl*twavjjQgqEuDd@zlbnnexhjKFD{NfMmkejrifzus{!ozatcyzls
gldqouDhjGCsk!zAog?e]howtyl^ElbnneIBbKLjp!yAaftjskgNFqC!uzfbefF_u
nqbtbtFltxFkd|vqbm+]suesNmi,fppp&yrzfxGex=ftbxgesuzsLzp^yljp
vmsvkhMsbKjee:fxfcuylgjytyl^xqactjlgoHvth,fmuvgsvzaMIex&ky_+csv
EAv&xjrupsCii@ftpybhGugNMnr"fuubkxrhmEtyl^fFikplKgcxCsk!gxjxg.
lAsbksKAbGwj{!ztftg)KguAyee/itaK&AwghHNex=fspbvmJvvzBer^DF
CmmmksygbuIzx!gFavjjrvuAywd^tpaqheLofsAws;tp_+csvgJsMms;rpajcAw
iDpswjLlesNmi!WGfgp)Kgixxli&usalwxLgoHQ	d=txzbkyrybGtfA@Elxjgsrpu
ymxbonFlavIrm+m-"

fl!JqBrkpsSty!rulgbyzla0Oji+b/aucnvguAyeG@zljpbfrspPtAs*iq?

fl!Pqyrhusuqp7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)tjg)KgtHtjB:xqngnD	|"stOy|zlujgs
ytfbptLpdxxex&gFavjjrXvxysd>gEaentKlauymm+jligt	rsjLNjr*ts;bbxG
ytfbyjFAaHH	dG/\mkmjDFaMIeA*tfavjfLgjM.xd&gDenAeOvsMBeA&oxf
luokumAuhsNmi!mmng})

flUjge9BfxHew_oxffbfFkaIuxw^jlpp}

fl!YjtrHSXtDs;fFbnmnFnaMIa(!ymjfbyzla4Csk7fspkplrBqsNtd?rudg?esue
rApmksygbMtyl^fObv&xroftxeA*ztaitjsAavOwm=yuuA}

fl!Kv)Kgbszwm^tpaqheEpoxa]e!ItfujnJlaVuy{NfEbkfeSsjvy,d!^mmnqBrtf
zAakpyJveNwjd*zg"

fl!KbiGu"Mtqm)klujgeDvpDttj!oFacvessmm.ew@opavjjrRjGA,d!^tpygAwy.
oFaocDrrjLMeq,ftbpfeAmaBNep*qqt}&

fl!K&irybMBjv!tAu?&eLofsWfx!xqnctpwk?

fl!Fqs\Aauyem_vqsvkswuum.ew@opavjjrRjGA	dGgzebftF_usFts)fmuboj
rulgbyzhu|.edcklhqvetliBHid?rudgbfKgixtxt=qq?

fl!CbhsAaFuDd-uAlbcyrhaDCsk7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)J&xjryftxex&gFakp
yAngbgGvlmtgy:fUafqs\AaKyri_hqsbymwyfn.

fl!YgqDaaBNeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh7-ltckirAixtPm+mlwgtDrkfvCii%rK.bcsv
nqaecqDlesNmi!WGfgp	rDiHtBe|fBbuunFnatNex&klnqojFA.s|RC!jqbt#erP
CutjbDGBaPIzp%ftbxgeLojLthe:fDfoqAwk@,

flUjge9BfxHel@jlppnDrvoxtBe,fAgbujLAmBHld@rxafkkxpdNFym^yfaitjsA
uDauofDs?st%S'llxkvmrojLtmi@j-"bumwgttCi{!CuujqzLgfOysd-uAlkpl
xAvpf 

fl!K&qDggxNhl!ztfbgCwjvMCtr^xlnAujDm.,txe*jlujge3poztje"kDmA?esue
nqajwwJpfwttj'a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneyvauuho7fmofbxwlaAIBd:nqaicrw
CmtbitAuhsIs{!gEaujjroftLid:nqaSwjwu"LtAs*iqakpeLofsxnw:gzdg?
yosgcrAuhsQnx&fBbuunGu?stXl^ftbfbfDyftxDd&kmsfbmwyaLysx^tofbvmJlf
uravjjrwmtSjv|fFpbdjrlyxwzx^jlgqtezhwBHld_oEtgfeLofBLex;xzt?bfFk
ytfbfnvgoHNep*qqavjjrspHEes'fFikplKgbMtfp- lbubyzlazuri!Cmtbks
yGdjbhGugNMns+fFicveKofsHjz^xllpgBrDixNmi/fuubyfKgixLex;xzaqt
tAu}be~vaLBjd>kzubksrzftLhl!urajgwrofwAjl=mg

flUjgezlezyms"fIbubjFnbzyid*tlbbhnyousQnx&fmoqvmwyaAyik^nAh?
CtjejeKlfFyid:ulBnkhwgbGtjB$kxmgpyrvqIIwx;tuuAbkGyavLtu;kFjpieGuf
uravjjEgxBNmd:nqaqvmwy;styl^fAonAevpgyChy-zKaycxlguAuyd&kD
lxboksyvaPuxd"uzfbchJvtLtys!ztfbqyzlssMnh^fAgbvmwghtLii+ lxjgww
GxjegeuvvExew^kljvbyJFjGAem+fmajgqHsfLMew=xFaqheOhzsNtd'rKawr
ozuqbfrAsxy 

flCAbyzlaMCri!ytfbjfvgdtOll:fFigbkDhnBHls!gzebdwGBhANem:fnbem	
ztfbhnyousQfw!uHft?esuesvtx&fFigbmwkhxBtk|fIftgeGBusIkd|osiv<
^nvvbnLgeHyxrNzlncvywyaFOhl7-lujqzyousUqm$kfa@cxrhmEtyl^fmsejjK
gDfbitFlayLtq!ztjubxAkfsIkd:nqaittMuen.ednultjgeLBdDyid*zlbycD
Azegtezlssuwq7fFicveAAaFCll:fzpvbjKjbIyee"guo?bfFkaPysx!hmdmbkGy
glmkvyDlaFIwi!iAoxgwKhuBIsd>oFibjjJggKCjr%a

flXjgsrzixtls:fnbemeLvaMBjd{nqtjkwwgDtN	d|nqaycxrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbvMpuxtfd-gDhgbhJvxwths-rqdvgirypNHid*zaabvmwyfsQfw!glekuuMAf
mAjpieGuauyyA^kzavjjrlyxwzx*uzft?eLofs5nr" lbpfeLofs~zi^tfayjt
CqsgbfDsaMuqo*tsacveGudxneA&oxfbcqDguAyev^yFaygwwgrNCyi!yumgpyl
gzebntGrfwtAi/ElvpetEmpKNff-kg

flUjgeEvnxHyd?rudgbfHwftLjh7fEigbBszatJui@rqebvtrizsuqp!ztsggeLv
yquvnjrAixtvy^yFjqp	rhowtyl^ElsgrjsAfwtyl^oDactlMtfGNxd:uligt	
ztpwimlgbLtyl^ElbnneKwpDyee:fAoeg	rzixtks;tpakveNlsRtme/jljpfjwk
zAaocpwgpNNei\gounAeOobMtyl^Eltckim

flUjgewEfvOym=tqs&uesyhNGjr:fIbu?eLobMtDs;fopwniF_uswzx!urgbc
nqbfbzFsfLMex&kDfbyfKgbsvth,fFpbezLgjMttj'frsqo,rguAuyd&klicf
tqwgtezhesNtd%ultwemrhaMBnr"fnfhqwwaatHid&klxcus\AazInr"fFpbdjypo
gFaJKXrAjFyes'fxjhg 

flUjge3poz.xd@xsvogsLgxtM	d:nmubcsQAiBHld:nmubjfvgbsBje%fopwnirif
hqigciwk.sush!ztbvbDGBaPywi+-FavqeLhmDtss+yqoug 

flUjge9BfxH)w!gDhwojFAaPux{!ztbvbnxgtHGjx&ozhbyfKu"Mtis+klbdqzL
oFakpeDltLtyl@tloqbyAtfsMmiNjlicxjrlwxLDf=jKagzjuBuxx	d@rxatqzFk?
[UubyfKguACxd-gEubtjEhsDtyl@zlicfeEhextyl^fIiqnjrwbKNDd-uAlbut
mDbxgesuesusB*uGt}_

flBnkhwgdHOqh!ztjpmeGmaGIyl*tsagnxwguHtxe,fnvvb%1Aauyqs+mEavqeLof
JGdjgxK?asStyNjlcgvywyatMpdcK4acdtMAaBN (

fl!Ujj\zaBHet/oEpp?)rAixtVy^kzaucnvguHtyl^fqygezLppGyw\!f)ggvhz
nqsbjjJl?,teE+jlujgewEfvOym=tqsbyjFAaHzkd-owfbcsrhsKIB	

flaVjjrJbM.xd&kmebdjyhoszfh*tsacyfQguAyeq=sqovbmwgxtMek=tq.bcsva

flUjkxrhoLQjv!yAaeqsxBtxxet=uDaCnnul.sNme:fEigbqwAaMBjd	uDnqwxw
mAaqpexvssMtq^fFjogeOpuAIzx!ozugtwMwuBHld*zg

fl!VjjQgxxLjd-kmspksyguHtiv@Cf"bvmwgEHLrs;yqaygsLgpGneC@Czjpiesue
xGcdksygjMMei,kE.bhtJgjMtBe|fsfvvnFnaOywC!yxfgrDhg!tHid:nqzbfwwD
gxmbofFufKttj!ztjpix	|fOywC:nuoibyzhusvjk*tEaykyzgbGtR[T-

fl!YjDrDjMBee+fY}&bxspesUqm$kg

fl!YjDrupMp)d|guebvmwgNtLhl!Nmsg}

flBnkhwgxtMew*rqov}

flUjgeVvsFIzw^ftbfbhDvtxxem:ylfAgxrizsNmm|fFjog	rhowtBe|fspkpl
urgbksLvattis.kbadwylgpGtgi*tsarksuofwtgC!ztfbJfLAfKnem:fIpmgeMw
gsbkpeOpuAtfd-oFungeKosByp{!gzebyjFAaHH,d!^\_vjfLgcxAnr|fIjvjesu
SfauwhzgbLtrs;yq_vtfHz.sush!ztfbotGu.sush!sqnqtDlgbGxeq;itogux	|
EAvbmsGDaRIzd|gKavjnFntsuwi!_yvejeGmattry$nzfuu-	|eBxeC=Alfxgw
yqfbuzuoattyl*tsacuesgeKuBm+mlphbfrtvvBsi|yh"

fl!TgfDszmtss>fKpwbfKraFy	(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKaowhzgdHHky|kp.b@N
jAo&veLojGE][N

fl!VjjFgzHOew&uGmfp)LgutFp{NfEbkfeLofs2fx:kD?

flUjkxrwjxwjd=llswfjFltLtBe|fyptgeLobGtFp*iqaeqzDkauyfv2fltjgeyvu
ABakpeyyftNeh*ysvuv	rhowtBe-qqebqkx}aMBjd	uDnqwxwggxFqd@yxfgr
oztvcsLszmtfr%fzfkvmwyaHzex&klpvjjJzaMIto!ztfbnjszusHtx*iqaqhezls
mAjpi	rAiHOll!ytfbntGrfwtge$qlppejrvssNBm$kfajcqxgiHJnr"fFicv
ztfAbBGBmwthe-rlbhvjJgixL,d!ztfbnfKAaMCri!ytfbufOguAyr{!ztfAbBwyf
zDzkplrApsJzx!ztfbFtJtpNMjd*tFpbvmwguxuus:a

fl!CvesuzsLfx^fU"nneFlwxLek=f6IGTJrhhtCs%NfEbkfeSsjvyee|fEig
vudmgirofKtBe,fFitqzyoaMBjd>uAe}be]Pu,Mex&kltvwuAkfLNex^g\qctyQgJ
kHftbBszatNem+fmmnbrQgmBzj%N

flKwuyrhtsMmi!ymjfbyzptmtxl^fzpvkhwkaMBfx!uzfbqkrAixtyv^kEajcirh
jAptbqwheBHld/osivbnFApsCy	!f)Ujcy\zaOywC!iGskqzK""sMmi!ztpwimLb
^NvvbjNlsRNmm+m/tbezJppNMex=jmz}be1guACso!OlncAeszaPyqp!mAakpesA
uzdg})rgBGxem+fEigbBwuun

flPpejrtpKyew&klgqwsvgixLxi-lljpbyzlaEIsk!nmmn?esueswqs|kluqbyzl
ruuvnjrnmtMxd:gnmg}er'OHQ	dd-xmbofFhhxtgi:zqsbvmAzaMCri7-ltjg
ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfacpirifzusd#ElucmnFnaMBjd-oFungeyvmwysd)kK.bcsv
AzmqepAuhsNmi!jAptbyzhusFjh!ozuqbyzlazuwh^tgabVmwuaLBjd>kzubvt
CAsmbsAicECsk!gFavjjrtvLBws=sl)ujjrobwtpi[zlbbrnwjfsIkd*zljpbmwy
vAdmgi{guBFqd|nqaycxrhcHOyd@frpqvezphAied:nqobumwgxtFpi%fppypeLof
ruuvnjrwbLMfk^.lacpir1IX8][|nqahqzFkaAyww^rracveDhtMtnr!ztf
hqbwvnxBmsAfv%kz.bcrGuhsNmi!hDjijyrmmHQjvThqeubfFkaMBjd$uAm
lAvpvfAutn



flabbergasted!flabbergasteGcG2UGTe@PJ2

flabbergasted!flabbYzla0Oji+-EaEttIBfMaLv=Aze


flBbnfJnfsLtw^/FsggeKApHxer^gDavjjrloMLfr$klphbyzlazuwh^taabvmw
xAtgueyypPCsk!uzakveOlsxtBl*zq.bdzLguAywi!Cqsgbyzyfxtle/jqogtxrhu
oF.bdzKpmRtue*tFjpieLofFtwi%alaCnnulaMBty"nFavjnKgbsPjv,fovtktMz
ztjpi	rhowtxl^fIfpveFlbKywd:ulxcvhzguAyr{!gzeblzKAatMew&kldcojrBq
zAavjjEgtAyel^gDebqswgpytyl^sltcA	r'MHIpd=AFapqBlgGBPj%!fPpp&yrnp
yBmcumAuhsJfm+zlpxgwrtfsFno^fFicv^\

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!nqmrbnLa"sMfm%fRjxg	rposuew;rwzbvtFl<s|Xi<kzalqlyle
sKagngGD?,

flPpbBzpdAtXi<kzanqtClesOud@tpaucnvaa/@me:-EatklzA.sZnz^'laCnBsFt
rmzbvmwgcEuri!uzaqvmwyt|.

fl!1QZ\Kauyyx^xloqveLhmD:)d|guebHnNl?st%M!nqbtfeLofs~zi^tltcAeGumR
EqtvgwvhzsSty!jqtgtAwkaMIef^fnfjgfvle|.

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbyzlaHHjd>nAajcirzqHEjr!lusuv 

fl!VjfL_tsHtr^fAgb1T!YauOxm+kEt?bYOv@,txe*jlTgxjFb

fl!1gxlgjMtNW!nutbdzKpoxMx%NfEbkfeXpwxne$@tpaK&qDguxFqd&oy_+ky
CmtbhtJgcKCsk*tsavjjrjpHEex;ruq+ttGAtsCsw:kmebqkrvoBIsw8-

flTgxjFggEOsk!jAxpbmAzauLzw& lbpfezhesDzw:fnfiwsr'XxFq{!uracnq
ztfbwsBBtMtyl*tst++)rDixHel*ylfAgeuobGwjh!zAahcqDgvIIsd?rudg?esz
ytfbuyGvesQfx$nuoibyzlnmtfr%ftfbemwjlxxel*sEfnheKBewysp,.lavjj
uFigtxrspHEjh!xAvpfesstHnee+jlbnneGmaMBjq!hAxgfeDvxn

fl!YqzDkaRIzd:kxmbojl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rhaECyx-klukonvszmt%A&Elzqwesyf
vmjpvnFnaMBtw^fDpugxn_

flGkxjrhowtXi<kzaucnvgoHNmm+mfadwyrspHEjh!gFaVytmga!Qtd#ksbpbnFgb
rAxbxtAjfmt%1&ElujgexhdMtnw7fKpwbxwl.s7nw| lujkxrofKyes;mtubvt
nmwgbgwlosueV Jlsquj	Asxy	d@tpaygeHBusueA&oFfbqswgjGtgC!sutvcpw}
gzebkkrAixtVy^kzaycxrApsznr%fuubqzLaaPyew&uGmfbfDsaAuAi!uGsbjjskt
iGubqkxaaRIzd)tAx}be~vaRIzd|kq.bOnKz.sQj(/kleqksygpNLef^yF.bckGyf
ytfbetEltmtysT//abCyrAiBMeq=sqovbKACfmtBl=ftbfbgwlosusB*uGtnA
rApmksygbvLtw|fFigblsyexH	d$gxmgfeGBus|Yl^f3vggs/ga!BjdlAqfp#)
gzebvmwguALji!mmsfgswytsCsw:gzunAeLosxQex&kytgnAwzayFfx!ABpp
ztfktexhdxM d!ZtftgeOhtsuew=AzebqkrtbGSej=uFtvguKaatHid?rudg
rApmgirypNHi{!kmhgteLvaLyjd:nqaSwjwu?

flGktxLgdtGjd:kzauqqvpfKMeg@xDzkplrjmNvx,!ztfugeOlsxtfp-fEicrjv
rulgbyzlaMBwi^fsbtfjFlsLnes#rAoibfFkayFfx7fIjvjeLofBLel@tptbcsv
lqfvbfLguAyeg=xzftu,rgoxRyd:nqavgsrjpNLym^xE<bvmwzfsQjv^
uDocojFAfwtfp-fAwgteOpuAtim@sAofu	rhowtBe-qqebvBGgbGxex>ufacueLof
yAmfkjJzawCi	!fMgvgwrAixMjd$gyfbvmwgsHSfp!itjnfwwu<sNmi/klxgtj
zqobqkrAixG	d@tpavjjrsjMNqi!jqbtueuhnxtoy_vuoibrwysBFDd@rAoibmsue
ozajcsvaaBHeg=ABmgu,rguAyDd>kDfbcqDgpKHfq^tFffbBAAisBje/zE?bbSwEu
imngbyzlazOjw:yfaoqxLszs5nr"ylbpfe9BfxHx{!gzebcrGuhsNmi_fMmkej
xqdqisAzfwtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx2fljvbBszaMuqo*tsakpesgiNLwm^jlogtAGBt
smopgwlgtFCqm+mlbvbjNlsRNmm+mlujcyrDbLtxe*jfacpirDfGNef,fIjvjtMA
tAukenFnaAyw	!f6igpexvmEIBi%fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgdtLwC*tsavjj
Quoi&xrjsHQsd=tlbbewAttHHez^rHfvbhMziBIs,!gze?bqszusIkd@rxavjnK
mDbpfeHypvyxw*uz.befEla!2JdfOZHbCSVgR@YJR!URaJGF01Tn

flBnkhwgxtMev@ztftbiGBcMzzp!CtfvjjJgtAyes;mtubptLguHtqm^fppypeGu
nqsbhfulaECpi!ztfbvmJlfsAfv%kzftu	rivMtxl^fopwnirupMtwi_kycgt
kHftAezhwBHld&kmsfbtxgtNwmd@fDvngesAaILtg^yEjqpxhg!tHid#kEjfgxl
CtbvbBGBmwtgi!ztfbwxwgpytfd[xAdguxAvom.ex&uGhjveKofmt%m'fBfqrqw
nmebcqDguHtqm^fppypeMwpGtyl^oDahchwz.sMtd:nmubvmwFavIzp%t/ubujw
oF}&be~vaLBjd|zApfbxLpmEtBl^xqaujjrDbLnee+jlxckywk?

flXjgsrAixtuv=iqtuktFgdtGjd=vBpukywguHtFp*iq.bvmwFatFqd|zAqrgi
gzebntGrfwtfx!nqs?bfFkaMBjdlAqfpbxspesMjz^xqmAb%#opsCxd:nut{&
YtfbufAkaBNex=fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgxAIes+rKadqBwkatHid|sumgfeAu
xqqnA 

fl!KfnGA@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d:uEtkplrofKtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC3fmof?
zGspksyguHtFp*iq.bumwgxxHyd=tfa@YmsA"LtDs;xlocojlgdACqh9-

fl!OAeFhnxtnw!Gxjeg	rzpsJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAkaTFng^fHftA
vAmkvjDF<svzx!ytfbcivlemtys!nqsugqxaa/%mC7fFigA)JlaHHqC!glqceprvg
imsfu	rhgMywd@rx?bbNrufxxs(:fnfbckJhjwttj!ztfo#)

fl!CpirDiHtfv^f6IGUJn_aLunh!ztfbSzwlomtus*tFjpieLvaMBjd:nDfg
mmsfgswytsQms!CqsgbqQpoztws;tpavjjrypLyyv^kbahqwlgzHOew^kfacu
ztfAbBwyfsFDm+mlppbyzljKtke$kE.bcsvguAyet@zFftpeGuaMBjm/fnbemx
CmtbvmwgttGjd@ylujgeJltMttj!ztfbrfur.sMmi!iAvnfeFvusNjp-fIigvmwy
ztfAbBwyfsAfv%kzftu	rvssMtp%oqsu?eGyavIzv:oqsu?eGyaMBwi^fAgbjjJ
uIobemAseKys	

fl!JqBrziHOqh!OllpqBn_aLunh!Gxjeg	rzvKJwm|kpacvezlssIBr!iAvtclwb
^Uu&ueFvauOxm+kEtbqkrTJ7Y (

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbhJpnLIsd>oFibhzJF.sush7fmgvgwrnmtLnr"fmubjjJ
lAsbceEvnxHyd-owfbceOpmwtgi@yF.buhJlbFyidGUrgbynLoaAywd&kme#
Urg++)

fl!PqsKloLy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKanqzvszsush!jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFig
WGfgpeOhtsMnp^tF?

flUjge3poztqe*jlikuezhowtzt=tligtesynmtfr%fFjokiDFaLunh
^OppunvlsmtrC!jqbt<erzixtnw!uzmAbfrjiBFi%N

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbfFnsBFDd@CmzbhwGtaACr{!gzebufAkaMIex&klLpcAw
^6vtpeLofFttz^x-"

flUjge3ubOyeh*jltq?eNlsRthe/krvnnDlgxBNmd=tqahqtLb

fl!IgyrBq|.ew@opavjjrXvxys{!ozacbxzyjEF	d-uGebxtAjfmtfr%fFig
ztsggeyhswysi/yljpuysuuESen;sBffbzHaatHid#ksbpbgGDjGAex=fFig
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfavjjrypRuqd$numftjFaatHid^BqsAdtvFaxFxi8

fl!NgfNlaHzkd:nmu#&eKjsxuri%fFigbVMlfGoedG5AvbofClaFyek*jpz}&
Gzebvmwu.sNzv+ozhbvtrAixtws|k\utgjlgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'XAuydcG8FbAtM
hqfpbiGpoztmi/kh"

fl!OcDrpusJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAka!Qt{!ozacbAwyzsBzq#rqavqswa
mAjpievvxGttr!uzfbmswlatMel^fEqqmjlg!PyeA^xqavtDAuh a)

fl!Kbxwl@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d>nAajcirtftHBl*rqadgjFgfQurm+ozhbvmw
xAtgu rg!8zkd>oFibvmwpssBje%y-"bcsvguAyet/uofuunGuaFIAi%fAo?
ztsggeGmaMBjd|uxekgwKgsxGfm+ozhbdjzpowtys!kJfewywguAyey+lAsvwssAf
mmsfgswytmtBl=fDbpbyGgBEChi!lAsbrwGAfvNns+a

fl!1qzrzitH)x!hqadgmwhexx^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee+jltjgeHBusNmi_fuovqes
rmsigexspPyw[[uFavjfLgtMIth!tqbt}er1ixtyl/kqauqqvpfKMeA@tpftgi
gnpwvexvssueq*tGugbtJguPI	d-uAlkplrmpKtyl^sfacpirAixHeu;oqunA
smsejjvgpyzee'zqsbvmwgpMBjv|a

fl!CtjrAixCwd&kmeubtxm},txl=AFffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!VjjAyaAyfh|fmsgblGufmtnj!oFarnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF@,tyl^fEpnfnwyt
ytpwvjvgjGtwi[rK?

fl!VjfL_tsLnk&z-"bumGBuxxex&klRwgjFbas|He+fKpwbuDhzswws]Aqu{&

flUjgeKvmwCjv|fIftgeKpmxHy{!gzebntGrfwtfx!Gxjeg	rhtsNmi!wGfuvnGu
CmtbgAAkfGNqC!sqbpvexvssBjv8

fl!1gx/_aLBty:kpaCnnul?

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz@&bwGhsxxex&klRwgjFaatHid?rudgboGpoxxex&k
vDpegxKppGneA=tpftksygwxLDd_AoibymsAaPIzp%ftbrrjFgoxRy	

fl!Kv)K|_BN)w!glwgtDrmjGyeh@E-"bufAkattym_opaxqnulatNel^xltkfjm
YtfbyfKgxtFpm+mlcAbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnLaaPBtd>gEargjHpoztfr\oAvunD
ozuqbmwyayuhi8

fl!XgwQa"sMfm%fMmkejgga/a]A&kDf&ueLofsXzg&kEt{&

fl!Jwxz"as2zw&'/aucnvguAyeV@hnjvbnFgbsFtA7ftvttnwkaMIsi8flIg
rApmgirhoQCty|rKaqxjJgiBMew&uGmfgwrhtsBjd|vAlg?esuesNmi+fDbkujv
nunugqxgvIIsd:oBuqg	rwvMtmm|fypwvmrjmHMjd:uligtewhsmtfr%
CtjurjJles|Xl^-EawpiwyaLysx^tofbqkrlyxwzx*uz?&

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbFDpdxo
