disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
looking at the Cat's head with great curiosity.

  `It's a friend of mine--a Cheshire Cat,' said Alice:  `allow me
to introduce it.'

  `I don't like the look of it at all,' said the King:  `however,
it may kiss my hand if it likes.'

  `I'd rather not,' the Cat remarked.

  `Don't be impertinent,' said the King, `and don't look at me
like that!'  He got behind Alice as he spoke.

  `A cat may look at a king,' said Alice.  `I've read that in
some book, but I don't remember where.'

  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of wahzsNtd'rKawr
ozuqbfrAsxy 

flCAbyzlaMCri!ytfbjfvgdtOll:fFigbkDhnBHls!gzebdwGBhANem:fnbem	
ztfbhnyousQfw!uHft?esuesvtx&fFigbmwkhxBtk|fIftgeGBusIkd|osiv<
^nvvbnLgeHyxrNzlncvywyaFOhl7-lujqzyousUqm$kfa@cxrhmEtyl^fmsejjK
gDfbitFlayLtq!ztjubxAkfsIkd:nqaittMuen.ednultjgeLBdDyid*zlbycD
Azegtezlssuwq7fFicveAAaFCll:fzpvbjKjbIyee"guo?bfFkaPysx!hmdmbkGy
glmkvyDlaFIwi!iAoxgwKhuBIsd>oFibjjJggKCjr%a

flXjgsrzixtls:fnbemeLvaMBjd{nqtjkwwgDtN	d|nqaycxrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbvMpuxtfd-gDhgbhJvxwths-rqdvgirypNHid*zaabvmwyfsQfw!glekuuMAf
mAjpieGuauyyA^kzavjjrlyxwzx*uzft?eLofs5nr" lbpfeLofs~zi^tfayjt
CqsgbfDsaMuqo*tsacveGudxneA&oxfbcqDguAyev^yFaygwwgrNCyi!yumgpyl
gzebntGrfwtAi/ElvpetEmpKNff-kg

flUjgeEvnxHyd?rudgbfHwftLjh7fEigbBszatJui@rqebvtrizsuqp!ztsggeLv
yquvnjrAixtvy^yFjqp	rhowtyl^ElsgrjsAfwtyl^oDactlMtfGNxd:uligt	
ztpwimlgbLtyl^ElbnneKwpDyee:fAoeg	rzixtks;tpakveNlsRtme/jljpfjwk
zAaocpwgpNNei\gounAeOobMtyl^Eltckim

flUjgewEfvOym=tqs&uesyhNGjr:fIbu?eLobMtDs;fopwniF_uswzx!urgbc
nqbfbzFsfLMex&kDfbyfKgbsvth,fFpbezLgjMttj'frsqo,rguAuyd&klicf
tqwgtezhesNtd%ultwemrhaMBnr"fnfhqwwaatHid&klxcus\AazInr"fFpbdjypo
gFaJKXrAjFyes'fxjhg 

flUjge3poz.xd@xsvogsLgxtM	d:nmubcsQAiBHld:nmubjfvgbsBje%fopwnirif
hqigciwk.sush!ztbvbDGBaPywi+-FavqeLhmDtss+yqoug 

flUjge9BfxH)w!gDhwojFAaPux{!ztbvbnxgtHGjx&ozhbyfKu"Mtis+klbdqzL
oFakpeDltLtyl@tloqbyAtfsMmiNjlicxjrlwxLDf=jKagzjuBuxx	d@rxatqzFk?
[UubyfKguACxd-gEubtjEhsDtyl@zlicfeEhextyl^fIiqnjrwbKNDd-uAlbut
mDbxgesuesusB*uGt}_

flBnkhwgdHOqh!ztjpmeGmaGIyl*tsagnxwguHtxe,fnvvb%1Aauyqs+mEavqeLof
JGdjgxK?asStyNjlcgvywyatMpdcK4acdtMAaBN (

fl!Ujj\zaBHet/oEpp?)rAixtVy^kzaucnvguHtyl^fqygezLppGyw\!f)ggvhz
nqsbjjJl?,teE+jlujgewEfvOym=tqsbyjFAaHzkd-owfbcsrhsKIB	

flaVjjrJbM.xd&kmebdjyhoszfh*tsacyfQguAyeq=sqovbmwgxtMek=tq.bcsva
hKavjjrAjFyel^ftbfbhGtfsvfg)fIjvjeLofsXzx$nqtu?eAAaAuid^tFjtgqQ
jutcruwhsxx.d|ulujge3poztfr%fFigbjPldNNns+kDatcsrDjExqC!ABacpi
jAxpbqGvlBHld'uDakv	rDiBFjd:nqatgxLgpytyl^fBbtvDrDfGNef@iwavqeLofsAfq^a



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPY

flabbergasted!flabber1ixtRs$qlUwtyDl"LtXx=xK


fl!1qzrjbG.yd:nuombmGDazFfh!OlbobyGgtxyeC=AlbicnFaaRIzd%kmsbqqv
ztjpi^\gttCid:nqaFwhzltLnee|fEigbyMjlxxel^xlbtoesmgxwym=tmugnD
ozuqbFDpdx.x{!gzebvmwFaPuqo^jlphheLvhxNmi/a

flBnkhwgxtMez^xKainfvguHtkm+jligteAuaLOhl!glqngfKhoMtyi_vqs?bfFk
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmhbyzhusJjv&gBtbkyrDbLttr-ElujgeHlqIywd:nmubjfv
smegbmwyaLIew@BmhgbBzlosNmi,fyfvbnFguAyeo*zoigp 

fl!YjjFgJ,7ee!JGdjgxKa"sMmi!ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfa-ptLgjGtfd<kDz