  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,
and were resting in the shade:  however, the moment they saw her,
they hurried back to the game, the Queen merely remarking that a
moment's delay would cost them their lives.

  All the time they were playing the Queen never left off
quarrelling with the other players, and shouting `Off with his
head!' or `Off with her head!'  Those whom she sentenced were
taken into custody by the soldiers, who of course had to leave
off being arches to do this, so that by the end of half an hour
or so there were no arches left, and all the players, except the
King, the Queen, and Alice, were in custody and under sentence of
execution.

  Then the Queen left off, quite out of breath, and said to
Alice, `Have you seen the Mock Turtle yet?'

  `No,' said Alice.  `I don't even know what a Mock Turtle is.'

  `It's the thing Mock Turtle Soup is made from,' said the Queen.

  `I never saw one, or heard of one,' said Alice.

  `Come on, then,' said the Queen, `and he shall tell you his
history,'

  As they walked off together, Alice heard the King say in a low
voice, to the company generally, `You are all pardoned.'  `Come,
THAT'S a good thing!' she said to herself, for she had felt quite
unhappy at the number of executions the Queen had ordered.

  They very soon came upon a Gryphon, lying fast asleep in the
sun.  (IF you don't know what a Gryphon is, look at the picture.)
`Up, lazy thing!' said the Queen, `and take this young lady to
see the Mock Turtle, and to hear his history.  I must go back and
see after some executions I have ordered'; and she walked off,
leaving Alice alone with the Gryphon.  Alice did not quite like
the look of the creature, but on the whole she thought it would
be quite as safe to stay with it as to go after that savage
Queen:  so she waited.

  The Gryphon sat up and rubbed its eyes:  then it watched the
Queen till she was out of sight:  then it chuckled.  `What fun!'
said the Gryphon, half to itself, half to Alice.

  `What IS the fun?' said Alice.

  `Why, SHE,' said the Gryphon.  `It's all her fancy, that:  they
never executes nobody, you know.  Come on!'

  `Everybody says "come on!" here,' thought Alice, as she went
slowly after it:  `I never was so ordered about in all my life,
never!'

  They had not gone far before they saw the Mock Turtle in the
distance, sitting sad and lonely on a little ledge of rock, and,
as they came nearer, Alice could hear him sighing as if his heart
would break.  She pitied him deeply.  `What is his sorrow?' she
asked the Gryphon, and the Gryphon answered, very nearly in the
same words as before, `It's all his fancy, that:  he hasn't got
no sorrow, you know.  Come on!'

  So they went up to the Mock Turtle, who looked at them with
large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much under the sea--' (`I haven't,'
said Alice)--`and perhaps you were never even introduced to a lobster--'
(Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily,
and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful
thing a Lobster Quadrille is!'

  `No, indeed,' said Alice.  `What sort of a dance is it?'

  `Why,' said the Gryphon, `you first form into a line along the
sea-shore--'

  `Two lines!' cried the Mock Turtle.  `Seals, turtles, salmon,
and so on; then, when you've cleared all the jelly-fish out of
the way--'

  `THAT generally takes some time,' interrupted the Gryphon.

  `--you advance twice--'

  `Each with a lobster as a partner!' cried the Gryphon.

  `Of course,' the Mock Turtle said:  `advance twice, set to
partners--'

  `--change lobsters, and retire in same order,' continued the
Gryphon.

  `Then, you know,' the Mock Turtle went on, `you throw the--'

  `The lobsters!' shouted the Gryphon, with a bound into the air.

  `--as far out to sea as you can--'

  `Swim after them!' screamed the Gryphon.

  `Turn a somersault in the sea!' cried the Mock Turtle,
capering wildly about.

  `Back to land again, and that's all the first figure,' said the
Mock Turtle, suddenly dropping his voice; and the two creatures,
who had been jumping about like mad things all this time, sat
down again very sadly and quietly, and looked at Alice.

  `It must be a very pretty dance,' said Alice timidly.

  `Would you like to see a little of it?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Very much indeed,' said Alice.

  `Come, let's try the first figure!' said the Mock Turtle to the
Gryphon.  `We can do without lobsters, you know.  Which shall
sing?'

  `Oh, YOU sing,' said the Gryphon.  `I've forgotten the words.'

  So they began solemnly dancing round and round Alice, every now
and then treading on her toes when they passed too close, and
waving their forepaws to mark the time, while the Mock Turtle
sang this, very slowly and sadly:--


`"Will you walk a little faster?" said a whiting to a snail.
"There's a porpoise close behind us, and he's treading on my
 tail.
See how eagerly the lobsters and the turtles all advance!
They are waiting on the shingle--will you come and join the
dance?

Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
dance?
Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
dance?


"You can really have no notion how delightful it will be
When they take us up and throw us, with the lobsters, out to
                                                      sea!"
But the snail replied "Too far, too far!" and gave a look
                                                       askance--
Said he thanked the whiting kindly, but he would not join the
   dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, would not join
        the dance.
    Would not, could not, would not, could not, could not join
        the dance.

`"What matters it how far we go?" his scaly friend replied.
"There is another shore, you know, upon the other side.
The further off from England the nearer is to France--
Then turn not pale, beloved snail, but come and join the dance.

    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, will you join the
         dance?
    Will you, won't you, will you, won't you, won't you join the
         dance?"'



  `Thank you, it's a very interesting dance to watch,' said
Alice, feeling very glad that it was over at last:  `and I do so
like that curious song about the whiting!'

  `Oh, as to the whiting,' said the Mock Turtle, `they--you've
seen them, of course?'

  `Yes,' said Alice, `I've often seen them at dinn--' she
checked herself hastily.

  `I don't know where Dinn may be,' said the Mock Turtle, `but
if you've seen them so often, of course you know what they're
like.'

  `I believe so,' Alice replied thoughtfully.  `They have their
tails in their mouths--and they're all over crumbs.'

  `You're wrong about the crumbs,' said the Mock Turtle:
`crumbs would all wash off in the sea.  But they HAVE their tails
in their mouths; and the reason is--' here the Mock Turtle
yawned and shut his eyes.--`Tell her about the reason and all
that,' he said to the Gryphon.

  `The reason is,' said the Gryphon, `that they WOULD go with
the lobsters to the dance.  So they got thrown out to sea.  So
they had to fall a long way.  So they got their tails fast in
their mouths.  So they couldn't get them out again.  That's all.'

  `Thank you,' said Alice, `it's very interesting.  I never knew
so much about a whiting before.'

  `I can tell you more than that, if you like,' said the
Gryphon.  `Do you know why it's called a whiting?'

  `I never thought about it,' said Alice.  `Why?'

  `IT DOES THE BOOTS AND SHOES.' the Gryphon replied very
solemnly.

  Alice was thoroughly puzzled.  `Does the boots and shoes!' she
repeated in a wondering tone.

  `Why, what are YOUR shoes done with?' said the Gryphon.  `I
mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock TX;xFmg}

fl!UjjrjbG.yd^DBmcksrpum.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ftbuvnDF?st%K=fAobynLo
ztfbpjPAaOyww^a/

fl!DwyrhcHOyd&oEavqjKc"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyet^xEjuvjvbas|Ms>fOPWNI
nqavwwFguAyrd=AFaykyzgiBMer=yq.bAtMglGIB N

fl!Kv)KguAyej*xEubrtKpuBIsd*tlecphAuhn.eE-oofbufAk<svzx!Cmt
jDfcfkMsmRtuy.FxffbgQguAyeA&uxfbvmAuhmtfr%fxppijvguHthl@tsfbvmw
yGclghLb

fl!IqeGuaPCyl!ztfbpjPAaOyww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrgfLlesCrt@zufpvqQ?
^uubdjypoLt-M!vmtugirizsBnw!mmsfgsm+"

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlectjrApsxnw=hqz?byzvvzBew&klggnyrzvKyem:fIpwni
gxmbetElaPLtr" lbpfeKofsQjr:fAobksrhaMLjq#ruoibAGpdxi][

flab@NrwbLMjh!hKajkxrnbKxjr7fmofbrsylxx	d>oFibqswgfRy	
flabJtOguAyeS>rlbpfeLofs0fr:nqsbyjJlaLBfv*tsacbuAl_ .

flabberg]Euyi/fqekvnGutswtr:ozvgfeszayIqp=CE
flabVmwgQtHyl^xluqqprwjxahv;yF.bcsvghKuAC7fmofbrwhum
flabYmAsfsNmi!UImbjfvguAyeh*ytacueAAtsMme/klphbyzlaMLje:a
flabYmwuaMBjd[oqaycxrhmEtkm+oEigf	rAixtTA- lbubfripHH	
flabYfKglBHip,fBftonLAfwtys!vAdmgyrAixtxt=uz;
flabYmAsfsNmi!VmovjjJgsxwjm<kpampnxlatHid'uDlbynLoattlv=Cx.
flabCsvgdHHhp;jqebvmwgctHvy^z\_|

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^fGtgbtxgsxJje:ozhbcqDguAuyd|zGgh?)rAixtRs$qlUwtyDl
ozugtwMwuxx	dGoraAqzrkpG.yd^DBmcksrpusuxd,uGaiqeGu}stNxNylcAbksy
ztfbotKAavIsj;yuoibyzpoztNd^Bqsbjjsye|.

fl!1gxlgJsNmm+qlzqw)vgcxNyi/fxfcxjrvgyn)d|guebvmwgHKSul=taabcsv
GxjegeOhtsIsp,fFpqblDhesNtd%ultq}

fl!UjfDsaPyex/Elbpqyzlssznk;xqaqheLofs6tf|zqsbSzsksBFqi9-lujg
MDzrjtFgxxHyd=tgab@TJgxHOqh!EAvbnnClaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtys!yuoibDGB
gltqpln_

fl!Qj	rhaLIsk7fBmgcxwaaBzex&klNqepr1vKNqi!CAvnfetlaLIeo*tp.&
GxjegeJlqECjh7fEpbgfylsESex&gFavjjrNsRJms+fEbkf	rposuev@ztft
urggpiwkaMIsi7f)Io#e6vatwhs;tFjpiexvssNfw:kE@bbXAuhsBjv!_6vtvqw
YAvr?-rDjEFeC=AfaqnirmfEFtA9-

flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkauyle+ ljpbfrCpBwjd|uyfvkrwz
itpmgirDjMBew=hE.bvtrzjGAex&oE;++


flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr	rzpsLng&fmofblJlfGn
flabYfAAjGAem+fmajqyrAvKyjrH
flabYmGggHLew;itafcnFAjxMeA=AxebptLgtMItt9
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^

flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr^rgXAIeg@xqtbhtJggBMm{
flabIfEl.sIwd@tKaqvmwyawCxl9
flabYmGgxHOqh!tAubinNlatFqd^rEfbhtJguPIet
flabgsFFxHLyl!uzmAbtxgcxuzx*lGmbUtMw}
flabRjFuzPIwx&fAonAeGmauyfy:orvnbXGBqo
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMC][a1XaUQZ8""

fl!EjtJBtsule*t-"bewAlesNmi!MDzrjtFaatHid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ftbf
pGtvbgwnvGtys!xqqgcyrpumtBl^tlbbewQgpyt%X&klutkfD_tsvjk*tzjpi^\
CmtbjjsyesCsd:nqafkxLhovy 

fl!EqrwgpG:)d$xuffbyzlaZLDt&uz.bcsvaaMupm+mlBnkhwgcRtyl^ftbpf	
oFajwwJpfwttj' lxkvmGBusQfm:ozhbhtJguAyei+jlphbyzlaLIsk8

fl!YjfLguKCfp!oEakva\gBEChi!vmovgirhtsMmi!xmo>bgMAaMBjdbxKqjqs
uzmAbfFzxxLjh!^OpogeGu@,tfr%fDbpbyzlayuxx^xfayjnDlaFIwi!gzebotJl
lmjpvqQgdtGj{!imstkjvgpGtyl^fnsggEwguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyr{!ztf
sqmcphzvmRtBs/jE;++

flab@XGv_ Itt!uravjjrl_ y][^Bqokpll
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^\



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J

flabbergasted!flabbergXAIeW:uxfbvmwgUtLyw9


flUjge3poztfr%f3vggsrvgs2je/zEaygwwgtxuyi%fAobvmwpssNmv=tqayjjF
ztfAbfJyjOyi{!Cuujbfrnsxuyd$xAxfbfKzfFvqi%fmcqwyrAixG][@rxauqwLz
urankyLsfsvnv%ylbpfetlbLNx{!gEaygqDgbLtyl^fIiqnjrwbvEes'fobtfxg
ztfbMssCfsQfw!yFbpfnFnauyks/klujgrlgjGthl@ozt?bBAAisuew=rpjgteGu
kmdjbxAkfsNtd"AmsfbmAt<sush!tqbtbyzla4Csk!CmtbvmwgXACyi!Xmcdkyl
CuujbfrAsNGui:fuobqswgitHi{!gzebceKjsHFqd=llqcthztfGNem+fFig
uFigt rgJGtyl^fHftAeEpewFjd=llujgeuvvKNeA@ylbbvftsfmtBm:nlbbnfJnf
jutjbtxgutLyw!ABppbnL?asNmi,fxpqmjvgtHtls=jfavjfLgjMtre%klBnkhw
wGjvgezBozLDd:ulmqqprhusNmi_/\!KbBAzisNmi,-paigyrAixtyv*gxafqswa"
ytfbvmGBhAN	dGgzebjfFkaKIzr%fFigbwwmsxMmq^tFt#&erIvMtyl^xqaugjEle
zAadgeFvavBfr$klphbyzptmtxs!ytfbdjyhosFts)ozhbcyrlwxLDx&ozhbcgGBu
nqs?byGgqtMxd@CmzbvmwguBGj	

flBnkhwgitxer^BqsbdjwuaBHee!iAvtveGmaCOxx*iqadgkGyfmtgy:fEigbmsk
xqbfbftvvMtyl^sljpbgGvlLnee+jltjgeOhtsKzm:klqngfKlesNtd'ozebvmsA
ytfbmswDaMBjd+gyfbqkruftLqC!kHftAyzpoztyl^xq?bb%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk?

fl!HkkLlfGNm{NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!UkCLlfGNm{NfmefgirAixtIs/sAvug 

fl!YtnLlaMBfx!jAxp?)rAixtPm+mltckirApsNmi!pGsA?esuesNmi!pGsA
kmhgtqQgxKIyi!jAxpbfDsaMBwi^fpbvgxrvosNmi*xltncywz.sush!ztfp
gpegfeLofFtzt7fmofbwwkvvyid:nqacpxOlssNtd|numnksyzatHid[kzdg}

fl!VcpwgpyzeC=ADajcyl_aMBjdfozhbufAkaMIex&klIcvywy?

fl!KveAzo,Neq*tq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwm

fl!UvtDlo|.ex&klLkplrlyvFfm_kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigboMyzmtBl=
oztvcsLszsGfh^fmaogrGybGxzq!uravjjrmbvN 

fl!KbpwlqsNmi_fFpbujDs.,tyl^fTbvvjJgbwxjh!gEacpewEqEuse:oAo>
^U"xgeFvoxttj!sKaqysmga2.rd@ftbvvjJb"

flIgtjrAixtVy^kzarwyrvosBjv!yBfevfusfLnee+jlcgifFgtMuwm+mlbvbyzl
NmuvgwlgxAIex;xzffbussfsush!lueigywk?

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhit%e+jleqp)Lgcxtsi/BAvu?eGy
O/mnbmsCfsSty!kJfewywkaHHex&kltrqym_

flUjkxrkjwtss:fEfgoeLvaxHhs;xmhgbyzlaPCyr^yEacvessmhtel^fwfrv
ytjhvnFnayLtq!uzfbhtGAaMIex&klpvjjJaaEIto*tsawpjszjESee:fFig
WGfgp	rhowtnr!nutbetFmvLCtr!nqadkyrhaEuwk^fBjgejrvvMttj!nut
zqbewurpoLNje%fAgbvmwgcKyfhTgze+dzLAfKo

flKwuyrhusNmm|fypogsLgBEChi!lqmvbfrCfKSeg;xupwueKloLuym=tfayjnuo
vGABnjvgixLee!mApfbiwhmsOsx*rltjgeEhextty:fIicveAAaPux\!fEigbBsz
hqhkpsAuhsNtd"xAxbnfJnfKtfk@oz.bcsvgtAyex&uGhjvesAayCww:fEig
CAvnfeylusOud@tpangfNlaMBjd$uGsv>etBusIsd|koppfeLopNAmx|fEig
jqdkfjvguHtwi_guobymwyfsMmi!CmtbcxrspGAee|fFigtjrDbLtws=slgqt
nqs}

fl!KbBAzisSty!CAvnfs\AaLKzi^Fqauq \gttCid:nqaFqwEvvLy	d>nAaycx
yuuvksygoxRyd:uligt rg!2the+ftbtfqQgcKyfx&kg"

fl!Kbhsu"Mtmi-vljv?)rzbBxeE-oofbxjJFaFyjo-Eaab@N\tazLtA*ts?&

fl!1qz\CfsHtd/osivbyGghKIBd&kDf?&eKhjwtyl^fPptotMzfn

fl!Fqs\AaMuqo!tAougsKl.,txe*jlBnkhwgnHLjd#uxenA,rg!RIzd)tAx
EAv&tjrnsHQnr"fFpq})

fl!1gxlgcNNeM!mDpybfLgbsLje|uzbdnjrwbvy	(!ymjfbyzlaWIwq=AEf<
^zpvbnFguAuyd/opjewqGBtszfw&oAo}&erHowtmi!mAubwurCfKSew;rwjnA
gzebewGztxxes<kDavqeLofsIyl^xltkfjrvgsNmi!iAvtv 

flBnneLojLtym_klujge9BfxHel@jlogxjJgmxzyd=lrauvfJpoztfx!ztf
NmuvgwlgbGx	d(AEubcxrAixtIs/sAvugeuypLMjh!ztfbetMyumtxl^fEbkfeLv
uzfbqkrAixttj'ooftueGmaMBjd$uGsv?e]IsBHld_klujgeDptMttj!ztf
yuoigwKgjGtyl^fxbuveuvovywxH-lppbBzpdAtyl^fIsgvhzles2fx:kD
zDfodqwkaLI	d:nmubjjrziHIpd#uFibjnKgtAIjw!urg}

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sNmi!QuoibwwwftNjh!gzhtkqQaa/Iwdd-xmbjfNl
EAvbgCwjvMyi{!CtfvjjJgzHO)v^fzftxtMzaHLer=zg"

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?bDGBss7fn^yFz?&eLofs2fx:kDadglsu.sCsd@
zDfodqAuhsPtm$kfa@+]sues3el@jz"vbgwnvGtrC!zqb++sGAatvtz^fmaygjC
uDauq]	howtBl@zlxkvmrAixtgv^gp_cpi	ivMNjv!mquvksygtHtyl*t\_cpi
ztfbvBAulECsk!uravjjrAfta](

fl!VjjrAxBHpp*tsaqheLofsQme:b/aucnvguAyeO*ts?

fl!KvetlhtHeA*ztavjjrAftn)d:nqaJcyLlssLjt-oqe}

fl!QheuvvKMjd:CuomnnFnauylm+ylxkvmrha!:)d|guebvmwgLBHld|nmsrnDm
^PpbAtMgutEjd_klgqtesgeNHhi9flHqbtF""

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?&eLofs2fx:kDaygsLgpGne$@tpaoqxLguACsk|
zIjpmqwkatzyi/fFicv]	voESex&klNcthzgItLjd|gue++)

fl!KbiAko,N^(!ztfbOfJjis2fv^fuovgwJBqMyid*tlbbiwwhusBzv/Eg

fl!1qzrkjw:)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!KbiwuzsCy%NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!JgevloByxd*zf"bufAkaMBjdfozh<be]sftPjd=AFavjfLgqtLy	N

fl!YgqDaatNee+ElscvjlguAyeH=xypwujrzbBx][NfFigbMsAuxLeA^tFaqp	
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbttMuesNtd|kqakhezlaPIzp%fpfpAeAAaMIt\!fnvvbyzl
JAsoqzKlawysm^jloqvmAuhmtgi*tsahcxLgbLFji[a

fl!ChywyaMBfx7-ldqpyAuvxxex&klIcvywy.s|Nd$AFauqrwgnHLjd#xqbf+
gze+dzLAfKa](

fl!DwyrDitNeh*jlujgeVvsFIzw^fEbA{)rvoxttj!ztfblzJFatMpi%a

fl!VjfLgJswfrNzlsgojEifKn)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!1qzrTV`@ev^sqndgwl_aKyre/qqebvmwgLBHl{!^AsbK)DsaAuAi!EAv
kJfewywk?,

flUjgeEptxLff-klIcvywyawLtt[kpajkxrAftwzt!gzebdwwhe ushThGuvgwl
gzebyjFAawIBr!uzaqpjrroxy d!^U"obfrwpHLeq@tfaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bjj
hqhcp 

fl!1qz\yfsuez^xKarqtJgtIyfo^xf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}

flIgtjrvoxttj!ztfbizAuftaum"yldjgjJlemtfr%fIbubnEtfwCfx^rK
yGqrtjKzfwtgC!ztfbqkxpdxLxd=llujgeuvvKN d![MtbvmsAaBMev@ztftbf
nmsfbBGyemtNd>oxmblzKAaxRup@ozavqeQvvsBtA!oFaycxrkpGy d!ZtfAbmsk
glmctlwgdtHAe|fnbi?eOojvBex*kpawresAaMBjd_uGujbBAAisMyv*tst<
ozuqbyzptsNmi,fEmkruwkaMBjd"Auogc]Hphmtmi@jlgktxLaatHid:nqobufL
ABppbnLb-

fl!K&rrnmtxeMNBqaugjFguAuyd%uzf?&eLopNAmx!Gxjeg rg!2.Ai!yAaqhywu
xqbfbnFguAyer^CEqcrjJz.suyd:nqagpirvgsNwm@rE.b*YzlsxtBe|fEpog
gFugouLzatNee[vxbwujlgxAChl!CmtbkrEleBuyi-EltwruJltLyid#Elujg
urgkejJzaHzex&kldqwwLa&sush!OlogxjJgvGxjv|zApfbBzhusCyd_kmov
zumnbsGD?,

fl!KheLobM.xd@rxaAqzrroHQee#uGubkylgzHOeq@EltvcsvgeHQs{N
iAovksMlesNmi!Quoi}

fl!Kbhsu"Mtls!tAanqBwy.,txe*jlujgeZhuMyw\!f)J&oeGuaMBjd'rApt?esz
oFaku \

fl!VjjFgzHOeq@ElTKVevvxGn)d:nqaMksygsxJqm^jg

flIgtjrAixttx&kDaiwnFlb Jnk!itfgtjvaatHid>gEauwuHyfLMjh8

fl!EqrwaaMBfx!luokumwkaMBjd"Auogc]HphL:)d:nAvijyrHmBwj	!f)OqyeOl
ytbnneylusIsd#kFugt \

fl!K&irybMBjv!luokumrtzsNje7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs?bBAAisusd@tJjqwx
rApmbfLguAyeU;kqo?bBzvaPuxd/kmekplrAixtqm|zlphbxAuhxLx	

fl!1qzrtbRtls7-ltckirAixtPm+mfacpirAixtMe:zqsbjzJyjxxqC!rqgvbyzl
iAvtv	rDjMBty:fqwgpeOhjMCsk!zAarwyrojLtxl=kEaqp 

fl!++fFkaCOxx!zmlgbmAzaAyfh!urgbqzLzjwy	(!ztfbSzwlosuih^jluqbtFl
uravjjrvgyChi/yaabdzLguAyeL@zFftbBszaHOyd=lltkimLgcxztv^fFig
urgkejJgdHOqh!mqubvtrAixtis=xg

fl!EcqDguAyer^DFaykyFltL:)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

flUjgeFlyMtBm:tqtubBszaMBjd	Aoigux\zavIto8flTjgeuhsKCjh!ztf
vqqrgw	ipQtnr!nqsbjfFk.sush!GxjegeyBfLMjh!CtpbkyrDbLnei<kzadgkGyf
ytfbitLgjGNtd:nqaeqzJA.svDd:nqaycDrAixtui=vxfbpjsyaMBjd%uAsbdjyho
yzfgBnFnatFqd@zlppejm

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!UjfF_um.ew@opavjjrjpHE 

flUjge3poztqs=qqebcsPppNMqC!gFavjjr4iBNjdmgnckv	rDiHtxe*jljpbf
rAxbxtAjfmt%3=ADaOcowzuRtry|zldtqxK|fQurm+klUJKXrDjMHjw|a/

fl!YgqDaaBzeM!sGtv?e1gnNMy{NfFigbPAuhsMfm% lxkvmrhaFyqe+itpnA
gus?bfFk.sukx^xlgqniAuhsBnw!gDnubfFkayLtA+ozhbcyrAixths=qluknq
nutbgDwzaPywi!tqbtnDrvvMttj!yuhjv	rofsMfm%fuobcevlfItAs*iq.b@2zhu
gDfbvfJAtsGfh^fAg{&

fl!RguHlsmtrs|zxz?&eKhjwtyl^fopqm 

fl!Vtjsjmxn)d|guebceKsfxJDd<uudgbgwojGxel^xg

fl!EqqDhssNme:fPptotMzfm.ex&klRwgjFgtALni)kpaqwymga/Vjl^gpavjfL
JAsoqzKl@stYy/tlujcyrKpKGty|klpwveGmavIzv:'laUwuHyfLMel*s-abRnFji
nun#be7mgsQnx&ftjubBzptDywwH-

flGqteKvnxtrm+AFfubyzlaPBtp^fopwtyrDbLtnr!iAohwxAvomtli:zuoibyzl
JAsoqzKlaMOwr^jlpwv	rhownef,fFigbyAtfsNmi,ftbfbxwAuEyid%uIo
gsbkp	rAixths=qlicfevpttJui@xqe}

fl!PgAwyaFCshH-ltckirAixtPm+mfaykyzgbGtfm/fAgbiwwhusLjp*kr?
^ObnneLofsHjB:fIjvpjKz?,teE+jligbfvkfwtnr!gzawpiwyuHHjd:ulujg
WGfgp	r'Sxuqp, lnAbiwhsmt4SpfyvuveuypLM]i\gyjpgeLofsHjB:fIjvpjKz?
OFaswnLlaFupi|fyzbhtJlixuid@itf#&

flBnkhwgxtNhl^jlujge#ojMyeV@hnjvbfKgixtky_hxffbtNlssNmi!rutv?
lqfnksygwxLDd$ADjqwxrApsMji!CtbvbyzlaGyCx!CuupgxKgxHOqh!hqankpwa
^\_hqwrAixSel@Bqo&veyvusGzg&fqwkfjFjfs'JX7-ltjgeKhjwtys!nqsugqxb
OybikswgixLew;xBskujlgxAysd:nqaYjnLla~ugf*zlsgcirvvMnee:fFigbyGw
urajkxrziKCqp!ruuvnjrCpBwj{!ztfbpfEla/Uqm$k-"



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J2

flabbergasted!flabbergasUqm$k/tbGAAkfGwj


fl!Jgww""swwm^jlBnkhwaaJOnx^frptijLAjGAem+fFigbkDBsKSes'fFig
sAngpyropPtqe/mqaujjrobwtlv=CzakpeLofsFfw:frfybrAuvMyx{!gzebumw
pGnrgirBqsCsd|AoibcezBsKSex&gFaujjrAjIJjh!uHftbyzlaCOwCThAybynLo
ztfbgiylaHzel^xltmkwLaaNJxi:zuoibfDsaMBjd(ADzogsrvosNtd:nqajgfvz
uravjjrjsHQid#kxpy?esuesNmi/klujgDrsbRtxt/gImkplrhcHOy{!xqnkpiAuh
nqsbxjJFaFOhl!uracblDvcxttj!mAmfhnKoaLBjd&gpacehAkfGNfp-ElvrujL
ztfbyjwrauyks/kg

fl!Qj	rPaUYLd,uGsbrfJkpG:)d|nqagzhDhjFyid*tlbbvtFlaHzek/kmu
jutocDlgbGxef^mmobrnurjGAex&kyawresnbBHee|fCvkepDFatMew&kldqwqva
lAsbvmwgbvwnh^tFaqheLofsAtp%lutjbpwwusLzr+ozhbksrofKtmi@jfacpi
ytfbjfvgbsPfk;kltqtyrvgsCii@fFicveLofRtry|zlcgbhGsmxwyi%fmubqsul
gzebrzLgctwpd*tFpbvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bqwrAixSeA=Axebfnwb

fl!VjjrAsBuqd$gzoqveHypvyjh7-ltckirAixtPm+mljpbfrCfKSek/gHf
BAjeg	r'vGNnp!gxmbvmwgkNLDq^tlbtgethdDtnr!ztfkteHypIywd[rmdgu]	
GXM?&ezlaKyui@zqebynLoazLje:fqnrjfKptmtqs=quoibmsyesuyd?rudgbfK
nqaucnvgeHo

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fmubvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bcsvgttQex&gF.bksrofKtme|zq.bumw
nmebrzLguAyeP*FmsfbnFgixuid%uIoycwvz.sush!ztfbrtGyaECyx-klujksy
CmtbyfNpoztnx|fFbknesipNNem+fmaogqsudAIqC!Cmz?bgwpoztvy*zqawpftsf
GXM}be~vvItis^ylwgtDrDfEFeA*ztpwv]	TbRvjd*z/tbcqOhzLtui[vqsbvmsA
smlgueHlpIFjd&uF_vgrHlsxx	(!ytfbyjFAaHH	d<kDzbozuoaIFje|kpacv
nmwkplrmpNHid=AFacbswDaDCsh!uratwqwaa/ush!BuogifJguAuyd_gwfubyzln
yAvt+]sueswfq=sumgbyzhusGfo^ylujgrrijMNjvT/mof+]suesvfv-kK_uwlsy
gzebuzuoaMBnr"ylujcyrtbDyeg&oxetgsrzxxyy[:kyqgtjvbas3es+rKaykxz
vqprnjrroxQex&gF;bbyzlosNmi,fIpwniF_usvjd|ultvksyFatvty:fuu?bDGB
qzpy+]\

flTjgezhesKzm:klgqtlGAuxHex&klEwemwztsvDd:nutbvnEl.sush!Cmtbc
ruuvnjrzutLyp^jlxjgsrzixtmi@xpajgwrCpBwjd$rAtgbyGgixLei@xg
^~pw&wwguACso*tsacdtMAaLIri:nuoi?eEFawyfv7fmofbyzhusGfo^ylzqw
lAsigyrApsNfp)alaKbhsu"Mtyi-rlzqweBBtMtss>fIicveLofsGtv@rlphbyzhu
oE.bdzLgJsMme-rlsgojEifKtnx!ozacbgAA?,

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!nmtp&yrvoxn)d?rudgbAwuuNLjh!zAatgrsyln

fl!VwylguNN	d$numf#)rzbBxex&klEwemwztnte$ BqsAvmAuh,Mek=zlb
sAscn	rpgsIsp,fKpwbhsuayCsh!oF?&beSuesMmi!yCvggEwkaAyww^rrawr
ixpugwrApsUqm$k/tbunvlatMew&kltrqpwb

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlnwemrsjDyeo^kBjpieKvavFtw^fFpbjjJ?asznv|zf
hqdcwxwguAyeH;itfuueOhts$JVtfGhnA.rhowtxi$uzenA	rifvuzw^fEigbBsz
kJbevqQguAyev*mtubjjAniMtys!xqtvbmwyavBnr!ABppbFDpdx.xd|nAvnfjJa
gzebkyrDbLtfr!AzdqokGyutvqC!ytbtreuojGoedcuIfxgwlgtAyeh*jloqv
rulgbyGgcxtwy%kfauqeKofsvtv^fuubcxrDfEFee|fEigbhGBmwo

fl!VjjrnbFy)w!mAjpieGuaKuyl^xlcgvywyaGIB{NfEigbxspemtgC!Cmzbqk
qqfrksygvItyl^foppxjJzbMCtr!glmkvyDl?

fl!&VnKgtHn)d|guebvmwgENwmi|yaab@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtxguAuyd*y\_*Qml
-FjubqGCfmt)x*ylmqxjlguAuyd_gwfubyzlaPIwp%fspbttMue|?)

fl!UqrwipwSew@op.&bFDpdxtBl*yBftgilg!MBfx!oF"ubiGufsvDd^BqsAdtvF
suofksyguAynv!uIobdzKpoxMx%N

fl!Cj	rDfEF^d!OFaogfFzaFOhl!ztfbufElaMBnr" /aucnvguAyeH;itfuu	
juhiksygixLew&gDqbnnLAmxthl*tljpvtrHmBwj(|fEiqwqvlssuxd|nqacfiwk.
^mofbyzlaFIwe-fAgbVMS1aBM][OZmlgbhsyfsIkd:nqaugsKl.sush!ztf
yAvpfxrDjEFex@qqaecwwgpytyl^sEfnxjKb&,

fl!JqBrmpGxew&kljubtxggBHim+mlnqtfDzaBHex&ozhu#)rHmBwjd:nAvijyrAp
nqsugqxb

fl!KbisyfsMfC!EAv&tjrDpGxjv*tsayjDrPawIs(:fBvvbrQgbKGev=AzebAtMy
Cmjuv	\guAyeH;itfuueKhjwtfj:kDacbusBtxiedGztfbtjszpGtnw7fFicve1_n
jAvdvkMsatvty:fFigbywtqxLes'fKpwtexsbFCsk=alaUjfDsa2tyv,fFig
kJqgtnEloMp)

fl!JGeEphANef*zq.&bFDpdxthe;zupwuqQgsxJqm^jfapqyrmfxFnr"fmubcqD
gzykqzKguHtme<klujgewEqxLnq^tFavtnwk?

fl!XgwQguKOj{NfEbkfeLofsXzg&kEt<be]mmtGnr"uqtbcsvgnNMye/jlcqvm
huug}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-TpswMes'fmahgfLofKtkp=iw
zAhgvmwy?..

fl!QpqQgnNMye/jljup)Lgbsvnv% /aCnnulaKyre/qqe}

fl!TklzA.suxd;yGbn?)rzbBxex&klEwemwzthte$>nmubceusftLeA@Elzqw
nmwgbtxgqNNym+mlujksyz@,

fl!Kv)KgbsGnr^xmm?bNr1I28P{NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlju?)rzbBxex&klEwemwztmtBl=fEfgojvgsxuiC!zAaciwwl
zAagxjJFuACsk!ztbvbFDpdxtxe*jba@vmwyf,Mee!rmsigeEBtMuwhTsuogbswhs
nqsg}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-`ofsGtv^fFigtjrptsIkd_ozf?byzl
rqtubyzlsxtnw!uraAqzJz?..

fl!Qj	rPaDHtAH-lfzeqspnxxeE-oof?bBzvaAuid+uFacvywuexxex=fFiku
rmtvbwwtbKE	dGoF"ubfrCfzyye#rq?bbNLgeHyxrNzlmqqprsjDyes+kfadwyrpu
oE?&

fl!KbvMpuxtfk/kqaykyzgzHO	(!ymjfbyzlaWOhl^yE<b@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtx
ztbvbnK|_.Vjd>nmubAtMgxHOqh!yqfobyGgcx?][=xljhbDGB"wtqm)kljvbuMA
sAsgbxAtqES][OTqwgteAtbzCsi!EAvtujDmaGIyd:ulcgbtLofKQnw^fFicp
CtbvbnLgnBAmx!gBqgcwrApsIyl^xEavjfLgxAuyd,uGaygwwgpKtrm"nFajcAw
hqfpbBszaGIyd=ztftynKlaMBfr!CtbvbDGBaAuid#kqobytMsesBfz^fmqrgfJle
zAavjjEguHtgi!uFigtBAzfn?)

fl!KbyzpoDtNd|nAvnfeMuexLxx@tpavjfLgcxNyi/ /aCnnulaLunh!BqsA
vAmkvjDF.s|nj!OlicfeAAaPLnx:kzafqBF?asvzx!Oldcp)LgrNCyi!lAmnqBrpu
gEaAqzrzbRtnx8-

fl!VjfL_tsHtx&ozhbvtrDitNeM!iAvnfeKhzsCkddfoiqujl_aMBjd	Aoigux
xqqnkjvaaBHee!vxfcujvguHHj	

fl!RtfQgeHH)x!zDpwdqwgzHOww^rravqeKhzsCyd@tKanqsylssNme+fFicv	\
ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd:gxlbcgGBusNws;hxf#&eKhjwtyl^fPvejjKz?st%M!smlgbDGB
glqtgxwuusIkd^BqsAvmAuhs3)z^fEbkfeszaRyy	N

fl!CbhzlbItxs/zlphbuJltxHy%NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ala@K)EghEuid:nqzbftF_u
muwgbgAyuAxfC!vDfugsLzaECpi!ztbv#)rgCNNew&klekfeFvusPjr:ADfbvt
ymzbkyrvvMtqs;jg

fl!VjnFrjGAee"guo{&eLofsXzg&kEtbcxClemtBm:nlbpqyzlssxnk!urajgw
ytbtreDpuMFjd$nuo}

fl!K&AwgbsLnk&zluqbyzpoDn)d|guebCqAjfsMme/vxz?bkGyaLBjd>gE
hqhkpsAuhsNtd'kqmbceDpuMFjd>uDskgim

fl!LwxLgbuIzx!gEaowhzgsBAmx7-ltckirAixtIy$nqtu?e]htsJnk|ftbxgeLv
lxz>bfFkaMBjd_/\"

flCwvezlsxnex=fMmkej\zazLje:fEvtrwAzfmtyl^fPvejjKz"LtAs*iqafkjv
gIbA?ewCfGtnr!ztfbonvkmxttj!nqsbhfNvvKCyi!CAsfb%EvstF	(!gzebvmw
gDnbvmsAaPuxd-ozlgfeAuuHtmi/ylcgifFguHtyv^snmg}erHmBwjd-uAlgfeMw.
gzebvmwyfsMys=jlujge9BfxHem+frsqpyrvgsNmi_ lxkvmrofKtfv_ylgqniwk.
lDpypnFnaECpi!glujwsvlsLNtv_a

fl!CbkAufsxfC7fKpwte5hkxMyCH-lujgeVBdAyxw!hqhcpeAuattqs> lxgcp
BAjeg 

fl!PqBlgJsAnz^fKpwbkspssQfv+ozh?&eKopNNjh!ztfbSzwlomtxx@sBjpieGu
ztfbiwGBowtfw!ytfbuuGrfit%i*ztftbDGBaHLeC=ADajgfvgnNMyd#klphh	
gzebvmsAaBHee#uGubjfDmaGIex*sq@bbYsrfsSty/foiqkhw""

flUjgeVBdAyxw!zApmbmwyavBtm$kfacpirDbLtls+kljpbfrtpFysx8

fl!Ngy\zazIes+fIjvjeLofsAfq^ /avjjrXvxysd|guebvtrHmBwj,!gzebCqAjf
CmtbvtGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFlesNtd|gKacbBGyemtgy:fEmqyqQggHFqs>kpajgw
hmdmbyGguAyeg/uCvgv]yypNHi	

flUjgeGAixLek;kEuubmskaMupi+fmexcsLhhxttj!ztfbSzwlo,Mee#yqoeg	
gzebyjJlaKyxx*tsakpeLofsMme%kaabjtOlwxL	d:nqaoqrwuusNmi,fEbybmwy.
ztfAbmMysByid#golbvtrAixtle_kfavjjrXvxysd_kDfnAeJlntLpm+mlujcyrh
sAngpy\zawyqe,fIpwnirjpLNex&kyavjjAyaECAi|a

flBnneLofsNnq^fFigAeOlsxtup@Euoibyzla0Oji+fzfxgwrsfyNes'l
wGbttjDsjGAeA*ztavjjrvuAywd[rmzgtxlgbGxew&uGukplr'PyzeA*ztajkx
nqbf#)rvss|Tj'fIjvjezlssBje%'/abVmGzfsQms_fEigbxwuuxHhi%fIftg
zmlgpeAuuHthy|zAeAbgQguAyew=rpjgtxlgxAIes'fopwtxwgitxex=fxfcxj
urgbdjAuhsuwg&kEavqevvaMBnw7fEpbvmsAauSex&klfpfeGmaAuqj!gzajqzJ
uDauqeLofKyeA^xqapqesydAyxd-kru?bfFkatFqd:nqarnfQlsLnei\iqqvbyzl
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfacpirHmBwj{!CqsgbnFgdNMys%ElbpfeMuexLew^tFfpejrvg
kJfewyAvon

flUjgsrAixtVy^kzangkLgpyz	d]AuugbtMAaHzef/kmuj?esuesMfm%fFp
Gxjeg	r'ItPjd,uGaugjFguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsSjx9-

fl!Pq	\gttCid?rudg}er'JsxtrNzlfxgsrroHQeA&gFacbRGjls@zv:rqaku \

fl!Kv)KguAyex&ozhbOtura!Owx-klTqwurptsGfh^frsqo	\gttCid:nqaSwjwu?

fl!KbswCfKtxe>fAog?eGyaAyfv%fAgbqswa"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz.&bxspesNmi!WGfgp	r'bGxel^fEicnqrAfEFeC=Aliku
nutvqwQa"

flBubyzlzsQfp)kpaqhkrApzyyl^xfaCnnulaAyfv%fFigbPAuhsMfC!ozacbqGD
BAjeg	rApsNmi!iAnrcsQghxHjv@rxz?b%%vvsuwi!gxmbrfJkpGyi	Nfl!Eqrwa
ZTBV&XrhazIth!ztjpi^\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7frptbxzlaAuid'kxubszAAf
AzicruQgbMtyl^fzvodjJgpytjB^iGukqsKguAyeU;kqobjfvgpKxjv^jg

flUjgDrCfKSew=uzaecrwgvIIsd@fSsArmGu.sFDm+mlgcuyrhtEyjt!ozavjj
yGo}be}PGsSty!jAo&veCupPtBl@zlbbIwQwiHHem| lmqqprhusNmi!vudvwwwb-
^7q?bqsGzsNmm+m-"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp?e]howtye)klujkxrFpNHld-gpzbvt
yqfbvmwgNHwpdoADung	rhowtys!nqbtbmAzaACxx=xK?bbNrtvLNek=fnbemesue
yqfbckLlssMtq^fqygezLppGMeM!nmwgbtJkfKyi(3fmofbxzlaPuqo^jlphh	
rqbxksygBEChi!gxppgeOpuAtyl^fSsArmGu?stFp*iqafkirupMtvy*zqankpw
ztfbntGraHzex&kldtgfLBsxnef;zlppbyzlaPBtp^fEigbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqv
hqaswnLlatMew@lqavqeKAbRtBm:nljvbfKguHtls!grugteLobMtxe<gsf
WGfgp,rgtHtxl^fIbkvjvb

flUjgeYyzIBtr!ymubwurhowtwy#hqebkyKgfRyx\!fFigpeAAaPuyg&kpavjj
WGfgpeLpmEtxl^fIbubtMAaHzew*mtu<beLofGtnx!itvemqwk?st%1&gFahws/_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz.bjfDmaMIem:yqmh?ezhmytys!Gxjeg 

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^frvp{)rzbBxeE-oof}

fl!YjDlgT1Y	(!ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?bb%1A"Ltfp-ftftbksudRnex&gF;bbyzlz
tqwgtewEfvOyi|fzpdqiQaaRIzd)tAx}beUvnxttrH-

fl!GxjJFcHxDd|gKtb*hGtfsIs%Oftftg	\guAIzk&zlBnkhwaatMew&klxgpy
yxpynDrhgMywd*zaab@NrufOywd>gEauqeGyexLjh!gnpwveAuatFqd_Elmkhjl
tqwgt^\

flUjgDrobwtss:fsppgexhssvjj=xqavjjQgttQex&klNqepr1vKNqi!ozavjj
jutvcsul.sMnx:ozhbufvgbGxep=tqmAbtFgbsFnx:rqangiylaHzev=iw.bcsva
gEavjjQgdtGjd+kmsgt	rHmBwjd$uGmfbmwhssBnq!yuhjksygbLtnj!nutbjjsyu
CAvnfetyftE d!YtfbrnLpfwtmm_fpfgrqQbas|2l@zljubmAzaLIwv=Ch"bumw
gElgfeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFkaMBjdbxKqjqsrhoLQjv^jfaxgwQgoxuwp,fuobvmw
ymngbBGyeLtfw!hqgqtjlg!2N)w!gxmbjnKggtHhC7fFicv,rgixtme|t/ubitL
tAauqwJvxmtDs;fwoqy rgDHGjd=t-"

flTqbyzlzsQjr:fGqbvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sQms!rApmgirhusNmi_fIjvj
rmsigewFfLtky-rlphbywhsLnef;zltckirupMBnr"a

fl!VjnKgixLjd,uGoibqskzm.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ l!ujjrDbGNxd'uDavq
qzpybDGBssBnw:uDz?bxzlawI (

fl!K&qDguxFqd*zligt	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fuobcevlfInel=rxpy
zAog<er'tBNeh=Cz.bdtLoaHzeC=AfacpirkpG.yd|vqbmbfrDpKxex*rxaK&Aw
luokumwk?,

flTqbyzlzsMfx!jAxp?esuesHtf=jKaurtClayIwd|uyfbonFBuxM d!Gxjeg
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh?e]PawIs(:fEfgbmGDaAyeg@tlFXGSrmjGCxl7fugbjj
jAfup)LgcxAnr8-laDwyrzixtBe*zqebrfLpfGNqC8

fl!Qphwa"sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqacveDhtMneA*ztacbiwlqsMnk& l!KbBsz
glsgcqr1vKNqi8-

flUjgxwgxHLiw!CqsgbkGsmHQjh!hKacbAwyzsFtr"fEjngsul.svws)kzaqpqQ
hKacpeGjdtMns+gxagzhDhntNns+fAgb@MBjlKLm%NfrsqoeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFk
ztfbetFzutHyd&kmwAbxGicBHld=llujge5vdDtYy/zxf}beSsjvyeA@ylwgtD
tqbtnDrnfMNnr"fGqbcsvgttSnr" l!VjfFraRIz{!yus?bkGyaRIzv
ozugtjKAjGAew:uDz?&etBusMmi!iAvnfeFvusBjp[fFikppAuhsNmi/klNWUYrif
sAsgbyGgdHGj{!yAaujjrzbMtxx*rxacpirzbBxer=ztjpi 

fl!YjjFgxxtBi/klmkvyDl.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd>kzubqsrhusFfw: lnqtj
immonDlguAIzk&fEuknqrzpuvnr"fmankyLsfsHtA!gzebvmwu.s|Bi!CqovbyG
yoiqqqrposNmi!yqb}be`ofsGfw:kDaycxrhosIqh!ZGsvnj	|xxtzw^jluqbhssm
nunbVtJApBMj[T-

fl!YjDrkjwtDs;fobnnezpns@tv:uutg?eAmaAyeA@yz"vbtFl},tFp*iqacupwk?

fl!YgeuhmEyid&oyaVqwLvjLyef^imvugezlaMuzk&zlvu?)rzbBxex&klNqep
ZGsvnjrhozLnp,.la@tjssmRtDs;fmsgbAwyzsxzp-'/

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmytks/fmtmksygtNwmd@fEjorqw
wGfuvnGu.,tfh%kpavjjrNsRJms+?lbpfeLofGtyl^ElcqvmrzbMtxm-kzubcsv
rApmgirhusJts/fMmkejlgxAIej^rFatgfvFaMIew*twakpyGguAyei@xFi}beSA
rmtvbyzlaZLDt&uzaucnvguHtyl^fYpeme`BsMFj{!^Pskxjrvomttp%frfnntO"
JAo&vetlatFqd%gKacdtMAaBN^(!gzebjjrDfGNes+fuobvmwzfsQtv%ya

fl!1gxlgxxtBi+zluqbxuopHFem+fFigbxwh.sNms;mtaAqzrtbRH)x!hqmkgAw
oF_+&

fl!KbswCfKtxe*jlJbfnvu"M:)d*tFfttzHAfwtFp*iq?

fl!1qzrkjwn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung 

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gbwxjh!ztfbIwQwiHH	d#krptgeSsjvyeg=Axebuuwhl
gsbkp rgUAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsQjr:fAo}

fl!YgezhesNmi!hqtvbtxgfwOhe:oAou+]Auayuhx7fIfbyjFAaMIew$nApn
kHftAevhz a)

fl!K&1Wgcxysd:ulbbffQ|tvBts- luqq	\gttCid?rudg>e]FpNtsi^jz"vbgw
yAarttMkatMee-rlujcym_

fl!YkyzgfQNwe|b/acupwkaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtfd-oFungesuyBIzw-Eg

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'xxtqi@xzffbKJlovBee+jlnwunub"

fl!CpirDbLBnr"b/aucnvguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfn

fl!EgwLhjGFDd+uF@&bxspesUqm$kljpfnyubGNqC8

fl!Cj^rAixHeC=ADtbyfKu"Mtfd/kmmnAeyvpwtxg&uAm?&eKhjwtyl^fYpem
ZGsvnjrposuex=tqaqheyyftNev^rufh}er'OHQee:f1VTUeLofRtme%fmubvmw
kzebqkrAixtgm-rfa*HwwudAneq;yud?bF6Ka$UXLdTS_+gCLybn?)

fl!1qzrjpNFirNzlicxjrDbGNjh!oFaowhza"sMfm%fMmkejhg!ECAm+mlbvbyzl
hAuvqrrvgsNmi!yqb}&

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!grgqtirApsFje/tljv})rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi!Cuujbf
yuhj}er'JsIsp,fFpqmeLofsLjk;rmsbetMytxo)

fl!YjfLgxtMex&gF}&bnFxvBLjh!Gxjeg 

fl!TgjDpoztfr%f9skvmAuhmttj!iAvtujlguHtgi"ozaykyza"sNmi!SAdm
ZGsvnjryfIFni%?l!cpirAixHex&klekhkwyfGNef/gzdjgxrvgsUwm:nyfvkh	|
GyckvnGu.sXnw:xmdvktFaa@Aqm'oobvktFaatHid	kDjuktFb"

fl!KbswCfKtmi@xpaqhe,2hECkm$gFjqp	,_aTFng^fHfpvzJlesNtd|gK?bb%#obM
oEakva\

flUjgeYyzIBtr!rugvgirBqsvtx&fuuubusDtsCsd|ADqtkxwbas|2l@z-abPjNls
nqbtfeGmaNAqm'Euoi#)rpusyCg-gungf rg!^Izd)tAxbymsAaMIef^gGukhD
oE.bKeKBqIIxi9-

fl!1gxl_aLunh!GxjegevvvuNky-rK;bb%AAaFyfr|/\uq+]Ehlxa]e+EFikpl	|
vDfvvnwy?,

fl!YgqDaaMBjr7-lujgeYyzIBtr!CqovbtFaa/Ckd,uGafqs\AaDHtA!CtbvbyG
AsmkhDrptmtDs;fMSGbfrzjFJqi:uz?&

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlgggqrlovIzv@mqebvtrhtDtfr,fyptgeIBfLNns+ylbdqzL
oF.butrzixtyy/tqebvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sush!ymjfb%#obMtjp|klicfeQvv
zAangfJu},

fl!YgqDaaMBjv^fIbubRQzuxLD{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqatguDpfwneg=Azukpl
urgbvmwgtNvoi$zEaqpezptszqe[vqsu?e]|_6Sxx^xK.bcsupfGNee+jlnqfjJu.
CuujbXwhpzLft&EaabvmwuaWLfA-ozh++yzlaWLfA-ozh+ofKAfKtBe|fmobqqv
iAoigw	lfEnex&gFawujvguHths_klppejrhaPyjo2flIGbysBhANey|
JDbynnFn.s!yv^zoikpllgbGxeJ@ozukplrposWtm-yg"

fl!YjfLgxtMeXcG6ankpwc"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!YgqDaa2the+-FaujtOgjMtDs;fyzugqxa"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyew@op;bb%1_n
zApbuyAmgnteE+jlujgeYyzIBtr!tqwgteDlbKHyd*zg"

fl!JciF_usNnq^ /aucnvguAyeK/EBiqp,rg!2tBi+zluqbyzlaVFfw|oot
smtvgwlguAIzk&alaJgeOhtsusd=rpaetftaa1YeA@yg"

fl!KbswCfKtBi+zluqbmAt.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd|guebynLoattxm"naab@mw
zmvijyrSbNAmm+mlbpfeYyjxz	d:nqzbwxwkaMIew@Eg"

fl!UqezlawCi{!yAajgevpem.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ ltkimAuhsCsd&oEavwwF}
gzebdtLoavLje:ADfubmAkaMBjm/frbegxrposNmi*xlqcyxm

fl!CpiropPtre+EliqwwKgbsxfC!juebAtMgeHtqi|yAou{)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgb
nGstAeLvavBfr"klujgeKBcCyhx8

fl!VgsropNLxd:nqahkwKAawuD{NfEbkfeLofs7tg)f6vtvqw?a/Hnr^fFig
tqyv?esuesMtd=tg"

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbrqsu@,tjB$rmjogirHmBwj	

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!xqbuqsrAixS)v^fobnnjvgmxMxs+yf"bvmwgHKSul=t
xqnctpwk;st%f^imvugeLofRtqi|yqobhwGtawuDd:ulecA \

flUjkxrDbLtvy*zqacbswDaBxje!zAaCnnul.sush!ytfbvmGBhANem:fAwgtes
ruuvnjrifyIwi!ytfbofvlaAywd+kJubtjEhsDoedGZtfpbyzlaxFjz^tFibffQ
sGtvbmsCfsvji+fmajqqAkbRp)

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlxcu	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!CpiropPtim%fKpwbrsubzyes+fFigbyOlmyNm NfMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF?

fl!VjfL_tsyss;mtacdtMAaEyxw=tE.&byzlaZLDt&uzakpywysNJyi%fuobc
BqsAbiwjjwyid:uzf<be]AfEFel^xltqojLojGAee#uGubvmwghtGjw!tAx}&



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gY

flabbergasted!flabbergUAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-k


flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkawLjA!ztfbdfuraHzes+klgncuHls
gosquxrojLtjC^ygabJjrspHEjh!gFaCnnul.sush!zDjgfeLvaLJje) lcwvexvs
glnkpzLlaHLex>ultqdxrjiHEjh!nutbxtAjfnte$ngyfbcxrpgsBjd&gpacbgGuf
ozajkxrAiKIfx7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp<erhowtnx!yqubvtrDpKEew&gwjpiezpn
gzebrzFjiBHld&oyakpeLofsvfg)alaCveDhtMtyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd/kopxgwwk
nutbxtAjfmtfr% lxkvmrAftLxd/AzokplrkpPHel*yldjgjCz.sBjd>kzubqs
gsbkp,	|

fl!1qzrtbRtss:ftbxgeDpwxxeq;itawpiwyaMBjd|km_+&e}'JsBfz^t/u?&
ymjfbFDpdx ][GgzebrjJobIMeC=AlxgtjrufOywd^BqobksLypwOhi%fFpbceDvcLNjvT//
[Mmkejrifzusd:ultcAe]PaHHhi!zmtvgi	|"svzx!itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszm
gzebufAka/8t{!tqwgt){g! axs!EAvbefFgitPjd+uljfgfrDitNee!jqmkimLmvE
ztjpiesgMHvxx^xlRwciJpmEyem|'/

fl!Pq	rpowyjh7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjcyrzpKNes'fmafcsulaBMem:b/

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbIwQwiHH	dGEAvbhnJzusztv_fuovqesgmBHjd@rAoibyzl
yqb+umGyf a)

fl!VytrsjGyx%NfoskgirAixtRs$qlUwtyDl?st%W^gxt?byMyuEyx{!ymmoqsl
gzebutrvoityl^tfayjjFgzHO)z^fomgcwwkatFqd:nqalgqDF_yCxl!uGubqk
ztfbyfQ|_,

fl!VJF`ghxHjv@rxzbvfCltsMtq^fFjog	\gjGNjv/ABugfeLofs1wC[nAo}

fl!++DGBatxAe+iqavynul_ .

fl!GchzgxBNmd@fxpduywyatMee!vmsvpjJ""swwm^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqaucnv?as|fh<gzdgbyOpdxnew^zluq
vmsvpjJz_ .

fl!++hzhozyep=hEugtxlgbGxev^zusgbnFgttGjd=xpft?)rjpGNnr;kpavjj
MDzrjtFb

fl!VjjFaaRIzd)tAx?&eLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgxxHyd=tfa@AtMguALtA!ztf++)

fl!VjjrspuMyi/y-"bumGBuxxex&klHtAuzvomtBm:nlbbdtMuesCsx=fFigbfAy?

fl!++fKggtLes;zluqbxwhatMeC=Aldcp]	_

fl!UynEgbyNjv!ztfo#)rzdKyfq^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!VwwFgbsMtq^xEbwnyrposNmi!yqb#&euyjxxex&klNqepr1vKNqi7
imqgtnFnaPCqh-ElbdqzLb

fl!DchCguHtqe+jlbicnFaatHid:nmu&uessmsNmi!lusuvexphNLj{NfEbkfeLof
SAdmbYMyuEy	d|ApegpqQgeKIut*tsajkxrCpBwj,!gzebvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKa
Ctpbjfvgcxysd(AyqkplrhcHOyd-owfbofvguACsk|fmmnbyzptsNnq^ ltcv
jAxpbfyhjGtAi/EltcfqQgbGxeu;oqunA	rhowtqs=qqebcyrHmBwj	

fl!KveEBtMtgi!glwgtDrwsxNyC!jmoeg	\gttCid?rudgbyAtjwFD	

fl!YqzDkaRIzd-owfbvtrzfxtfd-oFungeGmaBNa(!ymjfbyzla6Iho!ZGsvnjm

fl!XgwQgnNwmd*tpfgf	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!EqrwaaEyy(|fFsAbyzlayCww:frjiwww""sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqavqeLof
MDzrjtFbas|2i!imobftrDjMBty:fxpduywytmtDs;fwoqy rgXAChl!ytbnn
yuoi{)

fl!Qj	r6P@txm+mf"bufAkaMBjdbxKqjqsmga/3)z^frptitLAfGtyl^fIptfxm_

flTqbyzlzsvjk@tltqnjEumRtie+iuoibwGBowtfr%fDpwpirHmBwj{!kHftAeFvx
gzebvmwuaMLje%ozhbqsrofKtys^ylxjgsrAixSet@yEffbyGvavFtw^ lbpf
CmwkplrAixCwd'uDfrcBKguHtre/qlujgeLpnxneA&oxfbvmwgNHwpdoADung
ymoibyzptmtAi/EltnqBDFatHid|gpmA<]	


^|XknqrFpNtBe-qlbbnnLAmxtke|zqs{*eKhjwtfd>nuukplrApsuew+gum}
_6igtj\zattus/vAjugeuspLyef^nuofbzKaatHid&k/tbvwwheBHld=tlnA
fFbkn 
YqfbjtOgftAjv-ElujgeDvcLNjv|fmofbyzlaMOwx-kEacnqrheOusg^'
ZtfAbfJlaPunx*tsaqpeLofsMmm+mxf++BAsmsSty!iAngbfFkaCInr!ztf
jmoega

3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CumnbDGBaCInr!ztf
jmoega
3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CAo&veQvvsDtm+fFig
jmoega


_~pwbhsuaKyfp-ElicxjrupsHtx*uzajqBrkfECll:lGmbkyrDjEFef^
3tfpbyzlzsNfo^fGtbwurhowtyl/uIawu	rDjMBex&klmqdxLlsLnes;zluq
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergastew^g-&
HGubvmwgtGunp!xqqnkjvg&!Itd'gD.bvtGggtL^)!gzebifNlattqs=q
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted@ywbpej	|
YmjfbmwguAuso^jlujgeOojMCsk!quofnDlgcNNel^fIpwnirupMtos*tlujg
flafcsul?
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?eOvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?euvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}

^|XjcyrtbMNjv|fuubjtOggtLeA^fsp{*ezptsMhe-ElgtkjFkaKyup*kp?
_6igtjrptsuss:nqsbumGyfmtDs;fwoqy	rBqHHex&klpvjjJgtBxj	
ZtfbhzJAixLes'llgtqrrLozFfr%fFigbswhsxLem|fFpbHwsudxa]
ZtfpbyMyosHtx!vmmg?etlmHPjh!yzbkn	rivMths_klbpfeBvjGtyl^fpbpejm

flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bynDsaRIzd(uuobvmw
flabbergawusg^b
flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bytF_usSty!pAjpbyzl
flabbergawusg^b|"



fl!VjfFraRIz{!oF"ubfrCfKSem+zqsguyAuhsxfr$kluqbBsAdAn)d|gue
Gxjeg	rmfxFnr"fHftAeysbwtyl@zljvbBszaHPjv!gFancxL?as|fr%fUafqeKv
rulgbyzhuswzv*uGtbutFnatvty:fFigbBzpuBHl%N

fl!Qj	rhtsNtd:nqayjnLpozn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung	r'uAyD[TEAv&xj
yqfpbyzlnmttj!iAvtujn_

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'J,Pjd=lFfpbxwlosNmi_fmubfnFu_ .ew&k
itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszn

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClxjgwwgEBHsd_gKadg	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ l!dwy
oraAqz\CfsMji+fFigoeKvaHzyi+ lphbhGBsLyeC=AllpqBrDitNex&kK"tg
rulg})

fl!KbgwsjxPjd|uf"bCqAjfsLjt-oqebvmGBhANky-rK?bb%`ofRtme<klujgnJ
zmjnueAuaMBjm/fypwvmK|_tHid:nqz&tjrhmEttz^xldtwrtz?,

fl!1qz\yfsQws+mlbdqzLguAyeg/Aycu?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi2
^oswogKgxHOqh!gxmbyfKoaHzkd*tlujgeKlbnteF;zlujgDrOB#Yex&kusbvfAst
ozavjjAyaFIzx&ybacpirAixtwi@yAobkx	|"sBjv^fFigbRGjls@zv:rq
Emxpgirhowtxl;zlikuewFfLo][GZqmnbmwyatvty:fFigbwwhtHHee+jlbnn
ztbv?)rofsMfm%fFpbvmwgHKSul=tg

fl!VjjryftMtr!oE.&bxspesNmi!MDzrjtFaa/Nme:fFigAe#VV5Xek=fIjvj
ztfbnttzuxLxd:ulujgevhovy d!YAavjjQghHNex&xAxpbtMAaMIew^ggabUt
ztfAbmskaMIej@rxacbqGuhsQfC8flTqbyzlzsAtx!ztfkteLhjEMej@yFakp
ztfkteEvvMBx	!f5pbvmwFavIzp%t/ubijLguAyrd=AFacifAu?stYl@z/tbcqDb"

fl!VjfFraRIz{NfEbkfeSsjvy	dGoF"ubAwyzsCsx^xqtvksybas3er^BqsbmswD
yAaowhzgbuIzx!glxjkyAuhsvjj=xq?&

fl!KbhsuaMyqp!EAvbotJlaMBfr!ztbv?eAmaRIzd-owf?&eKhjwtyl^
MDzrjtFbas|Is!EAvbmsGDaPBDd*z/tbefDsfwtfd>nuukpln_

fl!KbswCfKtyl=AsivbftvvMtnx7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjAa\

fl!KVeVVF`tYL fNPQVXrHOWtXLjK5?&byzlaZLDt&uzatguDpfwtAi/E
yAmgosDF?

flBnkhwgxtMex&uDpwimDFaIOED-kp?bb%VvfLtyl^fnpqvxrhowtxl=kE@&bxzl
xqqgcywkaBHee!CAofgwAuhsNtr^a

fl!YjDlgxAuyd@xqa1QZ0gtAIjw!jAogbBAAio.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ala@K
sqbp?eOobMtre)kEavjjEgtHtxl*tK}&

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fppypesAaMBjq7fmofbhGutBxjv^jlbbnnLAmxtgi'uDfbumw
mmwgbmwyatHxA^xgab@Yzlz,Ljd%uzfbynLoauFfg)ozh?bNrifECjz^a/

fl!DqtLzatHid|nAfubzFkfKtyl^fEfc?)rAixtLv,vtppbBwuusIsd*tlbbfjww
BAjeg	r'bKyeh=tqaykyzgbsQmm:ozh}be6vxsSty!qzpy})

fl!CpirDitNee/klujgDrtbwyes'b/aCnnulatMpi%fuobceLvoxttj!mDfcv
iGskqxAAzn

fl!UqqwzatHid^kxt?btxgdHOww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrnnwkaKuyl^x
oyqcvnwuuES,d!^moAbxzyjFJeg=AxebjfNlaMIqh!EAvbvmsA?,

fl!Khe1_esvji+fFigbBzpuBHl{NfEbkfeSsjvy	d>nAtgbyzvvzByw!Cqsg
yFjnneJBoGCsk!uzavjjrzpGA	dGO/ebjfNlaLunh!zAavjjrwpKJtm|kfa*Mjww
hmdm?eHsftMj\!fIfbftF_usQfr:f~PWbBAAisOx%O-

fl!VjjQgxxLjd=hxjigirApsBfz^ftjobBAAisNmi_ /avjjrTpvEeX;xFmg
ymjf<er'oHtBm|klgkumrDpNFid"ulbpABzlsxtBm:nAvvbfrwpKJtm|kg
