CELIA	If I had a thunderbolt in mine eye, I can tell who
	should down.

	[Shout. CHARLES is thrown]

DUKE FREDERICK	No more, no more.

ORLANDO	Yes, I beseech your grace: I am not yet well breathed.

DUKE FREDERICK	How dost thou, Charles?

LE BEAU	He cannot speak, my lord.

DUKE FREDERICK	Bear him away. What is thy name, young man?

ORLANDO	Orlando, my liege; the youngest son of Sir Rowland de Boys.

DUKE FREDERICK	I would thou hadst been son to some man else:
	The world esteem'd thy father honourable,
	But I did find him still mine enemy:
	Thou shouldst have better pleased me with this deed,
	Hadst thou descended from another house.
	But fare thee well; thou art a gallant youth:
	I would thou hadst told me of another father.

	[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK, train, and LE BEAU]

CELIA	Were I my father, coz, would I do this?

ORLANDO	I am more proud to be Sir Rowland's son,
	His youngest son; and would not change that calling,
	To be adopted heir to Frederick.

ROSALIND	My father loved Sir Rowland as his soul,
	And all the world was of my father's mind:
	Had I before known this young man his son,
	I should have given him tears unto entreaties,
	Ere he should thus have ventured.

CELIA	Gentle cousin,
	Let us go thank him and encourage him:
	My father's rough and envious disposition
	Sticks me at heart. Sir, you have well deserved:
	If you do keep your promises in love
	But justly, as you have exceeded all promise,
	Your mistress shall be happy.

ROSALIND	Gentleman,

	[Giving him a chain from her neck]

	Wear this for me, one out of suits with fortune,
	That could give more, but that her hand lacks means.
	Shall we go, coz?

CELIA	                  Ay. Fare you well, fair gentleman.

ORLANDO	Can I not say, I thank you? My better parts
	Are all thrown down, and that which here stands up
	Is but a quintain, a mere lifeless block.

ROSALIND	He calls us back: my pride fell with my fortunes;
	I'll ask him what he would. Did you call, sir?
	Sir, you have wrestled well and overthrown
	More than your enemies.

CELIA	Will you go, coz?

ROSALIND	Have with you. Fare you well.

	[Exeunt ROSALIND and CELIA]

ORLANDO	What passion hangs these weights upon my tongue?
	I cannot speak to her, yet she urged conference.
	O poor Orlando, thou art overthrown!
	Or Charles or something weaker masters thee.

	[Re-enter LE BEAU]

LE BEAU	Good sir, I do in friendship counsel you
	To leave this place. Albeit you have deserved
	High commendation, true applause and love,
	Yet such is now the duke's condition
	That he misconstrues all that you have done.
	The duke is humorous; what he is indeed,
	More suits you to conceive than I to speak of.

ORLANDO	I thank you, sir: and, pray you, tell me this:
	Which of the two was daughter of the duke
	That here was at the wrestling?

LE BEAU	Neither his daughter, if we judge by manners;
	But yet indeed the lesser is his daughter
	The other is daughter to the banish'd duke,
	And here detain'd by her usurping uncle,
	To keep his daughter company; whose loves
	Are dearer than the natural bond of sisters.
	But I can tell you that of late this duke
	Hath ta'en displeasure 'gainst his gentle niece,
	Grounded upon no other argument
	But that the people praise her for her virtues
	And pity her for her good father's sake;
	And, on my life, his malice 'gainst the lady
	Will suddenly break forth. Sir, fare you well:
	Hereafter, in a better world than this,
	I shall desire more love and knowledge of you.

ORLANDO	I rest much bounden to you: fare you well.

	[Exit LE BEAU]

	Thus must I from the smoke into the smother;
	From tyrant duke unto a tyrant brother:
	But heavenly Rosalind!

	[Exit]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE III	A room in the palace.


	[Enter CELIA and ROSALIND]

CELIA	Why, cousin! why, Rosalind! Cupid have mercy! not a word?

ROSALIND	Not one to throw at a dog.

CELIA	No, thy words are too precious to be cast away upon
	curs; throw some of them at me; come, lame me with reasons.

ROSALIND	Then there were two cousins laid up; when the one
	should be lamed with reasons and the other mad
	without any.

CELIA	But is all this for your father?

ROSALIND	No, some of it is for my child's father. O, how
	full of briers is this working-day world!

CELIA	They are but burs, cousin, thrown upon thee in
	holiday foolery: if we walk not in the trodden
	paths our very petticoats will catch them.

ROSALIND	I could shake them off my coat: these burs are in my heart.

CELIA	Hem them away.

ROSALIND	I would try, if I could cry 'hem' and have him.

CELIA	Come, come, wrestle with thy affections.

ROSALIND	O, they take the part of a better wrestler than myself!

CELIA	O, a good wish upon you! you will try in time, in
	despite of a fall. But, turning these jests out of
	service, let us talk in good earnest: is it
	possible, on such a sudden, you should fall into so
	strong a liking with old Sir Rowland's youngest son?

ROSALIND	The duke my father loved his father dearly.

CELIA	Doth it therefore ensue that you should love his son
	dearly? By this kind of chase, I should hate him,
	for my father hated his father dearly; yet I hate
	not Orlando.

ROSALIND	No, faith, hate him not, for my sake.

CELIA	Why should I not? doth he not deserve well?

ROSALIND	Let me love him for that, and do you love him
	because I do. Look, here comes the duke.

CELIA	With his eyes full of anger.

	[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, with Lords]

DUKE FREDERICK	Mistress, dispatch you with your safest haste
	And get you from our court.

ROSALIND	Me, uncle?

DUKE FREDERICK	You, cousin
	Within these ten days if that thou be'st found
	So near our public court as twenty miles,
	Thou diest for it.

ROSALIND	                  I do beseech your grace,
	Let me the knowledge of my fault bear with me:
	If with myself I hold intelligence
	Or have acquaintance with mine own desires,
	If that I do not dream or be not frantic,--
	As I do trust I am not--then, dear uncle,
	Never so much as in a thought unborn
	Did I offend your highness.

DUKE FREDERICK	Thus do all traitors:
	If their purgation did consist in words,
	They are as innocent as grace itself:
	Let it suffice thee that I trust thee not.

ROSALIND	Yet your mistrust cannot make me a traitor:
	Tell me whereon the likelihood depends.

DUKE FREDERICK	Thou art thy father's daughter; there's enough.

ROSALIND	So was I when your highness took his dukedom;
	So was I when your highness banish'd him:
	Treason is not inherited, my lord;
	Or, if we did derive it from our friends,
	What's that to me? my father was no traitor:
	Then, good my liege, mistake me not so much
	To think my poverty is treacherous.

CELIA	Dear sovereign, hear me speak.

DUKE FREDERICK	Ay, Celia; we stay'd her for your sake,
	Else had she with her father ranged along.

CELIA	I did not then entreat to have her stay;
	It was your pleasure and your own remorse:
	I was too young that time to value her;
	But now I know her: if she be a traitor,
	Why so am I; we still have slept together,
	Rose at an instant, learn'd, play'd, eat together,
	And wheresoever we went, like Juno's swans,
	Still we went coupled and inseparable.

DUKE FREDERICK	She is too subtle for thee; and her smoothness,
	Her very silence and her patience
	Speak to the people, and they pity her.
	Thou art a fool: she robs thee of thy name;
	And thou wilt show more bright and seem more virtuous
	When she is gone. Then open not thy lips:
	Firm and irrevocable is my doom
	Which I have pass'd upon her; she is banish'd.

CELIA	Pronounce that sentence then on me, my liege:
	I cannot live out of her company.

DUKE FREDERICK	You are a fool. You, niece, provide yourself:
	If you outstay the time, upon mine honour,
	And in the greatness of my word, you die.

	[Exeunt DUKE FREDERICK and Lords]

CELIA	O my poor Rosalind, whither wilt thou go?
	Wilt thou change fathers? I will give thee mine.
	I charge thee, be not thou more grieved than I am.

ROSALIND	I have more cause.

CELIA	                  Thou hast not, cousin;
	Prithee be cheerful: know'st thou not, the duke
	Hath banish'd me, his daughter?

ROSALIND	That he hath not.

CELIA	No, hath not? Rosalind lacks then the love
	Which teacheth thee that thou and I am one:
	Shall we be sunder'd? shall we part, sweet girl?
	No: let my father seek another heir.
	Therefore devise with me how we may fly,
	Whither to go and what to bear with us;
	And do not seek to take your change upon you,
	To bear your griefs yourself and leave me out;
	For, by this heaven, now at our sorrows pale,
	Say what thou canst, I'll go along with thee.

ROSALIND	Why, whither shall we go?

CELIA	To seek my uncle in the forest of Arden.

ROSALIND	Alas, what danger will it be to us,
	Maids as we are, to travel forth so far!
	Beauty provoketh thieves sooner than gold.

CELIA	I'll put myself in poor and mean attire
	And with a kind of umber smirch my face;
	The like do you: so shall we pass along
	And never stir assailants.

ROSALIND	Were it not better,
	Because that I am more than common tall,
	That I did suit me all points like a man?
	A gallant curtle-axe upon my thigh,
	A boar-spear in my hand; and--in my heart
	Lie there what hidden woman's fear there will--
	We'll have a swashing and a martial outside,
	As many other mannish cowards have
	That do outface it with their semblances.

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                        Alice's Evidence


  `Here!' cried Alice, quite forgetting in the flurry of the
moment how large she had grown in the last few minutes, and she
jumped up in such a hurry that she tipped over the jury-box with
the edge of her skirt, upsetting all the jurymen on to the heads
of the crowd below, and there they lay sprawling about, reminding
her very much of a globe of goldfish she had accidentally upset
the week before.

  `Oh, I BEG your pardon!' she exclaimed in a tone of great
dismay, and began picking them up again as quickly as she could,
for the accident of the goldfish kept running in her head, and
she had a vague sort of idea that they must be collected at once
and put back into the jury-box, or they would die.

  `The trial cannot proceed,' said the King in a very grave
voice, `until all the jurymen are back in their proper places--
ALL,' he repeated with great emphasis, looking hard at Alice as
he said do.

  Alice looked at the jury-box, and saw that, in her haste, she
had put the Lizard in head downwards, and the poor little thing
was waving its tail about in a melancholy way, being quite unable
to move.  She soon got it out again, and put it right; `not that
it signifies much,' she said to herself; `I should think it
would be QUITE as much use in the trial one way up as the other.'

  As soon as the jury had a little recovered from the shock of
being upset, and their slates and pencils had been found and
handed back to them, they set to work very diligently to write
out a history of the accident, all except the Lizard, who seemed
too much overcome to dkpsusC:nuoibgMAaLCyd>oFibkyKgnHOyl!uBfp?
mmAkplrBqsCsx=fFigbwGvgsIkd:nqaeqzJA?

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fwoqyesipNNex&oEadwxAufLMa(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!zA
Gxjeg 

fl!Pqyzpozn)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!Pqyzpozt2L?ZQWGTa\gqxLxm|zqebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PqyzpoztBl@zqwgt	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!VjfL_tsPjv,funrqwLhoMn)d:nqaMksygttCi{!zGspksyguHtyl^fvvtA 
ZtfAbBwyfsDzw:fnfiksFpoztys!CDjvgeLojLtis>tlppbyzljKtxp@zqt?bBzlo
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oFakpywysNJyi%.la@WSAtqHLye+zfaAqzJgNtDjw:ElngcsKa
uraeqzJzfm.el^fEbkfeAuattAi/ElsguuwjuyOqd:uzf?bgMAayLtA+ozhbcsv
smlkplrmbvyxd@zlikoeszaAyew[uwf}

fl!WPnEwpKNfr: lphbhGBsLy	ddfyfcpyl_aMBjdfozhbjfKAjESew@op.bcsv
CqovbtFguHtmm_yqmhbnFgbGtzr%kDuqpjlg!BGus/zmov+]MujFJtv:gzu++
AzjortJAbGN][*sBptvfFA_ .ee|fugbjjrDfKyex/EuoibBzpdAtBs/j
yAvpfjvgcxMy	

flTqojrvgsNmi!pGsAbBJvuxtnx!jAxpb%AtqHLye+zf"bcsvgtHGj
^GokouGyutHy	NflBnkhwgdHOqh!yqfbvmAz.suxd|nqaycxruftLei+uGhjbyG
rApmbtNlssNmi*xltncywz<s|gy:fuubftwzo,Neq@zFftbfrijMn)d|nq
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh}

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrRjGA	d>nAajcirifxHej=xltqojrAjFyef;yumA
CDjvksygjGtmm|fzpvg]tvpDneg@iwmgfeGBus|Xm-kzdg#)rhowtwi@jlpwv
lDpobmAzauIto7f)SwnjrMpKND[:CA?bbF4Sa9YWWjT5aOQWWgU1USd?fYJNG
NUHJbY7gMXU1I!ZTFbET!YUn.

flFxgwQipwSep=uwffbfLgBEChi8

fl!K&RrupMtfd_oxfbjnyo.,txe*jlBnkhwb

fl!1qzrhsxn)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PgfJszsNBs!sumguezphAn)d@jpffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!YgqDaa2txl@t/ubitlgbMtfr,fDbvg	\gttCid?rudg<er'cxMnh^yf
ztbv&xrupMtfd/ksvncwryvEy,d!EAvbksNloMyid*zlkwuyrupPo)

fl!Kv)KguAyes-jqtvbwMsfsCsd:nqadqtCa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!VjjFgjMtty"nFavqetla7Orf^xlPpg	\gttCid?rudg}

flUjge3poztyy/tqebrfDl.sush!ytvvbmAzaGIyiThApmbmszuBFD	
^OppunvlssSty/fHftfnuA.,tmi!ymjfbyGguAyen;xK.bksrhaEIB{!zDfodqAuh
BAjeg 

fl!VjjJl"Ltrs/klfxkiwudxtys!iAngbDwA.sJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAk
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oF.blzEwjGAey[fuobceyyftNel;xDz>b%LojLtue[kDajcx
pGtvbgwlosJng)kpawr \

fl!YjfL_tsCsd*zh"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp}

fl!KbmsCfG.yd=vqogfeAAaRyy{NfEbkfeLofs%mm:klScdgAA.s|gy:fuubujwtt
zAadgesgmxNyi/ lxtkyLlosvDd:nqartnKvoxLex=/\uqbxGtfuIiC8-

fl!KveEBtMtme<klcggsrAitN	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk7f)vpnjKzaBNeA@y
CDjvvjFguHtss#upz?bBzpdAtnw+-Fawuzss.sSty!qzpy})

fl!YjtrptsCyd%oDfevjvguHp)d|guebqswgpytyl^fvvtArwu?

fl!KveAzo,Neh*xqdvgirhusuqp7-ltckirAixt2l*zqaTcgtpuit%m+frbev	
ztftg)KgoHNmm+mlxtkyLlosIsd:nqaQWY~PEXo)d!NqawpkGsexxex&klqcrjJ
gEajgeKwpDy	d@tpacfiwka/3yd*yz"vbfrsfMNjv7fmgvgwrhmEied*z/tbceKlu
uraxgwKltn.

fl!CtjrAixSem+fFigbuJptHHjvNylicpiOyjMCsk9-lbumjvgbGIyl^xlph
ztfAboMyzFys	

fl!Pq	rAixS)v^fzpv?)rzbBxex&klXjkywgStvgm: l!cpirAitN)w!ztf
wGfgtjKAaMBnr"fmcqwyrpun.edRZtfblzJFatFqd-uAlgfeHBASFjh8]

fl!JgeEBtMtme<kljokysAfwtxs_knpfAewstx.xd&gze?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi 
[6igboMyzsuqp!hDjijywufwtzt!gsbkp {

fl!RnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF.,txe*jlujge3ubOy	dGOlekfs\AaPLnx^fuu?bfFk
ztfAbhsu"Mtuv=BqaKbiAk;styl^xq"ubsGgotGjd|osogfesAaMBjd^tp?&

fl!KheQvvsxnh+-FauklFgjMn)d|guebvmwgLBHl{!^FicveGumRtre)kEavjj
smuvgwrDpKMj	!f~pwbR!ZUsBfz^fyfcpyrzpFyeq*yoikgklgpKtjp|klzqw)v
nmwgbxAnoxxeC=ADapcrwgmBEjd@tliqpjKAaFus	N

flUjgwwgxtMee!mqogtfDgdEuut*tsaqhezhowMee:fFiku,rgjMtBe|fFig
lusuveJlbEFDd$rqwgteLojGAex&klLkplrobwtxe*jlujcyrkbRo

fl!VjfLgQ~91InftjublMpmMn)d|guebvmwgRNyjr8

fl!KveHypOyxd+uFikplrvgsNmi!yAsv#)rzbBxeE-oof}be]4iRneC=Aleqp)L
kHfpbpFvxsQme:fFigA)Jlatvty:'/

fl!TgfvguAyr{NfEbkfeLofs5nr"a

flUjge#ojMyeV@hnjvbuMAaHHel*yltrghLhdEyx	!f)XjgwwgtAuqp!OlcginFa
vxfcujrFpNLeQ@pqtvAa\gixtfw)kp?

fl!DglAuatNex&klcginFujGA	(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!mDbxgqQaa/ush!mAaqp
zumnbDGBavIri!zAavjjrlowied:nqobuyGw?,

flUjgxwgxxLjd:nqaxgwKltsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd/kme<+]

flabberg!!BjC!zAmfbrwgzHOel@jlcggsrApsBjv7
flabbergasUsh!sqovktFlesGjd:uliko,
flabbergTAyek@BqaogesghHIid$nmsceywy.
flabbergasVzx!ymjfbNrjpNFid+uFauynEb

flabbergIxtxi+zlujgrrDpKxeM!nmebptLghHHj
flabbergas	2i!qzpybnLguHtgi!zDvg_,
flabbergJytxl^fEiqwqvgqNMmd:nqaocyLlssIs{
flabbergas%me:fIpwnirifvIri!uraAqzn

flabbergJsAfz^ftftbtFl.sNmi,fsbxgezpnsNBs7
flabbergas'ty!mmwgbzKguALji!uDaoqww}
flabbergUAyDd@rxatgyMyoxxej/uyajkrrApsSty7
flabbergas@ms;mtavjjQgxxLjd_ozfbdjxvsxo

flabbergJytNd=xltjgeKopNFid$nmoegeLvauy
flabbergas3sz=rHffbnFguACxd@lrbkt	
flabbergIxtyv;yFtbvtrFpNtys!yqubvmwtayLji7
flabbergasYCe$zxzbcxrDfsQjv^a

flabbergNRtss:oAobyfKguAuyd,uGajcirifxH
flabbergas	Gi'uDfbumwgitxex&oEahky{
flabbergBGttf|zmdngeLobMthe_klcgvBwlo
flabbergas2nq7fmofbtMytxFAi| lbpfeAA?

flabbergEHH)x!rqubjnEglGIBd|nqankpwkaMBjq!hqtv?
flabbergasZtv!ztjubrMzusyAi/fnf
flabbergBsMjg/kF.bmjHAayLtq!gxmbvmwgsxMy{
flabbergasVjx>kqobAtMytxFkd@tpaog \

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!sAtvbnEwpKNfr:fBjgejrvgsyAm%kzdgbBw_wxtmi@xpaAgyl_
ymjfbyzla4Csk7fDvddnFnaACxd&gzeu>e]zpsHtA!rqubvmwgkNLD[T-

fl!KhesuzsIsi!uravjjEgdtHei\vxbkpeAA.,txe*jlBnkhwaa{Mmi!nme
mDpypeKvaEuwk^fuobvmwgmtMyd'kIaoksMAfLtyl@zltjgeOhtG.yd@fnjv
grsckirvgsCsx^xDvrvnFnaACr{Sf)J&nqrnjOyel*sltkzuwudxoedUO,afqs\A
hqmkgAwguAywiNylbpbfLvnsIkd_kmokplrposCy	N

flUjgeBBsRtfp-fIsqvjrkpPHes+fFigkwrzmtNjw7f)TJGevvfLH)x!hqmkgAw
ztftg)KgbGtfx=slphbrwhoBHld*tljv?)rivMtss+klphbyzlnsuyx^sBugfeLv
kJqncnFguAyet@vqs}

fl!KheLofKy)w!tAaogfFpoztnr!oF.&bxspesNmi!Quoi?e]AitNew@Bqtbc
CAsnfeGmaMLty#rq.bAtMglGIB{!gEaygeFlfwH)x!zDzbvtrmjGxee+EgabCsv
EqubKevvo,Neo+uI.&bmwgxxHyd=tfaurwwheBHld=AFavjjrCfKMjw!uzajkx
qzfg?esuesFts)ozhbcyrAixGeA*ztaqpjrlzxje$dfEfgoeLvaLyjd|uyf
sqbpksygjGtyl^sfachywyatFq	!f|_+UF1Ka2tHSpRPaPQYrZX27][OfKpw
imo&veKDjFneg@tlzqwa\gixtfh%kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigbPFhwxo

flUjge3ubOyew&uAlbjnKgixuid|gpmA}er'EHtNd-uAlbnnClaBNa(!nqaucnvb
[9ikemrofswjv:guonAevpes8TX7fnfkplrtbwyei+zusgnDrvgswfv%hAbtf {

fl!CnqryjzBy{!yAahcwl_aLunh!ztfbMnFn.sush!nqaygsLgpGtry:zqskpl
uHftbyzlaOyww^yluqbmAttxFk\!f)&YGe3UP$tNX!Z1aDGe`YVXa])!ztbv&x
ztfblzJF.sIkd$uGsug]	g&2tLEqKlIGTe7UFmtYL 5lHCXJrOJ6tY1j/\&bymQa
ztbvbrMzusvjd>nmubjjrkjwtBm:nlujgeLhsMM	d,uGamptO|_,

fl!DwylgjMtls^ylppb-`OF^tFPgf4FVWW6LEsZWShfTJObY7gZ8#	)NfEbkf
Gxjeg 

fl!YjDlguAywi!ztfAbfJl@,txe*jlujge3poztyv*AyqjcsLszmtus*tFjpieLv
ztfbvfJAtsIsd:nqavcgDl?st%R=ztjpieuhosvjd$rqbtgwrAitHeXcG6?
ZtfpbfyhjGa])}KRPTGe~OFs2FH!ZTJUbK11_ ?ed,uGapgAwyaAuid'oFt?brQ
jqbt?e1guACso9-ligbxspesNtd:nqaSwjwu?

fl!PgAwy@,txe*jlujge9BfxHej;xupwuqQaaMBws>ozhbcsrpoDMye+jlbvbyzl
RuActirhtsMmi!yBpmg rg)!Bjd;trptvzFhuxtqm:zxfbDnDsaAuid-krubqkx
CDjvksygpGtmm|fEmcvjrDjMBes+klgkplwy.suxd&klgqwsvgjMtre%kloq
smsm>etBusBjd+uIajcxLpmRtgi"gzacifAu.sOxm+mlujgeAulmtyl@zlxcu
zDjemqAuhsxtA+ftjubksjfmtfw!rAoibfKgjMtqe|zqe}_

fl!VjjFguAyeA=xptbftF_usZNX!EAv?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi	rspHEnr"fDpwpi
ztfbetMyusQnx&fmauonDl?stYl^xqaycxrhawyfh!yumgphwb

fl!Kv)KgbsJzrH-lujge3poztfh%kpakpesuaHzki+jqebvtFl.sush
kHftAgGkzsFfy"nqe?b%4lusNmi!pGsAbhGutBxjv!ztfkteNlswChx7-lujg
Quoibxspemtks/fmcqwyrAixtyA^tFjgvmrAjFyex&gFafcDm

fl!Pq	rup|.ew@opavjjrXvxys	!f)Tgpywudxtkm/yF_+xjJkjvNee'zqsycwvz?,

fl!UvzxmatHid+uztgpxw""sMfm%fMmkejrspNxqC8fl!Vjjrpexues'ftbxksy
ztfbujFAfGwjd'oDtv#)

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gttCid:nqaSwjwu.sNzv+ozhbrzJwmxo

fl!KbBGu"M:)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!QhkrDjMBel^xligci/_aMBjdlAqfpbxzvvMyid@zlujgeLvqsIkd&kDaxqnul?
TAcqfDrtpOyi	

fl!YjtrjbKyxd'uDaAqzn_aLunh!Gxjeg	r]tAyel@jlhtqBFguHtmi/frvnn
yuAgbgQguACxd:oyf}_er'ZHO)v^fzpvjnFnauOyd@fBbemeGmavuwh|'/

flBvbyzptsNmi!CtpngeHhdDtws|klvrbnFApsNmi!gus?bfFkavuri!lxzkpl
jAxpbzHvosBjv2fltjgeyhwxtfd-oFungeKjsxur{!nmmhbtxggKCll:fmofbmssg
uracplwy.sush!zDjgfeLvauyfx!ztfobtxm.sush!lAvpfezlsLyqj!rKjpieGu
ztfbdfFr.sQnx&ftftbmwhesCsd:nqancurvgsBjv!yutvgwlgxAIeA@ylhgpyDF
hDvujnFnatQfC!yAngbiwhesFje<kEavjfLgitxej-AFugtjvgeHQsd'xAnbvmw
zDfgueMwpGtmi/frbeg 

fl!YcpwgvIneE-oofbfjsy@,txe*jligteKptMyw,!^9iA?eOobMtfd-uzh
yxfgreQvv,Pjd&gp@&

fl!Qj	rP"Oyel@jltwemrhavOwm=AEaftjst@,txe*jlBnkhwaatHid|nqavqqv
nqsbunKAfKnee|fIfnneszaLBjd$uGmfbwwtfFvjv!ztfo?essmsNmi|kltvtfFnf
GpwgpyMyfLttj!nqsubyzhusSty!nmwgboMzusvji+fDfcfnFnatvty:?lbpf
CtfpbxzlaAuid'ozjujjvaaAywd|oEugteCptLyid&kD.bcsvgttCi{!^UubYF~gb
iGskqzKgeKyfq7fpfct	rjfKNfm+rK;bbgMAaGIBd/AzakpeLvaRIzv!zqb>bnL_t
mquvksygmtNj	NflTqbFDpdxtls:fGqbcsvgstHes'lfavjnFrjGAeA&oxfbumw
xmo?bfKgxxFqd|nqaoklzA.sQme:fmayqsvlsyOqd%xqbobnLgitxef^kz?

flCwvezlssMnw:kDaucyrzuBFqd(AEubcxrzixtqi'zligt	rsftHnr"ftft
nqbfbtFgixLel@tp.byfLjiBHld:nqaugyLpoztxy+ lbpfeLojGEnr"fAg
ruuvnjrHmBwjd@tpacnqrofKtBs+jqshwqrHeOysx;xqt?byAsmsMmi!zApbdjyho
jDfconFnatzyi/fmahcxzppGnee+jlujkxrDbLtmi/fpsgcrg|_

flGktxLaaLBjd%xqbogirvgsFnx:rqaCnnulaAyww^rr.bcsvgpGwjd@mmjpbyzl
zuoAbmsueLtBi/kldncxHlesOus+ftftbpFlfmtfr%fFigbgJphANei@mqsbgDwz
CqsgbqGvlBHld;vljpvtrofKM][|nqaeqzDkaAyfv!ztfbxjJFaMIsi|fAgbjjJ
BAjeg	rhowtxi^fFicveIBfxLep*zFmgbyGztsIkd&kDajgfvguHtpi^vlccep
ztfbyfFkfKCsk!nmjtbyzhus%TYgJlbnyfQzazyyd*tFpbjjJgfRyx[Tgze
yFjnneszaLBjd-oEugpjvaaHLew^kyffbyGgmBMyi+ lujgeOopEyet-gof
gDpwpirofKtgi$gyfbcqACfsNmi!yFscplwgdKyfx;xqtbqkrofKtqm:zxf
yutvgw\zawLje_a

flUjgeDvoztlv@yEatwxLsfwtfx!nqsbhjwAatMex&klXjkywgStvgm:ftvttnwk
hK_+vmwggKCll:kzffbRGBtxtxt-gEigfezptsQfC!ztsqwlzguAy
tqjijgGBsBHld[uAm++xzlavIzp%ftfcteLofsLfx:rqaqheLofsNje$ABtbcx
ztfbOfJjis2fv^fmofbmAzayLni+jEaujfJlesNmi*xlogxjJ|fGxnr"fyfcn	
gzebvmwgtALnp-fHpkejrvgsNmi!WGfgpeGyexLnr"fAghbmwyaNHks/zGocvj
mGfuvxrApsyCi$AFjqp]	vovyeq=xqavjjrwjzage#ElxcueKufxTnr"fAobvmw
JGdjgxK_tsEsi^ lxjkqwgqEuyi|fmofbiAzixMeg/gEigfesypNHid*z\_qphw
sAsgbyzlaLBwm^qlphbyzlaZLDt&uz.bvmwgtJOje)ozhbqkrAixtQm.gDe&
