JAQUES	O worthy fool! One that hath been a courtier,
	And says, if ladies be but young and fair,
	They have the gift to know it: and in his brain,
	Which is as dry as the remainder biscuit
	After a voyage, he hath strange places cramm'd
	With observation, the which he vents
	In mangled forms. O that I were a fool!
	I am ambitious for a motley coat.

DUKE SENIOR	Thou shalt have one.

JAQUES	It is my only suit;
	Provided that you weed your better judgments
	Of all opinion that grows rank in them
	That I am wise. I must have liberty
	Withal, as large a charter as the wind,
	To blow on whom I please; for so fools have;
	And they that are most galled with my folly,
	They most must laugh. And why, sir, must they so?
	The 'why' is plain as way to parish church:
	He that a fool doth very wisely hit
	Doth very foolishly, although he smart,
	Not to seem senseless of the bob: if not,
	The wise man's folly is anatomized
	Even by the squandering glances of the fool.
	Invest me in my motley; give me leave
	To speak my mind, and I will through and through
	Cleanse the foul body of the infected world,
	If they will patiently receive my medicine.

DUKE SENIOR	Fie on thee! I can tell what thou wouldst do.

JAQUES	What, for a counter, would I do but good?

DUKE SENIOR	Most mischievous foul sin, in chiding sin:
	For thou thyself hast been a libertine,
	As sensual as the brutish sting itself;
	And all the embossed sores and headed evils,
	That thou with licence of free foot hast caught,
	Wouldst thou disgorge into the general world.

JAQUES	Why, who cries out on pride,
	That can therein tax any private party?
	Doth it not flow as hugely as the sea,
	Till that the weary very means do ebb?
	What woman in the city do I name,
	When that I say the city-woman bears
	The cost of princes on unworthy shoulders?
	Who can come in and say that I mean her,
	When such a one as she such is her neighbour?
	Or what is he of basest function
	That says his bravery is not of my cost,
	Thinking that I mean him, but therein suits
	His folly to the mettle of my speech?
	There then; how then? what then? Let me see wherein
	My tongue hath wrong'd him: if it do him right,
	Then he hath wrong'd himself; if he be free,
	Why then my taxing like a wild-goose flies,
	Unclaim'd of any man. But who comes here?

	[Enter ORLANDO, with his sword drawn]

ORLANDO	Forbear, and eat no more.

JAQUES	Why, I have eat none yet.

ORLANDO	Nor shalt not, till necessity be served.

JAQUES	Of what kind should this cock come of?

DUKE SENIOR	Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy distress,
	Or else a rude despiser of good manners,
	That in civility thou seem'st so empty?

ORLANDO	You touch'd my vein at first: the thorny point
	Of bare distress hath ta'en from me the show
	Of smooth civility: yet am I inland bred
	And know some nurture. But forbear, I say:
	He dies that touches any of this fruit
	Till I and my affairs are answered.

JAQUES	An you will not be answered with reason, I must die.

DUKE SENIOR	What would you have? Your gentleness shall force
	More than your force move us to gentleness.

ORLANDO	I almost die for food; and let me have it.

DUKE SENIOR	Sit down and feed, and welcome to our table.

ORLANDO	Speak you so gently? Pardon me, I pray you:
	I thought that all things had been savage here;
	And therefore put I on the countenance
	Of stern commandment. But whate'er you are
	That in this desert inaccessible,
	Under the shade of melancholy boughs,
	Lose and neglect the creeping hours of time
	If ever you have look'd on better days,
	If ever been where bells have knoll'd to church,
	If ever sat at any good man's feast,
	If ever from your eyelids wiped a tear
	And know what 'tis to pity and be pitied,
	Let gentleness my strong enforcement be:
	In the which hope I blush, and hide my sword.

DUKE SENIOR	True is it that we have seen better days,
	And have with holy bell been knoll'd to church
	And sat at good men's feasts and wiped our eyes
	Of drops that sacred pity hath engender'd:
	And therefore sit you down in gentleness
	And take upon command what help we have
	That to your wanting may be minister'd.

ORLANDO	Then but forbear your food a little while,
	Whiles, like a doe, I go to find my fawn
	And give it food. There is an old poor man,
	Who after me hath many a weary step
	Limp'd in pure love: till he be first sufficed,
	Oppress'd with two weak evils, age and hunger,
	I will not touch a bit.

DUKE SENIOR	Go find him out,
	And we will nothing waste till you return.

ORLANDO	I thank ye; and be blest for your good comfort!

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Thou seest we are not all alone unhappy:
	This wide and universal theatre
	Presents more woeful pageants than the scene
	Wherein we play in.

JAQUES	All the world's a stage,
	And all the men and women merely players:
	They have their exits and their entrances;
	And one man in his time plays many parts,
	His acts being seven ages. At first the infant,
	Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms.
	And then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
	And shining morning face, creeping like snail
	Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
	Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
	Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
	Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
	Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
	Seeking the bubble reputation
	Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
	In fair round belly with good capon lined,
	With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
	Full of wise saws and modern instances;
	And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
	Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
	With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
	His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
	For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
	Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
	And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
	That ends this strange eventful history,
	Is second childishness and mere oblivion,
	Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.

	[Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM]

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
	And let him feed.

ORLANDO	I thank you most for him.

ADAM	So had you need:
	I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble you
	As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
	Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.

	SONG.
AMIENS	Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
	Thou art not so unkind
	As man's ingratitude;
	Thy tooth is not so keen,
	Because thou art not seen,
	Although thy breath be rude.
	Heigh-ho! sing, heigh-ho! unto the green holly:
	Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
	Then, heigh-ho, the holly!
	This life is most jolly.
	Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
	That dost not bite so nigh
	As benefits forgot:
	Though thou the waters warp,
	Thy sting is not so sharp
	As friend remember'd not.
	Heigh-ho! sing, &c.

DUKE SENIOR	If that you were the good Sir Rowland's son,
	As you have whisper'd faithfully you were,
	And as mine eye doth his effigies witness
	Most truly limn'd and living in your face,
	Be truly welcome hither: I am the duke
	That loved your father: the residue of your fortune,
	Go to my cave and tell me. Good old man,
	Thou art right welcome as thy master is.
	Support him by the arm. Give me your hand,
	And let me all your fortunes understand.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE I	A room in the palace.


	[Enter DUKE FREDERICK, Lords, and OLIVER]

DUKE FREDERICK	Not see him since? Sir, sir, that cannot be:
	But were I not the better part made mercy,
	I should not seek an absent argument
	Of my revenge, thou present. But look to it:
	Find out thyC!hDpvjjJaaPBjv^yAf&gwrofsCx,
e5fgmezpnsQnx&fobpfqw}auLnr"ftjobiwhesIwd-oHjpi
e9jvjnFguACxd:CqmxgrGuuAnes/fFvtpeLopNtss!sAsg
e6pbujwrattqm<ozhbksrvvKtyi/xuuqtDm
e6iAbqsueLtfr%fmmnbyzpozMex&gFavjtMgeHMyd$gxmbvmAuf
e9ptvmrzfBTzv^fppbyjrzfBTjd*tFpbqzJgitHiw7
e6jnneLopNthe+yFaswnLguAyjd#ElujAetypMBjv|fypwvm
e1gbymsAaPyex&ozlbclspoLNex&kq?

UXJXGWqVaMBfx!EAvtbmAniGyxw!qzfybrQgixuwx!ozavjnK"
eUapgAwyaEIAi%fyzbdwGAixLem+fyzbnnxl?

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeYptgeNpmEunr!ztpw}e#lmEnet;ytajkrrvvMttj!jAptu.
eMofbqwAaFSes'ludgtxrvgsMzg&fmapcyMyf
eYbmgesuaxRyi+zlvrqsrojLtms;yqacpirsbGxx\
ePpbvmAzaxRui%oqovnDrhowtyy/tlikoeyvjGA 

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	UfaykyzgbsJft^x{

U4MCPI7fItHld:nqsg?eEFaOyww^ ljpbBAAoxMxd=llnAbqGCfh
eMofbyzvvmtyl/oof+ewGDoxxeu;kqobqkrujzBy{!yGsxgD
e9jvjeLozswme|zqagAjlggKIrd:nKarcqwgtIBjv^fmcqxjl
e6iAbmMuuKyxwNfzbogeLobMtrC!lGmnbqAmfsxtx&fExcA 
e1aTqxssjGx^d:nqtgbyJlfLtxl@rxadgeEFauIto|
eMofbnFguAynv!hmsmueEFaMBty"nFtbK)DsavBfv@iFft>
e6icvewCfKSei,klxjkhzgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAaEIto|
e5icnqrzfxtyl,fHjtvzwgxBNsi|y/ebgAwyzsQmi/kg
e4vp?eJBomtTv-gzeq>euhsOyes+fqwgtDrAsxy
e6igbkspsmtyl^foicuywgbGxey+kJqtgxKpwxtxl^a

e}Fzkyd

e}FpvjJgD8`NR!gzebVT!JI`@TR >

I1SKPdSuesBtA!rulgbDGBaMBnw!ytfrjjJk"Ltqm'kfaOcxLlss@ty$nEuqpjn

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bumwwixLi{!ozatgxHldMttj!oFtgnklgjMtnw!glhqqi
exjhg	rivMtnr!xqtrghLguAuyd*zljubfrzixJmi/j/tbnnxl.
euubkxrubNAmx8fUobtjKwfvNex&gFakveAzaLIqm:gDz?bN
exjmgeAAaOywC!Cqmn>etBusCsd/kEqgeyrAitNem:fut
eBskxfLl.sCyd*ylbbxjJFaOCqi!rugg}e6vxmtnr!xqtrghLgjM
eutbksrAixtkm^rpt?bnLgqEyfw^ztaogeOlmEjef;zljp
eDfurjuAaBNem|fzpvbnFguAyeg=ADu?bnLgjLtyi%oAvu}eSz
eutbkyrhaLJfv^fxjhg	rspHEeC=AfakvexpuLtrC!nGnqwwrDfEF.
envvbfKguAywi!oEapqeEvsxtup^tFzbksrpumtnx!mAfubrMji
emhcksKAaFSew:uybej rObLNee+ElqjkqGzpIBDd*tlujgjlgtAyul^xp}

I1SKPd6vaFIwi!hGubvmsAa2tpr=ClujgeEvsxttr^fEjemjFzaMBj
eIptujrhusyfw^ftfbkxhgbGxex&gFajgeLobMtBe+zEaoqswF.
eyfcpxrhowths+zqovbnKgxBNms;zlujtjwghHIid'xufpfxh
eFicveLofsJws[kDuAbtxgstCsd*yluqbBwAatHid'oDfbvt
envtp.rAitNek=uparcxLBsxtre)kEahcyrzixyu{!gzebvmsAat
essgcyrjbNMjd=llujgeFphANem|fxbemeGmaMBjd|Az<bvmsA
etfbvmsAaAuyl!rqbtpjvgoHtBm:fnzbpfLBsxtss/fmsvbrsF
eoporqsposIkd"uAebdwwleBHld=xldqojKgpytfd<kDzbfzDsaDCsh/kp?

Z1VEJX`VOXsXy$nlbbqswgjLtfd+gFvtcqrwiBFtw=vtft}e#htMtjz^xljp
eopwtylgtAyul^xp}

I1SKPd6v.sNwy-Eg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl^tlujqzrhsMtie_tqe}

I1SKPd6hzmtNd&uBf}

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bvmGBatLyd%gyogfeDplxtfr!oxm+ttszuxxei"mfacnq
eAobqswgtBxj	

I1SKPdXvssHtx!hqjpiesAavIzv:blZqwwryftMtr8

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l, ljhbyzvvsHjz^xlxcuyrhuswty/zfavjtMgoxPjv!ymxguy
espqfeEhoGyww3fugbvmGBaGyAi/fEbygxLghHIid_gzogtxl
eFigpeLozsGfr+kDtbozKAauyeA*iwff>esuesQng)kpoguxrpt
eEjp?esuesMnr!oEafcrFhuBIs	!ZtpwbfJAaBHee!vmsnqzK
eEucvjlgtAyul^xp?

I1SKPd6vusueA&oF.bVtMjiLNtr^.lujqxwguAuyd@xqaiqtvgntHsi/y
emubvmwgdHOwx!gDfbcxryjwChy-uGtbksrAixths;tFsAbfKguAy
enfjcAAvssIkd:nqaeqzFAsRtnw!sAtvbrGjltvqi!gFavjj
eopwtymgZHOex=rpaogeQvvsMfp;zqapqyrhusNmi!iAvtv	rivM
eKpwbpAztsSty/ftbpfxgguAuyd$uGsvgxQgxHOqh!hq
eGoenjsumRnem'fopwtyAlsLtBi/kltjguzlswM 

Z1VEJX`VOXsNr|zmoeg	risBykp,?ldqojlgjGMye+iq?

I1SKPd#ozmtBi!gDfbuyAsmsBfr%ruoibtMyaxQjw7fmofbyzljK
erfnnxlgzHOeo+uI.bcwwghKyfw,a

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l, leqbsGAaRIzv!iAvtvnwy"Ltme+jEauyjsA}sush!oEapqy
eFigblJlbLyes'fmaowyLvosuxd>nAmgutElatMex&kltygfLgpy
emaocsngTAuqp=CfaujfDspPoeE!hquvgwrpoLNfr$kfaKbxsF<swtq^a

I1SKPdTltBxjw7fAvtbmsueLtfv^ftbtf 

Z1VEJX`VOXs4s;xlmkrxrDjEFej^kxavjjEguAyew=uzft}e~obEFtA!gsbkp 
eMaoqwwgtHOsh^xljpuysudxneg=sq?

I1SKPdSuesNmi,fmsgbtxAfGtye/xqebqAwyaPCyl!ztfbuzJnfKSes'
eAvtbxzlfIiee+jlxqwqvgzHOel@BqawueCptLtye/blUjg
eopwtyAls,Mel@tptbcwwgqxLky_kpaykyzgdBPjx8

Z1VEJX`VOXsRs|zltjcqDvxsGfrHfFiqweOvsFM]q^gF.bksryfLJjg:fAgbc
espqfeHpfvyes'frmgumrpowyjhHfXfctsrvgsNmi!Cutg?esue
eBftrjFk;swnz^zljubtxgbsvfw^xlcktyzguAusd:gD.bvmw
eHftAeMudEyfr-ElgnwCrvgsueg@zgaOgsvguAyem+yFbpejlgtAyul^xp?

I1SKPd%vvsBfz^fFpqbhGBsMFDd@fIjvbkGyaFy,dd-xmbtjKA?

Z1VEJX`VOXs2m-zlujqzryfLNeh@szff{eYvesBjp[fFigg	rzitFqs>fybp#
eSpfbrsrfsCsg*yuppbnFguAyj%!ztpwbfJAaKuB	

I1SKPd~psmtNd@slbbvwMlaEugs;xqs<bNrlbKHex&gFaKbjsA.sAjx
eFicve1gxxuw{!uIfbptrtbGtme:kfagpAQgoHtre+-E
etbrrnFltLnek-gpaqheGAixLeq^t/tbitGk.swtr:kzubynLoaFS
etbto	rhowtyl^fssgcywzusIkd_ElqtkiwgjLtys!yqfboDrlxxM
esscBjrhowtrC!rmndueKBdDo

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl@zljubfFvuAywd|oyqngeKposCsd,uG.bvtrisBHld:nqagyjK
emofbyzlaKurw!zAhgvmwyatHid:ulphhjJguHtli:fKpwt
exjxksygcRtyl^foprwqsAjHHes'fobvvqw}aMIef^fnbyfeLvat
enfnn]OluAyw{!gzebvtrifMLfC!gltjg]Dhnuttj!g
eFxgnAwtpGNmd:ulbbewGvlxx]t@zqe?btDk.swzg)uxenAeJhnm
eAvvbtxgbEFev^gEppcgDlaFuyg&alJhbyzvvsvji|zloqv
epbopjvggHLex&oE.bvmwgexPnp!nunugqxgxBFqd&gHfbpt
eEigrmwyeLjeM!imopqyrzfxtjp|kliqyeLopNtxl=Axeuv
e/tecuwb

I1SKPdZlsxths_kEaAqzFna6uxx^xlHcpDElexneq,fzfybrAzuKyxwNylctqyzlsn

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bynLoattue[kD.btjskjGA<

X1TCNN6K sted!LDpobyzlaxuxx!zAaygxLlsGtNr% 
eZpbljOlmsCxd-owfbTtKhmBHi	
eTftbBGyuAnef^ozhbotMuuxxes+fFigbBAuem
e6itqzyoatFqd:nqayqwDkauyfv|f4pucqAuen
eMmnbyzlaIChx;xqtbhfAyfLNep*tqe
eMsgbgMAauFfg)fFpbTtKhmBHi	
eXfvbsGggtCwd#kllgryrposGnr%
eNvvbyzlayunv!uraTqxssjGx 

Z1VEJX`VOXsN(-rlsjArwgzHOew=fqjijyrFftLxd:usfvjjJaawCsr^xEacpi
eEvrrjJzatHid|rqfrksy|iHOww!kJdgrywk;sCyd*ylujg
eDjijyrivMNjvTCAngp)KgstHpd:ulnctpwA?

X1TCNN6K 8Oy{!lApn#

Z1VEJX`VOXsKs/fmavcxLl;
eUgbcezhsMtis!rmdmbfrojGx	
eXfvbmAtaLyjo!uGubTtKhmBHi	
eUgbvmwgdtNeA*rxachywyaDCsh7
e5pbdjrzvKyeA*rxaTqxssjGx 
e9jpvjJghtLri+zEaowxLgcxtqm+kp.
e5pbozKAaLFjr%kDaTqxssjGx 
e6igAeLobMtwi@vlnwuyrzixukd@tpadksv}
e6igpeLvavuwx!CuujbWGzbECsh8
e5xggywzusHzx!nmujbxGBsxMyd/oze?
e5vejesgoNNem|f4pucqAuen
eTfbvmsAaLQji:kEubttKlaPCqp!luof
eYvuvexpowtqs<k/tbrwAjlsush!XAtcnnFk?
e6ikueAzaMBjd<kDzbhfDzfsAfp-uBaqheNlsLyx\!CtzbftrFpN
euohghLgzHOww^rraykyzguAyr 

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^ lzqwevBmEtks=r-aKbkGBowtyl^slppbfrAsxy 

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bvmwguKyjd,oqmfuetheszwy*zg

X1TCNN6K 2.qp!mDbhheAAaPCyl!EAv?bfFkaMBjr!OltjcqDghKukj!oF
eIjvjesgnxxqe/.lujgsrpusQnp-fnfbvmwgftLqm^yFahtzAA
eu"bvmwgdHOsx/EbahqwrFpN.qp!hqatqyLlosywi!EAvbdjrobEz
eDjrg	rhowtyl@z/tbvmwgsBAmx!BusvwjrvgsNmi!sqencwm

Z1VEJX`VOXs4s;ftbxgeKhjwjef;zlxjgyzlssQnw^rKaqteFv.sFjx!ztf
erptgxLgkNxli8

e}FpvjJgDX6NE7fIjvjesgxKCym+m{

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^'lIgtjrjpFyxd_Eltkuywy.sLje%ozh<bxLhowtfw*jq?

IQMKCdcYftxx;

e9iAbxzvvExex&oEacbiwzfKNef^b
eRptbnLgjLtzr[kAqngingOHi
e6ppizwza2.qp!nmoibtFgfOywC!zDfg?
e6icveKobEFeg*BumbufQpozMew&uI;
e5pog	ropPtgv*kravjjrsjyyes'fybp
e4vpuezptsywv*tsarkqyyjFuli7
e6icveLofsMyv^zoikplrvgsuew[gz
eNvemqwzaBHel*yltwoeGmatAj,
e5pog	rvgsPns-gFffbAGDt
e/UykCLguAyew=AxtbqkrmsBysh!gzebhwAlowi
eNvvbzHvosNmi!lmjtgxLgcHOll| 
e1sbcyrlwxLDd|kzugphwgfGx	
e9jnne1gSHMfp*tpbbywAAfm
e6fcemAuhsuqp!ztbvbwwhesNtd)tAx
e6igbvMpoMyxw^tofbqkrlwxLDd|vDjvg
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ozankyLsfsMms>a
e6igtjxvsxtMi@BqobPfLBsxthl@xsff
e6icveGufsvth,fEiqwqvgcxtkm-r/e
e9jvjessmsAwe$kEaykiw|fGFfv"kp;
eZbvwwwgqKyxi+zxzbfnKAjEF)h
eTfngs\zavBji) lcwveFvusBjv!nqbtv	
eOmgqusAst.xd_gvfuvDl
eMucnfFAb,Mef^zFftbusyum
e5bfbQMjsxNneNylnqfjKAzn
e6iwue0vttFnr%fAgbofFFaIuwx|
eNzbjjsCfGFDd|EzpfbBszawyAm|kp.
e1gbofFFayuhi| lfAgxrhowtmi@xFt?
e6pbjfNlaMBjd:uGdjgxrkftLjw:fBskBjvb
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ztbvbxzlaMBjw^fsjhvxrziHOqh!nmwg?
eMofbNrApsFnz^fmofbiAlaAywd|rmwg}

X1TCNN6K 8trs|zlhgpyDlaIOqt*zqs#bBzhusNjh*uGtbjtEpmRttj!rAwg
etbxgeQvvsQje/oqebAtMyaIuwm|nuppgwKgxBNme- lbpfeFlwxL
eoskgir_ItPjd[gFjgphwaazIth!vqprnj/_

IQMKCdZvxsHtAHfnbem	rmsBysh|'lTjguzlswnek=fAghbfrsjMNqi8
eSpbynLoaACr{!yustcmm

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_kfaujjHofKx	d-kFawueEhlxtfr!nAoqwwsimxtwi:xqbv>
eFiqwlzgoHNeA*ztadclrhowtge"mmhg?eQlusQnx&fEdtkurhowtxg/oBqcijm

e}FzgzFAaV9WMifmofbY72D1!YSiK{

IQMKCdVpeLNex&uGajgfJguAyxi!Bqsugxn

X1TCNN6K 8neC^yfaKbmwhswtyl^slbnn	rhowtrs/kluqq.rmpKtxs_klph
eFigoezhesCsd:nqnbotJlayyjx!ztbpbyzlaOyww^ylxqwqvgcxuw	

IQMKCd`obM.xd+ulncvywy;sNmi!lqfvbrAniMtgi@xlujgeNlsLyx	

X1TCNN6K TS	d#AFavjjrmfxNeA^xqancrwgbGxeg=AxebptLgcxuw
eFigoxwswxMeA*ztpwveLofsPjv|klbpfeLofKyks/kltvqtv
exbogqQgjGtyl^fHftujm

IQMKCdTBusxnh|zlujqzroftLeA*ztpwveOvowywm+mliqyeLozsHfq^
eEiqwqvgcxtme+mqebcsvgdtLAi%fGqqpeLofLyex/kqt{

X1TCNN6K 2tBe|fEfxgsrvgsNmi!tuogbisFtsIzx!uravjjrDpGxjv
enfhqwwgzHOeg@sq<bhtJgmHIpd&kDfbymsAa2tks;tpaqpes
eBbno]LyfxoeM!CmtbpjNlssMtd#k\sjArwkaLCsg^
e2zvjfyvstM)d:oyf?byzhus3eA@ylbpbNJptAtwe: lxjkhzgJ
eobpbmsyeESev^sqndgwm

IQMKCd`ypPtDs;fIiqbmsAisxtr^fFikua

X1TCNN6K 2Mem:fmaocsn

IQMKCdSuesueg&guo?byzhusSty!uzdgbBGyfmtff=AFajkxrufvE 
eOicplwgzHOeg=rAvt{

X1TCNN6K 2tuv*ztfg?eOopo

IQMKCd7gMHLi{!RAsf#eAAaBMee!nmsfbrsAuxLej=xlgtkjFktsNt
eyfgv.rivMtrs;tFbkpxrtbRtgi!xqnqxjvgxBNmd^gDujszsrfL
emofbxGgfGwty+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubymGgjLtnx9

IQMKCd1zaBNet=yEjdnjn

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!OlqtkyzlfsHtA!CuujbrGzusJjx*zuppcwQgwxBjq^tof?
eFfnneElaPBtd*zlju}

IQMKCd7gxHHii/lGm?bBGuexLky- lbpfeEvtMtBs+jqshwq
eIppfjJmvE:ee+jlzgvesnbBHeA=tpfthzDaatHid@lFftbyzhum
eAvvbtxgbEFel=uBjpi^

X1TCNN6K ZIth!sKaeqrHsfQCtrHfppuveLopNtyl*tw.bvmGBhAtNd@s
eobrcwAzpGyid-owfbceEhomtNd&gHfbcevvvuFjx!gzebjtKlaBH
eyzbfnKwpLCym=thaQpjrpovBes'fpfncDrtpKyem|fm
e5pwvm	zftttj!juteqAwyzitNd[xuujgjlguxFqd_klxjqeAzaBN
eCvkepDF.sush!yBfcmeswbvy ddfIpwnirAiHOeg=Axeuv
eEucorwy.sNme:fFiqweEphANxx!vAvtbyzptswtr$kmmgfeEho
eAvvbtxguASeq=AFi?bfKgxBHjd$uyfubtMAaHzee!tmstqB	
eypwvmwkauIyx-kfagkyzlssNts!sGdjbfLgpGwj{!uDapqswgbM
emmn}e1gqKCyl^kfavcpwguAyeg=xwaqwyrvgsNmC!sAvvjeLobM
eybAbiJpoDtyl,fFjfksyz?

IQMKCd~vaRIzd_gKarwyrhaFusd*tlzqwwrifEFD	

X1TCNN6K 2Mel^fAgbItv_tsGfo*ts}bYmsAaFusr^xlphbrsu}s3xd&oE
etfcfeOvsMBee!nmu?btJgiBMeg&ozayqwLoattgi@xp}

IQMKCd6hzmtmi!nmujbgMAattqm:zxfbdjsyen

X1TCNN6K $BD{!MAebynDsaLysh!sAsg?eAmaMBjd_gzaykqDgcx
eFicppxBmhtqi:fyfbuysFaMBjd"xAxvjeGmaACxd#kmsf?eAm
eFiqwevlmtSeq^fzpvbyzlaDHtA-kphgbtxgiBMeg&oz?

IQMKCd1AaBMeC=AzhbQwDhowI	d:nmubvwAwqxxey[fFigbBJltMFjvNy
etfgnxrhowtDs;xligcwLgcHNmd*tlbpbnFzutHy	

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubvmwgexPnp!zmlgbrGjlBHl\!yBfcm	rzbwtgv=Clbpf
eFswgeEhjwo

IQMKCd1_ayunx& ldqB	r_uBMel^a

X1TCNN6K 8Lqe+jA}

IQMKCd7ymtHis8

X1TCNN6K TFfw!ztfbffQ"aPBfx!ytbnne1geHtBm:nlnAbiGBcEyyd@tp
etpugar4itNeh*jligbBzlosNms;fEbygxLgiBGadrnmubufAk
etf{bMGDaEIto^jlig{e#ofKynr!Cqovbmwca$Bfx!smlgu
etjobmwyfotIm%ftfbcxCggHLeq^blXjgwwgsxGfm+ylig{
eTpybusyuxxel^fIjvjeLofxpee+jlxjgsrzitFyd:nAvbujw
etjobfyhjGpeE+yIftbrwgjGttr^fIptf 

IQMKCd%vvsGzw:fnptttOgnxtLe/mmovwf\zaFIzx&frjtuygg"MCxd@
eIptfeLvpsAwi@zlgqtesuzsGty:nlphbyzptsuliNyltkBjmgUH
eEbAbfQgbGxer=fFpbvmwzfsJfv:oovncwKgjLtrs/klujcsrAp
emouyjJgjGtfd$gFfejnKt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd%uFibjjrroHQex&gFaKbfEgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAatHid*t
eybp&xrhqIuwi-blMqqpKgixtfw!lDfujqQgbLtmi!juebvmw
epbAbmwgxKyxx-kp}

IQMKCd1AaBMee|fqbuAeLvavIzr:fmuqonwzatMex=fDfuqqNlaMBj
eBsqrtKpuBIsw!uracbqGCfKjef;zlucmjrhaMuxx^fAgboD
erjpfnFnaACr{!gzebtjDptAtnx!CuujblGvesIgw^xHbpejm
eUahqzFkaACrd;tpftbfrAsxy	d-owfbcevypIJjh!goptp 

X1TCNN6K 2Neq@Elxgnqrifswfp-kpaLqAw_tsNwi^ lxjgsrpusxws[y
erptvmrzvvBej/Auu}

IQMKCdYpwxtri!gGekgsul.sAts%fybfcrm

X1TCNN6K 9Ltg^kp?

IQMKCd`ofKyep@Elig?eKAsxNhl^jlbnqsyaaECpi!glxqwsvlesEsm"nF?

X1TCNN6K !Bty"nljvbgwgqBNDd:ultggeKBdAtfd|osiv?eAAaPyqp
enfeqrwzaMBjd"xAvpf 

IQMKCdUyzs.ms-rm"bvtrAiRtys+mGf?bNrwsBNmi^?ljvbhMywxNx
eGougfKvotvqC8fTfbyfKggNLsm|nqebnnClattmy+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 8nes_ozpwu^rofswtq^yluqbpAsmsGDd&kmsv}

IQMKCd1gxHOqh!yuoibrQgtHHld>oFiqwyrhauOwh^taavjtMgcKCsk^yF
eyfbqzLgpytyy+kg

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AloqveCupPtNd@slbbytEhootBl^tlJbvmAulmtNd_AEu
eEqgcpmgTPyjx7fEbAbtFb

IQMKCd%vvsvwm+mlngbtMA?s!tj:'ldqojKgixtss:ftftga

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe2HR@YX;

X1TCNN6K ,@nw!nq;buqAulsvD{!gzebptLlaACr	

PMRWGXqPaMBfr)fKpwbkGyaRIzv!iAnrcsQ}auOy{!mApfbkspuAneM!nme
emtbnnwmaAuAi!hqfpbrQzfEzee-uzf}

U4MCPI7fBGxew=ftbfbNhgcNNeC^zfahqwrmbLBns+fEbmg	rPaMBfr)fKpw
eFpqbkGyaRIzv!yAdkgyQb

PMRWGXqNpwtgi!Cu"bAtM?aEyy(|fyfgveszaECyx-klbubBwgdtH 

U4MCPI7fJsxtd%kEjtgeOlaFuDd#klcgvywyaLNwe+mqsu}

PMRWGXqPaILfC!EAv?brsyaGIeq=xqavtjwzaPCyl!CDjvksy
expxg]KvozMem+fFigkwribKEx	

U4MCPI7fJsJwe,fKpw?eEhssHtd_uDfbqkrtzsPjv|kEaykyzgsxuim+m
eFigoeAsm zfz=ADffnDm

PMRWGXqYpLuqm+jljubDGBssFtz^-Eapcrwc

U4MCPI7fZxM	d(AEu}

PMRWGXqPawIer=zlmkmjrofKtse_kg
eMofbDwAaBNem/qEaogeLofsJts/fpbrrqwkayItp| 
eNfkplrubMCAi!hGsijjJzaHzex&oEafgxwyuswnx, 
e5iqwqvgjGtyl^oDaqysrjpGznr^ylxkvmrmpKEjh!nqbfu
eTbxgeLofBLev=AzebjfMudAyxd"uDff}

Lusuve4vswsNr%kqe?brQgmHLi{
e6igbrwsbGwms-ElKcszwzazLni<kEacveLobMn
eMof?eAuaMBfx!quof?eKDftLxd,uGafqeEvsxtzw;xB
e6icpevvuAtDs;xlctqyzlssNme:ftbvjethoBMm(%fKpw}
e6p+ffQgnRtQs/jlphbFEpfGMee+jlnAujDm
ePjfbxLlbEtgi&ozebjnEgbLtmi!rmzbcqGuh
e7ofgwrhosIfo!CtpugesuuBKzi!xApvbuwlqLtty:
e7qqpeLofsvws=qlujcyristQqw!gxppieLojLtBs=ja
e6pbvmwgxAChl!vxbegesgqHIwd|kCvguywy"wtxx@mf
e6icvexypFtyl^ftvpvjJ_tsunq!nmebvf\losuel;xF.
ePjfbhGtfsNtd-gzhwkxzaatHid*tpfgf	rtzsFtv% 
e6igbBJluvBjh!gzjocqroftPjh!lAsvjeKBdAtlv=gzt
e6icveLofBLeh*yoictlwgeBxew:xquejezptsFje:nqspbhGhu
eMmoqxLguHtgy/yFjpi	rhowtyl^fnjibwGBowtyi@xE
eOpwtxwkaHHjd@tAujgwrkpPHel*yljpptuloMtss|k
eUobrnLlpNMeg&gEf>bfFkaMBzw!ztfbjfAyzszts-
eYvejeEhsDyid=llujgeElmtHhl=rKaLcvMltm
e5uqqirvosNmi!kJutgrwzusPjv"klphbyzlaLQnj:fnsqqpl
eMviojFAjGAem:fIjvjeLlbKM 

J7LGbXWUJ8`dF;zlxjcyrzbBxeN@wGfu{
ePjfbmwgoHNeq=xmmkBjrAiBMew[kouceqwc

Lusuve4vswsT{!Eqt?bnFApsuex&uGtcpirzjFCqi|a
eRjtuylggHLel*ylxgguAuhsCsx=fFigbswleEyxw!yFsgcrh
e/QqqwrkfxL	(!wGpvjezl.s.yl=AlncmjKAattyi|zmngpy
eMtbytJseECsk|fpp?blACjGAex&EltwoeGmaFIwi
e6pbvmsAaPBng&ftbfbyGvaFOhl2-lujgslgcxCsk!ztftgesspGy	
eXfhvesuesuge+jAo&feGmaACxd<kxwgvexyjxHiw7
e/"VkxryjzBy\NfCvqvmrofit)x&AEaokxwyzsxtx&fBbtv
e6igbkDBysIkd$uyqcpDg_atHtr!gldctjDltLtmi/jf
eRvnneGmaMBjd[gEuwtjlgkNGuw!gxppietFaACr
eMofbswCfKtxx@EEavqeyyfxNel*sba&CD\grNIyl!Pmrwgxl
e/TygjHgpGneC=AlgcvesuesAwi@yKaekyAGfGM.
e/UkueBBtMtyl^frbujnGu;sQmi/krptgevvaRIzd-uAl
e7qqpeLobMtus=xlbpfetypDysd#gzltwuLguAywi9-
e6iwueEvtMtnr<koukxjDFaAyet*kDdgvmrAiKIzk&
e6igbgGkzsIkd:nqaeqzFAsRneg*zK.betMyum
e~fc?esuesIkd:nutbqzJgmBzj{!yIfctnFnaMBfx!Cq
eMsgbrwyfsOxy/vqsu?eLFstHyw!gzebymsA"LtBs/yq.
e6pbhwAniMtyl^fmokofDzatHid:ullknqrAixGey[
eUobvmwpssuxw*mz"fbfFkaGuym<kleygqDpozaup@iq?

J7LGbXWUJ8`dE+jlekfeQvvsFje<klikoeAuaMBnw!iAovgrHsbMCtr9

YqdqpirSpKxd1^fpjf?eEFaEIwh7fIfgrnFnatHid$uyngpyAuh
e7qqpeLofsMtf#ozhbfjwy?

J7LGbXWUJ8`dW&uIaogeLofsJqe$ka
eUanqAwguHths[klikoeAuaMBjw^fEvnnjFggBNx{
eRptbyzlosBj(|frvnneGmaFuyx^xg

Lusuve4vswsN(-rlctksygzHOex=ftjobxLybBAmx8

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe1P Ttws=sljpbyzlaIuqe$kg


e}FpvjJgE@5JdaXQEGTNUR.sQnx&fXptfxd

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeObpbnLgcxtus|yucngeLobMtss!smobufOguAyr 
eUubefFupMtgi2fEpogeNpmEunr|fAgboDrjpNLy
eMsgbtxgdHHxi+zlbpfeKBgyywe+iqakpeLojLo

Lusuve4vswsNd$gzoqvezlbKttj!gzzbvmsAawCid|kqajgwm
e6igbqskjxM	d&kDacvywuetHyw!urajgwrjitGgi/ 
e5bybmwyatvjh7fmofbnFguAyeq=xzjpiewhsES
e6igAexvvGxex&klcgfeMuuKyfw;xqebqkrAixCwd_oEutgxKb

YqdqpirSpKxdQ,fxptf	rAixtws,tutjbhDvxGnee:fIiqoeKvaHzy
e~pwteyybvyeA@ylxqpyrApsFfy"nfakuesstHtrm|yuoi}
eTjurjJpbmtyl^fBskphwzt,tli+zxfyqrsu.
eOpphjKzfLtyl@zltjgeKldKyyp,fA"gtmwhsw
e~pwtevhvzByi/fmofbmwyavIzw*tlnwemrjpFGjr%
e6igbusyuLtfr%fsscejKgpytyl^fIsguyDls
e6icvevpesvzx!rmugnDrmpBFex&kltkpjOFaVBfv-kE<
eMofbxzlauyqm^Bqt?bBzlsxPjv!ztfAbfJlazIsi7
e6icveQvvMBem|fEvtgqQgjGtyl^oDaeqrHhoRo

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe5fpfeLvaACxd#xAujgwhggxNhl!ztbvblssmtHyd&oFigt.
eUgbjjrifsugw^tF.bdwAuhsBnw!hDpvjjJguHtri3
eU"nneEhlxtmm_frjpfezpnhtis!ztjubxMkexHqC7
eMofbqwAaGIyd|kmsejesuesCsu;oEjvktFgrNunp
e6pbdwAuhsule*tlujgxwggHIqm|nlswpfOhzLo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe1PJrVjj=xqaQNN@LS,!el=AEf}


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	UlbpfeSKB6neq^kFjpi<

U4MCPI7fXAI)w!ztftga

GPBOa2zhumtrC!EAvpieEhtMyw !UfaoAeyloMFjd_gEugt^
e1aoAeKDfxNeq@yFft#e7gzHOeq^sAsA
e1gbqqvgTBLeV=Cxbpf^rDiRneA&gFaocpwgzHOel^xq}
e9iAbfJlaRIzd<oDuwqzKcaPBDd%ulqgquDlaEIAi!EAv{
eMofbBzlsxztv^fmsgbDGBazysx-kfauvwGuhsush!BmmkcsLc
e9iAbBGBmwtDs;fnfbutrmpGxex=fAwgthGtf
e6igbgGuoRtuv*yqsbqkrAixtmy_uDpwuevBlxp
e~pwteHybBMjd*yldqojrApHtxA*lFmAbmGtfsvjj=xqaAqzm
eWoqyeQvvsHtx7fybuvjJaaMIew=sqamksvgpytri+
e6igkwrnstwjw!yqsxgeLofFtgy:fmtbgswtjxMa
eZpbotJlawIeC=ADt<bDGBssPnv:Aqt?blwuuEyeq@yFft?
eMsgbxsudMCkm^jlbpfezvmRtyv@oFptueLvaRIz	
e1.bymsAattBs/rpakueLojLneA&kzayjfLgjLths_kxz
eQoxgsGttsBnq!ztbvbgwhsLtnxH

U4MCPI7fXAS	d>nmu&ueLofsGfx:kD}

GPBOaTrBoAuut,fKpwvm/
eOpogeFvusQnx&ozavjjKlawItv|?lxkvmAuaMBnw!xAph
e6igbjFlnRttj!gxmbAtMyazLfg^ylmkxjK?
e~pwtetypMBjvT/zp?bsGgcKIyl^xbaAgyrAixtxs+/\
e~fvbsGAaMBjd|uz.bKeOpmEtss:fobnnezpnsMtr
e1gbjnEgJsQfw!gnpwveLvavuqp!nutbhfLofKa]
eTbvjezlbKxeC=ADartfAzfLnee+jlujkxrujzByd&klngcsK
e6pbdzJuaMBjd-uphkplrDixLjd,uGawujrApsFni
eMofbDGBaPCyl*tljv<eAmaAyej@oxaqheLobMn
eTfbynDsaAuAi!uFigteElbGMex=fovvbDGBaHzk	
eUaqxjJoftLid&oyacpirojLtuv@iFjugxm
e6ikueAzaGIet-gof>byzptsBty|kljubgMAattgy:itftA,
eMcjqwrpumtki@xljv?evvaGIyd^tFftbnLb

U4MCPI7fXAS	d>nuujgwlgBwur{!CAvnfxLguAIzd&gHfbojrnpo

GPBOaSGgntNyi/fIikvmwy.sMtd,uGaeqrwgoHNel^xq?

U4MCPI7fXAuy{!CAvnfxLguAIzd&gHfbojrnpsush!hqhboDrmpHxa
e1sbynLoattge|klbpfetvjLNjv=AEauytJkaxHks/iq
eMavjnwCjLBep*BuoibtFguAyeg=syppbwGheo
e6ikue1gnNMyd%ufaqteCupPtss:fIicveLvawI,
e~fvbyzpts3eA*rxapqyrkpmtis!nAxbKeuhoi
eUatcyzlssQnp-fEvdljuAaFyex=fFigbrssjvy
e1gbcevpwxLyi%fnmqqirhowtgp=upzbdwGAixL 

GPBOaGMAawIer=zltq}e1gitPjd'oHfbjzFksxxeg/uIou?
e6igbyzyjyNDd&oDfbKeKhwxxey+jqsbAtMyayuyl^xf
e9ikemrPawCid|zAsgbyGgcxtrC!lAtvgw	uvKMj
e9igpeKlsOChi!ytpwnirposGDd=rpankrtzaECjd-gyf
eMofbzFyfzuwh^jlbigeAuavIwr^xEavjwGDoh
e6bmgeLobMnee+jlIgbyzhusxtx&fFigbwsCfGMej^kp.
e~fc?eHypOCii+zxzbefLlsLtks/fFigbxHhsKIB{
eNfbetEmpKNex=fyzbclw"a1ywi!oEavjjrnpEx.
eMofbfDsaMBnw!OlhkxjrFpNoeP^zlngbgwgzHOwd|kDwcpyg
e6iqwlzgJsFts)fAmf?eQlus3ee_fEutqsygbGxep;yFz>
eRptbnFgnRtDs;ztaKbswCfKtim%fmqrnD
eTpvbfFkaKygi-rupwueDprNIww!ozaoAetspHx	
eZptbiAkaGIyd>oFibwsthtAzzp!lAsgjjskaPIt
e6igbrwhoLttj!CqbmpjKzatHid%knjnkyQ}
e6igtjxvsxtrC!gsfbkxrhtsuep;yFzbynFAfKn
eRsquyQaauOyd)ozenA,rsfMtri!mAaykyzgzHO.
eU"nnevvaMBjd|kDwkejrvgsueC=AzhgteEho
eUobcqDgzHOwd#AEjpgxKgbGxer^iqtukyAltn

U4MCPI7fPsAts%fAmfbrsu.sBtA!CqmnbnFguAyjd@vBfctx
e6igbhGutMusx!yqsxkhwgpytyl^fmovkvMlaPIwp% 
e9igpeKlsOChi!yIfcvexvssxzx, loqvexvssGji%'
e6iqwesyusHtx!lAsbvmwggtMmm=tlphbyzltxtym_kE.
e9igtjrupGyeA*rxauyjsAauOyd'uDarttEvuBIs{
eMofbmsCjGAex&gF.bftrjiHEjd:nqjtbxwywBwjd;v
eQwgpeOpuAtyl^ftbxksy?aBNem|fzpvbxGgxBNmd:nqf}
eNvv?eHvpKttp%fybp?eLopNtuv;tqtvbfrypMNjr!zDfg?
e6icveuhoGIyd|ulnwemrhtsuef-uEtqoeQpfEx
eUobnnwBaHzee-rlujAeHhjGMee+jliwugsueKS
eNvvbhGtfsNmC!Cmzu>eOlmEtls!gxppieLvhxNmi/ 
eMofbjJlaPyel@BqavjDrFpNNmj;rlxcijKgtIysx7
e9f&nqrsjzByd;vAobutElaLyyx-kpanqBrjpGNjr:a

GPBOaRszuxL	d"ulpp?esues3eA*rxahqqDvxsNmi^ 
e6pbvmwgmtMyd"gEq?bBAAisNwy:nlbpfeDvztFyC8
eRsqoeKlwxHyi^tlzgcwKguBFqd+uIacnrGzuszty/yoptg
eTftgeDpwxxeM7fnvvbsGDaECAi!nqsgbsGgnHLj	
eMubujNloMyjr!EqbtueEhoRtyl^oDahqwLBoxMew^kw<
eNvvbfLggHOww$uDfbkyrptsNts!rmugbfrDfxE,
e~fvbkGyuNHjd$gzoqveJldHGui+yqaogetluMyw
e6icpeLvawCjd>kxmbcsvgoHNeq,fybuvjJ_tsxjf:uD?

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe13 !BjdauDfuveGmaTLii+a


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPahqwrNbGSri%kfaEGQ1HayIwd?rufpc	
emofbY72D1!YSiK{

X1TCNN6K 8tOy[oFft?ezvxsQje/ElbtgeEFaLJnv*zE@

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd$gDfbptLggHLeq,fEqktnLz.sCkd_ElmgixrDfKyer=zlxgcwQb

X1TCNN6K 2ths;rpahksvgjGtrC!nqbtveLvawCxk/gofboDrtbG.x
emqrcwwsatHid:uldtAeDplxtfd>uybp>etBus3eq;yFaeqrxvsM
eFigbBwhlxLez^yEfn?eszawIzf-kFacpiropLyes;mtubvtrziHQ
euuugqxgdHOwe"kAvubyGgqxNym$umu<byzlsxztv^fopwtfyl.
espqfeSsjxHf%

IQMKCd1gqKuDd,uG.bdjsyaPCyl!sq<bKeuhoGIyd"uloqbkMyuAyw	

Z1VEJX`VOXsKs/fyzbrfJA.s3el@jlscvmwyauyfv!CuujbDGBaMBfr!hqbt
eKpw>eQlus3ew&uGmfbgwhssHtd$xAtubnxgJsxnh!hqbtbDGB.
erptbNrAiBHpd,uGajcAwgoHtrs+kKakpeQvvKtuy/yq?

X1TCNN6K $yqp7fFikueAzaMBjd'uDfuveGmaTLii+a

Z1VEJX`VOXsFC7fzpybfEgJsCsd?xpfp>eLofsGtv^frpqne1}aPBjr!Olxcu
emubjtEl.s3eA@yljpbfrifMNjv!vxbeg,rivMtyv@BqmngwK
eyvuvetlavIsx^tF?

X1TCNN6K TS	d#kltq?eyvpwtYs;ittvqswb

e}FpvjJgD8`NR!gzebUN43J@!<

eXpqmeQvvmtBl=fopogxrofKy.d@fKpwplrtbGtfr%fmobqqvgjG
eEpngrFgutFp	

I1SKPd`obMtnw!ztfbyfQguHtre)kligteKjpKHeC=AltvkqDb

YUMXKZ~fPsWtv*tfavjfLguAIzd)tqx&uyropPtNd%ulmqxjrofK:

I1SKPd1gqtLyp,fsvguxhggHLeM!nmwgbqGCfwtjv^fzpy}

YUMXKZ~fOHneG=xuo?bgwpozttp% lujqzrjbGMyd+uFaiwjKz.
e6iqwlzgjGtyl,fKpwvmrAiHOeA@yFacueLyvxtfd-uHft
eMtbgAwyaLCllNjlvrqsrhaFCir*mtubrnDspPi
eNvvbnxguASep=BqaygwwgfOywd-owfbvtrtjGy][
eMtbuzJla2tyl*twafkirufOywd_gzanqAwgtHa]
eTpybrsuzsuhx*uztbotKAaKCim$Axpwu
eTbuveLopNtgi^tletcBFguHtgC!ztzbhfFAbLSa

I1SKPd1uuHtfd:nAvucsvguAuyddftbxgexvszIyx^tg

YUMXKZ~fPmtyl=AlekfxLguAysd+k/ftbqGCfsMtd&kmsvkqQ"
eUgbvmGBaKyri_hqs&uyrupMtyl^fEmkimLltMtks-rK
e6icvewCfKtqs<klekfeEhlxtyl^klswpeAuuHn
e6iqwezhtMtss:fxpxgig
e1sbkkrAiHOel@yFapqyrzbMtfw!OleqbsGD.
e9fctDAuhsNmC!nqbtgwrposNmC!sutvtjKz"sJwe*yq.
e6iqwezhtMtss:fxpxgig
e1sbkkrAiHOel@yFapqyrisHEjd'xAnbetEwbGS
eMctwuLszmtfw!sKarcxKppGtss>fybmgxrtfm
e6iqwezhtMtss:fxpxgim
e1aRjjtl.s0mi#kfaRjjtl@

e}Fzkyd

X1TCNN6K TFfw7fBpqteKofIBjv%'ltgcwuojGAes'fFiAbBGBown
eUajcAwgcRtme/jlbfxjFAvKyej=AzebonFlaHQs	

Z1VEJX`VOXsFr%fUaokswba2twi_kycgt	rDixHeM!CmtbksrspOyeM!hDpmg
eyzbuBGyesOus+fmauvtFlatHid#opajkrrAbDyex&gFahqw
eopoksygb Hnk&zluqbOsufs!rm-kbacpirPaKyri_hqsbvmw
ewjuunFnaHzel^xlccvqwAatHid:nqaeqB\zawOlw!ztbvbmwy
eBsgvyQgdAIux!nmofuezhesGnp)kp<bcsvgJsLjq^snftbyzl
eIpqksygpytfd[kmteqirpoLNje%fAgbjjJaayLtq!CtpobNrApHE
eFxqbhGktsush7fsjxksygixLex&kyacifAu.sMfm%fIjvj
eIfgrnFnaMyfv|f/XgcwrAixMjd'uDaoAeKhlxo)drklujcyrhsx
eFswgeDvwxLxd/AzakpyGgtMLfr"kldcrjJz<svzx!gEacnqrpt
eyptvfDgjGtse:ADf?bxGgjLtfp-fzbvwwwgjGtqs<klnqtyssaBHej=rxz}

X1TCNN6K !Bty!yBfcmjKAaPCxi/fFicpeLopNtfv:fIbtgeGm?

Z1VEJX`VOXsSe, lJbumssmsHj(^xlcgbBsyfsIkd_ozfbqBFgxBNex*rxaK
ensgcprtzsMmm+ylbicnFzusCy	

X1TCNN6K 3IAi7fVpxg^rAiBMew&kBigti\zaIuxw*uz
eUtbozuoaNJtr!sKahcxzppGo

Z1VEJX`VOXsFr%fyjpg.rivMtnx!mDpyueKvnxNmm+mltvcqwgxBNmd_kg

IQMKCd1gqKuDd,uG.bqswgpytDs;fCvguyAvosStr%fybp
eUgbjjrmpKtls-jlxknqrnjOyey|fmoAbkGveh
eUahcnFAatFrs|zluqbiwhuAo

Z1VEJX`VOXsMs-rm.bAtMgdEIBrH

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^ lgqqqggix.xd+uFavjDrrjGMre+a

I1SKPd#opswfp-yh

Z1VEJX`VOXs4s;xlcgvywytmtxm/a

I1SKPdrgasted!flabbergasYqw^fmsgbyzlzsPjv,fIsgvhzlen

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^ lJbufQbaZIth!kHfpbyGgzHO	d'xufpf 

I1SKPdSuesNtd,uG.bijFAmxtxm/ lbpfeLvaRIzd@rx?

X1TCNN6K 2tuv*ztfg?eKofIBjv% ljhbyzhusFtz^fAsbitDk
eObpbnFguACxd%kEftveHsbvyef;ElfpvjJAbBHri+zf
eNskplrBtsQmi/klxgbrsFaKyxx!uGsugqNltsush!lqff<
eTftg)KgbsSty+mlnckirDjMBex/gHfnbrMjisIut/kEt&f
eMofbkspoMMej=xltwehGy?

I1SKPdXhjKtxm/ lJbrnLFaAyw
eMofbBAzimtks/ftftbxsrfsGtv^fFicpexvssGnr^fAxp?
eYzbhtJAvGyxd>kDfbotJlatvqi!zAatgqAlwxtmi/?
eNvvbNrhnsMmi[nqsfbyGgbGIyl^xlncp
eMofbiGgoHNew&kmsbvmwggEyjg^ylujcyrPazLfD^.
eYzbofKAfKtnw!uraejzJsjLBeh*yBpukyAvo
eMofbqAAuEyev^iwtbvtrmjGxex&klxcAeLvaAyfz^t
eNzbftAuhsxji%ylphbmGzqBNfp*zK;
eNfukiwz.sBnw!iAug?ezptszqs$qEacpiripNHiw!urahgjv
eMsgbsGDaHHew@rq.bcsvgbMtty/fEigguuvuxtss> 
eNzbtjszpGttj!nutbcgKlovy	d:nqsgbnKgoHNmm+m
e6icveQvvsQnp-frfgfeGu<svzx!CtbvbnKaavIri!yqf}
eMofbnFgnRtAs*iqaoqxLgxxFhs_kltjcqDgzHOef^a

X1TCNN6K $Bfx!oEajgeLobMtxl@rxadwDrojLtkp=iwacpirwbLNzv^b

I1SKPd`obMtDs;tsauyfAuaMBfx!EAvbufOgixLjd#AFagtjOojEy	
e6icveDpuMFjd$gDfubkGyauODm+mlbpAeLojGA 

X1TCNN6K 2tuv@Elujgjlgjytnx!yFbpfeOpuAtms+kEuA?
eNvAbyzvvsNmi!iAuvclwaaIuxx;xqacpirAixtkp=iw.
eMofbyzvvsMme-zlicxjrApsJfC!lAsbkyrvgsOx	

IQMKCdSuesQjd>oxmbojFkaMBDd>gsfu}e1gmBEjd:nutbrqsjfn
eMofbBAsmBHlp,fopwnirDbLNjd_ElukojrposCy
