ORLANDO	There was no thought of pleasing you when she was
	christened.

JAQUES	What stature is she of?

ORLANDO	Just as high as my heart.

JAQUES	You are full of pretty answers. Have you not been
	acquainted with goldsmiths' wives, and conned them
	out of rings?

ORLANDO	Not so; but I answer you right painted cloth, from
	whence you have studied your questions.

JAQUES	You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
	Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
	we two will rail against our mistress the world and
	all our misery.

ORLANDO	I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
	against whom I know most faults.

JAQUES	The worst fault you have is to be in love.

ORLANDO	'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
	I am weary of you.

JAQUES	By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
	you.

ORLANDO	He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
	shall see him.

JAQUES	There I shall see mine own figure.

ORLANDO	Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.

JAQUES	I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
	Signior Love.

ORLANDO	I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
	Melancholy.

	[Exit JAQUES]

ROSALIND	[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
	lackey and under that habit play the knave with him.
	Do you hear, forester?

ORLANDO	Very well: what would you?

ROSALIND	I pray you, what is't o'clock?

ORLANDO	You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
	in the forest.

ROSALIND	Then there is no true lover in the forest; else
	sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
	detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.

ORLANDO	And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
	been as proper?

ROSALIND	By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
	divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
	withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
	withal and who he stands still withal.

ORLANDO	I prithee, who doth he trot withal?

ROSALIND	Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
	contract of her marriage and the day it is
	solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
	Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
	seven year.

ORLANDO	Who ambles Time withal?

ROSALIND	With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
	hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
	he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
	he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
	and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
	of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.

ORLANDO	Who doth he gallop withal?

ROSALIND	With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
	softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.

ORLANDO	Who stays it still withal?

ROSALIND	With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between
	term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.

ORLANDO	Where dwell you, pretty youth?

ROSALIND	With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the
	skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.

ORLANDO	Are you native of this placel}

X1TCNN6K TMex&kldqpDrAitNeC=AltggevDfEFeA&kDfbumwgjLtpm+jxff}

U4MCPI7fZHOwd@iofpveAzaLIri:nuoibkAufKtyl@tlzqweuvvEx
eBvtemszfsCsd|ulsgotNlesueh>kxmkplm

X1TCNN6K 2tme<klcggsrApExew=fAgbofFF;svzx!ozeggirhosIqh
eDfnklAvvLtzr$rqaqheEpoxtye;mtubojrApsMui@qfayjtrDbL
euobjnKgzHOyl!gzakpqsuesGfr3fAogbyzhusEsi>fopwtyKojI
eFpqbBwsmmtks/fFigtjrofszjp-fuobntNl?s3el@BqajgfJk
etjobwwhesGfr,fxfevzJltsule*tEubkylgbGxeM!ztbpmeYve
eUacoeFvusueA=smo?byGgcxtys;itffbBAAisMtd_gzz
esjffDrvgyysg^ylbubmwgitNmd"kzftcqDFaMuCi%fFigkw
eIiqnjrzfQtBm:nmm}

U4MCPI7fDtHeC=AlsgojEifKtfr,fAgbvmwgqKCsg*vmmbgAAstsNme:ftf
exbkfeLvaMBjd$nmsigeGmaPIri+b

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^fIftgeFvoxtuv*tojrcqhguAyDd>kDfbcqDgmBEjd=tq
emoqvmwyatMel@rr_rgsulatLj{!kHftAeGufszfy-zltggrAuh
eyppuyJvvLtym-rlikuexlmEIBd'gGmvbhstfsNtd_gFdjbnLb

U4MCPI7fJsJwm:nqf?bwwjpNHyd|uyfbqkrAixG 

X1TCNN6K 7I	ddfIjnneFvuswfw:fmxcAeEFaIBDw*ilcwveGuaMBtw^fFicv
emsgbxAjlntYl^xqakuesgntHel@AzuubyzlayIwi|zfavjfL
emcwujKgpNLeC=AzhbrqsuuLtBm:nldctAAuhs.Ws|gxjpf)rvo
eFigkwribKEx,!nmoiueGkfLtzt=tlicyyzvsGMee+jlfnglAlt
eAobdwstcEyx{!gxm?bkGytHIyl7fpfkhDAuhsNmi!tmngbtx
e4pucqAuehtnj!Oldqwqvgnxyyd:nmubhfFjz Gtr"kDaKbBGBmw
esjxgezpnsMtq^fspqfeuvvGMjp7frptbmwgtxyrw!zAajcAwguAy
eCvqvnvpbGttj!rAwgbzHvosBnq8

U4MCPI7fJsurd&klujcyrptsMtd-uHf+umsrfwieM!vDbAbDGBaMyqp!sq
eKpwteJlnxxD	

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^futbptFlaHzeq,fGoenj\zaFuwo|fGqqpeQvvhtmi
eFbwimLgnxtms>fFpbmsGDattre+fuobntNl<sCsd>nudjbhsnf
eAgbtzKofLtNd@sltwtjrFpNtfv^fzpvbuJptHHjv8

U4MCPI7fXAuyd>kDfbjnKgntLpw9

X1TCNN6K Ttqi@tldjgjCaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadnzwgfRyee+j
eEvpmjFaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmobwsIBfLNns+gnmg
eEqktnLaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadgfJkaGylp^iFff?
eIikemrFpNtme<kloqv.rivMtNd[gDeqpeQvvsztv!ztbv?exvs
eEjorqQgzHOwd&gHjpieAuauyfv%futbceQvvGAjv!hDpvjjJ_t
eDfxgsMl;sNmi+fKpwtezvtxtxl=AxebdjrBozuwx^xqe?bDGBs
enpppjLgvGvfr%kp.bAtMyaLFji<klvpdzLApGyi{!EAvtbxzvf
eGovkjvgbGxei<kDzbvmAuhsugs;zlzqwevlnHHxx/gFjpies
eobtgqwztsxjw=rmukqshgcNNeC=AlbtgeFvaLOhl!smo>bDGB
emsgbwsAixLet=ozu+fjNpdxtnr!EAvtbfujpNNwi_kzuubfK
expxksygzHOww^rravjfFgtxyrm+mlujgeDvwxLes'fmoAbtLofKo

U4MCPI7fGtCwd,uGuj?e1gxHOqh!OldqwqvgntEjd:nqfbdjDpfOyeM!rAwg}

X1TCNN6K 6yef^rufxgeAA@sSty!smzbcxrzpHHeq@qqajgwrAitNeC=A
expxgetlmByAi!oF<bymAjimtNd>gDscpylgtAyem|fmqvgwrAp
eppbvmsuaMIeg=trfuueKofsxti|.lujcyrptsIsi!uravjj
eBpkpyKgjGtyl^fIikemrDpFysd|zumnblACfsNmi!rufbvt
eFigkwrjpGMhm^tofu}eTBumtnr!mApfbxGvuAnee/klzqwezl
eFicvezhozMex&klwgtxwzaHHex&klutgjKaaPBjv^ozaTqxssjGx
eutbutrheFCwi%b

U4MCPI7fJsMBi@xluqbyzlfmtDs;zt.bdDrAixtBl*zqajcsvgpy
e4pucqAuemtNd@slujcyrofmtyl@zlvphtJAvGuyi!nq?

X1TCNN6K UOyd@xqaAqzrzpsGzg&fuobntNlatMeC=ADatjDEltsMui@qh

U4MCPI7fOxCyl^xlsjArwgoHLev^gEppbhsuaxRuv^yEajqBrtvvB 

X1TCNN6K 5IAi!oEaogwwszsueq@jzfuu	rhowneM!zqmnbDGB.sxjw^xHfu
emtbyjDsattie/qliqwxwgbGxee!CtjrbfKgntxri+fpp<bfFk
eFigbwwhtHHeA&ElujgDrhsxtss:fEpbrzFptAyid@tpaewwwk
eut?byzhusNmi!rGoceDrptsMtd=xpjpcwQguAuyd:nqayjnHwfKM
emsgbnFgmHPjd:uA?b1jLgJsJws'kEtbezJpoztnx!hKaeqzFzfEo

U4MCPI7fEBxeC=AlfxgwrjvKyee+Eltq{

X1TCNN6K ^yx{!uzf?bfFkaBHex&oEaocsFlsntMi!CmtbvtrpntAnr^fyf
etjubqGCfmtmm|fyjuvwwztitfr%fUaugyrojFtjz^xKafcDrAp
eIpqbrw?atNeA&ooibvnElaPIzp%fU.bdjAuhsvzx!glnqqsAzi
eKpwvmlghKCjz^ lcgbjxmfFCse:kfaejfFnftvqi7fxppinFn
emofbqArjGA	d[xAvf?exhoMuxx*imm?bfHptAnew&gxmqy	
euoeqsKAbGN	d'AxmbqkrAftLx{!lGmnbtxgtFCqi| lgqtewCfKS
eBbuunGuaLIri:nuoibfFkayIwd+ulqcuxAvosNwy-ElbpA
eFikpllgbLtgs,ylbpfeOvnxHee/klgqteLofsGtw:fBbtv
eobvvqwgpytyl*yldqntMy<sQty-jloqyeDplxtmm_ loqyeDvbMBj
etjo>eLofGtjr:kDucksrojFnex&kzahqwKDftLel*sbapqBrDfxJ
erptbmAt.sNmi+fEqkvesAaACr,!ztbvbNrkstPjd_EltwkyGy
ersqoezptsGfh!nGnqwwrvgsFtz^fFpbceDpwBHld&AypwteGm
eybfpjKz<sQmm$nlxcu	rApsztv|CqbtbyzlayOqp!yFsgcrrvg
eFigbBGymwnee+jluqbqACfsCsd@fzpqmeElsxFDd_uzbuvnub
eMofbyzBts3eg;xqebjnE}atHid:nutbyfQgxBFqddfFbmgeMwpG
eyfbvtrDbLBeC=ADankAwyatMeg-kmobcxrhaLIzr%fEiggu\z
etfctylguAuyd:nqsgbxzhmEtss:fnfbqswgtIIyd=llmqxjrpo,N 

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvetlavOwi% lzqwyzb

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaewwwgzHO	d*llzqweOvvExef;zldcnqrtfs`tw@ruof
emofbhGtfsyAi/ElecAeLvaFSeg=zqacpirDpHtri8

U4MCPI7fOHQ	d#ElujgexhjMBes'fyzbntNl.s3eA*rx;bvjDsaFy
eIigtjrpusCx	

X1TCNN6K ZIeA*ztaogeLvaBNee+jlJ&nqrziHQem:fKpwbfFkauSex&klxcA
eKpwbxzhmEtyi-rlngbBzlsxtnr!ztfbhtJltMtDs;fxjxg 
e9jnneQvvsAt 

U4MCPI7fXBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN	d"uAebAtMAin

X1TCNN6K 7uDd,uGaowxLgdtFqd_klSqufDpowoeG=sq.bunKAfKneA*rxaAqzrnpo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5baLCV!LTsvjl*tp/

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_klbrchwaazIth!GGetgDggJsQnp-frfvemrBqsSty/
espcvxlgBNxwi,alBpfezvxmtFy%xqz{bfEgJsNmi!smobAjLc
eppvjeEFaLCrt-klggcyMyfswtr:kzubAtMc

G7ETG4q6pNLej^gFvtgx/gMHLid>gDscpyrBt|tBl@zlggcyMyfL:

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd@sligtjrDjMBex&kqacpirAiRtls@zE.bcxrAixtrs|z
eobrtnuppNMet=kF.bjtFltMtTz*jfaycxrhnHHld:nqaIqyzz?

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflPbmsGDmxxli!oxm+kszhcBNjh7fIptujrAitHeN=Bq
euobceLobMwmi%ftpwuj/

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l^tlbbofF_tsPjv|kEaecsFvusvjd;tpftuyGvemtss/fm
eybp&xrnpHxeA*zltgetFkfwtBm:nlujgexvsPuwh!itjnf
e7ofgwKAbGxnr" ljvbxLyjDyxd@fybpbrGyfsxje%fFicpes
essgcyryfvEtr*tsakpesgmBNyp^fDpqo r1sNFD{!Olxqwqv
eFigblGktsBfh!smegbyzlfsJti:oobn}

G7ETG4qPawIer=zllpqBrDitNe([uqukefD_aBM,d*yljvbmGufLNem+
epfgfesuesQtv%bljubnLgbsNwy^fFikpln

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDhggHLex&klutwjKAaIIjx/EljubyzlaFIxx
erfkisAuhitfr%fxpxgwKgbKyek*BqobvtrwpxNwC7fmofbBzhu
eFigAeKDftLem+fBpgvwQgntSef^fEbkfeszaEIAi/ylujgDrkpszjm"tg

G7ETG4qKpsSty!CutjbyzlosNme:fFigblGktsBfh!smegbrwgqHyym$gx}

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd%ufavtzDF<sztv!ztpwbxOlbKyxx!zAaogeLopNtfv:
etppgxL?aGIB{!oravjtMgxxLyd@fBpgv	rPaFCll:ftbxgeKvnx
etprgeLopNtim%yFahgnyu?

G7ETG4q4pNFid,uGapqyrobOyeq^ftppgxLc

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDlgvGFjw|fFiqweOlsMtme/j\gcxtMyfwjej=x
etppgxLFavIzt-kpavqetlbNNDd*yluqbmsCfsBtr^ElbbufMjfsNtd|Asbt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflBbofLlsBuqd'uAm#

G7ETG4qgXxFq{!OlbobsGAayunv3fmofbyzlsxztv^fUartfQguAyek=jE
eybmgeElaAIsi|zg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bcsvguHthe|zlbycDropGyxx,fGqqpesggHOqd|rGu
eIftgeLvaIOyd"uAebojsAaBHys!gzawphDlbGtim|ng

G7ETG4qPatGer=zlbbuqMA.sNms;mtaKbyzhoDtyl^fspfue1gbFtks;rg

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i-rfartfAzfwtgi!ztfbitvzayIwd:nKahqzDufLM^
eEmwvyAziGyxw!smzbetElaAywi@lFft}eTBusvjd*zlbubnLgntS
enf?bNrDjEFeq@xDzbvmwl.sush!zAavjfLgfGxeM!nmwgbgwlo
eIjvje~pss9qm<kDaOcwLlyMnex&klwkefJgpytyl^fzfzv
eHjnnfyl.sQms!nmujbuJvnBMjh!zAaogjLgnxtnr!ztjubuDhdx
eAgbvmwggHLjw:fmofbyGgdHOup^fGt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflJbytMseszfm+fEfgbyzptsGji:ozh}

G7ETG4q4fEF	d:nqaiqiKghBPjd;ylkqA^

Z1VEJX`VOXsFq^tgaCbrsuaFuD{!orajgeOlsxttj!glggcwxBmsBje/zf
eEucilwyaBHex&oEacvywtqMjej=xligtjrDfsBfz^fzpbvjEwmx
envvbyzlaPIth7fzpbcxKlnuFDd#AFajqwF|cxuxx|alCwveOobM
eFiqwlzcaVIzv@mq@bCxropKHxd@xqaqfnGBtmtyl^Elbtg
ezfegxKhsRoeM:futbufAk.s.re+ElbbofFglGIBw!tAagpirvg
etjublGveLi)d/osiv>eEhoRtfd_gzajcxrnpHxel=xzt?bfFk
ewoqyxrupsysh!uravjjEba$yqp7fFicveAzaMBjd%uIsAbtx
etjubBAmfit)x*yloqpjrvgsBnw!uIobijLAjGA dcuDou{
eQwgpeKv?s0ts/fyfpbfDvoxpeR= loq>eLofsHtf-kEubfjwy
etbvjeLofFtfw!nGhgbfKguAyev@yobn}e1zaMBjd|ozhngeEho
eFigtjxvsxtgp^yEff{e6v;suxd@fIbnnjvguHQsd*ylnqtj
eIptvmAlssNme+fmaxkqDhhxnew=futbvmwggHLjl^gpaqhes
eybttnwkaFusd_uDfbjtFvvKugp^fFicpeLofsvfv^fnsqyeGmat
enbejjDvsitfr%fnzbjtOgnNwmd%krfpejrptsvjx:kDavjfFgoH
eElknqlgcRtxs!sGdjbnKgbsBtv+fyptgeHyfvCty|fFicpeLv
eIbpv rOfKyeg=sqtbUnJgPECAi/a

e}FpvjJgT2`eSgO8FTbRSYUX^Y;

e5jtbTDpwxLeQ@xFfzv	rFpNtfv^fIfnneEluhtBm-rlzqw
epjurfLjisOxd&kDfbwsvlssNmm|fFsgg	rvssMme-rlxgblG
eIjvjeQvvsNtd,uGsbemswfEp

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaNKguAywi!tAogbmwyfsNtd"oHfbvmwgxHGfr9

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd>oxmbptLgutEjd&kDaqpeypgMttj!gzzbofFb

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaYJBmRnew&klnwuyrifsAnz^tfaqteLofsGfv/omhgbnKgoHNep@Crvn}

PMRWGXq>BwPfr$ozh|

e2sqejwk.sJws$kqeaK)DsazCAi!nqs}

Z1VEJX`VOXsLs=jlfxgslghHIidhgEugte#obMaDiTimmn&yggiHQeh=fKpw?
eEjt{e%vvsuwi!BqsAbBwsmsGjx2fSpfb)AsesSty!lAsbAtMy
exbuveuvnIusC2fUacoeNlsRtlp@jluqbxwlaRIz\!kHfpbf
eFpAbnFgitHid&kDf?bxAy;sHfC7fBscAetlavIAi/kp?

PMRWGXq4jEFeC=AlcgbrsysByi{!sAungDn

Z1VEJX`VOXsFw!ztfbqCrobMBel*ylcqy	rzjKnex&kliqtxwgiBMeg;xnacpi
eFigbkssdHHel^xlcgnqKaaLIeq@tlicvmrojLtii|oDfu>esue
emtbrnylpGMef*rx.butrDfwFtg)fIpwnirifsHnf#ruoi}

PMRWGXqHowtBm-rlzqw	rifBHld@fybpbtxgzHOwd#xqffksyaauy
eybttnwkaNHii/fmadwxzgmBEjd@fnfiifJcaZyyd,uGavq
eoiwthzaatHid&gHfbceyvpwtuv*kEubvmsAavusd:kxmbAtM
eIicveEhsKCfk^fut<byzptszjp-uIaykqDgcNNen=ozaAqz
eFpigyzlssuxd:nqzbltAuaPunr|iAu>byzlosIsi!uraAqzrDjEF
eBsqxjrhaLBwy+qlqcpjDgbGx	d-owfbiwwlosNnq#kD.byfJw.sQfv[a

Z1VEJX`VOXs;E|opf|be1gbFtss:fuobvmwgnBHid#AFaKbBwyfsvjx:kDavqetl
eybttnwkaHzel*slujcsrvgsuss:nqs<bkGyaAyem|fzpvbqArf
eFpbofJyzsGjd>kxm>bfFkaGIyd#kuoibBwsmsGfv/oqe?bnL
eIjnnetlattls=jlfzezKlayIwd_kligtjsmuxLex=fxfcxjrtzsQnj^a

PMRWGXqNpsNms;fIjvjeEl.sush!rqubojrjpNHxi-fFigg 

Z1VEJX`VOXs)G=sq.buBwlusUzh/kK;
e9fbozKAauyeq@xDjgf	rvssQjd_AEubnnNlaBHef@CpsA}
eRbtgBwsmmtls=jlNcuywya8Fnz^xaapqyl|_
e1auyjwAa8Fnz^xf
e1adtfNla8Fnz^xf
eXfcxjrtfsHtx!hqikpirAixy,d#AF.++
e9jpfesDbRn
eNfiqswaa2txe, 
eUaykqDgoHNex=fIfffnFnaPCyl!ztfg}

e}FzgzFAa3UVY YfaVQZUOT!9SI!gzebCZVYF^f

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVa)`ptsHtd_gFugt,ruf,ywd@frbpvfKAjvuqd)tmwgbtxguAyr
emmnbxzhmEtkp=AFaogeGBusIkd_EldcnqAuhn

e}Fzkyd




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe13 !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 7yAi/fFbnmeLvaFy.ddfIjnneOlfIo

IQMKCdVv.s3et/oFigg.rivMtDi:ftbxgeLofsAwe$kluqbhGutBxjv
eFicveLlbKMeh=fzpvbgwjpFyee!smo}

X1TCNN6K UOyd&gHfbKeFvuswfy|kluqbBwlqo

IQMKCdSzazIth!imvugeszaHHjd>uGmfbiwzjKy.d:nqsghtJlaPyjt8

X1TCNN6K 1Cxd<kDzbjfAyaBMes'fFigbiAztxGgp*tsaeqqGBsn

IQMKCd~vnxNmm+mlctqBFlssNme+fVvfcx\zaFuwv, likueCptLyxd@xq
eVvfcx\zaHQsd$numftjFb

X1TCNN6K 2.ej@oFi?bmAzaAunv!oEaqhesghHIid$uxpwt 

IQMKCdSuaxRhi-rqovbhGspNL,d,uGsbemwzuGOyd>gEagxjJguAyes+rKaeqqGBsn

X1TCNN6K THid&oEamkxKpoztnw!gEahwqDgpytxe+iFjvAeszaMBjd:uGdj
eAgbjtDFauLje%a

IQMKCdZlaAuyl!hAvijyrhaIunv!uraecxLgmBJxd=llEkcss?attsy+
eAgbynFAfK.xd|oEugtmGvesEnw|kEapqyrtpKyev^ruhkqzKszi
eFigbAwyzsChi!uraejfKAjMSem|fuobvmwt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd>nKafkirofsMBi@xligbBGBmwths_klujkxrtpKHnr" lbpf
eopogxrupMp

IQMKCd6hzmthi/zmjpnDlguAywi!oEapqeLyvMBem+ftjo}

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AlujksCgtHp

IQMKCd%ltitNd:nuombmwgjLtss:fmarkhC|qNLxi!tAsbc
etptuj	zuxuqi/ lcwvexvssBnw!BqskvDrposFtz^ lJbft
eFikpprojFtfw!iAoecAwgbLtfd$uHftgirnpuFjx!uDac
eIpto]whuxHer;zg

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd:xGfbksrspOya

IQMKCd%ltmtBl^tligbnKgjGjef;zlJbvmAulsBjd*yloqveAu?

X1TCNN6K ^Izd&gHfbjjsyesBnq!yIfctevvxGLnk&zligbBsz?

IQMKCd\4bL.em|fzpvb)Az;,tgi|opfu?eLofsIfx&fAgbceDvwxLem|
ezpbuyJvozywd:nmobvmwgxHLid=llbbvfHzuxL.d:nqzbcww
enpvjeLofswtr'oDngteGmayuqw^fDfemtFpozM dcklbvvjFkt
etftgeAuaMBjd'uDfuveGuaMBjd%AwfbAtMyayuyl^xg

X1TCNN6K 2tri:fFigbiMrfsSjw:kDecAesuesBfh!sGdjbvMltMCtr!Cuuj
etjo<ezlatMpi%fyfbqkrDitNet@xqovclwgJsQfw3fUavqqv
etjo?eGmatMek=upacuezl<sMtd&klmcwlzlesush!rqubojrnpn
eNvvbBzhusNfp)fIfbqkrmbMBjv| lxjgsrAixLjd*yltwemrh
eybpbfKgPKFfr%uh

IQMKCd7aaMBfxNylbbdwsCfsGfrHftfbywAAfLtgv@BqaxgwKltm
eEqgcpKgcKuAi!CAsfu	rzxxuww!hDbxgeGhuAMee+jlctgfCz
eFigoetybOyqC7fCvkvjrAstPjv|kfacvmOhsMtyl^ftfctyrvg
etjubqGCfKjee|fmarwnKuzsNnp:kD.bvmsAaLJzv|ftjubmGytx
envvbtFgpGyew*jq.bdwwhlLtmm|fEuchkrsjDyee!tAcng
espqujggcNNee-r/tbdwsCfsNme:fKpwvmrtpNHyw!gzebhtDsz
esvkfjKba$Btd$uyfubmwyfo

e}FpvjJgD8`NRY

I1SKPd5ptMLjw|fmofbrszuxL	d,uGajcAwgpyNem+wGjtgi
eMgvgwrAixtxl^vtftfeLobMths_vxbkp)vgpytqs<kf
e9iqbDGBaLuBd|oFukplrizsGjd=tlujgeLBsyn
e2sckxAuhsNmi!vDpwfevptwunr'AxaujjHofKxjw|
e6icveOhtsBnw!sutvtjKz?

IQMKCd#lmEnee+jlxjcyrvgsBnq9

I1SKPd1maRIzd>oxmbujwgbsJfk^gzubvwMszsJqe,-p.
eNfvyjwuaMBjd[gxfbetEwmxRns+fAgbvwMlaEIAi
eMofbyzlaKyid"rAxbqkrzdHLsd@tparttMkawCxh@oz.
eSpbjjFjfsuep*zFmgbfFka2txl@rxaeqsvBdMtDs; 
eUgbAtMgxBFqd_gDlbkym

X1TCNN6K 8neg=sq.bnjLgvLtwi_uHf<
e6igbxAniMttj!rAwgtxrmfxxjx&fFiqujrposFtz^a
eNskplrBtsNtd:nutbunyoumtfr%fKpwbxzhmEtxe,
eU"nneHypOyee!hGtAbfuApKtnr!ztfkteHsbRo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe@fBGIyl^xlqctyrvgsNmi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgT261MpYlbpfe8OFUY<

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg	rkpsHtx!yoptpeEl<sxtd+uF.bRmwifi
e5bAbyzhusSty!rAwgbrwgoHN	d#AFaucDrupMtxs
eUobdnLAfKHjw|alUjgeuvnFIsd^DqdwvnGufKn
e9iqujroftLyd:nqacehMzuHG)h!yuhjveGmawyfx&fybmgxrobKx	
eRbnnxrupMtyl^fmygbzHvosNmi!nGndnjvgoxwp
eNvvbkAytMtgi"ylqctiGu;sQnp-fKpwbxLlsGywd#k
e6icpezlaMBfx!jufubfFkaECAi|fnzbdqGveRtiv=vE}

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bEJ4PBmtfr%fOPTKSlgcxBnr%>

VTFDGd1gxHOqh!tAubdjrAiRtjB^iGukqswy;
eUahnDrAixy	d'uDaKbBGBmwtss:fuolwwwguAyj	
e6iqweLlmE.xx!sqavjjJlaBMeq;xpftbnFgnBHjd^Eq;
e/UkueHyfMND{!yGsg?esuesPjv,fBsqdftsfm
e6icvewFfLnex&gFactjrAixtkv@ox"uvesuesMtj:kEubvmAuhLn
e9iqbxzBusNmi*xldqyfJkazuyi|fAobcyGtjxM	
e5iqwqvgcxthe-r/ebvDJhoMM	d#AFdjgwKaaFOwh^xqsu#
eZpybNrkpszws>tlppbyzlfsQnx&fmmnbrQgixuwx3
eMofbnxgnBHjd^EqtbefFgxHOsh7fzpybqwAaMBjq!qumnbyzlfh
eZpybhGBoMywj^oFavqeKDpHH.d>nKapqBrmbEFeh=Cz<
e1sbkkrAiHOeg@tEubptLaa8nej=xltjcrwaayIwd|nmng?
eXjgbsGA.sNtd|gKaokswgfRyxd@xqaowwvlsxLx%
eZpybxzvxsNmi!CAvpfeEpoxtjC^ftbvjeEhextnr!ztfg<
e5dtcyuoaMBji!hGubynLoattum+ lbpfeLofKyev^smjpu
e5pogeKjbKttj!oF<bnjsuauOyd;vAobceJBtAn
e6igbhAjbMLng^fmofbhswbuFjd*sBsguxMyf
e6iAbussnsMtq^fypogsLglxyuw3fnvvbsGDaFCsi!kKfu?
e9ikemrPaAuAi!jmsvgirhusNmi^ liwtyrAixyer=zf
eZpt?e1gbFtxy/kfavjjJlaBMer=frptejrposyDi|
e6icveuhosxtd&ADu}

YUMXKZ~fasted!flabbergasteS!jqbtbUzlcxn
eUgbgAwy. afw!ztbvbjNlssGfC!hqapgfJa_ 
e~pwbrwlusCsd|uyfbhwwziswmi^qlujgeHvxxLes'frbpeDl
e6igpeKobEFeC=AllpqBrAixtBs;tptbksNptBvqi
e6icveDvwx.xd)kqobcwJvxLtre)kg

VTFDGdTBusNnp-fFicveLpnx
eOpogeFvusNms;fzfcteEl;sush!CtfpbyzhusNnq^fopogxl
eMghnnuAaFyeA*ztavjDrtpvEx{!vuuAbrwgoHN.
eMtbvnDsaMBfx!zungbNrzitFqd+uFarkyQguAyj	

X1TCNN6K THid>nK.bKeHybRtDs;blXjqeEphANef^fKpwteEvuAyw{
e6icveQvvsCsw;rF.bgCMsumtfr%fmmnbfLgpGwj{
e1wgteLofsQwi:itff{e#obMtyl=AsibAtMgitPjd+ulcgczLF. a
eMt?bgQgnRtke*zt.bKeKlfsHtd_uDfbksrFpN
e6icpeOpuAIzx!imofnjrtbRtls!jmsmbyGgcxx][
eYvuveQvvsvjd:nqsghtJlaILty%fmofbuAAjEyxw9
e9iA?eOobMtri@tEavjnKca$BDd%ulzqweDvpDttr!sq}
eUaugjrupsGtv^fuobAtMguAusd*tlujgeGyeBHfv,
I1SKPdSztNLjh-ElujgeLojGAem|fFpbdjrzpEx,
eSpbynLoaFy,d*llzqweDplxtzt=tlsgrtJA
e6igbxGpmmtyl^fBsqhnLgbGxex&oEamksvgpytqm'kf
eUaykqDgzHOwd<kDzbhfAAiyOqd'kqegtetl
eMofbgMFaBNeA*ztaAqzJghHFid/osivbxMkexHqC8

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe@fUAyeJ=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgB63JRn lKCSZWZ.sush!uFigtxd

e5PPI 
GYJGPXq2owywd:nqaitjwuxHIid:xqf
e9iqbqGCfLtys!rufbynLoaFy	
eMofbyMyosBnw!sqstAeFvux
e7ovqeLofsMBi^zlckti\zaMBws@zf
eOpogezpuAyw{!iAngbmAAixL	d$uyfbjnLofKi
eTftgeKobEFel^fEfgbSGgfGyrC
eNvvbBAuuxLee+jlsqwlzgxxuyl^xg

PMRWGXqTpKy	d_uDf?bNrwsBNmi^ lnqtjm

GYJGPXqPusQnp-fybmgeQvvsGjp@toiqnDlgNHHxm^ADaLcvMltn

PMRWGXqPaMBfr)fuu}bRGyfmtNd[xuujgjlgnHLj	!OldcpeKBdD
eyfncsuopESes;zlphbfrzpGA	d@ylbbyjszfEtxy$qEagilKb
eYptg	rPaILnx&kq.botJl?

GYJGPXqTzsPtm$kljubwsnhxx,ddfwoqye1gdtHss:fBmgcxwgzHO 

PMRWGXqPawIer=zlegunJlaRIzd:ulqngfKlaFy.ddfppbfjKpsxtDs;fFp
eEjpi rJpFy	d_uDf>bfFvuAywd|zmoBq,rjbEFeC=Al"goeKAbGTtw9

GYJGPXq4itNeC=AlxknqlgNHHxm^ADaLcvMltn

PMRWGXqUbRneM!imsgbsGAayIwd:nqjtbsstfLjex&kKaqyjrtf
ezpvjnFn?s%np-fKpwbxAuho

GYJGPXqTpKyee:fKpwteJlrNyxx!ztbpbyGgqEyfw^fyzugqxb

PMRWGXq4fEFex&kz.bkkrlwxLeM!ztbpmesuzsGfr7fU"nneLobGEeC=Ab
envvbyzhusNmi,fobnneuvnIFnq^tFakueDplxtyl^fqoeqzFAfK
eAgbvBGgeHA]e[kE.bcsvgxAysd@fybpbyzhoDMeq^ftfctyAszm
eyfvjnFrts3el@BqaikAwuaACrd@fBfppDrhowtmi!xqofgwKgnx
eFigbgwnhtLqC!ztbpmxmgDHGj{!yuoi>esuesSty!ztbvbBAsm
ezpv?ezvmwtDs;xluqplMltn

GYJGPXq4fEF	dd-xmbgsvguAyew=ts?bUnJz.swtz^xlujgeOojEy.d:nq
epvmgeOpmEtiv*twawpiwyaMBnw!zDfg}eZlaAuyl!hqfpbfDs
eFikuevhzsNtd-uAlbAtMb

PMRWGXqHowtNd&gHfbdjwuatFqd:nutbffQguHtfz=opajkrmgIxtnw
eFpqbiAzqNNff-klgqteEFavIrt@tK;bKeLojGEes'fmtbofFF
eybvvjJzatMel^ lcwve1ghBPjd&kmwgpeLobGExd@tpaocpwgoH
enpcuyrvgsNmi_alDqojlgxtLgp^ ldqojm

e5PPI 
e9iqbiGAisurf*zuppbxzBo

e}BnneLvhxNmi/ftftg<

eMofbqGCfLtys!ruwgbn\guAyew;tf
e5fgmnFnaMBjd'uAebjjrlbMM
eMofbuDlbLyid>oFibymsAaAyek^zE.
eOpogezpuAyw{!iAngbmAAixL	d$uyfbjnLofKi
eTftgeKobEFel^fEfgbSGgfGyrC
eNvvbBAuuxLee+jlsqwlzgxxuyl^xg

PMRWGXqP"EFek*BqaAqzrhaOyww^fFpbvmAzaGIyi!ztbvbNrtbwy
eKfuvjJkbRtnr!jqtrkywgpytrC!ozwgpyAvon

GYJGPXqHowtN(-rltkplrpun

PMRWGXq1iNMem:fspgu,	|

eUgbkyrkpswtq^fFpbrfKz
e6icvesuzsGfr!zGspbfKz.
eXfcxnFnaACxd>kmmvjesuesyfw^ 
eMauvztipKHeA*rxavqeHsftMj{
ePveffEl.sxzg%gyf?biMjetGj\
eTftgeKobEFel^fEfg
eSsquxrmpHFxd@ylig?
eMobkkrofsQnp-fopogeLvaFy 

GYJGPXq4itN)w!ztbvb)vBdwuriNb

PMRWGXq_UBMee!MDfgmeAuwHwfx*uz.bvtrjbEFej=uxtbksLvat
eojteqwba2.qp!mAaunjww.sCkddfobp>eAma2the+tAu?bN\sm
eDbknesnbBHxx!gxmbvmwggBLxxThAspbtxgFzSux8

GYJGPXqHowtN(-rlhqbxwllsNmi!jGlg<ezptsvfr]AqubkxrwsxJfv^jg

e}FzgzFAaLyAi/gxmA|




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe@P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	UlbpfeSKB6f

GPBOaIwhssGfw:kD.bKeuhosAtd+ulgwtyzlsntT{!Olekgexvsszts%'
eTftgeDpfs3eh=Cz.bcsvgnxuxy/klpwveEFazLfz^alGctjOlmEn
ewjpfeEhtMyw	

U4MCPI7fXAS	d&uIapqBlgBwur%!tAaitjsAfKtmi@xFakpeLofxpeP*Bq
emankyLsfiths_lAsvbfrsjMNqi3foiggwrAiRMjp'fmankyLsfn
eUgbvmAzaNHhs;ztahqwwzusSni-jlbpAeLojGAew@Bmhg?e1
eIjnnewpuAywd#klgqqirmpKtnx!uDadtnFnaBNej=xlgqqirAp
eFigg r1iRths+iqjvbnKgoxuwi/fpfcvmrAitHex&ElqqyjJz?
eRptbrQgttEjd#kldqokGyutvqi3ftpnfevlbMBee>numgbfL
eFigbfJt"Ltjr%.lJbynDsaAywi!hqaykyzguAyjd[xqtgpyDF<
emofbnxgJsvwm+mlujgjrupMtxs_kFikplrApsyfx7fUaykqD
esjxgeLofxtqi@Bqavqevpfhtgy:fugbvmGBawCjw:fnfhqwwgJ
eopog	rAiHOee/zlbboturfKttj!sKancgGBsnt2i-rltcki/
eFiqweDvpDyxx!itfgtqQaatHidd-xmbdjrDjMBex&kqaswnurmRo
e~fvbyzvvsFni|zljpbyzlauFje)fmjt<euvnxneM!Cumnbgwh
