
	[Reads]

	Art thou god to shepherd turn'd,
	That a maiden's heart hath burn'd?
	Can a woman rail thus?

SILVIUS	Call you this railing?

ROSALIND	[Reads]

	Why, thy godhead laid apart,
	Warr'st thou with a woman's heart?
	Did you ever hear such railing?
	Whiles the eye of man did woo me,
	That could do no vengeance to me.
	Meaning me a beast.
	If the scorn of your bright eyne
	Have power to raise such love in mine,
	Alack, in me what strange effect
	Would they work in mild aspect!
	Whiles you chid me, I did love;
	How then might your prayers move!
	He that brings this love to thee
	Little knows this love in me:
	And by him seal up thy mind;
	Whether that thy youth and kind
	Will the faithful offer take
	Of me and all that I can make;
	Or else by him my love deny,
	And then I'll study how to die.

SILVIUS	Call you this chiding?

CELIA	Alas, poor shepherd!

ROSALIND	Do you pity him? no, he deserves no pity. Wilt
	thou love such a woman? What, to make thee an
	instrument and play false strains upon thee! not to
	be endured! Well, go your way to her, for I see
	love hath made thee a tame snake, and say this to
	her: that if she love me, I charge her to love
	thee; if she will not, I will never have her unless
	thou entreat for her. If you be a true lover,
	hence, and not a word; for here comes more company.

	[Exit SILVIUS]

	[Enter OLIVER]

OLIVER	Good morrow, fair ones: pray you, if you know,
	Where in the purlieus of this forest stands
	A sheep-cote fenced about with olive trees?

CELIA	West of this place, down in the neighbour bottom:
	The rank of osiers by the murmuring stream
	Left on your right hand brings you to the place.
	But at this hour the house doth keep itself;
	There's none within.

OLIVER	If that an eye may profit by a tongue,
	Then should I know you by description;
	Such garments and such years: 'The boy is fair,
	Of female favour, and bestows himself
	Like a ripe sister: the woman low
	And browner than her brother.' Are not you
	The owner of the house I did inquire for?

CELIA	It is no boast, being ask'd, to say we are.

OLIVER	Orlando doth commend him to you both,
	And to that youth he calls his Rosalind
	He sends this bloody napkin. Are you he?

ROSALIND	I am: what must we understand by this?

OLIVER	Some of my shame; if you will know of me
	What man I am, and how, and why, and where
	This handkercher was stain'd.

CELIA	I pray you, tell it.

OLIVER	When last the young Orlando parted from you
	He left a promise to return again
	Within an hour, and pacing through the forest,
	Chewing the food of sweet and bitter fancy,
	Lo, what befell! he threw his eye aside,
	And mark what object did present itself:
	Under an oak, whose boughs were moss'd with age
	And high top bald with dry antiquity,
	A wretched ragged man, o'ergrown with hair,
	Lay sleeping on his back: about his neck
	A green and gilded snake had wreathed itself,
	Who with her head nimble in threats approach'd
	The opening of his mouth; but suddenly,
	Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd itself,
	And with indented glides did slip away
	Into a bush: under which bush's shade
	A lioness, with udders all drawn dry,
	Lay couching, head on ground, with catlike watch,
	When that the sleeping man should stir; for 'tis
	The royal disposition of that beast
	To prey on nothing that doth seem as dead:
	This seen, Orlando did approach the man
	And found it was his brother, his elder brother.

CELIA	O, I have heard him speak of that same brother;
	And he did render him the most unnatural
	That lived amongst men.

OLIVER	And well he might so do,
	For well I know he was unnatural.

ROSALIND	But, to Orlando: did he leave him there,
	Food to the suck'd and hungry lioness?

OLIVER	Twice did he turn his back and purposed so;
	But kindness, nobler ever than revenge,
	And nature, stronger than his just occasion,
	Made him give battle to the lioness,
	Who quickly fell before him: in which hurtling
	From miserable slumber I awaked.

CELIA	Are you his brother?

ROSALIND	Wast you he rescued?

CELIA	Was't you that did so oft contrive to kill him?

OLIVER	'Twas I; but 'tis not I	I do not shame
	To tell you what I was, since my conversion
	So sweetly tastes, being the thing I am.

ROSALIND	But, for the bloody napkin?

OLIVER	By and by.
	When from the first to last betwixt us two
	Tears our recountments had most kindly bathed,
	As how I came into that desert place:--
	In brief, he led me to the gentle duke,
	Who gave me fresh array and entertainment,
	Committing me unto my brother's love;
	Who led me instantly unto his cave,
	There stripp'd himself, and here upon his arm
	The lioness had torn some flesh away,
	Which all this while had bled; and now he fainted
	And cried, in fainting, upon Rosalind.
	Brief, I recover'd him, bound up his wound;
	And, after some small space, being strong at heart,
	He sent me hither, stranger as I am,
	To tell this story, that you might excuse
	His broken promise, and to give this napkin
	Dyed in his blood unto the shepherd youth
	That he in sport doth call his Rosalind.

	[ROSALIND swoons]

CELIA	Why, how now, Ganymede! sweet Ganymede!

OLIVER	Many will swoon when they do look on blood.

CELIA	There is more in it. Cousin Ganymede!

OLIVER	Look, he recovers.

ROSALIND	I would I were at home.

CELIA	We'll lead you thither.
	I pray you, will you take him by the arm?

OLIVER	Be of good cheer, youth: you a man! you lack a
	man's heart.

ROSALIND	I do so, I confess it. Ah, sirrah, a body would
	think this was well counterfeited! I pray you, tell
	your brother how well I counterfeited. Heigh-ho!

OLIVER	This was not counterfeit: there is too great
	testimony in your complexion that it was a passion
	of earnest.

ROSALIND	Counterfeit, I assure you.

OLIVER	Well then, take a good heart and counterfeit to be a man.

ROSALIND	So I do: but, i' faith, I should have been a woman by right.

CELIA	Come, you look paler and paler: pray you, draw
	homewards. Good sir, go with us.

OLIVER	That will I, for I must bear answer back
	How you excuse my brother, Rosalind.

ROSALIND	 2txl@rxafgAAzfsMtq^ztjpi,rivMneM!vDbAbDGB.swtq_kze
eyzbetMuuxLki*zuoibyGgiBG droxmbAtMghHp

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbX



YOFPGe1fUAyej=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5{

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i!ytbnnexpowtfd:oyf?bFMksxS.d[gFjgphwaazysx-klBwfwwF?

G7ETG4qMbBNm{!ztfbrwAltMtBe|fspqfewupNAm{!lAsbcqDguAyes-j
esfpvqwtbG.xd|gKjpi 

Z1VEJX`VOXsFd_uEubynurfwtXm/f1mkxjJaaTOiv^EfacbrGzusPnp^
eYbtvjPA?sVzx7fMvftjQaaMBjv^futbceQvvMBel^xqakpeLof
erptgxLgmtSxd$rmjobyGgzHO 

G7ETG4qHzmtNd)tAxbymGg"MCx,!nqajcyzgoHtnr:kDfuveAuaFyem+
eFigbBGymwiel^xqaeqrwzaMBjd_gzaAqzrtftH 

Z1VEJX`VOXsNx!oEaogfLgbGxeh/ozlbvtrtfsNtd|kqacbhDvxGief,fyz
eFsqvmlgxxtyl@zlicxjrnpHxeA*zEajcAwgnNwmd:ulbpuBwy
erpt>eOlaLBfp-fnfbhqGBuBHl,!CqaecsFvusBtp%a

e}FpvjJgX26QM?S{

3UMNKF5fHHIid^Bqo?bFMksxS 

G7ETG4qNpwtDi!mApfbjNlomt2m-rubo}

3UMNKF5fBGxek=upagxjFguHtDs; ltkt 

Z1VEJX`VOXsLs=jlfxgslghxHyp^frskgsvbaVIAi/fFiAbmwhemths<kDavjD
etfcf.rubRnet/oFigg	rifswtz^xqe}bMGDaHFid@xqaAqzlggKCjr%b

3UMNKF5fGBPjd@tpavyjFAzmtxm/a

Z1VEJX`VOXsFd/oBfbclwba2Mex&Elocojr4jEFne_b

3UMNKF5fXBFqm@sfaukwm

Z1VEJX`VOXsFd'gusbpfEl?s%fw:fnptpeA_aMBjd'uDfuvezlsxp

3UMNKF5fBRnew*xfaKbyzhoDtLs%a

Z1VEJX`VOXs)X&gzlbItv}"suek=upacpxOlsntFv:fDjeja

3UMNKF5fGtCyl7fEjt?eKvaLI 

Z1VEJX`VOXs)W=fEp&bnKghHIi{!BqsAblGvemtAi/ElfzejDsfGNek=up<bcsv
eKfvbnLgjLtss:?ljvbnKgcNNew=fEp}bFJAaMBty!Cutg{

3UMNKF5fBRnew*xfaKbmsCfsuet/kFuAbBAA?

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l, lujqzrzbRyxx!Cqmn}e1geHtss>fDfogrtlssuew@Euoi?
e/UjgexvpEtis:nlujksCgixtnw!Cutg?etBusNmi!Cutgbrsu
ewoqyxrojFMjp'fFpbdjrhayItp8-lUjgezlbMBjr
eBikntKvqAyw{!Ctfpbmwgitxee!jqtktjrApsyfx!glhtcuwa
eIpwnirvqxHel*ylmkrxrDixHel^fBvvbnLgjGNtd&oEaoqzLo<
eyfcpnFnaMBjv^hKavjfLghKuui|fIftgeEhextys!kmubcsv
exjrueLvaHJjr8f~pwbiGgmHPjd:nutbofAk}

3UMNKF5fJsxt{!yus}

Z1VEJX`VOXsLm<klngbDGBssBfr%alBtveLopNtqi@xzff{

3UMNKF5fOHnew*xg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl^tlmgcwFguACxd=llng<eLvaAuAi7futbvtrobOy.d'uDakv
eutbcexphNLjd*tlsjgyGyjvtyl@zletksCaauynr"fBpwtjvgpNN
eAgbceuBqsCsx=fmainfKz.svDd'oxmkplrAixttr^fppvjewtqMS
eFigbtLofKjej=xlbnneQvvKtBv*zqsubiGgdHHxi+zlujcyrpqLy
eutbjjggoHQ	d,uGactjrupMtnt|kfahqwrPatGel^a

3UMNKF5fXAChl!nq.bunJc

Z1VEJX`VOXsMi7fEjt?eLobMtry|zlnctwQguACxd>uybp}e`ofKyks/kfaAqz
eomqyslgbuush=tf_+ymAjisCxd*tlujgeNBmzuwd-kmwg?]	Aix
eEpekjLF. aBl*itakpeLofsvts/oEibkxrjpFJfr, \_qheLojL
erfocqwa_ Qmm$nljpbyzlavIrq=tljubBGtbGjeA&ooi
eFpigyzlssCx{!gnbpftFguAyew=iufvAeGmaMBnw!lqncnjlgpKn
eomqyslguAIzd[kDjujjKA<sIw{!zAavjDrifMNjv
eGofgwKAbGxnr" lekgxL}aHL	d:ulxkve1glBFqd:nqf?brsrf
eFiggesDbRnex/gztncywguASep*lqakpyGgexuyl7fFiA
exjdgwLFaBHys!hAofclw?a2tBm-rlegcqrposJtm|uzaykyz
eFigg	rvssCsd#gEukpfvv.sIwd*tltvgjD}a2tBm-rlccpiQ
eIjvjeLofxtnr!lmdvktF}a2tBm-rlp&gwJBosNmi^fIjvj
eBpnkhQ}a2tBm-rllknqrAixyee!nGoftjvgbGxej*lFzbyfQz;
eFigtjxvsxtyv^snmgbfFkawyue/zg

G7ETG4qKpmtls=jlXknqAhnn

3UMNKF5fHHxev^yFaAqzrtfKLD{!yus}

e}Fzkyd

e}FpvjJgD8`NRY

I1SKPd7BssGfw:kDacpirtjLNwi|yltggpKgzHO.d$uyf?bfOhzmtfA@E-

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv*vfaCwiJlz|tyv*vfaCwiJlz|tNd@zFfpf	rPatNyi+jg

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbX



YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe7SJ#YW;

U4MCPI7fJL.yd[uEtkdqwguAuyd=tltqbqAAuEyee$wGbkpysudxtDs;
eEiqwqvgmBEjd&kD}bvmsAauOyd|kqjpieQvvsMms;rpanqAw
etft{esuesFtz*tsayqtngbGx	d>uAjpi	rzixtxl=Axe
esscpyngbGxeA*rxaAqzrwfKMjz^xluqbjFqpRtmi/b

UXJXGWqUfBNmi/fobnneLofsAnh%ozfuueGmaBNem+fCvguyAvomtyl^
eBpxgwLFaHzel^xfavjjrzntFqd@iCvcksLhovy	d_Eltwfiwu
eIpqksyaaGIwd&kDauwivloswtr|kzukplhgcNNew@Elxkvmrtfm
eUanqAwgBECjr@?ltcAeOpuAtmi/fFicveKofsFtz^ylng>
eoppujFAaPCyl!hAujbyzhusQjd_gKagpoGFaxuhl!uFigt,rpu
eEicnqrifsNtd,uGsbitGk<sztv!sKahcyzls,Mel=AEfbcsvgbEF
eFigbwwCfGOjd:nmubyfKgpExeW*xlSqyqsue,MeA*rxaK
eqtvcywgvIIsd,uG.bcsvgixLjd-oHfbcsvgeByee!ytfrjjJk?

U4MCPI7fZHOel@BqaoAeuvoLysx8fXfvbDGBssQjh%ozhbdjrAp Gtv/uI;
eFikvmwyaPCqp!OljpxnLlaMBjd%AwfbcsvgbEF)w!iAovgsLle
erpnntOlsLoeK=fKpwbfFkaILjt@xqaCnnwubitks/fxpqm
eKpw?ezlsxths_kEaoAe0vttFnr%a

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP/

X1TCNN6K ZIid|gHfbAtMaauLtx&kD?

UXJXGWqHowtDs; lgckwrzjLNjv8

e}Fzkyd

X1TCNN6K 8neq,fpfcte7ymtHis7ftpybnLghKCjz^ylngbyGgtxyex&kq
eIfcteLozsBje/zljpbfrzdtLk%

U4MCPI7fJMtnw!sKactrm

X1TCNN6K 2tyl=AsivbyzFaAyfv:ftbfbgwlosQty+jqebynLoaMBjd$rmxu
eAgbceDppGo

U4MCPI7fXHOsh^jljvbnKaauOyd>oFibvmwgfRyxd=llbbnfvF?

X1TCNN6K WCid,uGsbdwGAixLex^rxaAqzropPtNd$uGovgwxljMyid:u
eExqqsrDixHel^fEiqyjvgnxtDs;xlicpiClsvBni'b

U4MCPI7fBRnee+jlhtgfLlssQtr%kDtbvmsuaMBfx8

X1TCNN6K 8neM!qzpybBzlsxtDs;fmsg<eFhzmt)x*ylutwjgguAywi!Cmt
ezfxgwrhoRtyl*tsauqeKBewysd#AFavjjrmjzByd=lluyqeJhnL
emofbHslttL)w!ztscutFpdtFef/gsaqhe\Pavuri7fEby?esue
eAwgthstfh.ej=xlzqwwrisHNmi/fmofbrQgtBMyi/fzpbutGufK
eyfvbgMAaMBjC!rApmgilgoHtxs=tqsbntGrfwtgy:fFigA
expxgilgoHtxs=tqsbntNlesvzx!ztfAbxAnixx	d+ultqqswy
eEjijjvgcNNex&kKacupwkaHHjd@tAujgwrAixtwi@yAo?bsG
eEpqpjJglGyBd:nqatgfKvosvzx!ztfAbxGBhANex&klsgojvF<
emofbnFguAyxi!jqhtgjKgitPjd:nqzbofvlattue*xlphbxLhjKM
eFpbofJyjtAjd>nudjbyzlzsQnp-fomkogrpovIsx*tqov?eGy
eqmugetlaBHhs+zuogpyrifyIwi!smstkfyl;sNmi,fmsgbnF
eFigbAwyzsQwe:nlphbqGCfsush!ztfAbBAsmsNtk^ztft>eusvuM
eobpptLgqtLyd:nqn}

U4MCPI7fUAyDd|nmmnbgwgntLwm^jluq+rGysHQ	d@tpaKbBAsmsvnh!ztf
epvmgeLvaMBjd+ABukcqmgCNN	dj liqyetpuMywd@fFikplrpu
eutbvtrspHEem+zAajcuHpoxMxd:nDpwimrhoHNmi/fybp&x
eqzgu^rIzsMtd_AoibvmwgnHLjd|nmmnbNrAp Gtv/uIadgesA
eFigbmwphANes'ftfcty	oftPnr^yE.bdDropPtry$nlJbumssm
eFikpprtzsvws:nqsbjfHwzsCsd&gHjpieOobMtmi!CutjgxrmpKo

X1TCNN6K $BDd:nqo?byG|nHLws>fUaecsFvusMjv<klzqwwrAvKHej=xlSqufDpowp

U4MCPI7fJswfr!ruwgbsGgmHHli/fnzbvmAulBHl	

X1TCNN6K 2tBm-rlxgcwQgzHOex&kzapqeDvozywd>oFibkiDlaMuqo*ts?
eWoqyeGmaFyex&kz.bhtJgoHQeM!yBfcmeLvaLIri!vGsrqxwa
eFicve1glGIBd,uGactjrhazysx-kybpbtxghHIid$uzdgkyggJ
eEqgcprupMtyl*ylujcyrFpNtxl=Axebdjsyattls=jlprksAvo
eAgboDrroHQqi%mq.bksKvnNwmddfEbAbNrroHQeC=Albtg.
ezfkvmwyawIeM!rmcqwwrmpKtfd"xqbvgwrltMyjq!ztbpbrsFaBH
eEpogeDpuMFjd_kmtwtjrkstQee!hqmkgkrmsHGeC=Afavqevv
eKpwtxwsgsAts%fmofbsGAaMIek/gofbojmgCxFni<klujgslgjy
eKpwbuDlbLy	d:nmubKeuhosxtd|zDbpijrAiBHlw2fUajcAwa
eEjpejrPaPuxd:nDfgbDwhssIqh7foppxjJzfwtBm:nlb
eybikhAhomtrs|zlqtqkGBowtnr!nutbcwLgbGxeC^zloqv
epbopftsfntNj!EAvbftrspOyeV=ymmkpirzpsHje/fFigbmwhsM
emtbAtMyazyxx;xqaetnwzaBNes;zfayjjFgzHOwd#xAujgw
eybttnwzaTFni+gfaujfDsaRIzd_gDsAbmwy;s3eo+uIakpyG
eIicveKAstCyw!urahqwLBoxtxl^futbfwACfGjee+jljvbnK
ezpvbnEwpLMnf-kluqbrwaaBzem:fmqrgfJgoHNem+iAoxgsAloM
eFpbAtMaaMIew^zligtetlgHLjd,uGsbgDwzaMIrs/xAxbjzEho
emtbumwgjLtfr%fIjvjtMAatHDd%gzhgt 
eFigbwwhtHHeA&ElujgDrhsxtss:fEpbrzFptAyid@tpaewwwk
eut?byzhusNmi!rGoceDrptsMtd=xpjpcwQguAuyd:nqayjnHwfKM
emsgbnFgmHPjd:uA?b1jLgJsJws'kEtbezJpoztnx!hKaeqzFzfEo

U4MCPI7fEBxeC=AlfxgwrjvKyee+Eltq{

X1TCNN6K ^yx{!uzf?bfFkaBHex&oEaocsFlsntMi!CmtbvtrpntAnr^fyf
etjubqGCfmtmm|fyjuvwwztitfr%fUaugyrojFtjz^xKafcDrAp
eIpqbrw?atNeA&ooibvnElaPIzp%fU.bdjAuhsvzx!glnqqsAzi
eKpwvmlghKCjz^ lcgbjxmfFCse:kfaejfFnftvqi7fxppinFn
emofbqArjGA	d[xAvf?exhoMuxx*imm?bfHptAnew&gxmqy	
euoeqsKAbGN	d'AxmbqkrAftLx{!lGmnbtxgtFCqi| lgqtewCfKS
eBbuunGuaLIri:nuoibfFkayIwd+ulqcuxAvosNwy-ElbpA
eFikpllgbLtgs,ylbpfeOvnxHee/klgqteLofsGtw:fBbtv
eobvvqwgpytyl*yldqntMy<sQty-jloqyeDplxtmm_ loqyeDvbMBj
etjo>eLofGtjr:kDucksrojFnex&kzahqwKDftLel*sbapqBrDfxJ
erptbmAt.sNmi+fEqkvesAaACr,!ztbvbNrkstPjd_EltwkyGy
ersqoezptsGfh!nGnqwwrvgsFtz^fFpbceDpwBHld&AypwteGm
eybfpjKz<sQmm$nlxcu	rApsztv|CqbtbyzlayOqp!yFsgcrrvg
eFigbBGymwnee+jluqbqACfsCsd@fzpqmeElsxFDd_uzbuvnub
eMofbyzBts3eg;xqebjnE}atHid:nutbyfQgxBFqddfFbmgeMwpG
eyfbvtrDbLBeC=ADankAwyatMeg-kmobcxrhaLIzr%fEiggu\z
etfctylguAuyd:nqsgbxzhmEtss:fnfbqswgtIIyd=llmqxjrpo,N 

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvetlavOwi% lzqwyzb

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaewwwgzHO	d*llzqweOvvExef;zldcnqrtfs`tw@ruof
emofbhGtfsyAi/ElecAeLvaFSeg=zqacpirDpHtri8

U4MCPI7fOHQ	d#ElujgexhjMBes'fyzbntNl.s3eA*rx;bvjDsaFy
eIigtjrpusCx	

X1TCNN6K ZIeA*ztaogeLvaBNee+jlJ&nqrziHQem:fKpwbfFkauSex&klxcA
eKpwbxzhmEtyi-rlngbBzlsxtnr!ztfbhtJltMtDs;fxjxg 
e9jnneQvvsAt 

U4MCPI7fXBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN	d"uAebAtMAin

X1TCNN6K 7uDd,uGaowxLgdtFqd_klSqufDpowoeG=sq.bunKAfKneA*rxaAqzrnpo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5baLCV!LTsvjl*tp/

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_klbrchwaazIth!GGetgDggJsQnp-frfvemrBqsSty/
espcvxlgBNxwi,alBpfezvxmtFy%xqz{bfEgJsNmi!smobAjLc
eppvjeEFaLCrt-klggcyMyfswtr:kzubAtMc

G7ETG4q6pNLej^gFvtgx/gMHLid>gDscpyrBt|tBl@zlggcyMyfL:

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd@sligtjrDjMBex&kqacpirAiRtls@zE.bcxrAixtrs|z
eobrtnuppNMet=kF.bjtFltMtTz*jfaycxrhnHHld:nqaIqyzz?

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflPbmsGDmxxli!oxm+kszhcBNjh7fIptujrAitHeN=Bq
euobceLobMwmi%ftpwuj/

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l^tlbbofF_tsPjv|kEaecsFvusvjd;tpftuyGvemtss/fm
eybp&xrnpHxeA*zltgetFkfwtBm:nlujgexvsPuwh!itjnf
e7ofgwKAbGxnr" ljvbxLyjDyxd@fybpbrGyfsxje%fFicpes
essgcyryfvEtr*tsakpesgmBNyp^fDpqo r1sNFD{!Olxqwqv
eFigblGktsBfh!smegbyzlfsJti:oobn}

G7ETG4qPawIer=zllpqBrDitNe([uqukefD_aBM,d*yljvbmGufLNem+
epfgfesuesQtv%bljubnLgbsNwy^fFikpln

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDhggHLex&klutwjKAaIIjx/EljubyzlaFIxx
erfkisAuhitfr%fxpxgwKgbKyek*BqobvtrwpxNwC7fmofbBzhu
eFigAeKDftLem+fBpgvwQgntSef^fEbkfeszaEIAi/ylujgDrkpszjm"tg

G7ETG4qKpsSty!CutjbyzlosNme:fFigblGktsBfh!smegbrwgqHyym$gx}

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd%ufavtzDF<sztv!ztpwbxOlbKyxx!zAaogeLopNtfv:
etppgxL?aGIB{!oravjtMgxxLyd@fBpgv	rPaFCll:ftbxgeKvnx
etprgeLopNtim%yFahgnyu?

G7ETG4q4pNFid,uGapqyrobOyeq^ftppgxLc

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDlgvGFjw|fFiqweOlsMtme/j\gcxtMyfwjej=x
etppgxLFavIzt-kpavqetlbNNDd*yluqbmsCfsBtr^ElbbufMjfsNtd|Asbt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflBbofLlsBuqd'uAm#

G7ETG4qgXxFq{!OlbobsGAayunv3fmofbyzlsxztv^fUartfQguAyek=jE
eybmgeElaAIsi|zg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bcsvguHthe|zlbycDropGyxx,fGqqpesggHOqd|rGu
eIftgeLvaIOyd"uAebojsAaBHys!gzawphDlbGtim|ng

G7ETG4qPatGer=zlbbuqMA.sNms;mtaKbyzhoDtyl^fspfue1gbFtks;rg

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i-rfartfAzfwtgi!ztfbitvzayIwd:nKahqzDufLM^
eEmwvyAziGyxw!smzbetElaAywi@lFft}eTBusvjd*zlbubnLgntS
enf?bNrDjEFeq@xDzbvmwl.sush!zAavjfLgfGxeM!nmwgbgwlo
eIjvje~pss9qm<kDaOcwLlyMnex&klwkefJgpytyl^fzfzv
eHjnnfyl.sQms!nmujbuJvnBMjh!zAaogjLgnxtnr!ztjubuDhdx
eAgbvmwggHLjw:fmofbyGgdHOup^fGt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflJbytMseszfm+fEfgbyzptsGji:ozh}

G7ETG4q4fEF	d:nqaiqiKghBPjd;ylkqA^

Z1VEJX`VOXsFq^tgaCbrsuaFuD{!orajgeOlsxttj!glggcwxBmsBje/zf
eEucilwyaBHex&oEacvywtqMjej=xligtjrDfsBfz^fzpbvjEwmx
envvbyzlaPIth7fzpbcxKlnuFDd#AFajqwF|cxuxx|alCwveOobM
eFiqwlzcaVIzv@mq@bCxropKHxd@xqaqfnGBtmtyl^Elbtg
ezfegxKhsRoeM:futbufAk.s.re+ElbbofFglGIBw!tAagpirvg
etjublGveLi)d/osiv>eEhoRtfd_gzajcxrnpHxel=xzt?bfFk
ewoqyxrupsysh!uravjjEba$yqp7fFicveAzaMBjd%uIsAbtx
etjubBAmfit)x*yloqpjrvgsBnw!uIobijLAjGA dcuDou{
eQwgpeKv?s0ts/fyfpbfDvoxpeR= loq>eLofsHtf-kEubfjwy
etbvjeLofFtfw!nGhgbfKguAyev@yobn}e1zaMBjd|ozhngeEho
eFigtjxvsxtgp^yEff{e6v;suxd@fIbnnjvguHQsd*ylnqtj
eIptvmAlssNme+fmaxkqDhhxnew=futbvmwggHLjl^gpaqhes
eybttnwkaFusd_uDfbjtFvvKugp^fFicpeLofsvfv^fnsqyeGmat
enbejjDvsitfr%fnzbjtOgnNwmd%krfpejrptsvjx:kDavjfFgoH
eElknqlgcRtxs!sGdjbnKgbsBtv+fyptgeHyfvCty|fFicpeLv
eIbpv rOfKyeg=sqtbUnJgPECAi/a

e}FpvjJgT2`eSgO8FTbRSYUX^Y;

e5jtbTDpwxLeQ@xFfzv	rFpNtfv^fIfnneEluhtBm-rlzqw
epjurfLjisOxd&kDfbwsvlssNmm|fFsgg	rvssMme-rlxgblG
eIjvjeQvvsNtd,uGsbemswfEp

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaNKguAywi!tAogbmwyfsNtd"oHfbvmwgxHGfr9

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd>oxmbptLgutEjd&kDaqpeypgMttj!gzzbofFb

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaYJBmRnew&klnwuyrifsAnz^tfaqteLofsGfv/omhgbnKgoHNep@Crvn}

PMRWGXq>BwPfr$ozh|

e2sqejwk.sJws$kqeaK)DsazCAi!nqs}

Z1VEJX`VOXsLs=jlfxgslghHIidhgEugte#obMaDiTimmn&yggiHQeh=fKpw?
eEjt{e%vvsuwi!BqsAbBwsmsGjx2fSpfb)AsesSty!lAsbAtMy
exbuveuvnIusC2fUacoeNlsRtlp@jluqbxwlaRIz\!kHfpbf
eFpAbnFgitHid&kDf?bxAy;sHfC7fBscAetlavIAi/kp?

PMRWGXq4jEFeC=AlcgbrsysByi{!sAungDn

Z1VEJX`VOXsFw!ztfbqCrobMBel*ylcqy	rzjKnex&kliqtxwgiBMeg;xnacpi
eFigbkssdHHel^xlcgnqKaaLIeq@tlicvmrojLtii|oDfu>esue
emtbrnylpGMef*rx.butrDfwFtg)fIpwnirifsHnf#ruoi}

PMRWGXqHowtBm-rlzqw	rifBHld@fybpbtxgzHOwd#xqffksyaauy
eybttnwkaNHii/fmadwxzgmBEjd@fnfiifJcaZyyd,uGavq
eoiwthzaatHid&gHfbceyvpwtuv*kEubvmsAavusd:kxmbAtM
eIicveEhsKCfk^fut<byzptszjp-uIaykqDgcNNen=ozaAqz
eFpigyzlssuxd:nqzbltAuaPunr|iAu>byzlosIsi!uraAqzrDjEF
eBsqxjrhaLBwy+qlqcpjDgbGx	d-owfbiwwlosNnq#kD.byfJw.sQfv[a

Z1VEJX`VOXs;E|opf|be1gbFtss:fuobvmwgnBHid#AFaKbBwyfsvjx:kDavqetl
eybttnwkaHzel*slujcsrvgsuss:nqs<bkGyaAyem|fzpvbqArf
eFpbofJyzsGjd>kxm>bfFkaGIyd#kuoibBwsmsGfv/oqe?bnL
eIjnnetlattls=jlfzezKlayIwd_kligtjsmuxLex=fxfcxjrtzsQnj^a

PMRWGXqNpsNms;fIjvjeEl.sush!rqubojrjpNHxi-fFigg 

Z1VEJX`VOXs)G=sq.buBwlusUzh/kK;
e9fbozKAauyeq@xDjgf	rvssQjd_AEubnnNlaBHef@CpsA}
eRbtgBwsmmtls=jlNcuywya8Fnz^xaapqyl|_
e1auyjwAa8Fnz^xf
e1adtfNla8Fnz^xf
eXfcxjrtfsHtx!hqikpirAixy,d#AF.++
e9jpfesDbRn
eNfiqswaa2txe, 
eUaykqDgoHNex=fIfffnFnaPCyl!ztfg}

e}FzgzFAa3UVY YfaVQZUOT!9SI!gzebCZVYF^f

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVa)`ptsHtd_gFugt,ruf,ywd@frbpvfKAjvuqd)tmwgbtxguAyr
emmnbxzhmEtkp=AFaogeGBusIkd_EldcnqAuhn

e}Fzkyd




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe13 !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 7yAi/fFbnmeLvaFy.ddfIjnneOlfIo

IQMKCdVv.s3et/oFigg.rivMtDi:ftbxgeLofsAwe$kluqbhGutBxjv
eFicveLlbKMeh=fzpvbgwjpFyee!smo}

X1TCNN6K UOyd&gHfbKeFvuswfy|kluqbBwlqo

IQMKCdSzazIth!imvugeszaHHjd>uGmfbiwzjKy.d:nqsghtJlaPyjt8

X1TCNN6K 1Cxd<kDzbjfAyaBMes'fFigbiAztxGgp*tsaeqqGBsn

IQMKCd~vnxNmm+mlctqBFlssNme+fVvfcx\zaFuwv, likueCptLyxd@xq
eVvfcx\zaHQsd$numftjFb

X1TCNN6K 2.ej@oFi?bmAzaAunv!oEaqhesghHIid$uxpwt 

IQMKCdSuaxRhi-rqovbhGspNL,d,uGsbemwzuGOyd>gEagxjJguAyes+rKaeqqGBsn

X1TCNN6K THid&oEamkxKpoztnw!gEahwqDgpytxe+iFjvAeszaMBjd:uGdj
eAgbjtDFauLje%a

IQMKCdZlaAuyl!hAvijyrhaIunv!uraecxLgmBJxd=llEkcss?attsy+
eAgbynFAfK.xd|oEugtmGvesEnw|kEapqyrtpKyev^ruhkqzKszi
eFigbAwyzsChi!uraejfKAjMSem|fuobvmwt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd>nKafkirofsMBi@xligbBGBmwths_klujkxrtpKHnr" lbpf
eopogxrupMp

IQMKCd6hzmthi/zmjpnDlguAywi!oEapqeLyvMBem+ftjo}

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AlujksCgtHp

IQMKCd%ltitNd:nuombmwgjLtss:fmarkhC|qNLxi!tAsbc
etptuj	zuxuqi/ lcwvexvssBnw!BqskvDrposFtz^ lJbft
eFikpprojFtfw!iAoecAwgbLtfd$uHftgirnpuFjx!uDac
eIpto]whuxHer;zg

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd:xGfbksrspOya

IQMKCd%ltmtBl^tligbnKgjGjef;zlJbvmAulsBjd*yloqveAu?

X1TCNN6K ^Izd&gHfbjjsyesBnq!yIfctevvxGLnk&zligbBsz?

IQMKCd\4bL.em|fzpvb)Az;,tgi|opfu?eLofsIfx&fAgbceDvwxLem|
ezpbuyJvozywd:nmobvmwgxHLid=llbbvfHzuxL.d:nqzbcww
enpvjeLofswtr'oDngteGmayuqw^fDfemtFpozM dcklbvvjFkt
etftgeAuaMBjd'uDfuveGuaMBjd%AwfbAtMyayuyl^xg

X1TCNN6K 2tri:fFigbiMrfsSjw:kDecAesuesBfh!sGdjbvMltMCtr!Cuuj
etjo<ezlatMpi%fyfbqkrDitNet@xqovclwgJsQfw3fUavqqv
etjo?eGmatMek=upacuezl<sMtd&klmcwlzlesush!rqubojrnp
