ORLANDO	Speakest thou in sober meanings?

ROSALIND	By my life, I do; which I tender dearly, though I
	say I am a magician. Therefore, put you in your
	best array: bid your friends; for if you will be
	married to-morrow, you shall, and to Rosalind, if you will.

	[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE]

	Look, here comes a lover of mine and a lover of hers.

PHEBE	Youth, you have done me much ungentleness,
	To show the letter that I writ to you.

ROSALIND	I care not if I have: it is my study
	To seem despiteful and ungentle to you:
	You are there followed by a faithful shepherd;
	Look upon him, love him; he worships you.

PHEBE	Good shepherd, tell this youth what 'tis to love.

SILVIUS	It is to be all made of sighs and tears;
	And so am I for Phebe.

PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.

ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.

ROSALIND	And I for no woman.

SILVIUS	It is to be all made of faith and service;
	And so am I for Phebe.

PHEBE	And I for Ganymede.

ORLANDO	And I for Rosalind.

ROSALIND	And I for no woman.

	man as Orlando?

CELIA	O, that's a brave man! he writes brave verses,
	speaks brave words, swears brave oaths and breaks
	them bravely, quite traverse, athwart the heart of
	his lover; as a puisny tilter, that spurs his horse
	but on one side, breaks his staff like a noble
	goose: but all's brave that youth mounts and folly
	guides. Who comes here?

	[Enter CORIN]

CORIN	Mistress and master, you have oft inquired
	After the shepherd that complain'd of love,
	Who you saw sitting by me on the turf,
	Praising the proud disdainful shepherdess
	That was his mistress.

CELIA	Well, and what of him?

CORIN	If you will see a pageant truly play'd,
	Between the pale complexion of true love
	And the red glow of scorn and proud disdain,
	Go hence a little and I shall conduct you,
	If you will mark it.

ROSALIND	O, come, let us remove:
	The sight of lovers feedeth those in love.
	Bring us to this sight, and you shall say
	I'll prove a busy actor in their play.

	[Exeunt]




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT III



SCENE V	Another part of the forest.


	[Enter SILVIUS and PHEBE]

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me; do not, Phebe;
	Say that you love me not, but say not so
	In bitterness. The common executioner,
	Whose heart the accustom'd sight of death makes hard,
	Falls not the axe upon the humbled neck
	But first begs pardon: will you sterner be
	Than he that dies and lives by bloody drops?

	[Enter ROSALIND, CELIA, and CORIN, behind]

PHEBE	I would not be thy executioner:
	I fly thee, for I would not injure thee.
	Thou tell'st me there is murder in mine eye:
	'Tis pretty, sure, and very probable,
	That eyes, that are the frail'st and softest things,
	Who shut their coward gates on atomies,
	Should be call'd tyrants, butchers, murderers!
	Now I do frown on thee with all my heart;
	And if mine eyes can wound, now let them kill thee:
	Now counterfeit to swoon; why now fall down;
	Or if thou canst not, O, for shame, for shame,
	Lie not, to say mine eyes are murderers!
	Now show the wound mine eye hath made in thee:
	Scratch thee but with a pin, and there remains
	Some scar of it; lean but upon a rush,
	The cicatrice^fmofbhswbuFjd*sBsguxMyf
e6iAbussnsMtq^fypogsLglxyuw3fnvvbsGDaFCsi!kKfu?
e9ikemrPaAuAi!jmsvgirhusNmi^ liwtyrAixyer=zf
eZpt?e1gbFtxy/kfavjjJlaBMer=frptejrposyDi|
e6icveuhosxtd&ADu}

YUMXKZ~fasted!flabbergasteS!jqbtbUzlcxn
eUgbgAwy. afw!ztbvbjNlssGfC!hqapgfJa_ 
e~pwbrwlusCsd|uyfbhwwziswmi^qlujgeHvxxLes'frbpeDl
e6igpeKobEFeC=AllpqBrAixtBs;tptbksNptBvqi
e6icveDvwx.xd)kqobcwJvxLtre)kg

VTFDGdTBusNnp-fFicveLpnx
eOpogeFvusNms;fzfcteEl;sush!CtfpbyzhusNnq^fopogxl
eMghnnuAaFyeA*ztavjDrtpvEx{!vuuAbrwgoHN.
eMtbvnDsaMBfx!zungbNrzitFqd+uFarkyQguAyj	

X1TCNN6K THid>nK.bKeHybRtDs;blXjqeEphANef^fKpwteEvuAyw{
e6icveQvvsCsw;rF.bgCMsumtfr%fmmnbfLgpGwj{
e1wgteLofsQwi:itff{e#obMtyl=AsibAtMgitPjd+ulcgczLF. a
eMt?bgQgnRtke*zt.bKeKlfsHtd_uDfbksrFpN
e6icpeOpuAIzx!imofnjrtbRtls!jmsmbyGgcxx][
eYvuveQvvsvjd:nqsghtJlaILty%fmofbuAAjEyxw9
e9iA?eOobMtri@tEavjnKca$BDd%ulzqweDvpDttr!sq}
eUaugjrupsGtv^fuobAtMguAusd*tlujgeGyeBHfv,
e1gbpfLBsx.xd|gxf+ytJr?s.ThNylnAbqAAuEyep*lq.
eUavjnFraLBjd_kmoubyGgutHlp^fyzbgDwzaMIt%
eZp?bkspuAnet/uGebonKAsxMx{!nAqgbsGAatzyi/fuu<
e/UkueFvusSty/fuomAetypPM	d,uGsbdqsjlsMnp)ftbkt	
e~pwtetBhEyei,knbnnxlgoHLeC=ADaejjwraHzeg/kmn?
e6icveuhosysx@sqaoAeKwjKCyw!zAaAqzJgxHLxl*vg
e~pwbkGvmBMmd|nqqjgwvaaPBjv^lAsgbiGgzHOej=rxpybmwy.
eXjmgexvhzSew=AFibrzxmjGAeA*ztayksvgbGxev@oz}
e~pwbfJlattyl=AEbpfeLpnxMee!vDprgwwyaFus
e6icpeKofsueA=smo<b)LptsMzg&frpqnxrhtsSty
e6icveEhlxMex&klxqtqvggNFqd=lljnn]xhwHOw(%foikniJloh
e/UkueFvusBjv!mxbuu	rivMtDs; lujcyrmmtNyi/yligt.
eMofbtMAaHzeC=AltjgeKlfLtmi/yqmhbrGyfsJws[kD
e6icpesuzsIkd&kDankswhnxHyw!imobumGDaAyw	
eNvv?eEptMLjw| llpqBrFpNLxi-laafqBFgpGtDs;xllpgjKa
eMofbyzhoDtmi@Bqo?bkszuBHl{!lAsbceyvpwtre+-EanqAw?
eRptbNrtvLNex^rxaAqzrmsBysh-EljpbDGBssyfv7
e5fnneOofGtDs;fobp<eQvvsuwi!tAubhtJgbEFeq@xwfvu,
eOsAbyzlaFusd_kDdA>eDvwxtmm_?lucmjrojLttj'kD;
eRpwneAzaFIxx!lAvn?etljGAej=Axavqetlattxg=lrft}
e5pbvfClaAywd:ulujgjlgtAyul^xp;bhfJlaRIzd>kxm}

VTFDGd~DfxNeC=AFi?bNrwstSeC=AfaejnvlattDi@xluqijLofKi
eUajcirybMBjv!nqbtbDGBavBnh^fFicpeLojLtre+fIpq}

X1TCNN6K 1y)w!lmmngsrposFtz^fIjvjeQvvKtks;rzfuuesuesMmiNrx
erbnneAuaEIAi!CuujbrQgbGAjv8fUgbkyrifsMt{!gEahcxLgbL
eEigbfFzxxLxd:nqfbynLoayLtA+ozhbntGrtmtN(-rltcwhwgixL
eIjvjetpuMywd>uDeu}e#ozsFts)fKpwbxGgvIIsd_kh

VTFDGdXvssHtd*rxaykqDgJsvje/fKpw}

X1TCNN6K 2tuv@Elzqw	rkpsHtx!lmmnbnFgmHPjd>oFibojl
eRptbNrhnszfp|kDavjfFgwHQxd_gpfbksrDjGy,
eNfukiwz.s3ep*qqaAqzrupMoeM'fKpwbBAsmsEss>fyzbjtMzfm
e/UkuesAaMBjd:ArubqkrvmBPjw!nqsgbmsyesvD	
e9jnneQvvsAt{!yutvgwngTAyul^xp.brqQgixLel@xp?
eOpog	rzjLNjv8f5igrmwyexMx{!rApmbtFgiBGef^zFft?
eMofbgwgoHNet/uGe<byzvvzBee-rlujgeOvsExeg=Axebujwa
eZppgeuvvExef^fEpbcgMzfwtnr!yuhjveszaAy 
eOpog	rApsIzv!lxpem 

e}FzgzFAa~9XEgOZE?bHWSJTtfr%fOPTKSd

VTFDGdVlbwtXl^vtftf	rupPtNd'ozebvmQgttQes'fyjijyl
e/XjqewCfKtqs<kpavjfLgmHPjh!tAubcyrmjKMyd|osiv{)

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg		|

VTFDGdrgasted!flabbergas2f{!CtbvbxsF"LNex&uG.bUnDCjNMa

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg	rwjMSeq^a

VTFDGd#ozmtNd@sltqtwQggHLex&kq.bijFAmxtXm-Buvu}

YUMXKZ~fXAywi<kDauqwJvxsCx{!xqmkgkrDpNFid#ka
eUgbAtMgeHtxs/xAxbcyrtzsAwm^lljpbqGCfm
eNzbinNpoztqs<klzqwwrzpKLtA!gzeboDrnsByk
e9ftgetvuAtjB:kDnkpjvb

VTFDGd`opNtme|zlnAbqGCfhtnw!tAubvmsAaGynk&hAvtnDn

YUMXKZ~fJsQty-jlicxjrFpNo

VTFDGdrgasted!flabbergas%mC7fFicveOlsxths<kFpwuswztn
e5jnxnMz.sNmi!zungbBszaMBfx!OlicvjvguAyj{
eMofbDwAaBNem|fzpvbyzhus3ef^gDavjjwgmHPj,
eNvvbxAudxtyl@zlujqzrjbGMyd:gxlbqkrspOyew=fIfnn	
e6iAbhGtqtHD{!CtjejewytMtBe|fusmutElaMIeq^ 
eUaykqDgfGxzv^ lbpfe1_mEtjq[rAzbvmwlaMIt\
eNvvbiGgoHNep=uwahqwrmvKNmi/fDfeqrHloLy
e6icpeLojGyes>tlhnciFltLtyl@zlujqzrhsMtjq[rAz&f 

YUMXKZ~fTHtms-ElbpfeKvaIywj^iFakueEFaEIAi7
eMofbNrposMzg&fmarqAwyuRttj!mDbeg	
e6icve1gtAuqp!ztjpmeAAattrs|zlqngsLlpNMeg/uB
e6pbiqwhosNmi!hDpmgsrlbKMee'zqsbvmwgntH
e6icveLofsGfm+ftbtxjKAaKyft|.lmqqxwgoHQee+jlujgs
eMauefLAfK.id|sumg?esuesNme:fU"nneDpwxtzt=tg

VTFDGd3upP.xx!tAxbvmwgzHOyl!ztbvbxHvlxtys!sqagtjOojEya

YUMXKZ~fOHNez^xKaygqDaauOyddftbxgeElusBnq!uru>
eMofbmwgitNmd#uGhjveLofswtx:gsfbcsvguAyef=Azeu
e6icveLofsIqh!imsnqyrvovyeA@ylncuywyaHz 

VTFDGd`ojGEer=zlJbntNlaACr{!ztpwimrPatMpd'uDajkrg
e/UkuetBusuet^kHjujetvzitDi:ftfbvfDrtsQjp-?
eNvvbBzhuswfv^fUahqwrDpKxx !EqubytJktsxtd>kxm
e9igpezlaMBfx!yBfcmxrAixGet-kmtgueLopLyex&gFajgfJb
eUubkxrhaILjx:Elzqwyz?aGIyd<kDzbrwwAuRi
eNvv?eKBsxnel^-EarttMk.sush!EqubjnKgqKCii!hqdqojKgiBG,
eTf&nqrtbDyee!vDprgwrtbGiex&klcguyrAiBHld*tliko
eUtbjnKgdHGup^Dupp>esueszfw:kDavjfFgiBMex=tsvg
ePjfbrsrfsIkj^tofbjnKgfRyeh*jligcqrpusOu	
eTfbkxrupMtAi/ElucnqhgzxNej=xlikueQlbKMel^-EavcqD?
eTjubqwnaBMef;zltqbxG}atHid,kFa&vnKgxxFq\
e6igtjrDbLtfd[xquvAeJleGyxw!ozajkxrsjIn
eMankyLsfsLnt^xlbpfeEvsxtqy|zKatgi
e6icpeLobMtrm\-pakpezptswmi^qba&vBszaCOxx!ztfbfnxmfKysg^
eNfvyjwuaMBjd$uztvcsLgsxxee+jlnkplDlesxfq@yw?
e6igtjrifsMtq^fIpogslgTBFAm;yfajcirAixSeq@xw"fbmAt
eUobrfJjfEMee|fUafkilgxHOqh!nmwgblGufsHje/
e6pbhfDsaBHep=BqaykyzgiBG.d#AF.bhtJgnRtue/zf
eUanqAwgiBGer=zloqtezhuxtmm_fzpv>esuesSjx
eUajcAwgnHLjd$gGtgbyGgitNjd&oyavjfFguHtqs<kliko,
eRptbBzhusBfh!nqavqevvaMIeg&opfbcyrtfo
eTfbufAkaFCsi!kKfubBwyfsvqe$qlbpfeEFaAunv!hxbem,
eMof?eFvxs3ee_fDfogrtls,x	d|iAsp&irhusGj\
eUaocwNlmsQmC!OlbpuBwy"wtss:fmhcksg
eNvvbyzhu,Mee-rlppg.rvnBNye+iqakueFvaJOnx:gzdg}
eU"nneOyjMyex=ftjobfrCfKSex@AzukplrsfMNjv7
eMofbyzvvsMme-zlcgcwrpuhtBm-zlujqzlgTBFAm;yh

YUMXKZ~fQAygi7fIjvjessmsGDd&kmsv}

VTFDGd1_mEtBv*zqakveKAstCll:?
e6igbrsAuxL)w!ozaoAezlbwtfr%fuoboDroftLy\
eUaykqDgcxtgm:zqsbynLoaACrd@tparcxKpoztxl=xF?
eSpbynLoaFy	dnoxwkwxm

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1fUAyej=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bEJ4PBmtfr%fVBSWJ~\

PMRWGXqPaILnx&kq.brwwAuRtDs;zt.bnjLgnxtgi!hquvgwrhdJOfm+zqe
eIjvjeLofxo

X1TCNN6K !BjC!ymzbAtMgbKyee!sqmcphzvmRtki-rAx}

PMRWGXqPatGew=?lJbftrspOyem:fnfvvjJguAusd-gGhjksyb

X1TCNN6K !Btw^fFicvesyfsCsd^DFsgonLFaHzei*ztftbfJlatvtq*tmcng
erfnntOzatHid#kFscAeLofFMjp<kEavqewCfKSeq=jqsp
eofpuzJlaPIww^fFicpevyvGEfv%yg

PMRWGXq4iRne(:oEaiqtvguHtgi!ymebcsvgttSer=ztjpi 

X1TCNN6K $BDd:nqo?b)LptsAts%fFpbdjrhaIIxx8

PMRWGXqPaAuAi!tqjvjjJguAyew$nAmct)KgnxFfr$nAmA?eOojvBem|
eqnwnfLppGner=xlujgeEBtBwne+-E.bymAjisCxd'gzucuyAjbEn
ezptbyzlavIzv:oqs&u	rDiBwmd*ylqtqzvaaGIwd:nq
eEpnfnwy"LneA&ooibkxrhnuCym=AE.bptJguAyep@CKft&xl
eIikemrptsJtp*zud?bsGyaMBjd-gpz&u	rDiBwmd*ylokejlgoHL
eFigbqGCfK.x{!CtjejeAzatFqd:nqtg<etBusCyd*ylb
eyfncsuopESes'fyjpgeGDomths_vAvpfjvgpytre+EltkouDltm
eqyvtfuAfwtkv=slncpDrvcCyhx| lbpfeAuexyid:nqauwsvyz,M
eoppvjEwmtNns+fAgboDrAstPjp| ljpbBzpdAtrC!urugp
eDvokssAjHHeA/gBtbojrtattrs|zliwotJvvLtxe%tqtu}

X1TCNN6K Ttyv@Bqmngw/gCRtrC!lmjvj	rFpNtme<klhtgfLgsxuxs+fFp
enfbufv?a2tki@xlzqwezhwxtxs-jlzqwwrvxGtqe+jEavqeKlf
eAujgwrtfG.x,!ztfp?eLvaAuAi!yqfpbrMjisush!zAajcAw
ezpvjnFn.sCxd:ulicxjryjvBei,kEacpirwpHLel@tpt}

PMRWGXq6fLneM!nmwgblspoxxeq,fqyrgwAlovy 

X1TCNN6K THid,uGsbgCHlsBysg^fybmgxrFpNtxe%.lJbjfvgstNmi/ftbxg
emahqtDguHtre)klngbrwysRtyl@tlfzrjJpfGwjd:ulncmjrtf
eEbf>esuesNtd:xmwgnexvssCyd:uA@

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	U{

U4MCPI7fHHIid%gKacpirobIJnr^yE.bfjsya~Ixe-oze#

PMRWGXqUbRnex&kz.bItvgcxtBmNfKpw?esuaRIzd:gxlbksrimtHpd<kDtg}

e}Fzkyd

X1TCNN6K Yuwi>kxm?bRGutByzv!ZDbxgqDlshtqs=qlzqweDptItfr%
eIfcteKAstHli!yGjvu	rkjLugp^fmmnbyzlauysi'oFtbqkrFpNL
eAxpbhGBoMLD{!hqaqwyrvgsFtz^fIjvjeQvvKtse:oHjvAesue
emmoqxLgdACii!MAebhtJgntEnr"fKpwbyzhuswty+zqocphwgzHO
emsg?eGya2tBm-rltecwulaMBnr)fKpwbmsCfsMBe_fuobc
esppftDh?s%mC7ftpybsGD.s9wp@tpp#bBzlsxtme<klzqwetlfG
emmnbyzptsQmm-kha1qzrhaEIAi/'lBpbDGBaLywz^fyfbuzuo
emoqvmwyaMLng) logxjJgdHGjd*tlnAbxAniMtrs/kg

U4MCPI7fNRtke*xlSqufDpowneM!iAngbBAAiBHee+ftpwteGmaFSet/uyjug 

X1TCNN6K ULje)fmobjtMy"Ltuv=sutgbnFgmHPj%!NqavjfLgxBFq
epjxkiwgbsGnr;zqakpyGgbsNms;ymofbusyuLtfr%fnsgcprivM
emarcwLgpytyl^fFiqwxsueMBet@xFaqhesgnBHzx^fuobvmw
emghcnJzaHzep=Bq.bkyrtbRtgi!ymjfbtxgiBGex&gFaEwuAk
etbvjeusbIJjh!nunbq)rAixtxl=Axegt	rivMtN(-rlxctwsuu
etjobmwhsMaBl=rq?

U4MCPI7fQtLis+fyf?biwhss`tw@ruof}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!gzaAqzrifsMtd:gDeA?euvnxtss!sAsgbnFgnRtxm"nF;bK
etbfbfKgmBykd#klxqqjvgpytfd|tmjn}

U4MCPI7fPytfd|tmjn{

X1TCNN6K TS	d=llbbusspmitks/fFiqwlzgixths_kEauntOszmtmi
eobttnwzaACxd&uGtgbtFgiBMel^gp<bcetluMywd(uuovwwwa
eUavjnFr.sNme+fKpwbrsrfsueA=smo<bgwzjwyxd&klctksyz
etjubiwzuBHDd>oFibjnEb

U4MCPI7fXAuy(|fFicva

X1TCNN6K $BD{!nAspu	rDiBwmd|AoibcxrFpNtfv^frbkpeLvauy
enfjqqvpoztys!EAvtbBACfLtks/.lcwvezlavIri|fmsogirpo
etjubkGyuNHjd@tpartjNloMMex&kltncsvlssIkd&oEaykkwb

U4MCPI7fWBLyy^futbptropKH]q@qqs>bfFkaFSeV=ymmkpirptsPnv:AAvu}

X1TCNN6K THiddfmnbAtMya~Ixe-oze}

IQMKCd1AaIFje|kEajkrrApswfp-fKpwbxG}auOyd&klicvmrh
e4pucqAuesIkd@fnfvvjJgmxywd:nmobAtMb

X1TCNN6K VIri7fIpqbrwaaPItd_kfahqwrupPtNd@sljpbfropECie,
etvoqzJgbGxep*qqagptMnisNtd$uztgpymgXAuyd>uGmfbDGB
eEbAbyGgnxtss> lbpbNrDfKyeC=ADaxgwQgwxLDdmuEbnksvc

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jllkuxrifyIwi!Oltrqpwb

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!EAvbyjJlauyyx^xltrgfCggBLxx7fmofbBzlosSty!Cqsg
esscxjDsfwtks/fxbemeGmaFuyx^xfaAqzrtjzByd:gwf
eAdecxAvosNtd)oEt}b1wyzsAts%fAscvtJz.sQmi+fFigAesyf
eAvv?eLofRtBm-rltrkyhgbGxej=xlmqxjJzaEuho*ts_+Itv
eIbtpeMz@ are:zqs?byzlavFje+rufuveKojyNem|fFpbmnKz?

U4MCPI7fIHQem'fFigbpAztsvjd%kzjgfa

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!ytfbrzLzaRIzd:ulfpvwwhuRnee+jlujgwwgcxAnr|fzfybrsAuxL 

U4MCPI7fXAIeg=AxebdjrvvMnef^ozhbdjxvsxtmm|fnfnqAwkaFCxx/kEt{

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, lujcyrziHOqh!EAv?bnxgJsQjv^fKpwteEptMLjw| lpt
eUaujtMsesNmm+qlnAbmGufLNDd/gzlgteLobGtrC!Cuu}

U4MCPI7fXAuy{!uraoAeKBjMp

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd=AFaqheQvvKtft[gDfn?esuesSjx!uGubqkrFpNLew;oF?
eMnbptLgJsSty/f4pucqAueo

U4MCPI7fJsNfo^fEpogeBvzsNtd|gKaAqzrhsxnef^imvuge1gxHOqh!hq
eFbnmnFnaHzel^xg

X1TCNN6K $yqp!ozajgwrwfKMtr!OltcAe1gxBFqd+uFajcAwgzHO 
