                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consumiAuhsuxt^iFaqheuvoMLfg:ozhbqzLgdHHAi/yupp}erLS$U4
xqdmqswkaTGjv*imobOjEvsR.xd$uEuubfLg%(tui/fBbig	rivMthe;zuppgirAitNej^Cqs
iAtv+jDlnxHyw!nmebdjwuaBHhp;jqebvmsuaBHeR?R/tbhnyBsxo


U2UKQS~gG8`eHdY5FOKSS1J88

ZtfbvtHpdsIkd%oEtgonFhuBIsd[xAqgtewtfKAjh!gFaxcwAvvLtus*tFtbfzJpoztyl^
3AsmumGw?stFx!ztfbujKzjHHeh^BAugfeLvaGuym=tmmbcsvgjGNjv+gFjqpfDgdHGuy:kD
tquyqwCz.s64R{NfaJqBsyesVJWnK4.bTtFhmwtQEmYQO?bfFkaXxBm+fNSQYS0PHZ
nuhjnnyouxxex&klwktyMltsIkddtFftpjLguHxfC!gzebqkrAixtsi:CAsmbyzhusQnp-
kHpnxjrmsHGeM+zqspgymga5Cxx^tqsubhGBmwtim|iqspbnFguAyxi!tmstcyACfLtf
Butkqsrvgsusd*trptofLppGtii_uosceDrposQmm$nlnknqAvoLttj!iuukBjFzayLji-E
luofbfFkaNMjd>nmubvmwFaGyjh8flM1PHZgoHNjh!ztbvbfrsbvEes'fEucpisyeL
ozikdnLzawCxw^suocvnFnaFOqx*sqekceGuaMBjd+kFxqtplgbsNtt*ilbnutrkjLwzw|kp
hKaDGX~LSnteP?X5FPbfvksxMxi%fFigbnKzvxMes'fzfvytJraLwfp@humkvDrhow
sAewnfJpuRtfr%fopoojFAfwtzt=tlujgevpgyChy-zKaqhesuuBwnt@zuoibyzlaxzki$zE
uraittOAisCsd=xpftueGmaFulr*zGeg}erIS8%SVdMSavcqClesugs;zlujgesijECyC!ur
vmdmgyrybwCtd:ulqtqAAkfswjv:guobnnFrtsCsd@fzfvytJraPCyl=AFavjjrufxxej=x
Cuskplmga1IBi<kD.bvmwgqKyxi+zqsubfDzpswfp-kpacvywuuBIsd:ulujg
ytptvhGtjGAxd@tpakphGuhKOnx*kEaqheHyfLysxTjmzbetEwvMywd+kFxqtpKbasZtv
kJborqw?as&[dikFxqtprBtxtnw!mDpyksygeKure:oobnnDlgcNNeq;itapgyOvsD
zDbhhnugdHHxm|zEaqheHlsLIse-fopoozFpdtNns+f<F+ofAs-nte6SfXbtijripwCjw!ur
ozgqtrsAjHHee/klbxcnDhcEy	d#AFacbzKls,Mee#oxjvAeLvaLyfv$nlbettKzaMBjm/
kzuktjLFaBMep*suugf rg4	tYl^xqactjrzjzHnj*imovbwwzpNLhi|frptbxupfGwjd@tp
zqdjptDvhRnef;zlggyeFluPIwo!yAvtejKgqKIAm%kldqpywuusCsd:nqajwrsujMCjw8
0>aOchzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMMee/kldqorGuqEuhi7fnvvbyzlavuue#oxjvAeGmaMBj
yKtvgrrApsxje-fIjvjeAtbzyxdRrqubcqGufsIyl^xlngfnsggHLre:y>anclKgcxBnr%a
GlhnkrHzfsIkd@fyvnvnEleBuej;zGsgbkGyaGyyA=xwt?bmGDfOyw{!CmtbrwGCjwyid#E
Smskce4LC~9Sd*tligteGCfKPni>fAgbvmwgPGFnr^fVpwtsssaHzeG;xDfpveUsjGChe-
ZDjcnxr]P3WHXS lbpfeLofsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKarwgDptACsk!uz_nkswb

ZtfbetFAstMym+mlgqtrrvgsNmi!IP_TQRrkjLEeA@ylogxjJgtRMyi_gFjecqDF
gzbnAEwk.svzx!gFugpiwltswty-jlhngfFgbGtnq[xqtuktFggKIrd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
ytpy+fFk_Myqp!vDfugsLhuBIsw8flUjge8lsLyzw!gzebCrwyjvusdhkyptAewEbFJqi|
jqnqpxLybMyid/kofpvqQgqNvqm|nqebfnKrtmtBl*rqavjjrkfLwwm[zuppueGmaMBj
ONZEWXrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgQtJjv|fAgbIjGyhxt2e|nuoivtFgbGxeG&gpxAep	OftFjCNy
VmutqqGnjttQe:ozbbFfLhctMjdRVXE_byGsesIkd%oElubyGgdHGj	!fMdeqwvpoztys
KDjebHSSB5#HE7f2MF&xrwsBHhm[gxahqhMzaAuxd#kqobqsrjpGPjv:ozhbLfuxvxM]T@Ax
Suhpg)Kgexznr*zuwgbhGsmxwym=tlphbQsAjGtyi\zEavqeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlayIwq8
GxujqzyoaxPjv,uzfbetMsesMme/klujgeFluPIwo!gpwqefLlt,tjr:nGtkcxEggHLee+
uz_nkswggNNzv^ lujgeHvtLCgm-oFzbqkrypEFnr"fGqbqsw_tsMqi^BqtbhtJgbsMjw|oAo
CuujbfrJE `TQ!iAovcnFpoztgs:nlugzyMhmsGfx^xubnuesuesuet=CqshwqryfMLni<gx
kzhkpjrtbwyex&klekuprzfxGee+fmqrgfDpoztAi|yqmbksvlfwoedonqaqxjJhmE
jutewxKppGtxy"mqtvgirAitNex&klutcsKpuBIsd'xAnbEI	YP6tys!uz_nkswgoxNBs/qqe
godguxrtbRtuv=BqahcwrzmHQjv!gzebotJlawCkj*iGmvbyzhosBfw!hqfpbfFAjvCue:kp?


3TPbCWWgU1YeYnK4TbCSVgX1UYd	UlUJG4rKPo

GxujqzyoavIsg^xzffbBAAisNmi!zqdjpnuhmBNni|fAgbrwGkvvNns+ lujge#vsDMms[
tqwgteDvtMtxm"nFaqheLofsJzv[uEfubfFkaNMjw!uragnjuAsHHng!BqsuktFzaHz
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt}beSzaGIyi%fmcqxjlguAIxi!ozugtjKAfwtnr!oybiksygeBMhy|yqe
ztfbrwGimxGfx*immbofLAfKttj!juhkvfDgqKyxi/BmukqslgxACqi!ztfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuu
jqtetntlesBtA!smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLzavusd#klvugirposLjw^gDdj}er1iBMep@zFft
zAqkeeJldxCAi%fFiqttMnisNwi@zyfpveAuaMBjd[gBftbwwhesvDd?BDbbONUOF5!TR8
Ytfbrqsjfwtyl^fBigptEloHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbynLojGtyl^foppvjPAaHz
hDpcfjJguKysh|fuobksxvsFuym=tlugemFvmHADd@tpauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIs	

GyppieGAixLex&ozhu?e5PD1YQWjTleguhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%
ztfbqwAnjGttj!ztfbYtJrtAIud=tlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFgbswtr<kDtcvnGuaAyel@j
nmebetFzjwywe#rKaoqwwguAusd@fKfctesnpsQnx&fObtneXSF2!HLcG7FTbhGudxLsm+m
yAngbtxguAyem|yGfubksjfwtgC!GY?bbTFguAyee|yGnrvnGuaMBfx!tGngttMzaHNmi/
vqprnjrDfKyee|quoibyzlaLuri!wGfuvnGutmtyl^fpfekxAvosQfw!smegbyGgcKCsk
zAhgvmwyatMeq@tKaqheLofLyet^uBmgbfKgqHMxm#rqavqeszlsNmi!ymngbvMltMCtr|
zAhgvmwy?stNr!glegguwyaLysw^ lHKHK7YEsMfm% lujgeGyjzCsd=llujge#vsDMms[
rmzbksrAixtii|oDfbqkrAixthy/xqovbQAistLne+fAgbEtFnsxMx{!PmngueZb
HumnksyApGnex=fybmgeLofswtp-koukqsKgpytyl^fXjdtfJF.syxt^iubnnDrAiHMj
urggtnFnaNHnu;klptbzFBtNuqd:kEukotFFaHHee|vqdvueGmaMBjd?sqskefF
kJqgtnwudxnee<gumcdqwguHtfd_Aoibynvlsswnv$rqaqheMzfKMex&gzavjtKlayyB
vqprnjrDiHthe+fopogeLva$uxl*tsuqpeLvaNMjd:nqn}be`ojLtri@tFavjfLguAy
kyqjcxAzaHzeEh lgtqrrAixtty:yqu?bmszauyjr!uzacthzpwtFeg=rxfevnGutsIkd:nq
hmtkeeEhuxLne- lbpfeGuaFupm+mlujgxwgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kEacxfAsbuFj{
xmujgwrAitHew^rqdvgirvssBje<oxzbgiAAfwtuv=jGdvu 

LDpobF5_tsyrt&gEjubkGsmHQjh!ztfbszwzuBIsw!CuujbBzpdAtyl^f9ptmxzvqsvjk@ta
CtpbynDsaNMjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp| lbpfeAuaPBfx!lAsobBAsmsNmi,fIjujeLvaNMj
ztfo}erIvMtfr!kHfpbqsyhxLem|yGfbfjKlsOCsk!sqovktFaaBHeKdLRPTF)KgwByB{!Cmt
ztfbrmwupFyse-fssqyyzgjGtNr:kDogveuvoGyhx*BuuA}erOfsyCt/kEtgfeLofsBtt^
ztbvbyzlaILtw[koubqkrnsxuyi/fuovgwuvoGyhx^jzfuueLobGtjz^xlcghtJlaPIzp%
rqbfbyG?as&[d_AoibotJlavItt^xmukxjrhowtry:AmmnAeKBqIIwx*BqagpiwhwHLx,!8>
jqwgntHtfGNes'fEzuvjEzaHzew&gDffbfFkawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyAltsNt
gHpkfevBqEChe:oAobcsvguHtjr|ADfbchuBstwDd@tpartjKlsOuym=tlphbzFprNy
smugtnsstitfr%f#-bclJlfFysx!uzavjjrufvyxw@xKauvfFkbKxxd@tpafgAwspIGjr:fAg
ztfbcuHypILne:klektjuApKCjw!gzebksvpdxMex=fybmgeFhwBAfx*uz
yFscklzAgHLBe/jlboqsyguAyez@xuffbwwzpNLhi|fFicvesyfmtfr%fuoetjszjGAqC
CumnbgwaatPfm-gnmg}erPosNmm|fopppjuAjHH	dbORGQTIryfJOjw:kpavjfL
vmsvkhAwbGNxd/krmgeyrmsHGex&klpwvxwAaNJtr!ztfbutJAtsIkd=AFdqojKguAyD
ztpwimLguAye1=xwtjqurtjzByd&gHf}beVpesNms|klqtgxwuuswtr|zuuwvjrhazLty[
CuujbxMmgBwni+zldqorGuaBHyi/kEuubyGgqKIus|klbbpjPAaLNjt!uDapgCLgtMyuw7
gzebkkrzpmtBl@zlnkimLguAIxi!hq}bbYzlzsQty-jlsgvzJuaMIex&kEfbszwzuBIsw!ztf
lAmnqBAuhsukx^xzpqp 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfOptgeGma$Iwo|nAqbetFjfKHxd[xqqctfLppGtfr%fBsqfzuAjHHes'
smugtnssts{eW[kojcneuobEFjr"kljpbhGuwxLxm=tlphbywEuNuqd_gFftkfDza}
WGbnkyQgwxLxy|fCvcpyAAzs{eH=fFigbxwCfKuqd"xAvrueJlqKyxi+zqebumsyfswtq_uz
ozugtjKAtot+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
kyqjcxAGfwtyl@zligbBGBmwtfx:kyqvbyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgqxIup^fIiqbuwygHLrd|uyf
uravjjrDpKEes'foppxjJAjGAes/fBsgrfJpozteq@zqskcqKgbGxex&gFavjjrjpKyes'
ztfbYtJrtAIud&gpavqevvaPCyl!vDfrcwsAjHHee+jlqtqiMjuBIs	!fRMGKXUOIT#JV
ztfpbiJlxsueh*yFjpeyAvosvjx>kqobvmwgmHHld:kDn?bBzlosGfr,fFikplKgxHOqh!hq
gHbknftsfsush!iAopghLlesCsd:nqaycDKguAuydbORGQTIrkfLwwm#kp.bcsvguAyew&uDu
zqso?eAuaPBng&fMNbptLgpGFDd&gEaytjKAmxxeA*ztavjjrptLOjd=llxjcyrptsNmi
hqtvbhGBsLyex=fBvtuzwgcNNee-yAajcxrmbvyid@fHbtkjLFaHzex^itokefD
itbnnjFnfLo

LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kybtmjvgB6.xd^tpfcxtJzaMIeh^gxaykyzgbsQnh^fDbpijrvgsFnf/gDz
lAsocyKaaLOhl!gEaoqyAvosJng:ADfbetDsfvNns+yfauqzFk_Kyhs/juoibhGsmxwym=tE.
gzebrnuApKCfp!iAmnghLppGMes'fHbtktMzaLIwx| lfurjupbEFDd$uxmgeyAvoLttj
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzavjjrjpNLxi!uravjjKlaxzks/zE.bCRrrfINeg=suoibgsjlsNt
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt++rsuvLwwm[zEaqteJhsxtuv*tFffbrsAuxL	d#uGofbrsAfKCfp| 
kFd}be`lyMtus|kpavjjrnsxuyi|zldqpAwytBIsd$nmmngsylaHzee-rgabVmMz.sNmi
mqogunKgpytyl^f9ptmxzvqmtBl*itatgkDldMMex&klqtqgDlnLtke$kpadAeST?stYl^yq
vDpdnjEzaBHhp;jqarjDKpdtFet/unmgoxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlguAIxi!ozavjjrsjuLfv,
gzebcwuojOyef;yuoguxrkftFeA*ztaeqqDldMCtr|fybfgeMwaHzej/gsjngesuesLfv^
smowuhJpqMtnx^sE.bdtMuesGfx^xubnu	rltIyhm@rxzbvmwgoHNtv*uGtnAetyjMNqi
hAvpfeEhuxLne-ylphbyzlaEuyi!tuogvjwuuAthi+zGsA}er1ixMjd@xqartjuppNM
iGmvwwssatLym'gouu?ezvxxPjv7fmtbyjDsatMem+zqsguyAuhsMty/iqtbqk
ozgqtrsAjHH	d@tpaNEevltBLjw!zAatgysposush!iAougwNlaMBjq8flBObswleLtys
nmofnjrAiBHlw!CuujqzLgetGfk*tsavjjEbas1zm-rAukpnFnattgs=qluqbwMuaBN
ztsqwlzgbsMmi^zlgggiwyaFOxx!hqacxtAkfwtfx!gxmbetKAtn

HqzqpirwiRMng@rlqtqgDlnLnem|yGfubuwyutCsm+mluqbvMhmBNDd@xAtg}erMpK
kJborqwaaMBjd%kEjtgeLvaILtz*jqawujJzaPCyl!gltgcwuobuFjd:kJubkxrhgyyhx^j
hKavjjrxvxMym=tlphbfujfINff-klmgxjDgpytfg$ADbeA rgPGyel;tpsgfeHlsvysx
godwtfuFaBMex/kyfpftMzmRtjB[kztkxjmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbqzLwvMttj
uBukefDgdAuwe$zqsbtjuvhGCym=tl)QEW{gdtHef^fFsgojFkpNMqC!ozbeezJhuxo
GxujqzyoaT7el@ylbvvjEwuxxex=frjpfesgnBxip^fssqwsvaaNHhi/zmjpvDrwfKMnw:y
gEavqeOofMBjv!uDapqyrpusBfw!juteqAwyfwtyl^fDjijyrzpEOym=tg

WGfuvnGutsIkd]AmmkvDrhsHMjd$uzdgtsAuhsCre"kEacueOlmEoedaRQJUEMZHVX`
iAovtfKAfwtyl^fqyvtjElmRtmm"nlmgxjDgpytvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyxd*t
ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybRwGqfvNeA*ztaCO)Kgfyztv:yluqbuJvwBxjd@fnsqyxw|rNuqm:E
uDacehwzt Kze-oFzbkrsnfmtfw!uBqqujvguHtfr!gDdjkAssaHLet/kEftxfLppGtnq@mq?
LXFKUHZOB@YWd:nqsghtJlaPyqg=sqebvmwgpIJtv:AzjvAeLvavIrt@xqapqywz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd=hEftxjvgjGtue|yuoibyzhuswtr<kDtcvnGutsBjd&gpajcirhcHOy
tquyqwCzaAuAi!hqhwpeLvaLClr@rlujcyrmpKtAe/oAvubkGynLttj!sqekces
jqugtrAubMCtr!smzbdjrtbwyex&gFavjjJlaBMee!hDpyuj	xvtFnx,fuugo	rvssu
jutvtntBuBIs[@tp_cehwzt Kze-oFzbkywtaMBfx!smzbetwEjLNem+fEpogeKFtMyrw
CuujbfrojzBjv!wGbnkyQgbKwmm<gxakvjEguAuyd>uGmfbgwgjGwtr<kzjgpyrApsMjr%
ztsqwlzguAyer^zIptmetldtOxi!urakvxrzjSy d!LXFKUHZOB@YWd/krfttjvaaHz
iAvtujlguHtnq@mqtbotJlaMBfr!zAaugfJjitvqi!zqyv}

GEaCOeuvoLCii/kpavjtKlaJOjw:oAou?eKlwxLfp!iAoeguLBbEtnw|AqtbcwGzfhtes;mtu
GYaqehszjHHfp-EluqbwwwsHxzg^fybvgwAhmLtjr:oDfnAeLosHOll!gzakofylaLyy{!gF
uFigteLpnxM	d^tFjtgqQguALty"nlbbvjPAaLyy{!gzebksrzpFyeg@yqt?bfrtjQp
ZtftgeHypuugp,fIpwnirifsNnq^ylxjgsrAixtmm|zAskefDgbNNmi+zudkvDrvgsus
gDukhfuAaPIzp%fDfswnJlaMBfx!oFtbkrsnfsvjd;yqe}beSuaBGfk^fyjijyrif
jqtktftsfsuxd@fDfeqzJzfsztv!AEftueAmaHHjd$uGmfbsGAaILtz*jqa3`#	wfKwjr:
godwtfLlaMyCx8flBicnFaaT7eA=tpftgilgbLtfd[xmdvkhssaFuyx^xfakhes

YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe7SJ#YW;

U4MCPI7fJL.yd[uEtkdqwguAuyd=tltqbqAAuEyee$wGbkpysudxtDs;
eEiqwqvgmBEjd&kD}bvmsAauOyd|kqjpieQvvsMms;rpanqAw
etft{esuesFtz*tsayqtngbGx	d>uAjpi	rzixtxl=Axe
esscpyngbGxeA*rxaAqzrwfKMjz^xluqbjFqpRtmi/b

UXJXGWqUfBNmi/fobnneLofsAnh%ozfuueGmaBNem+fCvguyAvomtyl^
eBpxgwLFaHzel^xfavjjrzntFqd@iCvcksLhovy	d_Eltwfiwu
eIpqksyaaGIwd&kDauwivloswtr|kzukplhgcNNew@Elxkvmrtfm
eUanqAwgBECjr@?ltcAeOpuAtmi/fFicveKofsFtz^ylng>
eoppujFAaPCyl!hAujbyzhusQjd_gKagpoGFaxuhl!uFigt,rpu
eEicnqrifsNtd,uGsbitGk<sztv!sKahcyzls,Mel=AEfbcsvgbEF
eFigbwwCfGOjd:nmubyfKgpExeW*xlSqyqsue,MeA*rxaK
eqtvcywgvIIsd,uG.bcsvgixLjd-oHfbcsvgeByee!ytfrjjJk?

U4MCPI7fZHOel@BqaoAeuvoLysx8fXfvbDGBssQjh%ozhbdjrAp Gtv/uI;
eFikvmwyaPCqp!OljpxnLlaMBjd%AwfbcsvgbEF)w!iAovgsLle
erpnntOlsLoeK=fKpwbfFkaILjt@xqaCnnwubitks/fxpqm
eKpw?ezlsxths_kEaoAe0vttFnr%a

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP/

X1TCNN6K ZIid|gHfbAtMaauLtx&kD?

UXJXGWqHowtDs; lgckwrzjLNjv8

e}Fzkyd

X1TCNN6K 8neq,fpfcte7ymtHis7ftpybnLghKCjz^ylngbyGgtxyex&kq
eIfcteLozsBje/zljpbfrzdtLk%

U4MCPI7fJMtnw!sKactrm

X1TCNN6K 2tyl=AsivbyzFaAyfv:ftbfbgwlosQty+jqebynLoaMBjd$rmxu
eAgbceDppGo

U4MCPI7fXHOsh^jljvbnKaauOyd>oFibvmwgfRyxd=llbbnfvF?

X1TCNN6K WCid,uGsbdwGAixLex^rxaAqzropPtNd$uGovgwxljMyid:u
eExqqsrDixHel^fEiqyjvgnxtDs;xlicpiClsvBni'b

U4MCPI7fBRnee+jlhtgfLlssQtr%kDtbvmsuaMBfx8

X1TCNN6K 8neM!qzpybBzlsxtDs;fmsg<eFhzmt)x*ylutwjgguAywi!Cmt
ezfxgwrhoRtyl*tsauqeKBewysd#AFavjjrmjzByd=lluyqeJhnL
emofbHslttL)w!ztscutFpdtFef/gsaqhe\Pavuri7fEby?esue
eAwgthstfh.ej=xlzqwwrisHNmi/fmofbrQgtBMyi/fzpbutGufK
eyfvbgMAaMBjC!rApmgilgoHtxs=tqsbntGrfwtgy:fFigA
expxgilgoHtxs=tqsbntNlesvzx!ztfAbxAnixx	d+ultqqswy
eEjijjvgcNNex&kKacupwkaHHjd@tAujgwrAixtwi@yAo?bsG
eEpqpjJglGyBd:nqatgfKvosvzx!ztfAbxGBhANex&klsgojvF<
emofbnFguAyxi!jqhtgjKgitPjd:nqzbofvlattue*xlphbxLhjKM
eFpbofJyjtAjd>nudjbyzlzsQnp-fomkogrpovIsx*tqov?eGy
eqmugetlaBHhs+zuogpyrifyIwi!smstkfyl;sNmi,fmsgbnF
eFigbAwyzsQwe:nlphbqGCfsush!ztfAbBAsmsNtk^ztft>eusvuM
eobpptLgqtLyd:nqn}

U4MCPI7fUAyDd|nmmnbgwgntLwm^jluq+rGysHQ	d@tpaKbBAsmsvnh!ztf
epvmgeLvaMBjd+ABukcqmgCNN	dj liqyetpuMywd@fFikplrpu
eutbvtrspHEem+zAajcuHpoxMxd:nDpwimrhoHNmi/fybp&x
eqzgu^rIzsMtd_AoibvmwgnHLjd|nmmnbNrAp Gtv/uIadgesA
eFigbmwphANes'ftfcty	oftPnr^yE.bdDropPtry$nlJbumssm
eFikpprtzsvws:nqsbjfHwzsCsd&gHjpieOobMtmi!CutjgxrmpKo

X1TCNN6K $BDd:nqo?byG|nHLws>fUaecsFvusMjv<klzqwwrAvKHej=xlSqufDpowp

U4MCPI7fJswfr!ruwgbsGgmHHli/fnzbvmAulBHl	

X1TCNN6K 2tBm-rlxgcwQgzHOex&kzapqeDvozywd>oFibkiDlaMuqo*ts?
eWoqyeGmaFyex&kz.bhtJgoHQeM!yBfcmeLvaLIri!vGsrqxwa
eFicve1glGIBd,uGactjrhazysx-kybpbtxghHIid$uzdgkyggJ
eEqgcprupMtyl*ylujcyrFpNtxl=Axebdjsyattls=jlprksAvo
eAgboDrroHQqi%mq.bksKvnNwmddfEbAbNrroHQeC=Albtg.
ezfkvmwyawIeM!rmcqwwrmpKtfd"xqbvgwrltMyjq!ztbpbrsFaBH
eEpogeDpuMFjd_kmtwtjrkstQee!hqmkgkrmsHGeC=Afavqevv
eKpwtxwsgsAts%fmofbsGAaMIek/gofbojmgCxFni<klujgslgjy
eKpwbuDlbLy	d:nmubKeuhosxtd|zDbpijrAiBHlw2fUajcAwa
eEjpejrPaPuxd:nDfgbDwhssIqh7foppxjJzfwtBm:nlb
eybikhAhomtrs|zlqtqkGBowtnr!nutbcwLgbGxeC^zloqv
epbopftsfntNj!EAvbftrspOyeV=ymmkpirzpsHje/fFigbmwhsM
emtbAtMyazyxx;xqaetnwzaBNes;zfayjjFgzHOwd#xAujgw
eybttnwzaTFni+gfaujfDsaRIzd_gDsAbmwy;s3eo+uIakpyG
eIicveKAstCyw!urahqwLBoxtxl^futbfwACfGjee+jljvbnK
ezpvbnEwpLMnf-kluqbrwaaBzem:fmqrgfJgoHNem+iAoxgsAloM
eFpbAtMaaMIew^zligtetlgHLjd,uGsbgDwzaMIrs/xAxbjzEho
emtbumwgjLtfr%fIjvjtMAatHDd%gzhgt 

U4MCPI7fTIyfo^yFavjtMgjGtxs#kDaogfFpozMa

X1TCNN6K USeq,fxjhg	rPawI.d>nudjbNrAfGxjv!jqbtnDlguAIzk&fU
eEbAbNrhnsueq@mudkcsmgUAywi'uDf?buMAaRIzd*tlzqww
enfuvesystS,d#opaAqzJggKCjr%ybahqwrpgsSty!Cumnbgw
eybttnwkaMI]q=xDpy?eQvvsMme-rfacpirAps`tw@ruof?eAmaRIzd>oxm}

e}FpvjJgT261MpYlbpfe8OFUY<

eXpqm	rofKyeg=sqtbceDvwxLes'fyjpgesuesuep=BqsbqkrofKM 

VTFDGd%vvMB	d,uGajcAwgeHHjd_klnwemrBozysx-kzfuu	
e6pbumGDaMBjd-kFugteLobMtNd>xuubvtrFpNo

X1TCNN6K 2the/kloqveAma2tme<kaakveAzaFSew:Apz
e6pbujwtawyxt*zqgwnesuesOsk^tFmgbyGgzHO,
e~pwbfJlaMBjv^frpnntOlesvDd@frbkvmxBmsMmi[nqsf>
eXpqmeMwpGtmm_ lmqxjrojFjel^fIptumAwtsSty8

VTFDGdYvpwtxl^vtftf	rAfEFex&oEaAqzLoaPBfx!-FjubyGgmHPj	

YUMXKZ~fJMtnw!zAadgessmsGfh^fAgbunyotsush!zqbtu.
eMofbxGgbFtNd'uDaRjjtl?

VTFDGdSues3ej=xlHcpDElexo

U4MCPI7fBGxeM!lAsbTtKhmBHi	

X1TCNN6K THiddfrptbsGgxHGfr8

YUMXKZ~fJMtnw!zAadgessmsGfh^fAgbhfAAisush!yqsxkhw}
eMofbxGgbFtNd'uDaRjjtl?

VTFDGdSues3ej=xlHcpDElexo

U4MCPI7fBGxeM!lAsbTtKhmBHi	

X1TCNN6K THiddfrptbsGgxHGfr8

YUMXKZ~fJMtnw!zAadgessmsGfh^fAgbhfFAbLS	
eMmnbrskfsIkd[gEtkqsrhowtfp-fybfgeGmaPCxl^yf
eMmnbfvvstNns+ lewvDlgbGxes#yqsxcsul.
eMmnbmMtcEysi|yfacnqrwbMCjr$klbpfeAtqtNni+iq.
eMmnbuMyjMS	d@rxavtnss.suqp!untgtAsudxj
eMofbxGgbFtNd'uDaRjjtl?

VTFDGdSuesMtd@slJbhtJgHtHDq^jq?

U4MCPI7fBGxew=fmnbKexvss`tw@ruof}

X1TCNN6K THid|ulbobNrmpKtss!CAncp 

VTFDGd1maMBnw!hqauq	rDiRtgp@sqaAqzrtfsNtd-uHfbAtMc

YUMXKZ~fJytyl*ylcgbxGaaPBDd#rmngbDGBaFyex=fxpxgeQvvo

U4MCPI7fJytyl*ylcgbxGaaPBDd#rmngbDGBaFyex=fxpxgeQvvo

X1TCNN6K $Btd%ulzqweKwftEex= l"YjDrimtGjd,uGaogeLvaEIAi!EAv{&

U4MCPI7fUHtmi/fFicveAzaGIyd&kDf?bsGyawIyl!tAubjjsy?

X1TCNN6K 9LfC!EAv?bsGgnHLjd=llujkxhg"MCxd-owfbvmwgiHQqm+m
eAgbKwAzisQtp<kEacifAutMtyl^fypqp 

e}UqbX1SW2#X;

eUaykqDgixFud,uG.bkkrPavus\

e}UqbUZLCXf

eUayqzDkaEIAi!EAv?bnxgJswty-jgaVq]EvsKIBd_kqubojrhmEtys"kFigt 

e}UqbUZLCXf

eUaykqDgntLwC!EAv?bnxgfOywddfybttDrDpFus{!gzebK)Dsauy
eybttnwkaMI]q=xDpy<

e}UqbT0SB7XT;

eUaykqDgttNnw'Elzqw	rpgsyAi/fUaucyAzgByid_gz.bcsvgzHO
eEicnqrifsGfv/oqebvt	tpKLtA2

e}UqbX1SW2#X;

eUaykqDgdHHyi+zlzqw	rpgsQme:fBmgcxwzaRIzd$uzugpyK
eKpw?esuesSty!ytbnnetlaFuwv*kpavq]EvsKIB	

e}UqbT0SB7XT;

eMtbAtMgmHPjdmuEbnksvaaFyjx2

e}UqbX1SW2#X;

emtbAtMgmHPjdknqcg?eElfMiee+jlbubNrspOyer=fIpocsl
eU"nneElfMoeW=frbtgeQvvsQjp-.lJbjfNlaEykx!EAvbetEtbGxx	

YUMXKZ~fJ,Fqd+uFahcnDaaBzeM!ruwg}

VTFDGd6vss3 

U4MCPI7fOHLeM8

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbX



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5{

Z1VEJX`VOXsYsTsAstqBrptsNmi!pAzhwqrkbRneE;jDfA>eLv_FIwv=Clxknq
eIfbdjrtbKLni%a

G7ETG4qPawIeh^yusgbnLgxBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN.d@tpaKbmGwfsCyd*y
ezpbfnKopGyxx!jqtktjrApsxjw*xqavqetlattBs_gzaqheLof
eIptnimgIxLjd$uyfubyOvaHzex&klccpnKofwtiy)k/tbrfyltn

e}FpvjJguPIeT@mqt|

Lusuve8hhxs2i-rlngv	ropGyxx!mqovnjEhon

Z1VEJX`VOXsGC!sKavttLo.sQjp-fyfv}eUvnxnew*zfaukylgbGxee!yAoi}

YqdqpirWbzyd1^fmsgbkGyaRIz\!yuubk)rAixtrm%jxf}

Lusuve8hhxsXl@rxaygeusbItnr:u/ubttMueES	d>oFiqwyrobPEnr"fAs
eEqkvyAuhsIwd|gKjpieOlatLjd&umsug	rDiBwmd@xqavjjrvoES
eBsqntyBfLtys!glccfeNvjvya

YqdqpirWbzydMNlmjvj	rp"yunx&?lbpfetvuAtnr!gluwpjlgmBEjd:CA
esjrunwzaHHee!nAsug 

e5PPI 
eUubyfKgbsFtz^xlbpfezptsFfw| 
e9jvjesgixS	d@tpacbmGaatHid@ftfAbsGujGI	
e6icveG_fKtyl^fssggsrjpKH]j*kxebfnvgqtMx
eUobvmwgtILnr"fFjog	rAixttr-ElqtgyLFaKCsk!zung?
e9igpetpswMeh=fEjpi	rofRtim+mlbbfnFn.sxnr".
e5xggyrspOyww!rAwgbyzlaLJwm+mg

eNfvyjwuaMBjd@iDfubtxguAyev,kf
e9jvjesgixS	d@tpacbmGaatHid@ftfAbsGujGI
e6igujrwsxNyC!iAvpvwQggHFpw!CAvnfeDpfm
eUobuuJpoztym_kfa(e 

e6ikueuhsHFex&kKadglsuaMBfx!nAvt?
e9jvjesgixS	d@tpacbmGaatHid@ftfAbsGujGI	
eTpybyzhusuep*lqaycxrivMtfd'rAxgt
eUobuuJpoztym_kfa(e 

eMofbyzlsxztv^fFbmgeLofsJwi|kzubvnEl.
e9jvjesgixS	d@tpacbmGaatHid@ftfAbsGujGI.
eRptbqGCfsCxd$xAxpgirDjMBex&klqtkrw
eUobuuJpoztym_kfa(e 

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bAtMuhsAjr:rqngp	rAiHOll!ztftgeOhtsHtd"xqbv
eybvvjJgjGtyl^fpjvvDlgzxNex&kloqvjrDbLtAi/E
eGovwswhcEy 

Lusuve8hhxs4s;fmsgbiwjfBPjh7fEjt<eOlaDyux!zung?eOlaEIxx!tAubqzJguBGj	

Z1VEJX`VOXsGC!sKavttLo.sSjw3fUaeqzFAaBNef;zlukojrspLNex=ftfct
eEvejesggHIqm|nltqplmgHHxef^fIj&bDGB<sush!MAebojFk
eKpwteNvjvyx%!IAng?eSBeKyD	

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbX



YOFPGe13 !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgE@5JdnKZJQT	rHN2YSW7fVBSWJ~aa8`QEiJ1.bQQ13F~n
emofbHWSJTf

J7LGbXWUJ8`dH=yFavjtMgcxFni<kfaQtqsueHnex&gFavjjripR
eObpbiGgbEFex&oEavjfLgixtme:nlqtqrAzfwp

U4MCPI7fJsMtq^zunguevvauyqm^Bq.bcsvgtHGjx*sqtbftrupMj
eMtbvmGzfsNme:frfcteLofRtms[kfacpirroHQex&kKahgfJb

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bUN43J@!	d@tpaRJJTL/

X1TCNN6K 9uym^tofbqsulaFIwi7fIiknjKgpNLeg=sBbeveAzaNLli%.
e~pwbxsF.sCkddfnskplrposSty/f4pucqAuem
e~pwbBAsmsvjw:uIajgwrvos9wp@tppbjjJl}

J7LGbXWUJ8`dX&gFayqzDka2nel@jlJbmnFneHGxd:ulhkxjrDjMBel^xg

X1TCNN6K THid,uGaucDlgzHOeA*rxajcAwgixL	d>nqobKetyjGAel^xh

U4MCPI7fUAuyd>uGmfbNlgxxLjddfAgbcqDglBHlh=sEamksyb

X1TCNN6K ^Izd|gK.bAtM_mEtre/xKaog	rpgs3ef^fIjnnnFn}

VTFDGd`obMtBm-rlJ?bxzvvExeM!jufbvmwgiHOwd@lFft}

X1TCNN6K UOyd*llzqwevvaKyky|kluqbrsysRtri7
e~pw&qDghBPjd,uGsugqxguHtyl*ylnquyrmbBNmj;rltjguzlswp

VTFDGd~vaBMex&klcctlspon

X1TCNN6K ^Izd|gK.bvmsAaRIz(-rlicxjrWixvj{!oraujjrDjEFa

YUMXKZ~fUAIzk&fFpbjfNlaAywd@tpafgfLoaPywi!hAujbtFlaMBnr"a

X1TCNN6K 2tme<klqtqrAzfwtys!smlgbfDsaMBnw!smuvgwrlwxH 
eWfgreQvvsSty/fIptf	rVawOpi7fFpbinNlaRIzv!jmvijywy<
e~pwbDGBsLneS/rmofq	rApsLjg^oHfbjnKgetOll:kD;
eWfgreQvvKtBs/jfaRjjtl.sNme:fKpw&qDgntLwC!sq.
e1sbgqKlaKyky|ozhbojlguHtBi%fFikueKofIBjv%.
eWfgreQvvKtBs/jfaUkqNpvLnex&gFaAqz\smsGfv/Eligt 
eUgbumwgsxzzw^fyf<bfFkayLtq!nqoege1ghHn
e6pbofClaMBjw^fppwdyKgbEFei<kz?

e}FzgzFAa~9XEgOZEbcsvgDX6NEY

J7LGbXWUJ8`dM!jAatgrwtcxLem+fFikueKofIBjv%fnp
