opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but willxadgeskexxex=fFigbswEu
BqsuktFaatFyl=AsibcsrlgyIwx!oEadgnFnaFuii!tAubvtryfLNwm$zlQgtxwBtsNtd@
jmucdfKlaBHeA&ooibqswgkNMyd[kDgqtrKgtxuwg&ozh?bGGvmxusd=xlpvjjJDjLy d!OF
oEarqxKpcEyex=fypxgeDhuxLfp-ElujttMnisNmi!jAdwojFAtsvDd|kxfevnFnattBs/j
uzfbkxrpoMywi|zqebksrhowtxi-koukplrhosuwi@fAgbksxvsFuym=tlppgeAz
ozugtjKAfwtnr!gzebvwQpoztys!rApmbyzhusQtv%fGqbksrAitNee/km?

Yuoege8lsLyzw!CmtbfjNlmHJjh!ozaJAuwyDtLi{!yqwgtfDgmxPjp|fAgbezKApFCEe:oAo
gDfbrtKzjuFj	!f5jorqwgbNNms/ozhbvtGstsyCm|zlujcyrhmEIBd=tqavqeuyftNj
gzoqvfLlesJfx&ylujttMnisNmi!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nudjbfJlaNMjj;rlgqteFvuxaye)ozh
gzebhtJghNCii%fFpwtxrmpKtyi@itjpieHBsIIxi|fmofbkGyaxRus|oFptAeOyjMCsk8
3uujbfrsjMNqi!sAsgbnFnfGOnx,fuubkxrwpLMnf-kluqbgwnjGtys!gpebqwrzvuMym:AFf
smugtnssaBHeT^xEfwu 
=lDF+W7TaILth;iFjqpesuesxnw|kyjpcyAvo
=lNgvmGktsush!zqdjptDvhRtks/foppxjJAjGAes-jqsbrfHlssGfx^xubnueAuuH
kxfevwGujvtks/s
=lTvwiQgpytyl^fGtgbtxgeBAnx@rlncvjJpbEMef,fEdjqqsytsush!uFigtx

ZtjubxMtntLDd*ylbttfFnfwtyl^smukefDszsush!jAfubsGAayIqp=ClujgesjuNuq
yqrwgsulaHzet/kEfpvfLppGM 

T1UGU,
flabb='/as3sd:nutbftuBnxHy{!ztfbrmJhtxtjp^iFsqpnuguxRyd*ylvugirApsGje+
flabbfFFavIrt;zqskBjvgsxJws%AoukqsrvssPjv|oAobqkrhawIhy_kzu?bgGvlm
flabbfJAjvFj{!uDaocsMzdKCux![uoenzvpoztnq@mqt_?esuesHtx!sqsgnDrhaFuhl*tq_
flabbwwhetvqi!uDaochzpoxaxi@xoicdqwguxRy	

flabb="/as@mi!3AsmumGwaPuxd&kxebcyrAixtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yEaqpe+|2[tOy+k
flabb6+$3mtBm:nlgwpiAuhszws_fFigbIsCjwtfr%fXvekqwgQtwpe/jlGqwsvhuBIs	
flabbYzlawIhy_kzubvmsAayIqp=CEatguJltxHyw!gltworsyzsIkd:nqartjKloMuym=tE
flabbrskfsuyd:nqaYqwCziHJee+jlxcueuvnICqi%fnzbLfEltsXFPtalaVjnK
flabbnFAsHxzg:oAobyfKgxKCyx^tlcAbISSZsush!ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS}


V4FUGW@HU29Sd?TPaKOFYPOZ

VDfugwNhuBIs{!gEavjfLguxLrd*ylvugirizsuwg&oHjuvxl]4	tBe|fypuvewEqEChm:rK
jutewxKlesCsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!oybiksybasUsr^fWFPPJ%gbGxeP,tzfbRJ0ZP73ZW
kJqncnFlesBtA!ztfbetFjfINes'fmahcnLogNFeg=vKacpirAixtzw^x\gtkjFkmBHjw|fAg
ztfbvwskjMCtr@rlcqqprobOyek;opffbyzljKtuv=pqdvbfLgDHLsi-rlVpkAwytBND	R0>
GxujqzyoaBHyi/kEugfeAuavIrt;zqskBjvgeBMxi_ozbvktFaaIuwx*iuqcpyKgjGtyl^
IAspgqDgqKIoi$zlbtgeuyftNnr"fpjikyssaBGfk^fEfvueGmaHFii/fnpqmxrposNmi
vGcnkhrkpFunr!gEacbxGBsvyej=xlbbhwwzisJft^xlgcexAtjEyes/ ljpbfrmvMOwi
vtbug	rtjvLtj*ry?bbYzlauIto|fDfvwwFlesNtd:nqankgJhsRtxl^rHfubfJl
nuhj+vMhmBNDd@tpawujxBmsLjt-gofogsLzaHHee$op_htjwgqtJjv!ztbvbxzvvExep@yF
glmqplrAjFy d!ZAafcywaaMBjd{uDognqrwsHDjg:ftbubuDhdxxep*zFmgbtJgoH
kyqjcxAzaHHeg/kmukplrzftLhl@hxfbvjPAtittr^fIpwnirupMtgi!yGsrtnKlesNtd'oze
ztbvbyzlaILtn^iFarcwLpdBJfr:ylwkgBrzvvBex^DFtbcxrufPtjh*zuppu	rhowtyl;y
tAubcxrmbBNmj;rlsgrwGkvvNns+yg

OzajgwrAbEEes+fBsgujJCbMCtr7f2bvtnupbsVFXoOZauvwMjlsusd^iGngpnuhmsush
lxfzkgDlaGIyi!gEaujjrlowIww^jlujgeuyftNns+fmofbiAztxGnr@zuppbtxgbsPfv*kFz
uravAuwzaHzeh*muucneuvqByx	!fPpbptLgcxtys=fzbtttOgjGtii'ozjpieOobMths;tFt
gEacbuJltxLAe:oAobgqwtfGN	d}G6UKPeuvvGMjp^jbahqwrAixtuv^yqov?esAaEyfw: 
juhkvfDgdHJni|fybfgeOpuAtuv^yqsxcyAvosCsd_ozebefFupMtgi!gEapcwJvxES
yFbpffJkjSyid@yfaucDlgnBwws'oxnbetHpfLtBm:nlujgeKhnxttf(koukxjmga`yyx*ts
yFbpffJktsJwi$oBjvqzKszswfr!ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EldcpeJltNFyd*t
itbqu	rzixtfh<oEff}

OzarcwLaaUUYXdT/tbrtKpuBIsd/krmgeywkaMBjd;tEfvvqwkaGuyy/klphbnEhhxaks/smu
yFbpffJktmtfr%fmuvgsvlfLths;rpajgfJgfvBti|fAgbvmAzaNHxi:zxffpjKzaBHex&k
iAnogsLzaHzez@xupwueKwftEjv|alaHqwrlytGup^ lKgcsrIB~9SEnfDfxkjOlesNmi
yFbvwxrvgsMjz^xmmbhtJtbEtxx@tpbtfxrtpOCsk!ztsqwlzgdHGrm:zqfubtxgfQJjv:yb
gzebEqAmgHLidg5ZDJbjFjpNLfk^jlujgeMzfsIkd@fzfyblMpexFnr^frptbyJhoLGnx:ozh
jAdwojFAaBGfk^ylppbNFAfKHjx8flUguyAtpGSej/uyarcwLpdBJfr:yljpbyzla7uym=tmm
GsskezDAvKuqdgonsctD\za{8FPSf6fzveVphBNnD@zuppbUJvhKurd@tpaNE)KgBFywm$gz
SqnqtDrwsHDjg:ftjijqAniMyid|uyfbqkrAixthl@rxfpijKguHtyl^fmdvwfDgdKyfx*uz
uDakpywydAusk^fAgbkrsnfLnem+ixvfksygeBzkm$Axukgxrposwtr<kDukpl
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDtaMIeh*muucnexvsFoed	uzbnfe#HUX`Xd/kBptvjvgpGtyl^
vDpitjKzaHzee!smtvgwrwmtHej=xlbbrwGqfvNee:f~bnge!ujOyww*zKavqeuvoOywx
hApmueGuaFChv=lumobyGgeBAnx@rljoclwgtxNx{!VDplghLgPIysd}uAlb-U7I-n

ZtfbYtJrtAIud=lrftgirybMBjv!rqtubtxgbGtnq@muoibuJhdMChy_fFicpeHsbGHjh7
hGub*mGD_MI-d&ozuubjElszyee:fHbtktMzaIInr:yfahqwrlytGup^ lujttMniHOy
QQOPG4\zaILjw^tFbvktFgbGxem+fFigbiAzdNMxm=tlphbfJjbGuew;itacu
ztsgumGseBHld@tpafkyzlsBHld=lrftgirizs1js/mqaVJT5HatHidaRQJUEMZHVX` 

T1UGU,
flabb=&/asUqx&uGhjbyzlsxtnw!gltgpxwgjGtBl*itacpDryfILth;iFjqpxrvg
flabbmAzuHLng@rlncvjJpbEMet/kEftxjrAixtmy_gzatghGyemtxt^iubnkxLzaBHex&k
flabbkAlmwtme<klegxjDvqxxet@xFjewqsyazOnh^ruoguexvssNmi!iDfcvnGuaHz
flabbfujfINff-klqtgxwywtNns+foprkjKb

flabb=*/as@nx-kEacpirhgyCqm@zuppueGmaILjw^tFftuesyfsAnz^tlbvbyzl
flabbgwnjGHnr"fAgbvmwpssLjw[koukxjrAbEExd@tpakpeLofsXnv^iFptAeGm
flabbUsyuBwnt@tFtb-FHwfGxnB!OUJ_}


ZTFbOFUOJ7Y]V GPBDNJr1F%@,d!SMSMWUrHOWtZW 

ZtfbujuAjHHxd=llujge#vsDMms[fFicvevlbENeA*ztaochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMtyi+jqe
zAadgeEvsxths+iqspgirDjMBee$iqtubfFkaNMjd:nmobynLoaILjw^xHbvktFaatNep^gEu
ozavjjrubKLtA!zqdjpnuhmsMjr|kgabOnuobxFeWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifybfgesggHLhi'Ax
vDfugsLhuBIsd=tlujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bq"ub=`LJ	tnq[rqngpysAjHHes'
ztfbUysuetLidbkzftcqAGfwtRe/qGqbNfFnvtAjdRYSNN_ rgIBMem%kmtbyjJlaxwms^j
hKaUwxsua19HO 5faGnqAgN^6TR?YfacpirZuNuwx!3QJDGQmga$Bnp^fFig
vDfugsLhuBIsw!smegbgQguAyeX OlbfxtuhuxMeg=tFbkpjvgoHtuv@iFjewrlguAynv
jutewxKppGtks$AEffbtFguAyez@rGfbqkrAixtkm+oEigfeHypwOhx7fIicveLof
KGsqrjsuaVIrq;tuuAbhssmLtwi;ymcknnLF.svzx!CtbvbrsFatFxs!hqavgwEle
jGscdnDpuRoedonqzbcwyBfwtyl@zlnctpAuhsOu[TztbvbnKaavIim+m\_cbywEusCsd@
Cqmn+hGudxCAi%fIbAbBAsmsJjv_oFakveLvauyeq=BqebhwGtaHHjd$uyqwvjJ
kzwkttFtfGNex=fmoqvmwy.suxd>kxmbcxrApsvjd;yqebdDrCbKCty|fGtgtxmga!Qt
quofueGmaFuwo;vlxgtjrkjLNnr"Autjgigga" et/uoffwwssaFuwo;vfayjnuo
jqtetntltsNmi!lqbvwwwzaHzee!zqyvb=wbhnneh=zEaqpesgqtAj=7fmofb7{
jqtetnHAjOyeq@xwvr?eOojvBeh^yoskdjKguAyew:xGdvwwwgpKtjp^sqovueGmat
jAdwojFAa{y k8 ldjcuLlsLnet@xmhtcuzz.sush!lDppveEhuMyw=8

ZtfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuubjEwitMnD^jlujgeAtqHLye+iqaqheLlyMMex=fEdjqqsytACu	
ZtfAbjPwmtCsi%ftpybmwhwBFDd$upffb=suesNmy|fmocnDRlesush!gzoqvfLle	tyi\zE
imobwsvlsECjd/kEfcthzaaIFfC!glsqnjrposMhl=rmsnAeuvnFOsm$gFjqp	rhow
lmdknnLhuxthp@yEsqqrrAftwmm+mgabUUWYCX`L[hi3VGGSryfFCsh^jlmkuywufKMex&gF
glxtkyLlosIwd[xuovgirpuxGe+^as??bfrwbKNng;rmsbgiAAjHHes'fmadqtC/aBM
sqsgnDrhaKyuv^yqovcyAvosIkd:nqacdxLybvNns+fIfbefDsattyi\zgabVtrjpGwjv+
uGsugqNltsQnx&frbkvmxBmESev^vDpfwhAuhsuet/ozugfeAutMusg^fAgbvmwguxRy{
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZactlMlemtnw!zAaeqsulsGtty/yqmxgxrDjMBex&klsgrwwzfGNfx*uz
uracbwwwsxMjr:gFjqpe}+jFuli|fmtbunEBmtwwe!lAsbvmwguxRy)SalaVjjr1F2tuv=vAogpyK_
ozugtjKAaBHem_gsfubywueLtys!lAdwueGuavIws-rmsAbrsAfKCfp|frptbzKlaBHex^goikpll
lAsbgCstqEy	d[nAuqiwswiLttj!ztfbChJvqHFnw!zAacehGtqtHDd@fSsggprAfQN 

HKavjjrlowttj!ztfbYtJrtAIu{!Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZaeqsxltLyid:ulicxnFnauyjr
iAoxgwLlesNtd@fxjokywkaxRyi+zluqbyzlaOCjA!ztbvbjDldMLtr*iljoclwz
iAouvnLBuxtfd[xAnkunFnatFyi/tmukxjrApsGng/urjnonFn<sCsh^kp.bcs
gxugtssAjOyet/unbdnDrzvIywm=xluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}beTBusBjd>gEapqyrjpGPnr$kp
ztbvbjDldMLtr*iljoclwzavIsw:oFvvgesgtxLns;ylbvvjEwusNtd/kBsgujFAaMyCx!oz
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabJTURF^tfr%fYZNQSSZatFxs!iAoegiwkaMBfx!ztfktewEqxLni+iq
gFavjjrWjxLhi!YKnrqxABnsNmi!vDfxktMzaPyjo!gFaIgtJnfMIBr!1zjxgwKpuRtfr%
ztfbrwwzfGNeg=trftgsulatNex&klMkdwsyzsIkd{uzhtgxKgitxeg=sBfnnjvguAyrd:u
xqfxcqMhuxtyl^oDargwKwfvNnz^fAobvmwgvLyky-tqtubtxguxRyd@yljoclwz?
GFugpiwltswty-jltggeLobMtyl^fFfzvesuesCre"klbfxtuhuxMeA^xqakp
iAouvwMjuBPjd:kztkqslgtHtys!ymz}

ZtsggeFvo!YNd[xqtgpysAjHHxd%kEdtkgwkatJuv=goigueLvaILjt@xuoi
smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLguAuyd@xqangxKgsBAtv=AEacpirAiNMep^yEagzuwutBPj	!fUo
ztfbefKlaHzex&klQcrjJzaHzeK^uDhgb2sziBHlx=tfaFqwGAiRtY1jNUHbgCHsbBHjh
ztbvbyzlawClm:gxaxgwKppGtBm-rlqtqAAkfsuer=z\rwkyw|qxLki$zlsgpiwyjGAes'
ztfbvwsutvLnf^jlugzy	|tHGjdv9%.``#rkpvOri+zE.bcAspmtvqi!lAsbtjKlbKwm
jGskplrAixtii$gpfubBzpmxtyl^fBfthjuAaHLet/ozubxjJzjHHem|foporqwAfwo
SqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKavgfEgbGxex&kltvckxgpytSEg-EaVgCL
JuhkvnRhuBIsdkxAhtcrr]txyef^rAx_bfDzpsIzx-ozffbfrtjwxqi!mDpwpirjpGwjv+ozh
yqbtemsimxtyi\zE?bbNFguAyeg@yqaqheStfKChe+fYfoqwQaavIsx/gouqtxrwsHxzg^
zqyvueOpuAtff=AFa~~]Hlsvysx!godwtfuFaMBfx!yqsxgesza.vws>yq&bqw
_Dfhgwwudx?ez^xEjqpxrvgsQwm:zqobqwrwsBHyi%fAskinFhmLoed tpawujJzaPBtd+kqe
lmjvjkMsavIum^ylptbuwygxwyd/kzekvnGutsGzw:fDfhgwrApsuhg=sBbpAnFnaLyyw!ur
juhkvfDggtwxm_oxfbkrsnfLttv!iAouwqLgdHJni|fAgbvmwgpKClm+gxtbksrhaGyfv#E
ructcwQgpKtfv$nuwg}erHnxLng@tlNgotJFaLNfj'fmsiwjvguAuyd:nqajklzgdHMyd=l
vDpfwhAuhs&#@TvqsegsLgbvwzv@zqaequAltsQty-jlqtgAwuus6Hd'xAnbqkxlsBHl
godguxrApsFfv"klqctyKgpytnx|fopnnjuAjHHx	

