Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software employed now for the CD-ROM
version.  The CD-ROM faces genuine limitations, in terms of speed and
comprehensiveness, in the creation of a retrieval software to run it.
CALALUCA said he hoped that individual scholars will download the data,
if they wish, to their personal computers, and have ready access to
important texts on a constant basis, which they will be able to use in
their research and from which they might even be able to publish.

(CALALUCA explained that the blue numbers represented Migne's column numbers,
which are the standard scholarly references.  Pulling up a note, he stated
that these texts were heavily edited and the image files would appear simply
as a note as well, so that one could quickly access an image.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER/ERWAY * Several problems with which AM is still wrestling *
Various search and retrieval capabilities * Illustration of automatic
stemming and a truncated search * AM's attempt to find ways to connect
cataloging to the texts * AM's gravitation towards SGML * Striking a
balance between quantity and quality * How AM furnishes users recourse to
images * Conducting a search in a full-text environment * Macintosh and
IBM prototypes of AM * Multimedia aspects of AM *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

A demonstration of American Memory by its coordinator, Carl FLEISCHHAUER,
and Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, Library of Congress, concluded
the morning session.  Beginning with a collection of broadsides from the
Continental Congress and the Constitutional Convention, the only text
collection in a presentable form at the time of the Workshop, FLEISCHHAUER
highlighted several of the problems with which AM is still wrestling.
(In its final form, the disk will contain two collections, not only the
broadsides but also the full text with illustrations of a set of
approximately 300 African-American pamphlets from the period 1870 to 1910.)

As FREEMAN had explained earlier, AM has attempted to use a small amount
of interpretation to introduce collections.  In the present case, the
contractor, a company named Quick Source, in Silver Spring, MD., used
software called Toolbook and put together a modestly interactive
introduction to the collection.  Like the two preceding speakers,
FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because acnqrAixtxi@xoikplrptsxtr^fuobvmwgitLiA@xq.
ztfbKG%JV`tnw!jqtkiswkaMIev^gpacbHV|S87eA&ooibetFAbBHxd=txzbujIBfGNne-
zqyvbkAsfLoedokoipkhssmRnem:fFigpetldHGjw!BqsAbjszzsNtd/kmebvmwgntNjv*gx
urgbcsvgqNNem:fAobcsGAixLeh^Budg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
RQCTQSr[a8Pjv<oqxbqkrAixtmm|zAsAbtxguAyen=ozubrwGqfvNef^zIfgpeSHB`tfr%
UOMEb+rZfOywe-fBsceyAjfLtyl^fAo+nnFlaxHAm/uzngpyrzitLjw!CuujbyJheBNns+gx
vGcnkxzpozttr!nmsfbhGwzs{eW^BqscneLldAHng@rlbpfetlitPns/gxadcwJpfKMex=
kxfevwGujvtuy#rutjksyg(s2tA!GMBUbfFka8WQG!gDskxjvgbMtyl^fEvdljuAaHz
ixjpkhssaMLne-yl(bCiNhoMuli|fAgbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebkGyntNee+jlpvjjJggxuyy/kE
uraQLHU1a}tFr!oxmwuyJhuxxex=ADaqheLofsDty/tmmb)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Smskce4LC~9S{!smocinFnaxxnx=xfaVjjrVoECsi!PAvtpfDgpytHy/xqovbHDpoBwfp
ZDjcnxr]P3WHXS lqtgxwuuxxee+fumnwxLybMyid=BqsxkjOgpytyl^ftjuvtJFaHzex&k
pAjpveHypCyhx!hquygjFguAyeE_kDjecsrHtLIhm@zuppbkGyaMBjd?jHbpejEloMttj
Yojgphwg)TUFWSfmofbyzla8Hqm+klDqouMAfKtQm#xmsAbHwuuxL	ddto?b-TUSD	oedonq
pAjpveNloMOwi!hquygjFgBTUXd@tpaQEQUgpPyxd*zEadglAuoBHld:ulb
xqptifFpAtNns+fxbwphzlesvDd:nqapgBrjiBykd^DqdwvnNlaHzkm$kDacve7JMVtff=AF
ztsggeQlbKMee"ulbpfeuvnuCsi|fFigbxLyfGAyl|fAgbvmwzfsNBs!jutrcwsAf
uDhcpnRhuBIsw8flJpbxzvsMneSeIOUbtjHyfLysx|fFigbuJvdxMxd=lltejtDhsES
vGcnkxzpozttr!ruog}

RQCTQSrufQNeh*yovuujvgtxPjv@rlqtchLpdxMex&klpp+qAufsysz*xAoogsLgtAuwi|
CuujbyJheBNns+gxarwgDptACsk!uzajcwvgdHJD[TlAsbgCstqEy	d[kqsbtjNpfPttj
smowuhJpqMM][:nmubcwwgiBAmp,funrqwLhoMtnr!ztfbchskfFChd>uDmf}erSFU`TR
tAugfeAuaIuwx*iGmcteLofsCrt-oobvktFzaHzeg*zmukqsrjpNHyw!lAsbvjFBsx
iAnokyLlfLtfr%fsscpyKgdHGrm:zqfu}erPosNmi!zDbfkyAvotFel@xp_equQ
kzwkttFtfGN	d$oFbvktFgdHOsx|fmsgbwwheBFDd%kyppuyJhcEy	d>nqsgcxrAix
uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpveJlqKyxi+zEacpewAixLje-fyffkzEguHtrs|zlbeciwtjvM 

RQCTQSryfFuwo^jltgxjJhmsNjg&tudcnesuesvjl@BuptcqribKLni/yluqbjDldMLtr*i
vGcnkxzpoznej=xljpuysudxnex&klqtqgDlnLtnr!zDbpurAztBIsd$xqbvgirizsMui$omm
itbtchLlsLttv!hKaeqrHsfQtlv@vtjeuesuesBfp'zAogu rgJGtfh%oFjqp	rzixtss:kp
koppqrAjaECrm:gFjqpxrzvvBee|fFigbxLvstAjd$uEuubtxgntCsx@ozjpiethdDtnw|Aqt
gzebofJrfMttv!gGekgsulaxxzg@zupp}

SmowuhJpqMMeg@tzpvbgwgvIFte%kpavqe7QDV@	dgKNSQPewEqEunr^jfadghsBtxtnx!oE
tAubcetBmEyym+fnpctirvssY]q@ox.bhtJttsIkd^rqdvttFpdsNwe+yyjuunGuaHz
ozgqtrsAjHHex&gFajcAwgdKyfx^jlbpbfEijxHhi!ixpwfnFnaIytt-k/tbwsvlsLNfr%ozh
urayjfLguAyen=ADocneAzatNyi_vFjpieLvawI d!UVDEV	rDiBwmd[Anmkumwz
vqft+wwCjxQjh!sqekefDgbKNng-kEafgfDpoztBm:nlujgeKBcCyhx!uraennFpdtF
zDjcnxlgjGwqy%kEavgCLaaMugy-gDaocywyjtF	d@tpaitfHojvM	d@rFiqwlzgbMtyl*y
zungbnLgdtHex/gztokyrvoESep*tqaknqMzuKuym=tE?

Tqyv?e4LC~9Sd%kEdtkgwkaAIBd?GMTbcsvgPV6Hd@xDjxgirhusNmi!yGclghLgpy
ixjpkhssaMLne-yaabKyrpts&[d@ftjijqQgtMuym|zudcnevptvCup*tqavjfLg3	tis^y
tAubtjIBjKyel@rruqpjKgcNNeg@tltcvnKmzsNmi!tqffueGmaBNxd@ApjgphwgxBNmd-ozf
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!gzebiwswiBweq@zqskcqlgbGxe7SfFigtjrptsuer^kpahqwrAixtxt^kpz
jutugrAubMCtr!urajklz|rNuqm:ElsgujsydAtwi|Axuu}erJmBHng@rlutkfDzatLj
xqtgcwuoatwym<oFjgueLobMtnr<uxwgbyzlatxrm+oEutcyAvosIkd@fFfuveLyftNri+z
zAauqrwgfQJjv*sqovcqrBoBNem+fAsfgwrApsNjw:fuuubzKlgNFsi|ylcghtJlaBNem|
smegbfNhjEugp^fFpbvmwghxHjv@rlqqrzDhuBIs	!fXFDTT6gqKIhi^jqebvtrnjOy
gpekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaHHeSeIOUbetFjfKHnr"fuuubjvpuHL]m+/oikgklgfwCys/omm
hAbtf	rleBNtv*gxaeqsLloMnee+jlujgeLFqxMes'fmsvkhDltsCyd[Anmkumwz
[uoenzvpoztui^x\sgxnwDfwtwi|kmsejeJlqHLyw!gzebtjNpfPM[{!gEaygqDgbL
lqbvwwwzaLBfv^jlcAbtLofKtyv@juukqsssaAuwhTiAqAboGBsGuqw8

GyppieLofsuiz@tFbigxrvgsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smubcwwggtMyi/fpjuujEpotNns+fAg
ozgqtrsAjHH	d*tomwfnFnaKuBd%gFb?bfFkaMBjd@hEfpejrvgsMue$kldqpxLybBHyw
hqdcwxwgqtAjw!jAapqyrlyBMy	!f<UjkxrsbMNjv!lmdvbhJlbMyxd@tljpvjJltMCsk
yuuwcyAvosQmi+fuubetEltsNtd$oFbvktFz?	teR=xlbtgeLofKyee+Eljuuzwz?stFE?Y/t
imqcenLFaMIeh=CzmqcirtbMywm@rEafkwwjuESej/uyavjjrqpNLse-fFpbc
yGcuewAifK.xd[xuovgwlgitLid%xuwg?eGyayFtt[ElekuprofEJxd^tEvtgezphAFD
godwtfLlaMLfr|iDjrvnGu?stTx&kDahgfLBsxMes'f1KEEYrpovFzh^fAo+uhJlfGtfp^xFt
ztbvbfDspPtqm+qmhgbtxgtNvxi]AqovnDrwvuFnw&kpafqhMtfGNxd:ulujgeGyjzCse-
jAdwojFAtittrTruogbxwhsvBnr"fnzbuztqfvN	d@AFiqt	rAjMFj{!kFd}>eAuexRnr"fAg
kHftAeKpozFjd>uDebvmsAatJui@xEakpesuatLym$rq<bxnwDjGAee$iqtubyGgbG
gDukeqwgcRths_vAogpyr]buMyv@iF.bhzDsaMyCx7fAsbiwswiL .d+Aycgtjv
vmsciwswiLtys!xqqnchwgqtAjd$uGovu.rwvuFng@zuppbnFgTvCjr$klfxgwQguACwx,
jmzubtxgjGxjB*tsaqhessmsuwx*ixfubuMimBMmi%fuobvmwgkHOwr@rb
zKqgujL|rNuqm:Eltetjwutitfr%fTzrgwLlyMtqm+qEavjfLgfGugp^fEvduhJpcxLxd:u
hDjpieMwa6yip*tqacdxLybvNxd%oDfevqQgxBNms;zlmgcAAuhsNmi!pAvtpfDb

GrugtevlutCqm+mlujgeLDpsJwm_gDzbyfQzaMIek@ozacehwztsNtd:nqalqzJubEn
ztsqwlzguAyeS{ROapgyOvsDtfr%fOporzKlsOtnj!uzfbfjKpsxMek/gBikexrvssNmv=Asi
ztfbKsLlsGyyd*llkwuyrhosUXGdOlgknjrptsxjw*xqe?bQWIS88em-rGtvtfLlesNmi
yBfgfDrleBNtv*gxarttultLtfr%fFigbhGkjGAes'fFigbiGjvFysx!AEjpie~NN5tye"y
grugteAAaAuxd#kqobchulqMyid'uDarwgDpdtNns+alaUjjrhmLIek@BqacpeAsmNMyv@zqe
zAvtbtxguAyen=ADocn	rpuLtxi@xoi+csv|sxNwm^BmmbefHhcBFnx*kEakpeHhsMChy-gD.
hGubcqKvaBHhp;juoibuJvcEyrw!gEtqensAfwtBm:nltecsFpoztnr!oxmwuyJhuBIsw7
gzebvmwgjFJtv:gzdgbtxgpGaxg/kqobcqwyuLtys!ztfbojvpdtFet/urfuunGuaKy
xqutchLppGMes/fopttjuAjHHx{!uDaoqwwggKyvy^tFmA?ewkjMIwm@rE.bnjLAfKMex=
ztfbgiAApKM	d=xlgqnqGD_NJev^vAsvu rgTAyeg-uEffbgQgjGPnx*tsavjjrhvwCjr$k
zAalqnFgBTUXd=tl2bLzDF.sQmi+f1KEEYrDbLtxg&kpvngirApsAtd=t\mkpjm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmszje:ADfubtxgP3WHX!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrsfGAyl,fpjuezKzjHHex&gFahqqDvxxxeP H4PP&xrwsxMjr:gFjqp	rAixMj
vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r1ixtXKhRlugzyrjbGtgi!zmjnqwwkatMey|kDtbynKo?

flabb+rHmEtyl^yqactyAjmxMel@BqacbkspsESew*sBmgbiGjvFysx!jqgkpnLppGo

flabb+rKpvOri+z\uArjrkfyCsm:oAoub=V1EL eA^xqafgAwspIyid@tpaikAwuaMIeSeIOU
flabbkGyavIim+mg

flabb+rUpsuwx*ixfubBAsmsvjd/kypxgirmsHGex&klkqwwFhmnte+}kobwujrAixLjd@xq
flabbsGgctwpd*yEvgu	rAixLjd@xqapqeDvtMtnw|AqtbgnLofKoedjtofbceKBcLwwm#kD
flabbqGntsIsx=fFigboGBsGuqd&klptbxzlaAuxd@iofuueFvusIsp,fFpbvmwgdNLwi+zxz
flabbuMimBMmi%fybvgwAhmLnef;zlsgvwGzqxwym<kxzbvtrlwxLDx&ozhbvmsAaAuxd#kqo
flabbuMimBMmi%fuobkymga!Bzw!ztfbvftsfsIkd$uzugpyKghKIBw!huhigwmga!Bjd%gFf
flabbtxgqNvqm$gFjqpeKlsOyxd:ulekuyAuhNCxl!hquygjFgdNLwi+zxzbrztsjLBjh
flabbrsAfKCfp|fmofbtDkfKtre:kDjcnxm/

flabb+r1ixtuv*iuoibxQzuxGej=xlujgeBvvKHfp!xqtgogDltsNme:frptbrGzusGjh*imm
flabboGBsGuqw2flgqte'$0&ne"D~lgqtesgzxuw{!vxvubywsfvIrq;tudcvnGutswme/mqt
flabb=LofKyee/kloqbhGuoxwyd:oyfbemsyhxM[,!flahqwr80=(	dK7!~bhtJguAy
flabbjFAjKyeC^gDahqwrzjGAqi!AEftu	rAiHOll!ztfbltMyotFeg@tlcgbuMAaHHee
flabbqGjbEtfv^glogvBGyls	QEi]gabJtOlwxL	d=txzbqswgqxLxs+fobpbfujfLMex&k
flabboGBsGuqd@zlbbvnEl?stXm:klmkejFzfLtre,fopogeAuaMBjd'AFvtg 

flabb+rHBT!em|fIptmnFnavFtw^rKaykyzgdHFqi@mGfubfLgPV6Hd:ulekuuDhz
flabbrsAixGfx*immbgvMhuBIsw!uzauewwlon

flabb+r4jMBty:foporwGtjLCsk!gzzbuywwtsCsd:nqagfnLvsBuqd[xAdguxlguAy
flabbywjiGIqs"ElicueJleNwjh!ztfbvnElaEuld#kFxggsrDixHee!smowuhJpqMtnw
flabbtJphBHfp-EltwdrAAuxxee+jlujgeLpnxtnx!oEacehwwuxx.d:nqatgAAlxsJws$kEt
flabbiGltsHtx!jughgwrnsxuyp,frsqoeLofsMye+jmsfbxAE_MI]i*mtubyjwrt
flabbjEwmHSjh!hKaocsQgpytyl^ftbtf]uvqRtos;xzbnu rgUAyet/uofuueKAjEF
flabbiwwfGxxd=tlqgquDl?

flabb+rHtszfv!gEacbuJltxLAe:oAobetHFaBMeg=toftpjvaatLym$rqtbynDsauy
flabbrspoMunr^jlppbyzlavIrt;zqsbrjJtbGysx-ElbpfeKBcLwwm#kDt?bfKgqtLyd=l
flabbyzljKtxy#yoskryAvomtBm-rlsgejACfsueq*iDphkhzl_JOfp*zKacthzpwtFeg=vK
flabbtxgfOywC:nuoibuMimBMmi%fpvtksyguAuyd,kms>bnFgbwxnx*uz.btjHyjGNxd$gz
flabbgwgqNLhl@yqebksrtvvBex&kltcojrDbRtfw!ozacbmsye wtt,fqoxkwGunxHy	
flabbMsyeswtt*kEactjrwsxJfv^jlcwvesyfsHtx!ztfbrwAtbKSeq^juvobkGyaMBj
flabbiAztxGnr@zuppbtxguAyem+lAsocyAvon

flabb+rIfvuzw^f1KEEYrptsHtx!EqubqsrsjGy	d*zljubiAmgBwzp:fFpbmsGDaAIBd_gzz
flabbuwvqEyeA=AxebunEwmRtgv=CEfbvmJvvzBex&klkqwwFhmsIsd:nqauewwlosux
flabbtHwpLyid:uleqysDvbwCsk!ztfbymGsfsNmm+mlbpfeHyjGNnr"fuubqzL}attrm\fAg
flabbgGAisNDt^ylphbzKlsLtqm)kxzbynDsaKyxy-zg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
VQSUQS12Ts{eH^BqmqrrwuuLtnr!zqdjptDvhRttz^xlujgeHhtMtii$gpfb)e`ofsWQEnY
VDplghLg(sUiz@tFbigxrmpKtyi$nzpnqlQgbGxej=xlujgeUSB`!eT/uvfeve?
JqwgntHpoztfd+kFxqtprhqIFng@zuppbfFgvGxjv-EuoibfKzvFJym=tlphbyzlaILtn^iF
=lEgvfAstsIkd:nqauefFujGAet/uofuue?gQKCsxTuz_fgrsueswtt*kEaqhetvpDMe_
LGuwtjrwmtHxd*tomwfjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgbsvws>yuoibyGvms{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

RKopge8LS`9SMpYfacuxAzutHyd%oDfevtJaaVIwr^rxaKpkGyntNns+f6fejsGspzCjw!lAs
YoiqnfJszs3sj=xybvktFgTxLAm$kE.bEtJufEFeY+oHftunLF.sznv|zldqorwuuxxes+
ztfbvwwtfGxty|funrchLguAuyd%kHfnquEloMMem+fFfejsGspzSes<kDavjjrwbLNex^t
Eqbtu]	ufMQtv)ozh?bnFgqtLym$Axbt+]zhwxtme%fAobvmwgxtSem+lAsocyAvosCx
nmofnjvaatHid&uI.bksrofKttA+fobug	rAixMjd%kHfnquEloMMel@BqaeqzFAfKvfp@toff
IAspgqD_tsLjp@zuwgblwvhKuul*immbkxGsbMCtr8flPvjjJgtBAsm'oobpveLldAHtp=mufu
ozdnwiwgtvusr^xE.bymAjisuwi!sGdjbrGyfsMtt&oEukefLlesNme+fFigAeOlsxtyi+fKfctx
gsp>brsztsMys/gsfbcsvguAyeh/gybvkhrzbOCsk|fFicveJltNFyd'xAnbkyrposNjv_ylph
hAujbxHhdxtfr%fyppgDryfEuym<kluqbyOloMSes/fFiktyQgzxuww!gsp>bswDatHi
oyqtqAwkaILnr:ozhbvjuooHFtk*kE.bymAjisBfz^fssgcyDFatzki$zqebvmwgeBMyv*hGukqs
urakpkGyntNns+?lbpf	rvgswty/yq.bfnyputFex^itoqntypfLneA&uEfbcuHsjvugm-oFzbvt
ructcwQgqKyxi/BmukqsryfFunr|fmubkxKBfn

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e8LS`9SMpYleguhJpcxxex&klDqnqwnfs6nf/gDzbChultLtfr%
YFptclwgTRMyi_f<DNCX~/a9Ltn^iF.bceDpcKuwC!vDfugwNhuBIsd[xAkgeyl
vDjocwAszmtfr%fIicvezhtsvji+fmdeqrHsjLBjh8flEktjuAmRtky+jqebdDrAix
IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztsush!hKavjjr5fKICd{uDqqtfLppGneA&ooi
nmtbrwGCjwyid@fEjipnxpdtHyd@sAvpveGmaAuwh>gDf?byzlaV6FWnf2sqljuAaAuxd#kqo
CAsmksygxBNmd@fpfxgqGwnxHyd:kmnbcyr5fKICd:ulegxjDvqsuew=lFxctj
gBqnkhsAjHHex@oxptgirApsFnf/gDzbrwwzfKPfx*uzatgvMpsxGjr:ygabYnLojG
IAspgqDaaIuwx*iuqcpyKgjGtyl^fBsqljuAaAuAi!hqfpbBGylBHld(uuovnDrDjMBef=zt
ructcwQgbGxem+lAsocyAvosNjg&tAmqinwz?stYl^frpewxrvgsNmi!vDplghLgitMef^kz
uzatgkGyntNym+mlbpfeKhwBHld#uAlubyzhusuwi!ozadtnLAmxths+juukqsm
VQSUQS12TsMms>kpaYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtfd#xuuvnjripHE	d@tpafgxuyjuyid&uI
yGdjbgGvlLtBi/klujgeJltNFyd=llegxjDvqFysx|fuobrfHlsFupm+mlbtqzFkaMBj
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nqaKpiMzuKCfp!XqwqnzLppGoedonqarcuwyntEnr"fBsqejKzaPux
itbpijvgtHtyl@zlbbunyujyChe+zlboqzFAaHzee$opaycxrpoMLth;iqebksLvaMBj
gouwcqrwbIywd*zEfnh	rDiBwmd%kFftktJhuxMee|fuubunLzaHHep*hDbtAeKofEPjw8

UzfbqkrAixtfh<gzucijKggHLex^itoqntyFatHid'uDavjjrJMT!XdkxAkgeyrptsNme:
ztfbksxvsFuym=tljpbgJpuMFjd#uAlubnKgnHMyp,fAvvbtxgdHJDv*mtubcsvguAOx
urggtxrhosIut=xFvpkyQguHtBs/qlxkvmrtbMywm@rlujcyryfJOnv^ylmkdwsyz
vDfugwNhuBIs{!gzebvtrjsxuyi!gzebytJraHHee+fuohtfKAsNwyy/kluqbxsCfsNmi
smugtnss?stFg)tAxngiypoztyl^frbokqAhsBNDd=llujqxwgxHLpm+mljpbuJltxLAe:oAo
CuujbyzptsCsj=xybvktFaa9YWWjTUVUbsGAfwtyl@zltgxjJhmsNmm+mEactjrifBHl
jAog<erAixtuv*smsAbuJltxLAe:oAobvjuooHFtk,fGtgfeLvetSem|fBiqvtuvqRCsk!ur
hDjvvqwgntNjv*gx?bbXsCjGAex&kljpvjDsfvNze-foppvjFAaHzex&klncvjJpbEtnw!ztf
smjpblGhmnte1*ztaokhJvgBFrd$uBz?byzlaBHyi-rqdvwfDgdHHyi+zljubuJltxLAi%fAo
ztfbcxKBnINns+fFicveAuaMBjd'AFvtgeLofsCre"kldcpetlaKyks/smuvgirposusC
uFigteOhzsNme:fFigpewEjLNx	

GzawpiwymRCsk!gEtwouLppGttj!ztfbEQSZTs0ws(koubhwGtaMBjd#ksjppnFnaPux
ztbvbnLgxHOqh!jqwgntHgbsHjx>uDlbcuHsjvuym=tgabRwGqfvNew:grgbuhsuauIto|
gFacbBGylLNfx*uzanqhsAfwtnr!ztfbnntybKS	d+kmsbvmwgcKCyx-klncvjJpbEo
Gzakofyl_Lywz^xlgknnFnaLSxx^sljubqGjbMyid@zlbbfnKAbGwjd'xAnbvmsA
CAsmuysAjHH	d@tpacbuJpoMywd*ylmqefLlesCsd@tAujgwrivBFim+mgabCqDgpytyl^
smugtnsstsxnk*zuAgfesuesMys/kpaqpeLofsCre"k\gknnFnaLSxx^slbtgeuhutFtk^j
ozavjjrvo Fnr^fobvcqGnvxoeddtlgceylgbsLjg=xpahqwrlbvBes'fFigujrlmxwyv=tud
hApmueAzaLNtv^jljpbyzla~6NR!jmucdfKlaLIex&gFacbwwjpKxei\oEuubtxgxAuyd*y
ozavjjrkjzCye-fxjdtfJFaMBws;mtpwveKAbGxfv%fobvcqGnvxtuv=iqewtjKbas3sd:nq
lGuwtjlgsxMje/itftueOvsDCsk!lDpobyzljKttA+fIptmxLhuBIsw!ozavjjAyaHzkm$kE.
uDavjjAyaGyyA=xwt?bBAsmsBfz^fmdegxK|_PBjv^BqsbvmwFaFCll:fnf++yzypNAmd@
xqrwgxLgtxLAi/fnfkplrivBFyd*tFpbvmwgoxQeh*muucneDpcKuwC8flBbujuvow
gEtwouLppGtnw!ztbvbyzlaILjj^xDffbrwhoLttj!luofksyguAyeq@zqskcqrDjEFef^fnz
rApmksyguALty"nlbbefLhmHAzi8flQGTX7UJ@!eh^yoskdjvguAyew$gzokplrwsHwjw| 
CtjejeMzfLtfd[xAuqvDHlaLwfr+kDadgnFnawyAi-uBffbgQgYxLtB!gzebymAjisMhe+ylb
BqsAbmAnisLjw=rGukqsrpntAjd@zlhtgfLgtIyjh8flBpqyzlssMnk+orjecsLggxuyy/kf
hqdcwxwguACxd*ylbbrwwzfKPfx*uzacruDpdtNns+ ljubyzlaIFfg*tsaqheLofsJfk^y

GxujqzyoaMBjdruDlujtHgeBxer=zljpeqMkfsuew,yFfocyAjaxRfq*tmukqsrvgsNmi
squjqiKggHLeg=tHftvnFnaMyCx|frsqoeHhqxLe+=xlgtqrrmbvMnq*rqakofylt	tnr:u
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEaaGyAi/ztfngxKaaOuwm=AEaurjsrfKMex=AoigfeMwpGtyl*y
smuvgwmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlgXX3GIgfDfrqwLlesNme:f1DNEezhtsyCt^xungpywkaPCyl!g
sqsiksygpytry-zuqngeGwuBwfp!itbtchLlssLjg=mzjvktFgtRMyi_ylujcyrDjEF
xqewejrlsKIww!lDpobfFgvGuhg^vFbdnjrybMyes'f%aejfJhdMyww!uGubqkrlwxLD
rf~``eLvatHey+godgrysimxtwe:klphb7rjitLfg:kDtbqzLgpytjz^xKan?#=%?

VmngnfrHOW`Jd[xqtgpywkatHes<kDwkgBrvgs8FPNylUgzyrKjzCym.gFjqpe8ypzLfq!gze
PGekvmr7JWUWd%oEdwuxwkaMBjd:koipkhssawyye*rE?bb51KB~tjB[rmjpgiropPtSEg
vGsejfKlesBfv%CmsgbfFkaLIkx>gDfbefHhcEyes'fBfthtJtjGAes[zudcneuobKuhx^x
xqdqisAAjHHe+jI4-bcsvguxRyd$uzwgtxAvosush!AEffbnLzaHQsd|zmghbyGgdHHAi/z
zqyvu rgUAyet/uofuu	r7JWUWd|gue?bwwxvBLjh!kJugpxACfsyim:ozhbcsvgqKIoi$z
yFbhhexvvGxex&kytgnAwzavIsw*jqskplrhmMywr@zuwgu	rpovFzh*tsatgpwFjGA
gze:qwrjsxuym+mlbduyJhdMMes/fEvoofJpfLttj!zqyvu rgOT6ev^iwppgirjpLNxd@z
*'argwrwbzy d!HKaycDrvgswtr:xmtv?e0pdDSeIm3MZbgCHsbBHjh!ztbvbFElsBwfr
SqnqtDrobwtii$opffbkJvnsNmi!yFbtveLvavIsx/goubqzLgdHHAi/yuppbyGgfQNjv+gx
yqsxkhwgcNLje;ygabVmwgdKCyi/omawujvguHtxi-koubvmwzfswtr:xmdvqwKgxxLjd$uEu
gzebszssjMSes'fDfuwqLz.suxd=vBpugirApsGjx&uptbqkrjpGPjv|oAo}beWYXT'er=zqe
ztbvbmAzuHLng@rleqezEloMMes/fnpqmxrvgMysd%uloqveDlowtyl^sEfnxjKguHtTGma
HAvpfeEhuxLne-ylsgrwwzfGNee!yBfekfDgqKIgp^sgabKsrofKtjB[kDjgphwaaJOfp*zK
iAovttD|_BHxt^iFjpieAudHGnr"fybvgwAhmLneg=AzukplrlsKIww!ozaucrHsfLa]t=yqe
ztfbotKAaMCriTiAouwrAuhsuxt^iFaqheuvoMLfg:ozhbqzLgdHHAi/yupp}erLS$U4
xqdmqswkaTGjv*imobOjEvsR.xd$uEuubfLg%(tui/fBbig	rivMthe;zuppgirAitNej^Cqs
iAtv+jDlnxHyw!nmebdjwuaBHhp;jqebvmsuaBHeR?R/tbhnyBsxo


U2UKQS~gG8`eHdY5FOKSS1J88

ZtfbvtHpdsIkd%oEtgonFhuBIsd[xAqgtewtfKAjh!gFaxcwAvvLtus*tFtbfzJpoztyl^
3AsmumGw?stFx!ztfbujKzjHHeh^BAugfeLvaGuym=tmmbcsvgjGNjv+gFjqpfDgdHGuy:kD
tquyqwCz.s64R{NfaJqBsyesVJWnK4.bTtFhmwtQEmYQO?bfFkaXxBm+fNSQYS0PHZ
nuhjnnyouxxex&klwktyMltsIkddtFftpjLguHxfC!gzebqkrAixtsi:CAsmbyzhusQnp-
kHpnxjrmsHGeM+zqspgymga5Cxx^tqsubhGBmwtim|iqspbnFguAyxi!tmstcyACfLtf
Butkqsrvgsusd*trptofLppGtii_uosceDrposQmm$nlnknqAvoLttj!iuukBjFzayLji-E
luofbfFkaNMjd>nmubvmwFaGyjh8flM1PHZgoHNjh!ztbvbfrsbvEes'fEucpisyeL
ozikdnLzawCxw^suocvnFnaFOqx*sqekceGuaMBjd+kFxqtplgbsNtt*ilbnutrkjLwzw|kp
hKaDGX~LSnteP?X5FPbfvksxMxi%fFigbnKzvxMes'fzfvytJraLwfp@humkvDrhow
sAewnfJpuRtfr%fopoojFAfwtzt=tlujgevpgyChy-zKaqhesuuBwnt@zuoibyzlaxzki$zE
uraittOAisCsd=xpftueGmaFulr*zGeg}erIS8%SVdMSavcqClesugs;zlujgesijECyC!ur
vmdmgyrybwCtd:ulqtqAAkfswjv:guobnnFrtsCsd@fzfvytJraPCyl=AFavjjrufxxej=x
Cuskplmga1IBi<kD.bvmwgqKyxi+zqsubfDzpswfp-kpacvywuuBIsd:ulujg
ytptvhGtjGAxd@tpakphGuhKOnx*kEaqheHyfLysxTjmzbetEwvMywd+kFxqtpKbasZtv
kJborqw?as&[dikFxqtprBtxtnw!mDpyksygeKure:oobnnDlgcNNeq;itapgyOvsD
zDbhhnugdHHxm|zEaqheHlsLIse-fopoozFpdtNns+f<F+ofAs-nte6SfXbtijripwCjw!ur
ozgqtrsAjHHee/klbxcnDhcEy	d#AFacbzKls,Mee#oxjvAeLvaLyfv$nlbettKzaMBjm/
kzuktjLFaBMep*suugf rg4	tYl^xqactjrzjzHnj*imovbwwzpNLhi|frptbxupfGwjd@tp
zqdjptDvhRnef;zlggyeFluPIwo!yAvtejKgqKIAm%kldqpywuusCsd:nqajwrsujMCjw8
0>aOchzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMMee/kldqorGuqEuhi7fnvvbyzlavuue#oxjvAeGmaMBj
yKtvgrrApsxje-fIjvjeAtbzyxdRrqubcqGufsIyl^xlngfnsggHLre:y>anclKgcxBnr%a
GlhnkrHzfsIkd@fyvnvnEleBuej;zGsgbkGyaGyyA=xwt?bmGDfOyw{!CmtbrwGCjwyid#E
Smskce4LC~9Sd*tligteGCfKPni>fAgbvmwgPGFnr^fVpwtsssaHzeG;xDfpveUsjGChe-
ZDjcnxr]P3WHXS lbpfeLofsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKarwgDptACsk!uz_nkswb

ZtfbetFAstMym+mlgqtrrvgsNmi!IP_TQRrkjLEeA@ylogxjJgtRMyi_gFjecqDF
gzbnAEwk.svzx!gFugpiwltswty-jlhngfFgbGtnq[xqtuktFggKIrd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
ytpy+fFk_Myqp!vDfugsLhuBIsw8flUjge8lsLyzw!gzebCrwyjvusdhkyptAewEbFJqi|
jqnqpxLybMyid/kofpvqQgqNvqm|nqebfnKrtmtBl*rqavjjrkfLwwm[zuppueGmaMBj
ONZEWXrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgQtJjv|fAgbIjGyhxt2e|nuoivtFgbGxeG&gpxAep	OftFjCNy
VmutqqGnjttQe:ozbbFfLhctMjdRVXE_byGsesIkd%oElubyGgdHGj	!fMdeqwvpoztys
KDjebHSSB5#HE7f2MF&xrwsBHhm[gxahqhMzaAuxd#kqobqsrjpGPjv:ozhbLfuxvxM]T@Ax
Suhpg)Kgexznr*zuwgbhGsmxwym=tlphbQsAjGtyi\zEavqeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlayIwq8
GxujqzyoaxPjv,uzfbetMsesMme/klujgeFluPIwo!gpwqefLlt,tjr:nGtkcxEggHLee+
uz_nkswggNNzv^ lujgeHvtLCgm-oFzbqkrypEFnr"fGqbqsw_tsMqi^BqtbhtJgbsMjw|oAo
CuujbfrJE `TQ!iAovcnFpoztgs:nlugzyMhmsGfx^xubnuesuesuet=CqshwqryfMLni<gx
kzhkpjrtbwyex&klekuprzfxGee+fmqrgfDpoztAi|yqmbksvlfwoedonqaqxjJhmE
jutewxKppGtxy"mqtvgirAitNex&klutcsKpuBIsd'xAnbEI	YP6tys!uz_nkswgoxNBs/qqe
godguxrtbRtuv=BqahcwrzmHQjv!gzebotJlawCkj*iGmvbyzhosBfw!hqfpbfFAjvCue:kp?


3TPbCWWgU1YeYnK4TbCSVgX1UYd	UlUJG4rKPo

GxujqzyoavIsg^xzffbBAAisNmi!zqdjpnuhmBNni|fAgbrwGkvvNns+ lujge#vsDMms[
tqwgteDvtMtxm"nFaqheLofsJzv[uEfubfFkaNMjw!uragnjuAsHHng!BqsuktFzaHz
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt}beSzaGIyi%fmcqxjlguAIxi!ozugtjKAfwtnr!oybiksygeBMhy|yqe
ztfbrwGimxGfx*immbofLAfKttj!juhkvfDgqKyxi/BmukqslgxACqi!ztfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuu
jqtetntlesBtA!smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLzavusd#klvugirposLjw^gDdj}er1iBMep@zFft
zAqkeeJldxCAi%fFiqttMnisNwi@zyfpveAuaMBjd[gBftbwwhesvDd?BDbbONUOF5!TR8
Ytfbrqsjfwtyl^fBigptEloHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbynLojGtyl^foppvjPAaHz
hDpcfjJguKysh|fuobksxvsFuym=tlugemFvmHADd@tpauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIs	

GyppieGAixLex&ozhu?e5PD1YQWjTleguhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%
ztfbqwAnjGttj!ztfbYtJrtAIud=tlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFgbswtr<kDtcvnGuaAyel@j
nmebetFzjwywe#rKaoqwwguAusd@fKfctesnpsQnx&fObtneXSF2!HLcG7FTbhGudxLsm+m
yAngbtxguAyem|yGfubksjfwtgC!GY?bbTFguAyee|yGnrvnGuaMBfx!tGngttMzaHNmi/
vqprnjrDfKyee|quoibyzlaLuri!wGfuvnGutmtyl^fpfekxAvosQfw!smegbyGgcKCsk
zAhgvmwyatMeq@tKaqheLofLyet^uBmgbfKgqHMxm#rqavqeszlsNmi!ymngbvMltMCtr|
zAhgvmwy?stNr!glegguwyaLysw^ lHKHK7YEsMfm% lujgeGyjzCsd=llujge#vsDMms[
rmzbksrAixtii|oDfbqkrAixthy/xqovbQAistLne+fAgbEtFnsxMx{!PmngueZb
HumnksyApGnex=fybmgeLofswtp-koukqsKgpytyl^fXjdtfJF.syxt^iubnnDrAiHMj
urggtnFnaNHnu;klptbzFBtNuqd:kEukotFFaHHee|vqdvueGmaMBjd?sqskefF
kJqgtnwudxnee<gumcdqwguHtfd_Aoibynvlsswnv$rqaqheMzfKMex&gzavjtKlayyB
vqprnjrDiHthe+fopogeLva$uxl*tsuqpeLvaNMjd:nqn}be`ojLtri@tFavjfLguAy
kyqjcxAzaHzeEh lgtqrrAixtty:yqu?bmszauyjr!uzacthzpwtFeg=rxfevnGutsIkd:nq
hmtkeeEhuxLne- lbpfeGuaFupm+mlujgxwgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kEacxfAsbuFj{
xmujgwrAitHew^rqdvgirvssBje<oxzbgiAAfwtuv=jGdvu 

LDpobF5_tsyrt&gEjubkGsmHQjh!ztfbszwzuBIsw!CuujbBzpdAtyl^f9ptmxzvqsvjk@ta
CtpbynDsaNMjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp| lbpfeAuaPBfx!lAsobBAsmsNmi,fIjujeLvaNMj
ztfo}erIvMtfr!kHfpbqsyhxLem|yGfbfjKlsOCsk!sqovktFaaBHeKdLRPTF)KgwByB{!Cmt
ztfbrmwupFyse-fssqyyzgjGtNr:kDogveuvoGyhx*BuuA}erOfsyCt/kEtgfeLofsBtt^
ztbvbyzlaILtw[koubqkrnsxuyi/fuovgwuvoGyhx^jzfuueLobGtjz^xlcghtJlaPIzp%
rqbfbyG?as&[d_AoibotJlavItt^xmukxjrhowtry:AmmnAeKBqIIwx*BqagpiwhwHLx,!8
