
                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Project operating frequencies *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During a brief discussion period, which also concluded the day's
proceedings, BROWNRIGG stated that the project was operating in four
frequencies.  The slow speed is operating at 435 megahertz, and it would
later go up to 920 megahertz.  With the high-speed frequency, the
one-megabyte radios will run at 2.4 gigabits, and 1.5 will run at 5.7.
At 5.7, rain can be a factor, but it would have to be tropical rain,
unlike what falls in most parts of the United States.

                                 ******

SESSION IV.  IMAGE CAPTURE, TEXT CAPTURE, OVERVIEW OF TEXT AND
             IMAGE STORAGE FORMATS

William HOOTON, vice president of operations, I-NET, moderated this session.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
KENNEY * Factors influencing development of CXP * Advantages of using
digital technology versus photocopy and microfilm * A primary goal of
CXP; publishing challenges * Characteristics of copies printed * Quality
of samples achieved in image capture * Several factors to be considered
in choosing scanning * Emphasis of CXP on timely and cost-effective
production of black-and-white printed facsimiles * Results of producing
microfilm from digital files * Advantages of creating microfilm * Details
concerning production * Costs * Role of digital technology in library
preservation *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Anne KENNEY, associate director, Department of Preservation and
Conservation, Cornell University, opened her talk by observing that the
Cornell Xerox Project (CXP) has been guided by the assumption that the
ability to produce printed facsimiles or to replace paper with paper
would be important, at least for the present generation of users and
equipment.  She described three factors that influenced development of
the project:  1) Because the project has emphasized the preservation of
deteriorating brittle books, the quality of what was produced had to be
sufficiently high to return a paper replacement to the shelf.  CXP was
only interested in using:  2) a system that was cost-effective, which
meant that it had to be cost-competitive with the processes currently
available, principally photocopy and microfilm, and 3) new or currently
available product hardware and software.

KENNEY described the advantages that using digital technology offers over
both photocopy and microfilm:  1) The potential exists to create a higher
quality reproduction of a deteriorating original than conventional
light-lens technology.  2) Because a digital image is an encoded
representation, it can be reproduced again and again with no resulting
loss of quality, as opposed to the situation with light-lens processes,
in which there is discernible difference between a second and a
subsequent generation of an image.  3) A digital image can be manipulated
in a number of ways to improve image capture; for example, Xerox has
developed a windowing application that enables one to capture a page
containing both text and illustrations in a manner that optimizes the
reproduction of both.  (With light-lens technology, one must choose which
to optimize, text or the illustration; in preservation microfilming, the
current practice is to shoot an illustrated page twice, once to highlight
the text and the second time to provide the best capture for the
illustration.)  4) A digital image can also be edited, density levels
adjusted to remove underlining and stains, and to increase legibility for
faint documents.  5) On-screen inspection can take place at the time of
initial setup and adjustments made prior to scanning, factors that
substantially reduce the number of retakes required in quality control.

A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faithful to the image capture of the digital files,
and while CXP felt that the text and image pages represented in the Reed
lecture were superior to that of the light-lens film, the resolution
readings for the 600 dpi were not as high as standard microfilming.
KENNEY argued that the standards defined for light-lens technology are
not totally transferable to a digital environment.  Moreover, they are
based on definition of quality for a preservation copy.  Although making
this case will prove to be a long, uphill struggle, CXP plans to continue
to investigate the issue over the course of the next year.

KENNEY concluded this portion of her talk with a discussion of the
advantages of creating film:  it can serve as a primary backup and as a
preservation master to the digital file; it could then become the print
or production master and service copies could be paper, film, optical
disks, magnetic media, or on-screen display.

Finally, KENNEY presented details re production:

     * Development and testing of a moderately-high resolution production
     scanning workstation represented a third goal of CXP; to date, 1,000
     volumes have been scanned, or about 300,000 images.

     * The resulting digital files are stored and used to produce
     hard-copy replacements for the originals and additional prints on
     demand; although the initial costs are high, scanning technology
     offers an affordable means for reformatting brittle material.

     * A technician in production mode can scan 300 pages per hour when
     performing single-sheet scanning, which is a necessity when working
     with truly brittle paper; this figure is expected to increase
     significantly with subsequent iterations of the software from Xerox;
     a three-month time-and-cost study of scanning found that the average
     300-page book would take about an hour and forty minutes to scan
     (this figure included the time for setup, which involves keying in
     primary bibliographic data, going into quality control mode to
     define page size, establishing front-to-back registration, and
     scanning sample pages to identify a default range of settings for
     the entire book--functions not dissimilar to those performed by
     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text that is all of a standard size, 300
dpi is unsuitable for any kind of photographic material or for very small
text.  Many scanners allow for different image formats, TIFF, of course,
being a de facto standard.  But if one intends to exchange images with
other people, the ability to scan other image formats, even if they are
less common, becomes highly desirable.

CCITT Group 4 is the standard compression for normal black-and-white
images, JPEG for gray scale or color.   ZIDAR recommended 1) using the
standard compressions, particularly if one attempts to make material
available and to allow users to download images and reuse them from
CD-ROMs; and 2) maintaining the ability to output an uncompressed image,
because in image exchange uncompressed images are more likely to be able
to cross platforms.

ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Library's master plan to convert microfilm to
digital imagery (POB) * The place of electronic tools in the library of
the future * The uses of images and an image library * Primary input from
preservation microfilm * Features distinguishing POB from CXP and key
hypotheses guiding POB * Use of vendor selection process to facilitate
organizational work * Criteria for selecting vendor * Finalists and
results of process for Yale * Key factor distinguishing vendors *
Components, design principles, and some estimated costs of POB * Role of
preservation materials in developing imaging market * Factors affecting
quality and cost * Factors affecting the usability of complex documents
in image form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Donald WATERS, head of the Systems Office, Yale University Library,
reported on the progress of a master plan for a project at Yale to
convert microfilm to digital imagery, Project Open Book (POB).  Stating
that POB was in an advanced stage of planning, WATERS detailed, in
particular, the process of selecting a vendor partner and several key
issues under discussion as Yale prepares to move into the project itself.
He commented first on the vision that serves as the context of POB and
then described its purpose and scope.

WATERS sees the library of the future not necessarily as an electronic
library but as a place that generates, preserves, and improves for its
clients ready access to both intellectual and physical recorded
knowledge.  Electronic tools must find a place in the library in the
context of this vision.  Several roles for electronic tools include
serving as:  indirect sources of electronic knowledge or as "finding"
aids (the on-line catalogues, the article-level indices, registers for
documents and archives); direct sources of recorded knowledge; full-text
images; and various kinds of compound sources of recorded knowledge (the
so-called compound documents of Hypertext, mixed text and image,
mixed-text image format, and multimedia).

POB is looking particularly at images and an image library, the uses to
which images will be put (e.g., storage, printing, browsing, and then use
as input for other processes), OCR as a subsequent process to image
capture, or creating an image library, and also possibly generating
microfilm.

While input will come from a variety of sources, POB is considering
especially input from preservation microfilm.  A possible outcome is that
the film and paper which provide the input for the image library
eventually may go off into remote storage, and that the image library may
be the primary access tool.

The purpose and scope of POB focus on imaging.  Though related to CXP,
POB has two features which distinguish it:  1) scale--conversion of
10,000 volumes into digital image form; and 2) source--conversion from
microfilm.  Given these features, several key working hypotheses guide
POB, including:  1) Since POB is using microfilm, it is not concerned with
the image library as a preservation medium.  2) Digital imagery can improve
access to recorded knowledge through printing and network distribution at
a modest incremental cost of microfilm.  3) Capturing and storing documents
in a digital image form is necessary to further improvements in access.
(POB distinguishes between the imaging, digitizing process and OCR,
which at this stage it does not plan to perform.)

Currently in its first or organizational phase, POB found that it could
use a vendor selection process to facilitate a good deal of the
organizational work (e.g., creating a project team and advisory board,
confirming the validity of the plan, establishing the cost of the project
and a budget, selecting the materials to convert, and then raising the
necessary funds).

POB developed numerous selection criteria, including:  a firm committed
to image-document management, the ability to serve as systems integrator
in a large-scale project over several years, interest in developing the
requisite software as a standard rather than a custom product, and a
willingness to invest substantial resources in the project itself.

Two vendors, DEC and Xerox, were selected as finalists in October 1991,
and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     afDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPle
ztsgumGseBHl{!jKoconuguALjw&uxekpllgeBNmi/ozh?bnEhhxtri/mqa)bUsnfsyik^
krggeyKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Mqptijr1I87F{!itjgh	rJpFGzr*imukqsKgFGAnr^kDjpieTybGwm{!Tmukqsssa5Cgv@xK
uraOgiAjjGye+iRY-?bnDsvLNwe:kpaugAwybEttj!ztfbfjxpdBysg*kEafkxuBtLyid#E
ztfbrwwCjHOxd|vqbmgwKbas2jd*tFsqfzulesNmi!zAqkeeGmaLJjg*gxartttsfFMef,
tAukplrAixtfh<gzucijKgpytjp^iFsqpnugjFulm+mgabHtJgfQurt-kfakveAzaKyli+kDbdnj
hqdcwxwgjMtnw!gldqfjvggBFj{!gzebtjss_MCri!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=rljubuGztBvqi!Cuuj
kxfevwGujvthe[zGsg?eOofKyfw!ozarjtLvhKuul*ildcryMyfsCyd*yloqv 

UzfbqkrAixtim'ludwnyAltsxnw$AEtgfeAuaMBjd|imopksygbGxew:uDbigeHypvyxw!Cmt
oybigeIBbECyC!Ctjej	rDjMBty:fnfncgGyjGAex&klpdxnGBtmtri@tEafkkxlsxHy
ztjpixrmpKtre[yfaogiAjbEt3[/gKt?btJgcKIfh$gEubvjDlwBMns+alaKpeLofswfw^fAg
jAdwojFAtmtYLjSMaucnvaaBGfk^fCvcnnLFauInp|fppypeLvaEylm#oxjvAeGmaMBj
zqyvwfDgqtLyw7fmofbkAkfECyC!ozavjjrjbLyes'fsscAeGyavIqs/fBiqvtrwsBHy[:EBf
smugtnss?stQi"onjnkyQgcHCqw!jAxpbyGgtvusd%kztkvDlguAyew:gzectirposGtw:
imtguetljGAe7E$lerk rgJGwwi@yuoibyzlaKyxs-AFjqpeOpuAtxg@tzftueLobM
vqshqwEg7[]es/f!3``evwjmtms>kHft?euvnxMee:fmaeqxLb

HquvgwrpntAjd]AmmkvDrloMunp|fmubnjszuszty/fpjhhjJloMtpm+jEaqheuvtMM,d!7>
kCvkrrwuuswtw:yfadghsBtxtyl^fODFb=Abfnneg&gDhg+hGBqEyeh^Budg_eOpuA
mDfcvjJgoNGgi/fAgbgqwtfGNxd$uEuubrGyfite6SfFjogeuvtMMex&gFavtfFzmtNjd:u
ztfbchLBbEthe[zGsgbhGzuLnef^imvugeEhoNuqd-gnptbnKgjGPtp<kpa-vmwguBGjd*y
gxtqbiwwfGxjr:fAobvmwggtwyd:nmubotJlawuye!nmtbvtrifsGtz^jlbtqzFkaBHex&k
smdjkswgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsIwd+kFxqtprkfOChi|fFicveHlsyIwq!ztfbuhsuoBHld@y
CqmnbfKguAyew:uDbig[hga* eq^jubbetKAtmtgi$gGtgbfLgiBAmd/kEpnwyAvoLtqe/mqs
lumguezhwxtys!hqauvtJleitfr%f$-bvwsutFCxw*uzaeqxLz.svjg@AEfbvmwyfsCxd(AEu
sAsgbisAbsNtd#klutcsKtjMNjh8

HGubymAsfsLjw=rGukqsrAbDyxd$gDfbqkrAixtnw|AqaqheDlhBvnp*zKakpeAtbzy
wGbnkyQaaHNmi/fpfhkhAlovCjw!nmwgbyGgeHtBm:nldqpyJhtMtfr%fqmgojFAtsIsd:nq
vmhgbxuhoGyid=xlujgeAtbzyex&gFapgjvlesNtd#klsgotNlesIwd$rmskhnwk?stYl;yf
ZTPOCeHypvyjh^jluqbnDsvLNwe:klwctnGBtsxjj*iufpenwz.sBtA!ztfAbfJl
smokhjKAfwnee+jltgxjJhmsNjg&turwgxrApsIAi/iAngbyzlnn

LuygfeLosxMms-juoibBszaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGCvy^fpfuewAifwnew;oFbdnjrmpK
hxbem]sue Qmm:klugzylgxAysd:nqaeqsLybLNeh=kEapqyrCbKSes<kDavjjrwbzy d!Uzf
imobjfNlaFusC!jughgwwuusNmv^ytpnfeDlwxFxd*tltecsFpoztii<oofu}er1iNM	
ZTPOCeGmgxLjh!gzagzfEwmxttj!kJutgrwszsJts/foppvwszumtBl*itatgxMsuxxej/uy
ztfbhfuAaMBfx!ztfbuyGjlsQfw!gligcAQgsxx d!ZtjubnKguAyew=xFaqheAtbzyex&gF
CtfpbrAjsHznp_kpahcnDzaMIet/uHjfgesuzsFjk*humkvDrDitNxs^Bqs}beXpyxx
ztsgumGseBHld*ylujgeOhzsNtd$nmoigeLofsvqe$q\uq+wwkavIsx/gEubvtrAix
jqtktjvgcEuhoTzA_yjnLlavIsx/gEu}

UFigtewEbFJqi|fuoenzvlesGfx^xubnbyzhusBfh!hqfpbgJvxGyid=xlzgnqGDfwtgC
gsf}be`ojLtBe|fmmuqesgdtMjd=lldqpyJhtMtii'oojgphQaatHid$uDsgeyAvosQfw
jAogbgQggBRjh!ztsgumGseBHl	!fMahksssaxRfq[rqadqnDzawIBr!zAavjjrzbFy
ztjpi	rzmBAmx!BmskcgAsjMS	d#AFakveAzaGIyd|osokhnuhoMoedaoJffbyzyfLBtp%ozh
jAdwojFAbMCtr!gzebwxwyazOnh^yfacueOlmEtfw!mGjfgxrAitNeJmKQNCPeHyfIuwi%frpt
zqbejjJzaLIex&gFavjjQgntSef^muobwxAuhsNmi!iAovgsLgpytyl^fEzuvjEgbMttr$kg

2QDEKFrkfLwwm#kpavjjrlwtFze:oAobrwGqfvNef^lAsgbysslBHld@hAvvbyzlaIOgp*i
AEftueGmaT7	d-oyjvksygixLev^smsmueLvaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	d#kobwujrMSXYREi
CAvnfeLhmDtrs/kltrghAmjvuqp,fmcqwyrzdAItp|frsqoeCpowywk@xFfpbyGguPyqj:n
mDbfge}R_"*[	!flIcxnFnaLNfv:kpakpeKwsBHldv#&2?byzlaxPfp;gFjqpeuBsKysx-E
ozwqnAwzaMyxx*tsaqheLofs7fg*tFpujeAtqEyri+zmukqsrvgsUR	!f5jpejrAix
vDjocwQghHuqd=llujkxrlwtFze:oAobkxrApsxjx^xyjpgeLofsGtw:fmqrttHyjtNj
gGekgsulaHLee;jufpejKggHLeEh lwgtDrkjyzjv^tFaukywzaPywi!yqmgeywk?stYl*y
smlguewCbEOfx*uzafkkxpdNFyd#kobwujrvgsNmi!BmsAksygexAwi^ylphbywjiGIqs"E
ruugtfuFatGtr"fFigbxAAfLoed?SljubxAAvtNjh!ozahqwLF_yIzv!rAdcvnGutmttj
CtjejeKpysuwi!vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEacpirzjQNji+fmsgbxuopHFx	!f4frtjKloMyi
gyppieLofsMhl=uxtbcwwgfEyri+zmsA?eBBoBIwd&osi?bfFkaACll!yoiqqqKb
JutvtnuAaHzkm$kEacnxGgbKyem+BAmxgirposNmi!kHbnwfLppGneA&ooibynDs
iAoenzvlaBHew;syftb6+$4n

2QDEKFrmpvOxi%fFigbwwtbBHii/fAgbjjJgutFpd=tlujgeKpysJzf-ooankgJhsByx{!uzf
urayjnuoawIzf-kEacuesgtMuyi!ructcwQbas@mi,fDfrtjKloMtfd/gzhgbtx
mqpitfHojvtfv^gEacpirhaKusk^fAgbfjEvhKuul*ildjcwsjuxLnw:oot}beXvs
kJborqwaaMBwi^fmsgbqGjbMyid*tlvtdfFgtxNym+mE.bvBGgjGtwy/gxaugyLpozM	d@tp
uzfbksrhaLOgy/hmobujLAjGA d!Glscplwgpytyi$nzjecqrlyIywx*yqakueLvauyej=Aze
gyppieLofLyej@iumkvnwzatMeA^rx?bbKGyaxRfq[rq.bqswgjLtfr!_MqrnjrsjuLfv,fAg
ztfbhzLBsxn-d>numgbyOvaHNmi/ylbtgeJBstFes+k\sqqrrsjuLfv*kE_+ksrvoxneEh
yuuubfLguAyej/uzubfjKraGyCx!zAacbyJhdMIwd_gzvcn 

Gxmbrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrobOyef^kzagzyJlnxFDd^tFiwunszuBw	d|ABqqtyACfmtfr%
gBqtghAhuBPjd=llujgeOvsDtyl@zlBObmszauyjr!jAjpi rgWXWHM?foictfuAfKCEi%
BmskqzKgvLyww2flNquyrBtxLxd*tlqwdqAjaECgv@xufubiwzdKCgi!ztfoujDCfLtfw
mqogtfDgsxuii/ybaqheLofsMyy%kzuubBzvaNMjd?SljpbyzlaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	
ztpugeAuayIzv:nlhtciwgbGxee#uHfbujwtaFIxx!ozugtjKAfwoedkAnmkeeDpcKuwm^y
ozatwwssaLCyi|fFfpfeLvatNyv@iFatgyAyfwtui=vxf?bBzvaAuAi!hqfpbmAniES
xqdgryACfsNtd?SgabWxwytsNjr%fFpbhfDsaBHys!zIpbcivpuBIse-fobvglGyjxM,
vqprnjrpoMywi|zqebksrAixths+zqovbfFkaACxx=xudcneuvoGIye:oAoubtxguAyxi
vDjocwQgsxMty/iqt?bfFkaMBtw^frbuenFhuxxef,fFigbywjiGIqs"EgabVmwggHLre:
xqdgkAAuhsNmi!sAtvbhGtnxHyw!nmtbdjwuaFIym=tlqkeyMyfLoedonqacfzDAaNMjv|fuo
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEactjrtpKyeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fUCObhGtqNNjv| lxjgwwhtsSty+m
vqprnjrzfxGeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fqjvjjJgJU7es/fYbeksLvtAnee-ztpwimrtpLNes'
ztfobxwlnsNtd$uyfbhwGtattRe$ozuqumribvElv=Aze}be`ojLtxe_klugpiwudRtnw
lAvpfeAuaMBjd|itpqnxm

3tbvbpAueLttj!ztjpixrkpsOxi/yleqbBAAisUR !fUobceHBcEChd-onsctDrAixLjd@xq
zIpbofAuazIfp|fAsbyfQzaMBfx!GYakuetljGAey|kp;bbfKgbGtnr%oHjfwfDgmxuwr*ts
zApn?esuesuxd@fxfkuzJlatwym<oFz}beSkvENep^gDokplrDbLttr^fmsgceLobMt1I{IUB
CAvnfezphAFnk&zlbubfrwpLMnf-klbrrqAjbMCtr!lAsbceLvpEtxy$nlbubF5bas!mi
jqtetntlesuet@zDppbtxgbsLzv@rlqwdqAjaECgv@xKayjtrjpFyxd*tlfxgwQgetSes+
nutbnzFjisBty/fmofbqAAfKuqp,fDfcfxrHNmtri:nAekefDszsAtm+mlujttMnisNmi
iAmnghLppGtnq@mqadAeAtbzy d!GFavjjrlowttj!nutbjtMyaAyeq@qqtbcsrlmxwyv=tud
hApmofJr.sJzx|fuubksrojLtus$qqu?bfFkaKyyy/tEavqeOvsDoedonqapgCLgetSel^
iAngueAuatHid/kEvogxrDixLjd&klmghyrvgyoeddtFftgxLpozFD{!ztjubrsuaAui
tqwgtetlfGtnr!ztfbnntybKSef^lAsgbmwgvLyid?SgabKsrhoHNmi/fEncnqlgsNLfp
ructcwQaaMBjd$uAsfkssApKtwi[uDuubyzhusURd*ylbbrtHBmtLee$zuwkvDrmpKtxs_k
uravjjrvmwyw{!xquktjvgqxIup^fuobvmwgdHGry+oFz?bBzvaHLim+gDjnAeOvvExer=z
AEfb*yzvtxtyl*tst?*]	jpFJzx^xE?bbFFvuAywd^Dmnrnjrvgsuiy-zlmgcwFpoztnr
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEakuetvpDtlv=ABt?btFlaHzeA&ooi?bnFgqtLym$Axbt?eAzaNMnr"fMN
gEarcwLgpytnx|fDfcfnFnaHHem+jGtvtnssjSuym=tfakpywnstNns+ lbpfeMyctHnD@zupp
ozavjjrlbKFDdv#*~u}

UzfbnntybKSev^vAsvueLobMtfd'gyjnAeAzaNMnr"fMNbvtrofEJei%AobvgeLofBL
itjnfwwu?stNr!gzpvjjJgjGMye+iq.bksvpwBxze-ylgtqrrhaEIhe-fyvugzEgdtGjd*t
zAawujrHNsNtd[xqqctjrhosyCl*huubqsrApRMes'fFigbuszunteX&kEfbvBGgfQurt-kE
kyqjcxAGfsNmi!sutuktFgpytyl^fBvdnnugmBvwe/ElbubfrjvENzv@rljpuyAAvMCtr7
xqbejnFnaHOyd:ulqgquDlaPBtd%uloqvezhwxtyl^fEbogeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEyex=
ztpugeOopsFnz^fuobceEluKIus-oFbpbfJlbsIwd&gHfbchultLtys!glncltJgmBvwe/Eg
UzfbtzJhmsFnf/gDzbtjHvsMMex&gFalwsAvssBnk&fEdjqtDgtMOii+zEakpeDhszy
tGndgwKgdtGjd*tlppgesmuxLss=tluqbzKlaT7ej=xlfpvjJAbBHri+zgabCeFBnuywd=l
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEatguGyuxxek/kmubksLlsxMyd@sAoibuGzuvuwh!iAmnghLvsLtnr!ztf
JqutqnLgdHFqi$zupp?eOojvBeA@ylfuujFAjtFqC!gldqnqwjuBIsd=lljoclwzaNMjh!uz
vAtvefJktsuws;tpavjjrAvKHes'fFigbhwuuNLD	!f6scksrivyzxd@xqaukrAsbKFD
ozugtjKAfwtgi$gGtgbyzhusQfw!glukojrvgsAwi@zljpvjJltMtnr!xmjnttskjGA 
VqprnjlgjMtBe|frpwpilgsxFfx^fFpbvmAuhLtyl@zlujgDrroHQes'frjtuyzhowoedauD
kJborqwaaBHef=ztatwwssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeA&kDfbCRrDbLtre%klbxcnDhcEy	
untgtAwytsLjt=xFffbyzhusNmi!uxegteHlpIFjd>oFibrjJzpGuqd/kyfodwsudxMes'
ztfbvzJuaHzex&kldgpyMyzsQjv^fsscxnLhuBHld:ulujgeVluKInx!iAmnghLppGo
ZtfugewEbFJqi|fEftxjvguHtzr%kDteqwwgN2WMIgY1O&ueGitxLAe:oAobtjrAix
ozugiwsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbcsvgjwyfwT/FicveHlpIFjd-kmspbgwzusQmi+
ztfbofLlsBuqd/kxbvgxrApsMtq^ztjpieLofRtpr=Cg

2QDEKFrtbwyex&klgkpfDgqHCsx!ztbvbnFgntHDd$gEfubF5gtxLAi|fmtbc
vGcnkh	yfEuym=tEavqtDggHLex&klqwdqAjaECgv@xufubyzhusuwi!zqtvksygjMoeddt
uzfbefKl.sURd*ylcgksygvLyid@ylbbxjzpdEyex=fEfewwwgbwxnx*uzbnbkMueBHld'uD
ztfbnntybKS d!OzacptLofKthe|kfaCOezhtsMjv<kpacuesuaBHxt*xmukqsrApsNmi
yFbhheGmattre(uDanqhssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyzsCsd:nqaUqzLoaMIex&ozlbcgGBusQfC|fFp
smlgbnLzaHQsd$uxmgeyAvosIkd[nAuqiwswiLtrs/klbeejKzjuFjd:ulujgeHBcECh	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe?[(}{+

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
L4FGOF6g(sURd@tpacthzpwtFei-koutqsAjaKyxs;xofubnFgbsMhl=uxagpAAypGGjr:f;
WGfuvnGutswtr$kDokplrjpGNjB:f;aSwjKAjHHxd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smu
oFtgnkr[aVIrt;zqsbcsPpfMSe_!Godguxrhowtfz@oxbdkqAAzsIkd:nqauAxLlns{
NmsfyfJla}tXx/kzhvjxrnbBHjh!ztsqwlzguAyey|klphbfJjiBPfp!xqtqwwultsC
