but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration in the text.  He presented an
extreme example of deterioration in the text in which compounded
documents had to be set right by other techniques.  The technique
illustrated by the present example was an image merge in which the page
is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could hl@Bqawujvgbs6fx*tldqnqwjuBIsd=l
zqyvbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLr{!nqaucnvguAuyd@zlgktxLgixtyl=AsivbrGzusMhl=rmsu
CAvnfetlaNHBm-ruoibyGgeHtyl@zgabDzLgbLtmi!ztpwimLgpytyl@zljpbywynLttj!ztf
uDjiksssaFyfr*tsaqheJltxuwg&/\ujcyrptmtme<ozhbcqJlbwSeq@yFftgirAixMjd:kJuu?
xqtgcwuojGAex&kyahqwrjsBNng@rlbpfeuvnIuwe:oHfbrzJwpLyx[TlAsbvmwggBLxx!zung?
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$frptofLgntxjd@fxpvbtxgtxHxi8flHTGJ6MJX6Id$uGmfbjFCjLCtr
mDpyksygoNGgi/ylphbxuopEuww!rqbtpnFnaMBjd+kIavghzupEIlm^ylgqteLobMtAi/E
gEqgeyrvgsNmi*xltejtDhsLBnt!gzebhtJgdHHAi+oqoeg)KgttEj	

RutvgsAuhsNtdqKODKCesuesZWI SMO?bL0LF7ZNIgJlujqzyousIkd@tlbffnLppGuq
gBqnkhsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFt}beZlaKyfp*FqebvmsAaT7eg=AxebdjrBtxxee|fm
mGjfgeLvaEyfh!yAngqswguHttv*muocneKvvKwjw8flTvwiwuuLthe+tAubdjrlyIyhx^j
zAajcAwgntMyi/kpavjjKlaLIzv$kE.bvmAuhLtyl^ElicxjrufOywd)tAxpbftvvM
hqgqtjmga!Bzw7fMNbkxrsftxnr"fFigo	rposNmi=xK.bvtrhaOuxx!hAeAbtx
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlhkxnFnaMBjq!gltwrjJmjvCfp!uHftxnwDaHzem: lfpcgDpoztyl^s
zAaugqwjusJfv:ylphbnLbas1WI TRJGNIrhtDyid*llbpAewCjwysg^fqykuyKguAuyd:nut
xqtqwwulaPCqp!ozeggirAftwmd:nqapgBrBtxL	d:nqaM+6"gtMOii+zE.bjtOguHtis
xqtgcwuo?stXg&uxbtuesssxuiC!qzpybmGDaMIeh=fDfugfJjisush!gDfbcuHszBHl
ztfugeFlxsNts-ygabDzLgixtBs+jqsgfeOozsMyy%kzuubBGBmwtls!hqzqpirwjvEnr"
uGubvmAuhLtyl@zlxgtjrtpLNei\iuukplrApsNmi_a

L4FGOF6gdHHhi%kpavjjrjpKLjg:tqtubtxgH~YJRaOQMF&xrvcLywz@zuppbfKgbIJqm^j
zAacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuunteX&klskuprptsNme:fmauvzvloMtBs;rpaukyrkpPHee:fm
yKtvgrlgqEuDd>oFibkylggBHid|uyfbvmAuhLttj!ozugtjKA.sush!ztfpbBsslsuBe,a
HGubksrAixtwi-gFjxgqQgdHHyv=rxffbxAAvtNns+fAgbceKjiHIqd-onsctDlgnNwmd>oxm
jqqgpirvosNmi!oztvtzuAjHHxd@fFfcemwyaHLee!ructcwAhosAnz^ylbbuyMkfGN d!Ytf
BufygirAixtxm:AmukqsrupMtfw!uzfbqkrmjGy]x;tuoibwwzftLhl!ywjnnxrivMttj
ozwqnAAuhsMyy%kzuubfLgbsJjv|uzbnbqwCfEtnr!AzegtxLhowCsk!gzebtjKlbKwmm+m
ztjpixmgaZCAi+fFigblMpetHhi!uzfbefFgsxwjm<klbvbxuopHF	d*zlujgsrifvIri|
vAtukgDlaMIex^goibgqwtfGNfv,fDfugfJjisMpm-rEavqeKAvwysx| lxjkhzgjGtke$z
uzfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJpbGtxe*jltjgeOhtsNje$nuoibmwyayCkx&fsscfjJz?
L4FGOF6gdHHhp;jqebvmsAaBHyv=jGdkplrAixtnh^glphbkGsmHQnr"fAog&xrvxGtue:n
urakpvMpsRneA&ooibkxrltLysx*gxmAbBzhusLjw^gDdjbjFAbBFx{!ozwqnAwzaFIwi
ztbpbywhdACsk!yBfekkAjaLEnp-ygabVtrAixMjd$uyngpyKgWXWHM?fmefgirAix
untgtAsAjHHex&gFavjjrpowCAm%AmmbvjsjixLee+jlujgeMzfsIkd@fosgcyACf
xqtqwwul.sLfx&kDavjfFgB6tnx|kxg?bxwlnxxex=fybmgeLofsEjC!jughgwwudxo
YAngbxuopHFxd@tpauqrwguxuhl^xEactjrtbDCsk!kJdgnqwuusOxi!uravjjrubMOwi
uraetnLpdtFex&ozlkplrhowtyi@itjpieKrjEFx{!ytfbufAk?

IAoewwJpoztBm:nlujgxwgsxGfv)yfaFCQ%gdEIxi%fFigbxwztBIsd>oFibvmwguAIzk&zlujcy
ztfbotJlaMBfx!vDpfwhwytsJws%AoffbkGyaMyfg&kDtbcsvggHLew$nAmctxrApsOxi!Cuuj
ztfkteKAvwysx| lujgeEvsxtxy$iqtuhzDguAynv!kxfevwGujvtuv=jGdvueOvvExet/uHf}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ2oednN1XbCSVgUX6Q

PmdswjDpoxtMInYfafkwwjuHL	digFjqpfDgExGtr|zDbvktFgMtvtv@zAsA?eKlsOyid@y
sAegtfLvssIkd:nqa*umGD_tHi[:kxm*bxwztBIs	!f5igbsGAfwtyl@zlb
wGfuvnGu_tHi[@tExgteHlsBIid>uGmfbkGsmHQei@itartjKloMuym=tg

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
S~MQPF~g(s9Ai/BufybfFkavIsx^tFaqhe8lsLyzw!=lQgtxwBt,tuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|
kJjuveAuattxC|zqn+ksvlqxHii+zfacthzpwtFej=xya)bFrjpGwjw|oAob)e`lyMOfp
gEqgeyKgpytUi/yqvub+r1pHFxd:ulvugeOpuAtyl^fSsggprAfQNe_!VDfrcwwkaBHim$kE
gzebhzDs_MyCx!yqbtemwzaBHeT^xEfwue?gFGAqm|n\HtgjCgxHLid|kmsejeDlbwMex=
ixpugeKAvwSes'fIptfxrhowths+iqqvue?gOtPnk@zuoibUwytxOxd#ElutchAuhsxtA+
ozekejKg(s#xm+mlujgeAjpGIlv@vtzbvtrwfKztv_fDfugfJjis{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KxmkbR%SP7UX{!smocinFnaxxnx=xfaRgwKlvLtUv=pqdv?eZhsOuwh!1zjxgwKpuRnej*xEu
mmwgbfFgpOywz*kIaqhe8lsLyzw7fmancwyl.swtp-gnptcyACfsykj=xFadcxwkatN
NmsxcwvgVGCAi/yuuAbgMAaPCyl!iAovtntBuHLxd@tpaeqqDhcHLfx=xEanqhsAfwtfx
tGngttMzaNHnz^xEjvkjKgbGxeg=rxfigxrposNmi!1zjvgirZutNjw![q?i}	rIpPxtm+ 
SmsAnfFk.s0tq=tm.bEmAjbzI	dqoDhkpns/?stKy+jqebrwAtbKCqC!hKavjj
GzogpgwyhfWUF!VDplghLaaPCyl!gpekvnGubEtky+juoibkJvnsUut-kfaJcwNhswnee+j
ztfbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwza2Hxx*zGug?estpGAes:nqsu?e8lsLyzw!oEacbrMsuBGjh*gf
nKqgtywEuNuqd%gFbdcxwggHLex^goikplrhowtwi|kmsejeGuavFfw|oobnbLJlfD
iuwknnRhuBIs{!CtjejeOhtsLjp^gEffbnFgGxvwy@xKa3~@"gjGtAi/yuppb6m%atHi
jutvtntBuxxef,f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaRtjKz?

IAoukxLpoztjr:oDfnAeGmaILnq@xKaocywyjtFx{!VqsugzKgjGwqy%kEacphAloMtLv^kw
zqyvuesuesNwe+yxbvktFzaHzex&uEfbvjPAtithe:gxpibjFAsByx[TztbvbnKaaFOxi;s
imucntygfGNwm^yfapqyrsjuLfv,fobvcqGnaxHyv*kE_+qsrCbLyx{!yuugu	rjpBHx{
yovnryMyfmtfr%fmsejfwvmHAng@rlpdljuAtitre[ybacpirhawChx*uzbtA	rhnHHl
uFigteKvvKwjw8flUjgeFBnuywd=llpdljuAtsush!ztfbqgBldMMej=xlxjkhzgdtNfp=m
kzutkjKgfQCxx!gDfbchuvnIusm^jlcAbyzvvLush|fAgbetDvssCre"kE.bymAji
iAouvnLBuxtfd_gvptbkwhuNLjd=llujgevhutvfw^alaRgwKlvLths+zmjpu
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*aoglsizMyxd=llugzylgbGtfq=AzubvmsAaPCqp!jAvdnjrpo
yGcugvMloMtAi/yuppu rgJGtfh%oFjqpeLvaMBjw^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommu?eLofs0jv|kGt
VDplghLgitMef^kzadwnDkjGAex=uxtbhtJgvLCsk!ztfo?eEhlBHld@iofuuesue
tmwkifLppGtje|oqs?byzlazIfp!hqjpieLvauOnp%fBbtveGmaMBjd^rqdvttFpd
kzwkttFtfGNeh*yovuujvgftLqm^xljpbyzlaFIwr*tsakpeOojvBew:Apfpvxrvs
yoiqnfJzavusd>uDlbynLoaMBjm/fEpwthwz?

ZtfbfjEvoLNwe:oAobqkrWfKMjy|fIjnneKopPttr-ElbbhwsjuBIsd=llujgeJlbEtBs/q
ztbvbmszazIsi!ozuqbnLaauyhe;yqavjjrwsHDjg:ftbfbyGggtwjd:nqafkqwtntttj
CtbvbyGgfGNjv!CtfpbuMAuBHld|uyfvjnFnaBHys!smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwE?asMms;rp
uzfbcnEggHLez^xKajklzgrNuqm:Elptbrsrfswtr$kEtkqsKgjGttv%kDavqeylusNmi
smugtnssaBHad!Yuoege8lsLyzw!jqdkfjvguHttt:frptbAwyzsBnk&fCvcnnLF.suqp!ur
oFtbrwAtbKSeq@zqskcqKgfQCxx!ozacbxQzuxG]m+jqqgpiwuu anr|urbtbfKgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIef^fEzuvjE|jGxjt^tpfpv]	hsvBnz@rlgqtrmgaWyhm%ozhbymsAaMBfx
gDdjkAssayIwq!CAvnfetlatHid@zFbkpnFnaBNev^wGjtgirtvvBeA=xwacpirAiHOll:a
LAsbgCstqEy	d@rxavjjrAfQNxd@xqaocwClesOud*tlTIOQlgxAChl!Cumnbgwgntxj
iAnrcyAimxtBm:nlujgeyBjwyqm+kEaqheLofs@jB:fQoeqiAuhs3sm:omukxjr]UX3[d>nqo
ztfAbfJlaBMxy^jg

JDbyksyzatLjd[uEuuewAwusznp^yfapqyrtfxNnr"fuovgwFhuBIse-fEucpisyeLnef;z
gFangfKAawyxm"tqebvtrnpsuhv=yEarnfLmpKGx	!fUncijKaaHLev@ztftbyzlaKyfp
gDdjkAssayIwq| ldqpxAzusIkd:nqadgxLgbOunp@hxfbuqAkfLneA&ooibcwwgcxCsk
juhkvnRlenteQ;itaqheLofswfx@rAhbofLlsBuqd^DutvueAuawuye#gEfbhtJt_ uej=xy
ztbvbyzlatPjv@mqawujJgdHOqh!AEf?brsujIOqe:kfacpirkjLJqe,fAobceHlsLIse-
iAnrwywy.svzx!uzmAbfLghKyfx!iAtv}er1iNM	d:nutbkxrDixLjd:nqaeqsultLCtr
iAngueAu;stFp-fAgbvmAzaKChl7fIfnn]EhsDyi[;vljphtJtbMCtr!oEauvwAwqxxes'
sGdjbtxgjMMeg=tFfpv.rAixtnq@mqtbcwwgdHHAi/zqebksLvauCy[_gBtbcsvguAyex^DF
ozuqbxEhmEtks/smuvgirjiNHpw8flBnneLojLtnr'uDncvnGuavusd:nqobdjrpnIIwx^j
ozuqbMQwfKWfv%fmofbwMuaHHee!sue+tfFnfs7fg*tFpuj	rDiBwmd*ylxjcyrWfKMjy|
AEftuezhwxoedonutbhfuAaAuxd_gpfbkyrwpLMnf-klgqte8lsLyzw!zAacvysposQnh^
AEfbhfAymRtwe[opmA}er4jMBty:fFiqujrhsvBnz@rlgqtrKguAyeL,vqsEcwvgwxLxm=t
hqjpievlnHHxx/gFffbhGBmwtss:fnfbofvlaxuxm-EfacpirAixtuv=pqdvbhGBmwtss:
nmwgbyzlaIIyi+zubnbyGgnHPjd:ulpvjjJggHLrw!gzebofuojGyxd@tpauqkLDbKyee|
ztfAbfHwftL	d+uzfbqkrDiBwmd*trptofLppGtnw!ozaRgwKlvLttr!ztfbEIm

UravjjruvFyws;ylnwnyAtfwCfd@yBfevxrvgs0jv|kGt?bR%SP7UXd'uovugirvosNmi
zqyvwfDbas0fv:fAgbymsAaFupi|f2ftujMzaLOhl!glqngfKBsxtys!AEf?bR%SP7UX
ymjf?eAzaMBnw!krgqtyrhusMje_rqtubnFAfzLfx*uzacpirAixtff*ruuAbyGgnHPj
gDpwpiripMBez*yGbnbfFkaMyCx;gxaocywyjtF d!VqsugzKgbEMtd_gpfbvmwgexwnw*uz
tAubvtrhuMyrt:fFpbksLlsILjx!oFtbofLlsBuqd@tKaoqwwguAusd=tqakpywyqKyyw!hK
yqmgeyAuhnteF;zfaO1Q7UB`tjq[nmtkBjvaa9yww^AEakueFvuswty/yqxctjgga7I
yKmncgMzaxRnw:ygabVmwyfsCxd+ulfhhtJAaMIeh^luogbmGDaHHjd:kmdjgxrhaMIum$
AEjpie8lsLyzw7fmmvjtMnisNmi!vDplghLgntSei<kzuwcqDFavIqp^iFarcuwytsvD
vqprnjrDiHtme<klvugirpusNtd:kmdj}erYbMBjv7f2ftujMzatCrw!zAarttNpex
vDjocwQgntNjv*gxakpesglBHid=llfnghLypGChd-onsctDlgbGtjp^iFsqpnugttHif=Df
yAavqeKhzmtnr!CtjejeKAvwysx|fmofbxuopEuww!CtpbcwwgxHLpm+mlppbyzpt
smugtnssavusd^DBmqtjrizsNmi_yqmxgxmga$Cyl!ztbv?e56M88FW!jqnqpxLybMyi
VqsugzKaauylm+tuoibBAAisNmi!VqsugzKghtNjA@EfavjjrmjKMyd:nuoibtFlaLyjw
ABppbtHloBHldkkDtgwx	|bGtjj'uDubksrwbKNex=fEpnxjrAixths+zqyvwfDpABHl
vDpdnjE|_PBng&fFfnnxrAixtzw^xlxjcyrAixtxC|zqnbetFAbBHx	

S~MQPF~gexGtr|zDbvgirvoESee!BqsAbxEhmEtus/zupp?etlhBHsm+mlxkvmrwsBGfv,
zqyvuesuesLzr+ozhbqkxguAyeG	/4PO}erObOCsk!yqmgeywkaTyxg&Exvu&e8ypFyyl^AE
HAvpf	rDiBwmd>gEaxkjOhcEyem+fSsggprhowtJr"rutjbuJluMSeq;itakpeLofsMfq^
yqhogsLzaMIli:nqs?bR%SP7UXd%kyppuyJhuxxex=uxtbvtrBtxtBm:nlujgeYyfxEex^DF.
yAngvmAuhsHtx!vAtukgDlaPCyl!glcqqpggaEIto*tsawreLofsxng:oAoctDrloMLDd'uDn
uracpeMugtGnp*gDayqwvgjGtLv^kwachywyaLOgn^iFjpieAAaMIeT^xEfwu)
sAsrjtDvhBwfp!gzbnAxAzayIwd@rxavjjrAfQNx	!fMgvgwrmjGxnr"fAvvbftvvMtf
CAsf?esgvLywd_gKavjjFgexwnh^fFpbujwgjytnx!oEawujvgbGSBl^xqagnxwgjGtLv^kw?
HqdcwxwgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsCsh^DuoibxMwqHLyd@rxaqheLofsJwm_gDzbofLlsBuq{!uzf
imobhnFkaHOyd>nqsgbjDzfsuqp!lAsoueGmattue/zudwnfJgHKyjo!CAsfbfHwftL][
urugpeFvusuex/oHjcneEhuMywd#kobwujrNsxypd*ylikimDFaBHkp^iFff}erMvKNmi/ 
yuoegeLofsMys/ElphbUJvnxNmi;ylicueLvawIeA*ztavjjrvsBAnr|fAgbufuyjyChi7fm
AEftbrsFaPCxl!zAauvzvFatHid^DBmqtjrzbvLnj*iqakpeYyfxEep*zqscvzJl<svD
zKqkplrzbvLnj*iqakpyGgbsMre-rlxkpiGD.suey|kDaiqjKguHtyl^fQoinnKo_ZLji)
CAsfbqAzu axs_kFikplrvoxthe+tAubftrDjMBty:fFigbhGtqNNjv![2ftujMzaAux
ozegzjvguAyeh^luokvnGutsIkd*zEafkhLppGuwCS/\ujgeKAsBHld|goskhnulatJui@xE
ozavjjrkfyCsm:oAoubtxguAyxi!yuyvA]xpwxtBs/jE?bbTFlaFuDd:nqobhnFkaHOy
CtftgesuzsIkd:nAtgbBGyeLtnw!AEffbnFguAyeA=xw)u_eGmattue/zudwnfJgbNNms/a
ZtfbGsysjLBeh^luokvnGutsuwi!tAubnjEtbMCEi%
