for making a new version of preexisting material, provided it manifests
some spark of creativity.

However, copyright does not protect ideas, methods, systems--only the way
that one expresses those things.  Nor does copyright protect anything
that is mechanical, anything that does not involve choice, or criteria
concerning whether or not one should do a thing.  For example, the
results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who achu;oDfubuwynBMxm=t
zAaejfFnfsueA=xwavghzujvuqp,fIjnnetldHGjd:nqacwyzvssush!ztfbqBFlsmtzr-kEt
yAngbfyyfxGjr:fFpbvmwgdHHyv@xKajcxrifxHeq@jq?bbNLgjLtyC[oobnbkGyaMBj
uDjiksssaIOgp*ytftbyGguKSex=foppvwGsatFqd=llujgeNlsLCtr|fmofbfDsaHzex&k
AEfu}erJpISwm"nFancBrhmPuDw!uzmAbxwAtsOud:nqadqzFkbKCjw8flBpAyzpozthe+fnf
itbpijvgcRths+zDbev 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gW23 d!I1OENZ~PP7

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MQOGTF4gE2!HYnYUPPb+r1xHtvy^yFjqpxrmpKtim|iGtuktFg(sXnj'kDfpvewtqAuxi|fuo
ztfbYtJrtAIudQfNskplAuhsNmi!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^fBbtvnKhoLtys"kFigte?
JqtkfjJhuttnr!vxbppnFnaMBjd-uzh+vjJtawyAi-uBngpyrvgsMtq^ztjpie?gRNyxx*uzt
yGstqzFkjGAex&kljuuzwgpytjp^iFsqpnugexJtw*zl(bFnKjvLMns+fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
jqqqunLgbLtfr!gxmwunGuaMIex&kljuuzwgpytxx@tpbtfxr[a7yjh!lAsbcevpsxwys/E
urartjKlsOuym=tlqtqowjuLtnr!juhkvfDggHLrd@tpahqwrhdvyxw!zAavjjAy
juhkvnRlesznp^yl(bEJ`O"Lthe:gxpiwjrvgsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFjd:kJuubnFguAy
nGncpnLpfLt+drnmubetFzuBNzx^ylbbrztsjvuym=tljpbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeOvsExadQ
TqffbkGya5Wex=fpfcneOpuAtyl^foppejHAaHzes+/xjpgeHBcECxl*tsa)bQU_ts8jx>uDl
JqwgntHtfGNeS'ludgbewEqEIwm+mlujgeDpnBNxd=llNCTHrhtsuew:gzectirposNjv_y
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsr[a6ulr*zGegbtxguAyet/unmgoesuesNmi
tqffbkGyawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyQgjGttv%kDavqeEhjGNfm+fmofbxLvsx
kxfevwGujvtnr'uDncvnGua}t2s/qEiqreHhsMChm[gzuubyGgcxtAm^CqebcxrhaLNfv:ozh
vAjpve?gExPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBObzJnfwt+d?fEugreLvxtLid?S/t
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fzfvytJratwhi|yl(bCevlmBwfx^
gzebclGujSCsk!vAmkeDrxvxMym=tlgqte4Ja}tWi!ztfbkxKBfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
jqqqunLaa5Wey/mqebvtrpoBNne:klbbefLhmRNng!vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqe
xqtrqsKpcBFnx,f;aUwlyltMCtr|frptbhGvqxLfx*BqaxgsLBsxMe_!IAnogwupbE
vGcnkxzlsL.ej^gDtb)e~AstNjk*ilrwgxLppGMej=xlhgvyAuhsNmi!oybigesuesNjB:
vqprnjrApsNmm+qlujttMnisFtr"/FftoeuvpIywe:oAob)eUsbKCkm$gFjqpeGmaMBj
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzajkxrypEyee|fypfgwsApKttj!ztfbetFjmNxnr"fEfuunGu.s1NJaU4EbtfAzfwtyA=
wGfuvnGutsBjd#kxjgxjvgxHOqh!hqoghnLggKIrd%oEdwuxAvohte5SfMsgbyzlsxtjr=Asi
iAnoqsssjMCjw!gyppieLopLyes'fGtbvmsAaAuAi!hqfpbmwyfsztv!zIpbffQzaLIex&gF
Cqaecsrzfxths;xEfubtxgbvNns+fFicveKopNFid#klucmjFgjGtyl^frvvwwwcasUsh7fug
yA.bymsAatLjd:nqzbcsvgxAIeq*mtubvfClaMBjq9fl3_bUsyuESeh^xuwcvnNlayLtq
ztbv?etBusIgz*uGtnAeNlsRtie+mqsqwxrAps6Hd@yliquylgeHtDs;fEfgbfrypEyej=x
ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztsCsd@rxavjnKcas9kd$uGsug	rAixtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yE
nAmfuesgstNmi/fEqgenssaLNfx;yljpbfruvFvjv!uravjjKlaFuyx^xE.bdjuhvLyem:fut
tAubrjJjfBPjh!gEacbuDhzxLeA*ztacpewjpGIrm$fEucmjrposNmi_ lcwvesyfsNmi/k
xAmgueLobMtQG!imobrqsFaMBfx!imobjjDwatxAe+iqawueLvxtLid>nqsgbBwgbKyel^gpjpia

Jqtetntpoztmm_yqmhbfKgbGtzr*trptojvgpuMjv<kDaqheLofsNjg&tudcnnLpfLttj!ztf
rmtvbyOvawuDw7fSJHHT0Kawyyi$zqebvmJlfsxnj'kDfpvewtqAuxi|fuobvmwgXHLpw&uB;
7>argtHsfsQms!gDfbxjJFawyjt-EldqorAAuxxex=fFfzv.r9-sJjs[rqayjtrhsxtfp_uEu
vmtuktFhuxtff=AFakofyltitfr%f#-bcexlxsJjs[rqayjtrhsxtAi/EldqorAAuxxex=
CtbvbmswqxHxd:ulujgeFluPIwo|alaKpeGAixLeA=xpt?byzlaGyBd+kFxqtpAuh
jungpxAvomtyl^fmdegxKpcBFnx,fAgbvmwgqKIhi|ymcknnLF.sNmi!vAsvcgAsjMSes'
gxmbvmAzatwws|ylujgeFluPIwo|alaJqBrkpsQjd[AxmbvmGzfsNmv^kluqijLofKp

GpekplrhaJOjw:oAobvmsAaKykp^iFffbM7JLX')w!iAnogsLguAuyd:nutbyfKguAy
lAvtvmrDpKExl=vltjgezhesuyx^tpffbnFguAyet/kHjqwxrAiBLyC!jmzu?eXSF2!HLcG7FT
CAofgwwkaMIeA&gFagzywuusNmm|fyfgvnFnaAuid/kuoxgsLlesNmi!Ctfgn	rvssCkd*z
nmebetFAsBvzx^jlbpAyzpoztnr!ztfbyfQgpytgv*tsjpieLvhxNmi/fmafkkxlsxHyd"xAvr
urargtHsfszws_fFiqujrDiHtss/smmnAeswqxuwd=tlujgeOvsDMms[fojtezAA?

N1DMG4rjpGzjw|kpavqetljGAew:xGdmbfLguACxd_kqukplrhowtyl^fAogbyzl
KxfevwGujvtUm^xofbEtFzpKNny_fAsicsAGfwtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fFicveLojLtBe|fm
iAnkplrApzyyl^xlphbuwvqEyeA=xwjpieGuaMyCx|fmofbsGAaBGfk^ygabCyLlnINnr"fFp
hDjpieLofsNBs!zAhgvmwyaBMew=squjksygxxtty"nFavqetlaMBnr)ozhbcgGBusztv!ztf
lGuwtjgga1IBd=tqaecsrAiBHpd@hAvvbBGylBHld>oFibkrsnfsGfx^xubnbyGgcxAnr
Cuuj?etBusMyv;iFvtksygjMtfr%fpjikyAGjGAem:fuobuzuoattBe,fFicvesAattqe:kD
yFbigeAAavusd#kljpvjJwsxNjh!ozuqbywEumtfr%frjpfesgdHGrs+fIbAbtxgcNCqh*ts
zqyvbfFkaBGfk^yluqijLofKtxs!ztbvbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-EljpbyzlayOyy/kf
CuujbyzlaGyyA=xwauwuHvsMtys!hqhkpeLofKyef^imvugeLobMtnw!nAxbrjGwmxtBm-r
CmovbyGgbvwjw|fuu}

OzarnfFujGAex&klmqpl	AfKGeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd|uyfvjnFn.sQmm$nljubBzhusCx
hqjpievvoxtnr!kxfevwGujvtyi\zfaJQH3LZsMyv^yEffbyzlaBGus/zmoegeFvusIsp,
urafkxuBtLCsk!ztfbvjuooBwfp!gEqgeyKgpytms>fAogbiGltsCyd#AFarcwLpdNFfv-E
uravjnFrjGAee#uGubymsAaMBjd[kAqngeOopsOxi!ztfbuyMmgsQnp-fIbpveLvawI 
HGubetFCfKMjp, lujgwwgbKyer;sqsqwxrAiBHlw!ztbvbuwvqEyew:gDubvtrkpsQnx&
kxfevwGujvtyi\zlptbrsAfKCfp!ztbvbsGipwSei<kDavjtMniMttj!ozavjjrifzCsr*ts?

RQTM?eAuaKyxt=tEfbvtrAixtvy^yFjqpeuvovywr*tsavjjrypEyes'fFigbQAistLDd=l
IAoitjKz.sLjq@xwffbyzlaHzyi+fEviijKAfwtii|opftcyMtaHzel@BuoibjDldMLtr*i
jqqqunL?as!nr$klfxgwQAiBHld*yloqyeuvnIOyi//FzrgxwA.susd^tFjtgevldtxjd=l
smugtnssaMBfx!CmtbofuojGy]v^gpbdnjrlyBMyw7fnvvbyzlaIOgp*ytftuexyfJOjr:rK
juebptLgttPjd*zbajcxrSDsNfo^tlbpAesjuBIsd:ulicxjrpuLths[EDjijyrkfIIxm:
uBftcyAvosMye/zldqnqwjuBHld:nqtgbrsjiBHj[/kmecdqwgwxLxm=tE}bbNFguAy
gntgphwgpytUIoK4T?bL1MG8`Id/kBmkgirAitNex&klrwgxLppGtBe|fnfkpl
goukxjDFavIsw*jqsgfetBusNme:fFicveOhtsIsp,fAogbiAtfGMns+fAgbvmwgqKIgp^sg
GzpvjjJgeBGjr|oAobkxrAixtBl=rqaswjKAjHHes'fFigbnFAfzLnx,fAgbvmwgpKClm+gx
kxfevwGujvtis$Ayfpv rgJMtgi$uyfubmAniESem_vAsvcsLgjGtxg*kzdgbyGgqKIAi
gGujqwKojIoedcuIaykqDguAuyd#kleqpjn

K4XC1ewEqEunr^jlujcylgvGxjv!ztfbqqvgqHFng, luqbrsrfsueg-gunbhtJgb
iAqAtnyousztv!CAsmueLobMtBi/klqwdqAzixxem+fqmgeyJvoBwej=xy.bksusvwCsk
yAgvyfJl.sIsi!nmebvtrzvuGnx!glqcrjJgdHJDd=llujgexpsLNee+jlmcuyrAxxHyC
vmhgueGmavIiiT/Epogyzpoztyl@zlsgrwwzfGNjh!ztfbytJrauOyd%opapqyrpovFzh^
ztfbgsLpsxtBs/qljvujDmatHid&gpankyLsfsPfp;kluqbfFFpGy d!GEacbywtqHLfv,
sqbuwwwaa5Wel@yldncnElesNmi!xuhjveLvawyre+jlfnghLypGChd<kDtkqsKgpy
kxfevwGujvtuy#rudcvnGutnteX&oEaogfKBsxtjr:gumubfrwsHuhx*BqatqqwggHLex&k
RuctcwQguHtxe,fFicveAAaPusx|fmarcwLpdNFfv!kxfevwGujvtAi/yupp}erWvuFnw&kDt
ztfpbmsCfsJjv&gBtbceQlbKtys!yGcokyrpunteF;zlujgeJlbEtuv=hxfobkGya5Wem|
CtbvbyGgeHtBm:nlbnneLojLtre:kDjcneAuatFqd:nqtgbiAmgxLjr:frptofLz?st2m-r
ztfbNntybKSeq=Azubkynga1IBd>oxmbkyrnjOyet^uBmgbfujfLMex=fuu{beZvxsxti|fXD
qqfrbyJhdDttj!ztfbcuHypILne:kldqouMAfKM	d|uruycwwaatHid_kpjc{er1ixtxm:Amukqs
oEauqezhswtys!iAovttDaaX`2EtfEbkf	rAitNem:fybmgxrzfGMjd'uDagchzgqNvqm|nuoi
nAvugeLvaFunr:guobkyKgpPHee/itjxg rgCNNeP{fobpptLgfGztv$klujcyrljMBjv8

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirSF`5)w!yGhigxLppGtyl@zlfuvftsjLBnr"fmartnGyjMS
urggtjvguAyew=rGukqslgbEvjm:fmahcnJszswtq[rudcvjvgpGy d!HGubymGgntCsx@ozt
ztbvbwwnjLNjv9 ligbfKrfwoedbXMCGTeFvuxxex&gFaNEevvfLtfx:kyqvbyGgdHFqi$zlb
SmdkpyGzisPjv|oAobcsvguAyeM}S\dqousAjuFjd<kDtkqsrvgsMtj:Cmsg}erPusxti|
tAubetDsfvNes:nqsbxjJzjHHx	!fNvvbBzpmxtyv;klgqteKvgMQfv^ lC1TZ5gpuMjv<kp.
ztjubwwwmRtis^yloqveKwftEex=fybvgwAhmLnex&gFaku	rhmEtyl^fybvgwAhmLtyl@z
CqsgbuMimBMmi%fFicveOlsxttr!yAngdtvF"Ltrm$xAdqouMAfKttv!jDjxgwrAbIyx
gFacbuMimBMmm+mlphhnulatwws|ylujgeuvvGNwC8flMEbiGltsQjp-fFpbchIBjKy
yBfekkAjaFuhl*tq_tgfvhcEyet/upvevxrzfEyhx*BqmAbyzhusQjv^fuovgsvlesNtd#k
smdjksw|sxuie#rq?bbRsAfKCfp|fFicveOlsxtnr!smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgbMttr^fFjog	
H~SWOeKhjwneA=AxebdjrifRIsh!RO"ubhswbuCqm:ElbvbyzlaFIri+zfakpxGmbKtfw
gFugouLpoztys!gorwkwwaaHLle+oLf?bfFkaILjw^xHfbvmwtatLjd$uzdgtswk_ ush
vDfugwNhuBIsd>uGmfbgwguAyeq=yFakouGyutHyd$uztkfjJhuBIs	!fUobvmAz
iAopghLppGneKdLRPTFeJljMywe:kpavjjrufxxex=fIptmeGBusMtq^fEfpujrvg
jutvtntBuBPjd/kEqqpxAijECyC!lAsbceFBnuywd=llujgxwgjLMzi| lxjkhz
ozfxkysimRtBm-rlsgszAyfsMnk+orjecsLgdHIui/gFjqpesuesxnw$AEtkqsm
TAcqfDrjbGtis!oFacnqm

RQTMbxMnhxMyi%fFicveKvnxtuy#rutjgwKgntSep=uwaykyzggtPtv!uzaNEetlhBHsm+m
zAaugwNlatMee!jqqqunLvsRttj!zmqgueAuatHei-koutqsAjaFusy|iDjrveKAbGxfv%a
VGcnkxzlsLtre,fHjgyeLojLtfw!gltgtAAjfsNme:fFigAevpesHtx!nmwgbyGgqxLks/s
gzebvmwFaFCll:fEfpfeAuaMuui|alaJqBwCfKneWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifopwpywyfwn
gxujqzyoaIOgp*ytftuezhwxtme%fqrwkAssfGNew^xHjegxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofFtks/fm
rAoibyAtfmtyl^fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFacthzpwxtme|fzfxgwrAvKHjh!gIbAbtJgcxys
lxpqfjvgxBNmd:gBfubfFkaBMej=xqwgteKlowCsk!lqffdfuraMIex&klegrtKpuHL 
YAngbuMimBMmi/yleqbxwuesCsd:gBfu}

GZETGeNpfPyid:nutbfnKjvLMns+fmtbcsrhmEOxm=tluqbyzlaBMxy^fAgbuysuetLiw8
YtfbtjuvnFysh^jlujcyrAixtFEkfEucpisyesush!ztfbVJ1aaPBng&ftbubfDyftxDd#kqo
yAngymsAaAuwq=tuAgfeAuuxLse:oAocnqQgbGxeA&ooibcqKvaLBfv^yltgxjJhm
iAnrcyAijECym^ylxkvmrAixtFEk lcgbmsynHHnD^jluqbjFzvKyew;lrjekjFA
iAnrcyAijECyC!ozavjjrzpyNBe/kgabUmwgeKyBd:nqankswgbMtxe,ozhbNHrvvzByd:u
hqavjjrspvOxd=xlgqtzEggHLew;itajcwEvoBTfx*uz?

ZmlkplrAixtlv=ABakpesgtECll:rKafkkxlsxHyd%oDfevnGu.svzx!uzfbymwyfsuy
rqbuveAuaMBjd+kmsbvjJta5Weq*mtubrqsFattmi-vrvnbwGsfmtQ3iITatgrsylxxex&k
vxbpueGmattsy_hqsbqkrwsHDjg:yluqbhsysRtty:fBsgujJCbMCtr!hKaetjsAjGA
juhkvfDgjFuli|fFicveOpmEtjr%fGqbksrvo Fnr^fAsbpjsy_ECsi!yFptclwgbMtxs_k
oztvkyMAjHH d!f2sguzEhcES	dgIlxknqrsjGEex&oEaocywyjtFew=sqiqyeLvaBNx
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mljpbrGzuswfw^ygabVmMz.sCyd*yljpbfrkjzCye-frpto rgM^8HL!nme
ztfbkrHyfLMns+fFicveEhoRttj!ztfugeAutMCyy:oAoubBGBmwtgi!CumnksyguHtre)k
ztpugexpmxMee$iqtukgDlaMIes:nqsbrjGwmxtty:yuegbyzlaBHxx*zGukqslgqKIAm%kp
ztbvbyzlsxtnw!tAaequQyjzByd[xAcngrmga!Bnw!jqtkfjJhuNGeA*rxatgvMpsx
vDprclsAjGAex&kllpqBDlezyex&gFavjtKlawClm:oLffbkAsfLtjB*yF.butrAitNex&kK
imobgsvgvItnr!uFigteGu_ECsi!imucntyz?stFp:nAvijeMudxLye*tlbdqzLguAy
sqdjcsAznsztv!goikgAAuhsNmm|fDfuwqLaa5'SGcfEbkfeLobMtnx!CmstcsLle
yoswvnFFauyhe;yqakveKlfFyid:ulcgbhGuoxwyi%fFpbutElaHzex&klccunugjLMzi|fAg
imucntypoztfr%fpjuvwAivMCtr!uratghGyeLoeddzlxqwqvgcxtej=uxjuj	rnjOysd:nq
gypwpyrvgsQtv)fFicvessmsIkd;ylicxjrApsxtd@tpaqwwrtftAjv!xqtqwwultmtys
juteqAwyaFOqx*vxfbksKAjMOym=tEafklAAjSCsk!ztfbufElaPIwo8flSgbrAjsHztv_yf
R~OEJeKhjwneA^fmsgbnFgqKyyx,fspqfeKobIy 

HMUVKSrjbEFjh!ztjubfrijztuv=hxfobfFkaGIyi%fFicveLofsWtv+kxmbrjGwmxt=A&u
nmebcqJlbwSeh^vmsvgi{gxxLjd>uDlkplrvosCy	!fMubkxKBfszws_fFigbgwnjGHnr"
CmtbvtrsftLsd&uIavqeuhutFtk!ztbvbnFmpKGfx*uzakpyGgS53Sd@tpavjjFgjGNt
UOME?eKvaMBfx!oFayqzDkauyee$iqtukgDl?stYl@zljuuzwgsxGfm+yluqbgwgsxMtp<kp?
R~OEJeJlkHCsi%fFicveHBuMCsk!oFakpyGgPV6Hd=xlSNKSrDbLtmi-vrvnbnFzpyuwd@y
yAngdtvFaPBtd*ylujksCpozttj!vqshqwEpoztuv^yqsxcyAvosuhx*BuuAbtFguAuyd>uDl
iAvnfeDlbKHee#uGubkymga2Nem|fzpvbswjfLMfv*rKajgqHmvEtks/fuouvnLBuBIsw!zA
smlgbyzhusuAe*rmcng rgCT@YMifAqkpjvguAuyd:nqakfjsgxtMex&gFakveFvusIsp,fnf
lAsbrwwzfKPfx*uzarwwHvtxMef;zlgqteLofswtr<kzjgphwgpytui=vxfbntGrjGAej=x
ztjubrsAfKCfp8flTjgewueHLxi%fXZPEM\zawChx;slujcyrkvIFng@zuppbtxguACx
krgqtyrDbLtys!hqacxtAkfwtgC!kHftAeElbGM 

N1DMG4rpoyIwq^jlujge#vsDMms[fmcqwyrvoxtre(uDaewwJloMtfg:oHjvAeGmaVYYL7
tmngnDrhavuye-usvgbtxgntwmm+k\sgcisimxtyi\zEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxmga1yqh!uz
XXJPbfLgqKyxi+zfavjjrjbMuqs"AqajcxrifxHeg=tofpvwsAfwttr!G5DKKeszaHJus|kp
zAafklAAjSyid*smhgueGmaMyCx8flTjgeAzaxRup=xuoibBsFtsNtd*sBsqxjrAix
imucntyBfsush!smlgbnLgnHLjd>opfnAesCbBFff-kfacpirDfEwtq^jltwilwzuBIsw
gnpwveLofLyeg=toftpxmgaVYYL!uIoubyzlaKyhs/jE.bymAjisuwi!tAublzKA
xqtvtnuAfwtys!XXJP?esueswfr!jutvtntBuxtyl^sliqyjNlssCyd>oEigu 

ZmlkplrBqs6JWf-EagcwDpfKtvy^yFjqp	rIB!@NR!ozrwkwwkaPBjx&kDaNE	rzjGwjd*z
oEacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpdsznp^ylbpfevltBAsm+mlbbojuobGCxq!lAsbfjssjGAeA*zt
ztbvbwsAixLex&gzarwyLpoztgs=qEaqpeKofEPjw7fIpwnirifvIri!xqtrqsKpcEyej=x
ztfbPfLppGuqd{uBztklzAaWyus|oFptAeGmaXFjg:xAokee5huxLne-ygabQkrjpNLxi
ztbvbhGBmwtss:fnfbchuvnIFnw&kpaqxjJujzBy{!hGubkyrDpNFid#kltqojLojGAeP{
iAvnfeHsbGtks/alaIKKXVSWtfg)tAxngiylesNme:fyvejeLopNAmx!CmtbdjAuhsxjz=zqe
zAavjfLgtxNes'fBsqdqwttsush!xquwtswkaMBjd%oEdwuxAvosNtd:nqakuxMlaKunw^j
hKaN1SUO_ Qmi:nqsbqwrupMtuy:zuoibyzlaDCsh!uratghGyeLtyl@zlcqvmrIB!@NR!gze
N1DMG4robOyef^kzavcqCpoztff=AFakpe0SJ7tnw!tAubceKhuBMke$zAsAbxGsvMCtr8
OFaugjElesNtd&oyavjfLgS53Sd@tExgtjvgM^8HLNylptklAubEtus*tFaeqsulsGCsk
yAngbpAuesIkd%oDfevtJFayIwd:nqtgbpAueLttj!smugtnsstnteM+fmaukyMhuBIs
CtftgeKvnxvth,futbcyLlnINnr"fFpbfjupextBl^ztftbtJgoHNex=fEdcpeLojLttv
lumobyzhusIwd:ulmgcwFgxAyyl^xlptbsGAaLIri=tqajcxrhmKyfh,fpppgeKv.s64R{N
yGhigxLlemtWPdTljubmwsqyOq{!hGubkyrptsHtx!nqmrhzDgjGtyl^fobugeGmattqs$gx.
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mGf}beXBsMBjv7fAogbBGBmwtqm)kluqbmsCfsBjv!uDajkxrzzLNjq!hq
gIbtgeLobMtyl@zlfzkxLzaBHeh*muucnexvsFnew=fFicveGufswfr!vDfugsLgjMtys!g
vmutqslgfOysd:nAvijeGufsxnh!tAubfnypuBTjd*zfakheAAaBMes;zlphbhGwzKCll:a
ZtfbqsDFaPuDd:ulncmjrAiHMjd-ozlcijKgxHOqh!hqavqeHlsyIwq!glutgrwueHOx
gypwpyrvgsLje-/FjogeDvpDazt7fIikemrDpNFid#klbymBsyesuyd#kEu?btJ
vqskqiAjbEFDd:ulzcpprAixtBl=rqahkqwggKIrdmRUObcsvgntNhl!oFacifAutMttr^-E
uIobuyMmgmtBl*itakuesgoNCxe+iq?

HGubymwyfmtJVrG~akpvMpsxx	d%uqtbqswgtMIud*tomwfnFnaMBnr"ylujcyrhsx
gHbknftsfsQnx&fUovgwFlumtks/fuouvfFjfmtnr!uzf&ueDvdtFeg@zmmqizwc
OFacnrGzusMji_ylujcyrAitNem|fXD&ueElbGMex=fmdswnJlatwhi|yluqbyzlnn
ZtbvbwwwsxMjr:ylME&xrufPtks/slphbqAistLDd-umo}be8lsAuuw!RO"ubswDaHH]p*tq
imucntyBfsCxd@tlbocqyhntNns+fAgbcqDguAyxi!imucntyBfLttr!ruog}erSZ7WM
iAoegiwkaMBfx!vqsjcuKguAuyd>gEavtzwgjGtyl^fHftAeDvoztyi/sfadwyrDbLtss:
gBqnkhsimxtys!yobppnFnaBHex&kltjqwLguxLr	!fUobjnKgwByB{!ztfbvtLhmLthm:kp
hKa1cqwaa"]	@E$lcqqpKgpOywd[kDicrxrhayIzvTEqbtbuwyjHx	d@tpa3?#=%_"n0@E
hApmuexypFtHs/tqmn?eOlsxtss:fnjibsMtcxLx{!CtjngeKlbKwmm+mlbnneGCfK
iDfcvnGuayIwd/kxbvkAwszsLfv^fAdewwJlovyxd>oxmbrwGCfsNtd#klmguxrlgyChm^tF?
GEaIKKXVSWtBs+jqsgfeAmaMBnw!CAvnfeFvusvjd@fEfrcwsimxtkm-klppbW4POsush
iAvnfetlaKyvy^yFffbkJvnsNmi_ lCCVY1UaBHyi/pqdvgirAitNem:fIbubjszjES
godguxAimxtys!gzakpxLpuNNns+alaUG1WYU`9Sd[uuovgirvvMtyl@zlujcyrmjEy	d$Ay
kzicphwtfGNx{!CmtbcAspmtvqi!CuujbwwmfKysg^fuohqwEhuBIsd=tlDF+W7T.sQmm$n
smlgueAAattqm:zxfbotJlatPfm-gnmg}

OzaJQH3LZ,Mez*kI.bvmwgsxuqd]AqtvktFggtwnr"fFigb2GylLBtt!oEayjfLguHtuy:fuo
ztjubhsAbEIly^ lcgefMzfsNme:fDbkujKguAyeu;kEukqsrvgsQme:foppuyAAvMyxd@
vGcnkhsAjHHem+fFigbjDldMLtr*ilxqtqvbas	2IdHQMbksLlsCyhx^jlujcyrLsBweN=Axf
ozaQEQU_ts9kj*iqaqhe0ltxuwg&futbcqKvaPLjw:ruoibBAAisNmm|fBbtvnuBmtL
vDpdnjEaaPBnp^fSJHHT0KaMBty"nFakveKvvGxjh!lmjtnDrnfGywm$a>abJTURF^
iAovgsvlesNme:fmaocoGyjMSes'fFfzvxrposNmi!nGncpnLpfLtfv^fuobvmwgitHiw
uragkyzlssuew_gxmbpzEifKttj!rmsigeJltxuwg&fuouvnLBuBIsw!uDakpiACjwOfp|
gzebcwwgoHNek^tqscnqQgbOunp@hxfbhtJgbGStr^fqmugeLvatwhi|ylbvbfDs?
YtfbytFkfKyid*llujgxwguxRyw!uGhjveLvauyeg@zmmqizwk?

GrugtesyhNGjr:fBsqejwkfwtge$qlbpfexvsMBej=xltgxjJhmsGnr;zqtbqAwyaPBD
imucntyBjGAeq*mtubdjrhaGyhi|ymsAbxwywBwj{!RQCTQSrzvzAjw:kpavjfLguACx
oEtwgeAuwHFAi%fFigbwwzqHHxm#oxjvAeGmattuy#rutjgwmga!Bjd'goubvmsAaLIri=tq
nmtbewwhuxxew=squjksygfEyhx/uzjecqDFatHid)kqqubnLgvGxjv!nutbqwrofK
iAovttDgeHyxd+uFaeqsKAjMOyi!vGcnkhsAjHH d!VGcnkhsAjHHem_vxjgu
jutugrAubMCtr8flXjkqwgjMtBs;rpadgeAtqHLye+zlgqtesgtvBtp@xluqbqwAaHNmi/
vqprnjrroHQex&gFavjnKgdKyfx*uzagznKAtmtnr!smoAbwwzqxwyw!ztjubnKgoH
jughgwwuuszws_fmobwsHBcECxl^jlncpzKjsBJy	!f6icveAzaPBfx!oEadgnFnatwhi|yqe
ozavjjJl.syCg^vFavjfLgoHQes+kljubsGAaEIto*tsacveAAaBHex&klicti	jpISef;z
ozavjjrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zg

RQCTQSrlyILjw|kparwERsfFysx!gFavjjrCbKCjx,fAgbyfQzaxFjg:xAokeeHBcECxl*ts
nmtbdjwuaOCjA^jgabOzuoaHzeA&gFajcxrifxHeh*yovuujvguALty"nAvvbyzltxtyA=
jmzubmszavIsg^xzffbHV|S87et;hxjujnFn.sQmi/kmtbksrAixttrTruogbjFCjKIsq^tF
ztbvbxzlavIsj/uzuu?eLofswtr|zDbkpyKgbGxeg&gxmgplwzatLjd<kDzbfnxmfKysx8
YAppgwrvssFfx^xlMEbBAsmsBfz^fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbetFjfINes'fAo+nnFl
vGcnkxzpozoedogwjpieMwaMBjd$uyngpyrLS$U4d_gpfbgfJsjxLee#uGubuyGyjGA
iAqkgxlgMXVWSifsbxgezlssIBr!pAvtpfDgbLtfr!kJborqwbas2tA!CAvnfeKofsxjt=yuu
UVDEVexvsswtt,xuhjvalgtAyee|qqe?bgwjbNMjd:nqalqzJubEtBm-rlfzkxLgjGtyl^
smjphwstfsuydjIXDbcsvgqxIup^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAacehwztsCy	!fTftgeLof
yuuwcyAvosCxd%orggtjFA.sIBr^xEikreNlsLOxd@iofuu	rhowtnw!yAngvmAuhsNme:
gDjugxrDjMBet;hxjecyAvosCsd:nqaqp]Dpoxtjr<oDppojFA.szfw:kDavjfFgjL
yAngvnEltsLje-oLff}erSbvEnr"fomgcwrhoLQjv|fFpbcqDgpytyl^yqaswjKAjHHx
nqsugqxaa5YGVjTlekfeFvususx*iuqcvjrAitNeP{fIpwnirifsugp^fFpbvfClattws-k
ozajgqHpoztys!jqgkpjrzpFyes'fFigoexvssKzm:klbbymAsfn

M4FGPK1LMWttf|kDwgfeLobMtQGNylOgvBGylsXjz^rAqogsLgPyzng^futbcyLlnINnr" 
gyppieGAixLex&ozhu?eLvaxRup=xqavjjrsjFCyw!uraOCWUgbLtfd|zmofcwvgjGtyi/sE
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFesstHtss:kpavjfLgSxvjg$g
M7FPVMWYayLtq!ztbvbtxmjvyek@BqacbuswfKtys!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrmpK
OzgqtrsAjHHeW$oqoege}HT2![d|AynctnRpoztxi<kDbnbtxguAyeh*yovuunGuaIuui/y
ztbvbBwyfswtq*tsaqwyrvgsNmi!TquyqwCgExPjp=vyfpve7mgBwj	!fSSGGSXPF5Xew@op
nqawpiwytMIth!ztbvbyzhusIkj*iqajcirhaECxxTyqsxgwrzpEChm:ozhblzKAaMBjd)oze
urahgjvibvEev^iqjxgirApwuDd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!jughkhMsuByxd=lljfgsLpgRCsk!gze
imucntyBjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFezvqxxex&gFagxjJFcHxD
CAvnfetlatQfv^fAgbvmsAatHid|uyfjqBrjpGNwm#AFfbvtrAitNeg=tHftufLppGo

TAukplrAxHttj!RO"ubwGsfLnej*xEu?byGgbvNee|fmatguGzjMIwC!uratghGyesztv
smugtnssaMBfx!oEaequQyjzByi%fuobvmAzavIzr:xK.bcsvgtxwtr% luqbrsrf
smugtnsstsCyd&uxeubfNhjEugp^fuobutElaECrm:kpahqwEguHtfd$rufpvjDlaMBfx
mAfubgwFpGxeG=tssguxlgCX!XImfEviijKAfwtyl@zljvbBszaBHhy_hqovbtFgMVtys
kJugpirAiHMjd/kEqqpxAijECym^yluqbfDsaMBjd:nuoiuetljGAet;hxjujjvgjG
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabVmAzaPIzp%fyfcpewCfGNze-rKacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpd
lAsocyKbas6Hd$uGmfbwwxvBLjd:nmubcyrzpFyet=ozubvmwFauyem+fmaegwLhjG
runkvjvgtxNes'frptofLz.sush!ztfpbiwCfEIud_koicpnKttsztv!gxmqynFnaIytt-k
zAacehwztsNms|kljpbyzlaLuri!CmzbvmsAaHNmi/fFikplKgbKyee$iqtugimga!Bnw
jAfubsGAaBGup,fFicveLofRtfv^fAobvmwgoxNBs/qlbpfesCbBFff-kluqbjNlsRIsi8
ROafqjKguAuyd>oFibotKAaHzem:ylckdqAvhKuul*ilsgetJktmtGInYQSbufAk.sQmm$n
kzebwurtjzLfx*tsavqeLofsOym-oFzb-jmn?mtTGgI>aqteKvnxQmi/klfnujmgaUOyd(AEu
gEaoqxLgpytQGNylcqqpKgbKyee<gumcdqwgjGtxs_klgqtrrAiKIzk&fuovgwDpcKuwC
rAbpbtJgtHGjd=ztftbrwjitHnw_ ltqbnFguAyew@sqaycDrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMMes;mtu
zAadgesCbBFff-kluqbtLofKMem+fEpogexvsFuy{!ztpwimrDjMBew=sqaequQyjzBy
iAoukiwybMCtr|alaDGX~LSsQfw!tAubuzynfLNnr"fFicveLofLyeq^itbpkxEzauy
kEucdqAzixxex=sAstqBlgpGFDd:nmubvmwFaLyjq^jluqbkssmsQnx&ozaNE)KgqNLAm^Cf
gzebvmsAaMBjv^fEiqwqvgcxtqs+m\scplwgqEusw!zAaguysimBMmd:nqn}

GolpqBDlezCsk!ztbvbyzvtxtkv=slMEbnFguAyev=uyaciwwlesQnx&fNFUUJ0
iAoegwFpoztyl^fzfgfeLvavIsj/uzubfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGutmtLMaL1SFbzFkfKMhs/kp
ztfbofyujMOii!uravjjrwsHvqi_fAgbymsAaMIeo^kBacpirDitNex=fEfnghLbas1NJaU4E
tAugfeLobMtQG!iGstgsLszsLjg^oHfubxGtfs(6{E$*akvjEzaIywd%gK.bptLgdHOsx*ts
kxfevwGujvtre:kDjcnxlgbGxee/mGffbkGyaFOhl!sAsgbiAzuKCgy:kpatgxHvoLCgm-oFz
ozaqtiwyaMIeq@ozucksrhowtxx=xqagnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHH 

HQTUGWryfLJtr%kpavjfLguAyee|yqndnjvghKIzt!iAvnfetlaOCjA^jlbubfrzutLym+m
vAjpv	rDiHMjd*tuukcqrvqxLfx*tsartjEptxths;rpadgezlmICsk!zAaoqAwgjGtyl*y
jusgeyAvosush!jqgkpnFnaAIBdgIldqwqvgeHtxs7frptbjPhnIFj{!ozactjszaHz
yFbpffJkjSuym=tlptbiAzuKCgy:oAobqkryfLJtr|onjnkyQb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@jpffbyzhusURd>gEahwqDFaxHle"kp.bywwzuECsk!CuujbxGtfsIkd:nq
wGfuvnGutsNme:fBftvfAuaMIex&kldqpAwytBIsd=llpnfjJgiBMys/oobnbrsAfKCfp| 
CtjejeOvvExef^fAogbyzpoztyl@zlujge4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMeq*mtubftmga`yAi/gx
vAjpvxrtfGNns+kpadAeTLT`YWd@tpaugAwybEttx&kDtbqsrAiBMeu;kEukqsrobOyee
sGdjblJlbMywd*sBbeveGuaMBtw^fIiqbfJlavIsg^xzffbBAAiswfx@rAhwksygbGxex&k
tquyqwCpozttj!hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d@ylxgnqrhtsJwi|kDwcvnGuaBNxi-lg

YBfcmnFnawCwi$zxzbvtrHNmtBl*itajgeuvoLCii/kpaycxrhaEuwk^rKawphGwzKCll:kp
jmucdfKl.s64R{NlvtijvgexPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBO?eGy
iAoukiwybMCtr!uraocpAuhsNmi!jmucbnFgjMtfz@oxbdnjrApsJjs[rqakpywyfLNjh!oz
jAjpieFluPIwo!sGmvkrwkjtoedjtlbeetMuusIkd:nqaewwJloMtlv^gFaujtJAbzyes'
juhkvfDgetNfd:nmubkxripMBee[vqbnksygbGxey+kzdwogwyfwtgC!iAnrnjPgsBAmx|
vDpdnjEz.sNmm|fopwtxwgpytfg:oAobetMsesBfz^fmauklFpgBwfr:fqghghLgpGtre)ozh
tquyqwCgnNFym_kpjcbfryftFnx,a

OzavjnKgdHHsi$zupp?eXSF2!HLcG7FTbwwwpKNjh!uzacbkJhhFysx@xKarttLvuRJjd*t
RO"ubTxmjvyes'fUohqwEhuBIsdokoipqqGnzs!jv<oofubyzhusuyx^sBuubyGgbLMtg*gFf
juhkvfDgjFuli|fAgbrmGApzLft&ylxkvmrjbMuqs"AuoibnFmpKGfx*uzakpeOhzLtyl@z
CAsmbBAAiBHee!rAdcnesyfttsi:CAsm+]sgtMyu{!yAavqeKhzmtys>gDebCR\z
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fmdegxKbasZzv:nqs?bF5gitM
gFugouLlesNtd;yqauvfFkbKxeh@zmahqwEzaBHes/jqsbvtrofEJeq@qqavjfL
jutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsuhg^yEavqtDzatHid:nqawpiwymRCsk!jmuc?esuesNmy|
hqmkgAwzaMBfx!ztfbffLhctMjd*ylogvBGyltvqi8

Glegnnuhuxtfr%fmhqpnRpoztus-oozbszwzuBIsd'uDaNE	ropPyAi/ lxjkhzgdHGjw
hmdmbyGgsxMty/iqtbcsvgvGztv:AzbvgqQgitMee+funrchLgpGtyl*yfakueLvayCsh
yAngbfHwsHJwm@zq.bjtFvstvqi7fmofbqwnbEths|z\sgetNlsRtus|yucknnLpfLoed?
iqsvcnFgtDCyx*ytoguxrjpGwjv+ozhbetKA_Kyhs<kDzbjfKgntxjd[kAqngeMutNLj
kJbevqQgxAuyd:uleq}erHNsQty-jlcgbmAniESev^iqqvkAwguHtim|iGtuksyggNLyl^x
R~OEJ)Kgpyzjv!zAavgxLgpKtii_uztvtfLlaBNxd%gFbdcxwgjGtfd+kFxqtp
kzwkttFtfGN	daRQJUEMZHVX`ew@op?

XquwtsAuhsNmi!jutewxKppGtys!CtbvbxzlaOCjA^jlbubyzlaOCye-futuwjrvg
kxfevwGujvtii[uEjv?eTHU!3Sd/kopoojFkfwtyl@zlMEbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBw
vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqebtjKwpGMnf*ruuA?eLobMtnw7fnskplrApzyyl^x
ztfbfnKAsBvzx^jlptifFpAtNns+ylbpfeKlusOud@fEuwfDrnsHOud:ulmqqprhusuqp
ztfugeAztNyxd@tpaugjrDixLjd>klbubfrubMCtr!ytpwnirtpOy d!ZtfbdwGhexL
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!CqafgfDgxBNmd:nqaocssnfFysx!uragnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHHeA*rx
tAubfnKhqIyfv7fnvvbtFszsAws>fIptujm

RQTMbyGvlsOud:nutbvmwtfsush!yGhigxLlesNme:fXDbcyLlnINex=fBftuzskfsIsi
smkqteDpcKuwC!ozagchzgtMuyi!zAafgfDgxBNmd*zEauvfLlaxKzm<gxfpveHBcECxl^xf
CtjejeEphANet/upvegesgdHIui/gFjxgeHypCyhx!ztbvbBGBmwtgi!kCvkvftsz
jutvtntBuxxee/uGofbyzlavIzr:xK.bcsvgpGyem+fIikemrSDsQty-jlcgbiwhmBHld>oFi
glnkpnEhmsHzq#kDaqheHBcECxl^xEacpirtjGCre-foprAwAniMtuv=hxfou 

M4BDGWryfFuwo^jlujgeJldxHyd%kHfnquEloMtnr!ztfbuhAloMCkm$fopoozFpuRttj!g
CumnksyufLMex=fGtgbXYTMsush!kuujgwrkfIIxm:fAsbksLlsvBfr"klppbfrmbBLqC
yFbpffJkjSyid'uDncv rgIxtBs+jqsgfeAmattxm_oxbtbrGCfFysx!CmtbvfCpoztup@iq
ozavjjrovFusm:oqt}beSsuAIzk&fFigbSsAjHHfp!RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexvvGxes+rK
glggyeHBcECxl^xEavqeuvpIywe:kljpbfrsjDyez^tFvtgeLDpsIwd:nDfgbDwhsLtfk= lb
tqxbgkxvsMtrm"nFaigswybMyee!sGdjbqsyhxLer;snftbBAsmBHld:uldqquwybMy 

QUNDCQ4gsxwty+zqebjnKgvGCy(|f<NcemAuf `je%gnmgbHGsmxwym=tEaTgfvpoztWs=s>
zDpwdqwzaPCyl!ztfbetEtfKwne-fBvdnnKofKMes'fqmgeyJvoBweq^jubbksrhdJOnv*ts
smugtnsstsztv!RO"ubhGsmxwym=tE.bksrwbKNng;rmsbvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&exlbKtyl@z
ztfAbBGBmwtss:fnfbcgDlaMIeg=Bqsbvmwpsswtw:ylbpfeOvvExep=yqaeqsLypEttj
ztfkteHypwOhx| lujcyrSDsQty-jlhkxjrAixGee>gKaqteKlmEtyl^slbpfeEhlx
vDphkyKggKIrd:nqn}beZlawIzf:kpavjfLguAyet;hxjujnFnaBHiy|zDzbyfKgqKyue/kp
zAaoqAwgjGNtd:nutbcwwhatNex&klnqojFA.sAnz^tljvueJltBMye+iqavqessmHQnr"fXD
zAawujrpuLtre$nuog+wwhetvqi!smugtnsstsuxd:nqaNkgJhsRtBs;rpankpwb

ZtfbetHFsBAmx!rmxbptOgbwxwi|yqtbetEwbvNeh*ywacuesgnxxny_ lbpfe4Javus
xqrwgxLgpGyeg=vKaqheLobMnes/fFxqbhGwjxMem'fuubkxrAixttr-ElwgtxAvomtfr%
imobtjIBfLNeg=vufubtxgtHzyA@xq.bdzLguAuyd'gumubyGgbwxwi|ylncifRpoxMes/
hApmueGyatHDx&ozhbnnClaMBfx!CtjejeAzaBHeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^frpto 

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirAixtyl=xzzbpfLBsxttj!ztjubnKzvxneA&ooibjjrpmEOxx/gFff
CuujbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofswzq#kDtqojrwsHwjw|fuoxqqNlesCsd[AFukplrhavIuC!urac
yojgpyAmjvtie:gnbugeGuattQEifuobNH\zaLwni+iqatgfvpoztws=sgabJjrhmLI
golpqBDlezyid:nmubNHrufxxxd&kxqbcsvgdHOqh!kzmkuyrAixtjr^xsjguesuesNfp^tFt
uraYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtnr!ztjpmnFnaMBws;mtacbsMtcxLes'fFigujrwsHvqi_yg

MUGHQWVgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAobvtrnfMNnr"fFigbnEhhxtfr%fFfzveHlpIFjd:u
ztjpmeLosHOll!zAhgvmwyaPBjv^fFigAeOhoMtys!mAakpeLofsFtr"fFfto rgN^6TR?Y
iAoegiwkaMBfx!nqsbgCHlsBysg^fmubvmwgQBywg^f5zortKpvFtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fmu
MqptijLvxGtZr*BqsukyQgbGxex&oEaygjCgbMtQG!nmebhtJjfwtmi/fFpbtjwCbEOfx^
nqsbrjJzqxwym<klppbyzlaNMjj;rzfuueGmaMyCx!gEakofyltnteQtR1OCUexybFyid:nq
oEtwgxrposuew^xufubtxgrNyxx*uzt<beZvxsxtd>klbeszAyfsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFj
zqyv{erKpsQjd:gwfbrnuAvKyxd=lljvbfFkaIywj=xyaQEWrvosCyd-gFft{erPtsCy
oyqqtysuusNtd=hFbkpeNlsRtmm"n\rwcqAAzsCre"kEacpirAfQN	d^zo?{
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@mDfgfeOpuAtR3gUZBU&xrmstGnr"fAgbuyJhuxAng!wGfuvnGutmtfh%ozh
ztbvbfrsbKAjd*tEukvzLppGtxy$nlbubQUgqKIge#rKajcxrApsxtd@rxaqheLopLy
ztjpixrhusxnj'kDfpveLpnxM d!Ztvu?eLofsNwm$qljubyGgfQywg*yqalwiytfGN d!Ztf
3AsmumGwaAuid@jpffbyGgiBMee+jlBO&xrjpGMnh^xmukqsKgjGtre)ozhbvmGzf
pGeiojFAtnteG=toftpnFnayOyy/klnggyAuhLttv!jutewxKppGM	dh5XPPCXrzvzAjw:kp
ztbvbxuyfxHnr"fBskqwAAjxMeA=AxebdjrofEJky-a

3QJDGQrvqBHjh!ztbvbyzlawCAi/yuuAbwwmmxwyi%fuobvmAzazLty[fIbubfrzjzHef=zt
uravjjroftFyl!gzebqkrAixtnq_gFvtkyQgpytyl^frjgnilgbGxeq=xqavkrwgxHOqh
nmwgbyGgqtMxd#krptgeOlavIsz*tofbqswgbGIyl^xldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz?

Gzagzhzhozyef^zIfgpe56M88FW!gzebDF`1J7thp@xugkgirAixtus*tFavjfLguAy
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxd>gE
ztfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqheCupPFjh"klgqteLofszzx;xq.bptLgtBGup,frptbusyuBwzp@x
xqtgcwuoaNMj	!fUobvmwgdtMjd=llQgtxwBtmtR3gUZBUbxspemtyl^fmtuwrHAjHHeA@y
ztbvbyzlaMyCx|fIpwnirupMtgi!kzugtjvgbzunr!ozuqbjDldMLtr*immnAeJlbwugp^
lAso}erZQX`GImM\NeSZWLOsuih^jlujcyrhaLwfr+kpakofylaPIzp%fzpvbxwywxtfw!gz
gDdjkAssavIuC!lAsbrzJwpLyxd=llqtgxwywtNns+fuobvmwgdtMjd=lfaucDlguAyeF*rx
uraTklzAtmtnr!ztfbujFzfsNme:fFigbxuhoGyid*smhguesyfsykj^iFjxgqQguAy
gDdjkAssavIum^ylgqteLofsWtv+kxmbofLofFuym$ylcqqpKb


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasteE[vqofkCrP;stUVjM4BO



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabYT0RT19U
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberVO
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaGNJU1S88NG
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe`LY!!



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!f&_3`e2Boxt6!D8

flabbergasted!flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!3mtjksyApGneH8Ig



flabUzHwpKNjh!hKacbLJhoMtkv=slujgeVhwBxee+jlMwenDla9uho@xpaHqzFkbMCtr


ZGfuffQaa=tOy+kl2~~7

TMUKQSSSaWYRSiY6SCVN7Ua5UG{!G6SKWRlgM2VWEm5lNCFN~VO

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl7fDfikxLybMCtr

#a~`bF5gas%jp$uyf

flabbergas0ws|yqsbInxmpKx	d	oDfevtJggHLeW$nAmctqQgQKIlv@sE.bcsvgDtLq
flabbergastedarqjuemzhvxL	d{uAsfkssApKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7fXjdtfJFaHz
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK

#am7bF5gas!jw|oAobK rgDHHyi+zljpbfrUfPtKs/saabYmGgXBFqdpyqaKvesues%me:
flabbergas%np-f6igAeVv}

flabbergasVws@jleguhJpqMCtr!uravjjrybGAjd=llfnghLypGChd*trptofLppGo
flabbergasWme/gougtnRhuBIsd=llxjqeMzfLtnx!gzebjtOgjMtnw!uDaocDrifsOxi%a
flabbergas3sd@jpjvktFguHtfd-uAlbcyrzdAIqe/rKawujKaaMBnw!yqtuktFgxBFq
flabbergasCsg-ApfbceHyfLysx@zuppbtFgvLyef,fEuwfjFAts	P[v8lbpfeuvmEyliS
flabbergasush!ztfbijFlstFet;hxje}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtGjw!JmmA
flabbergasUAv@fYjejjDzpGneE/itjxcqrYfLyfv$nlbpfeWCbEOfx*uzaUvfxm.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgBKwmm<kEacpirYfvIwh|fMeoksAzuKuym=tl)QxjJCjxQ[
flabbergas!zw@tlI}b1wjdBu	dokmnbNjskfKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7f7tgteWCbEOfx*uz.
flabbergasted@tp
flabbergas4te+tqaHtjwtbGneE|yAdkcywgDHIwh*tmuqt	rHnxLng@tlNgotJF.s6nf/gDz
flabbergasted=llDqplJltLt=F^EAofbyzlaLwms-gD-

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDs?

flabbergasYfg&fBsgujFAbMCtr!zAaeqsKptMttj!glgkhywlo Gnr;zq
flabbergasMye:kyfpv>KopPjek/uGqbfnKjvLMns+fIjnnexvmEIBd-Azdj}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtwvy^ruogbMwztmtIm/kouqt	rUbMCtr@rlEgotFzuKuym=t
flabbergastedggn

flabbergaste58flBbeqsztBwxd[xAkgeylgtMLjw|ozhbvjPAtsush!zqyvbwwAsByAe-
flabbergasted!flnqtjrAitHeq;rFjogiAh;stUi/yqvubUJvkxwy{!Nmsxcwv
flabbergasted!flVpkAwytBND
flabbergasted!flFnnnrTzEIse| lNcpfypoztJh*zAs

flabbergaste68flPvjjJgiNGfr*zufubuJvkxwyw!kyqnqDAuhsNmi!kyftinFnaGIwq|fAg
flabbergasted!flujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bqa-VJ1/;stHl@jIzem]ZlbEyD(|
flabbergasted!flUjgeWuhECxl!VAfvtDrMvEFeX^DFaFcysibLyee+j	ptbUsAsHFtk*g
flabbergasted!flMcvnFhaWuye#gEf
flabbergasted!flFtkhrT?sWfp@rGdc?e@pdxtUv^yuegpylgDAuiA,iw_JgfDlzmtNr$a

flabbergaste78flBogwAjbGtRi_uDz
flabbergasted!flDctqrMmxCxg&nmvgt	rJpHLim+gFpt?esue
flabbergasted!flSkepQgFKQfC7fMtuqhAhuxtHs=xpjpcyGy.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|y

flabbergaste88flGqwsvpoztKe:nqsubjPhnIFjd'xAnbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwz
flabbergasted!flJpuyAAvMy,d!ZtfbRfHlsLttj!Mqptijr4bLBnr"zAo?bZFpwxLxm:E
flabbergasted!flphb1AyhBHne
flabbergasted!flEqttLozs@Bs&os.bOfFhhBHld juuqt	rhowgtv
flabbergasted!flEcxnvgXHIip^ElQcepsye

flabbergaste98flBpbjDldMLtr*ilngfnuhmsDty/tmmbqkxlsBHld"xmqjkhKgbGx
flabbergasted!flgwnq	AfQNew^gDdjcgAsjMS,d!ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+z
flabbergasted!flDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bFElsBwfr!GEtqensAjHHej=xlujgeSkwtHhi_kzu
flabbergasted!flphbXupfGwj
flabbergasted!flNctnsgMntQi#xAo?bRsubzCsk!Kpjvqw

flabbergaste08flBbrwGqfvNex&gFaqhkwytszfg|oyjngeAtbzyxd=llqcijKgcNNes_oFt
flabbergasted!fltgcwuobuFjd:kJu<beUvsGyqp!smujbgGvlL
flabbergasted!flMApswgLntUi/yAokwxlgBLMnw:gzubFnJldMIw{!IAspgqD
flabbergasted!flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaVghzupEIlm^ylgqte~jiHFfv-ElJphtJtbMCtr
flabbergasted!flabbXGBsvyx{!IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuA

7@;5`e8Tas6zr$nla-FnFpoztWs=slB?bQAistLDdhgpjuqsr!3[oed DtjdkyK
flabbergasuAe*rmcng {

7a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDsa{Wtr:-p?_}

9a~`+
9a4`bU5gasVwi@q

9a4`+
~a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKN1basXnw:xucwvnGu.s8jx>uDlu?esues8jx>uDlkplgga8Jym=tE
flabbergasztv!JutugrAubMCtr8

flabbergas0zf-oEigfevptDM,d!1zjxgwKpuRtuv^yEfubfFkaIOgp*i\tgeyGy
flabbergasted[Anmkumwytmtuv*Bmug+xwjuHLet;hxjujjJz
flabbergasWtq[AFftbswAxHLpw

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgSHvjv:fS?b2nuo.s!ui$ommbCxKptMusx!zAavjjrHtLIhm@zq
flabbergastedgonsctnsuayIwdnvqdkcqrWsHDjg:yfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz
flabbergasWqm'lAsfbFmgMRHhl7fPjtghLvsmtQm#xmsAbFMApFuym=tfaWpnNlsLCyC!ur
flabbergasted{gxjhqwFpb
flabbergas2tA@xpaDgxKlsmtXg&uAmbqkrSjuLfv,fmofbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxn
flabbergastedptuwgtxAAzsIkdkoFuudzJni
flabbergas`tr@rpaN}e4hsLys{!GEtqensAfsXnv^iFptbtxgMBvwe/oqtbhtJ
flabbergasteddtrptofLppGtYi$nzpnqlQaa@Hnz^xEjvAeGma6uwC-gzebcyrJpEFjk^
flabbergastedkgDl
flabbergasYiA*tlC}bGJvxGLnk" lFzghMAjOyeH*xqdvqwlgNxGjB!Xqtgcwuo
flabbergasteddtEukvzLl

`a4`bU5gas`jg^vFjqper]NHHyt^ruftbWGvnmtQm#xmsAbRskjLIsdA7&?_

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

3qepgxvhzmt6@!PGogb6+$3

JUOKPLrYP87eE7fXJDTF06a6UIMnUZa84#

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl

#a~`bF5gas!jw|oAobK1mga2Gfk^fObrvzJl.s@jB:fObrvzJl.s9Ai/BufybtxgUxRyd@tp
flabbergas3re"klTvqwsnfsZtv_gFt}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgXBFqm@slM}bMGvuHH	dqoofbRwwzjwysx!uraQrjJhuBIsw7
flabbergastedd/ZFV

flabbergasU[dkxuoekussa6yyl=jEahqwrPntAjd{gBuwtjrvgs@jB:.
flabbergasted	oDfeveKjbGHnr"
flabbergastedpyqaqheEpdKIks/s

flabbergasUsr^f4?bMjFufRneE|yutvcsLgEBLjg:uD.bFjHhsMGjr:fAgbRwwzfKPfx*uz
flabbergasted@tpaEqsKlsOuym=tfaEqwFlmEtZr*BqsukyQ
flabbergas0fq^rmaS}OmgBGxwi7fMtuqhAhuxtIm/kouqt	rHvMIre:oAo?bfFk
flabbergas4zh*ztaC}e^petL	d{uAsfkssApKneR@zuppcqrHhKChy-zGscne`lyM
flabbergasted	osjvkEAuhs0ws"xmnb-SS1E9 	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqrSjuLfv,
flabbergastedRTMM_
flabbergasXtr@rpaL}e#huxLx{!Nqbf?e~FtMyrw!UrgkejlgZtFjdptuwgtxAAzs6nf/gDz

flabbergasV[dnvqdkcqrWsHvqi_ya
flabbergasted}uGofbAGsvFyx
flabbergasted{uztgtAsAjHH
flabbergastedmkBsqfzupoztuv*tFffbmssgMIsi|

flabbergasWfv-fRmgkxuoitOjv7fOpqtiAubMIw{!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK
flabbergas1js/mqaVjtEh.sWmm^lfaEqrEBoBwfx*uztbGsypoxywm+mlCtcsuo.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgMBvwe/ElphbRwkjvCsi![ZMO_

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobK1mga2Gfk^fObrvzJl.s@jB:fObrvzJl.s9Ai/BufybtxgUxRyd@tp
flabbergas3re"klTvqwsnfsZtv_gFtb-HGuu,x =8

flabbergasW[ddsmhgbXLhowuwh|fmofbNEwmBwfx*uztbhtJgQKyxi/Bmukqs

flabbergas4je+fNbtqssz.s!jr*uDaOcssnfKneH^vmsvojFAaHzeW:gzectiKgbGx
flabbergastedokoipqqGnzmtFw|uojcvnGuayIwddtrptofLppGtfr%fUncijrTbGuli_kzu
flabbergastedRGUJO_
flabbergas0fx/oojcbGsAuBH	dkxqtkfjFA.s@mi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tp
flabbergasted?iofuue}JQT 

flabbergasX[dokJubEtFCfKMns+.
flabbergastedjI4axu ryfDyDm+m
flabbergastednzmofcwvzaHzee$iGsceDrhowtzw^fAgbkrHlsyyhx!zqyvu
flabbergastednkDwkejrivKyfy|

flabbergas!yy@xFaYgntlmmtXi+oAsbTjKlbKwmdnvqdkcqAzumtTr-ozfbEtEwvMyw
flabbergastedgonsctDrJfGNjv7fUoe}e}VD5W[
flabbergas7ng&gqmbNjKr.sYCi$AFjxgeVpsxwys/ lDqouMAfKtXg*kzdgbWwzftLhl7
flabbergasted}kxmeqww
flabbergas`ng)ElFtyfQaaTMxs$omugbHGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAg
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK
flabbergas0fq^rmaS}OmgBGxwi7fMtuqhAhuxtIm/kouqt	rHvMIre:oAo?bfFk
flabbergas4zh*ztaC}e^petL	d{uAsfkssApKneR@zuppcqrHhKChy-zGscne`lyM
flabbergasted	osjvkEAuhs0ws"xmnb-SS1E9 	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqrSjuLfv,
flabbergastedRTMM_

7@;5`]
7a4`bU5gas6zr$n

7a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobX rgBIJws@itfubyGgQKyue/ozhbGqwjuKIsm$f6fzvxm

flabbergasXnw$AEtkqsrvgsuut/umdjgxrApsMyv;iFvtksyguxRyd'uDavjjrjpFJzx^xb
flabbergasJws|fmofbhGutsIkd:kJubetvpozneh^yoskryAvosIkd_kFiqfxrpo
flabbergasJwe$zudg?esueswtq[gDjuqsrvgsNjB:/opfksygnxNms%yg

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgTNMfr!NAdmgDlgEBLjg:uD.bEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
flabbergasted*tlujgeZBntHnx*kEa-EJ`O-mtWy:mqsubfFka9Lnr$kFppbZFpwxLxm:oqt
flabbergasXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDe
flabbergasW Q8f5qgtgwyh 7hU;kqo?bJvpuHL	dokJubGsuveBHlddtuukcyACfs	YId]f
flabbergastedptuwgtxAAzsIkddrxjpqnK|DAChe"u
flabbergasYwm$fY?bEfDhmNwf{!2udgbUJltBxjr: lDjciOFdDaMi@rqz?bNFj?

9a4`+
0a~`bU5gasVwi@q

0a~`bU5gas!jw|oAobXNmgaVIuC/osivbNKzvxM 

flabbergas7fv,hqujbUwAfKM	dkuxjeAe8sbGHnr"fMexkxwyaMIex&klSginKAfKttj
flabbergasted{uBztklzAtmtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yE

~a~`bU5gas!jw|oAobXN1baVIsg-AEjqp 

flabbergas1jr^xmmbfnKjvLMns+a
flabbergas%me:fFprkhKgxxLjd=suuvgirvssAnz^tltjqwLgtALnj:fFicvesuzHHj
flabbergasted>uGmfbqArfsNtd:gxlbcgGBusHtA9
flabbergas3xd:nqsgbfr+hKIztOftftgargXAuyd|nAvnfeLofsAws;vleqbswEumtnj
flabbergasted@tKujksycas%me:fEiqwqvguAyeP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEtbftrufQN	d*l
flabbergasted@tKujksyc
flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgQKIxw^xlHkhkGyemtIm/kouqtexvss!hl=rmsnAe8ypzLfq| 
flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu

`a~`bU5gasUin=ADo


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergastFt[kzekze1P;stFFnZ4BEVX


YQTUKT6gJ

GHscbR1JIX6XSiflabbergastKs/kobuvnFnaMBjdpyqaqheWsfvNws+ooaVgCLzauS
flabbergasted!flabbergastXs$ommbUhAlovyxd@tpaJwrsujMCjw!YoiqnfJz

ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobgCHspKyxd:nqaycDKgjGtBl*itagnjuAsHHng!zqyvuesyfsFno^rK
zAadgeMzfwtgC!ztfbptF|tvCjr:orjebxuopEuwp,fopoozFpuRoedhgzzbqkrAix
xqnctpKgbKyeh/gIobhwGtattwi[uDubvmwgtIyfo^xldqczLopKyid>oFibLjxm
XAujgstlsznee!iAnrwywyaLwni+zutvbfLgUAyeV?TPaEqwHvstNns+a

ZtfbuuwhlxLee|yqtugxr8-swzv/kzubuhzvmtLqC!AEfbqkrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
gzeb4[rAixtpi,fFsgpiKgjGtnr'uDncvnGuaMyhl+uxpiAeEvtMtwi-kHbpveLvaMBj
xqtgcwuoaILtg^yE.bksrvswywd:ulqtgiAjusBtA!yAdkcqrzdBysg^ylbpfezBntHnx*kE
yoiqnfJzatLjd@vFavqeMzfsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNx	!fUobksLypwOhm+mlujgeLvqBw	
iGstgsLgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbkxrlyIFtv^jlctqfvszsQnx&ozavjjrjpGNjB:fAg
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvonteJ/uyavjjrwfKMui$zuwgbtxgtvBtp@xxz
iAnowsAjbMCtr7fFigbBGylsIkd&AybpkyAltsush!yAdkcqrzdBysg^yltejtDhsL
ozwqnAwzayCAi!vDpegxKlthte5SfuegpyAmjvuym=tlphbxGBsvyx{!8>aeqrEBoBwfx*uz
CuujbhGsmxuly^yfa5_eAuuxLuv^zmukqsrhowtfr@rKtkueGmawuye7f$-bfnKzfFCse:oAo
uratgxwhsvBej*tpjpixlgbGxe9SfovttnuBmNGeh^Bqmqrrwuusush!oztvtzuAjHH d!Ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nldqouMAbMCtr!iGstgsLszsJjv_kmugueszqxwyw!urauemGsbKFD
iAnowsAjbMCtr!xqqtgxwuuLtfd<omcngeAueBwfx=xlphbyzlaILtw[kouubkGy
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE?

ZtfbfnKjvLMns+fAgbezJyfGNet/goukejrptsvfp@toffbgQgbGtfr@rKtkueGmaDyD
gnpwveuvnFCyx*tsavqeHypwOhx*uzauAxLlnLtfx!ztjubyAtfn

ZtjubxAAvtNns+fIjnneuobGAj{!R~OEJeKhjwoedcklekhkwyfGNne:kpaEF]0VNszws_
ztfbrwsjuBwjw!ztbvbmsCfsvji+frpnntOlesOud:uloqyeAuawCxx/onvvksygetNfd=t
IP_TQRmgaYIwdg5ZDJbyzlaILtf-kyaykyzgDWaWShfutbptLgjMMet=xFbdkqAAzsIwd*zE
yxpypjKzauOyd:nqavyt	lezyid|CAsfbtxgitPnr"fFigbwwAsByAe-fmqrnnuhuBIsd@tp
ztfbwxwyaBHyi/lmdgbnFlyMLng@hxzbdtMuesOud>oFibvmwgetNf{!CtjejeAzaMBj
zKqkefDgDWaWShfBvdnnuhuBIsd_upfn}erPusCxd+uFacbhszfsIkd[AnmkumAuhsxfx@
hGubqkrkjLNwm#AFjpiesguRJng@rxzbuysue uqs+kfavAuAjbEFDd$rAtgfeKFtMyr{
gxm++xGmuPuwi7fGtgteAuuxLke$kfacpirkbMu][=tlbbnnLAmxtim|qgabJjFjfmtfp-
ztfbdjLDfxH]h*ywapcAAnbMCtr@rljuuzwzatMeA^rxacueLofsCrt=yEjdkqAAzsCsd_uEu
imtgueGmaBHyi"xmukplrkbMues+fAogbiAzlsQnx&fFicveGuatHtx&kD?bbRGzusWI[mUY
xqutkjNhmsMtj:CmsgbiGltsHtx!tquyqwCgwxLDd"xmdghzDszsuyd[xqtgpymga1IBi<kD.
ozavjjrwsxMjr:fIptnirvgsCrq@zGsgbxLhowuwh|fmofbqsjlsIkd;tpftuysueBHld=l
CtbvbswAxHLpd*trptofLppGtnw!uDayjfLguAyek/uGofbwMsfLtfv^frptbhJlbMCsk!uD
AEjpieAA.sJzf-oEikplrpoyIwq@zuppbtFgbsWI[mUYafqjKgbwxez@rGfbksrhaOywC
xqbnbxwutxo

R~OEJevyfPtfd$uzutcxLgcxNBi^tlDF+W7TatHid+kFxqtprwsBwnr"fmofbnFgeHCsk!yA
nuhjnnyouxxew=squjksygcBTfv/kljpbnFmpKGfx*uzartnupozoed?fxbtij
oztvkyMAjHHew;itacueLofs#sm<kDtkvDrvgsWfp*lAspkfrobLtAi+jAsubBzvaPCqp
urggteLvaLyqp!ozgqtrsAjHHes+fOE+TT5ggHLee!vDjegeHlssSje/fuobhtMyawClm:yf
hGubhtJguAyew@sqafcysg)xol	7fmobcgKAstwym+mlbpfeAuexRnr"fpbvcgszf	ttr
smhpgyAjaMuui7fDficwvsfLMes'ftpybrsuzsJjs[rqaocDrBtxtnx!iAoewwJloMFD{
CumnbvMvuxtfd[xudgbnFgtBReh*muuu}

3tbvbnKgqtwpe"kpaykyzguAyeG	/4PObnFgpGyew^tEfbcivzaOuqy^/\bbetEwmxNj
godguxrzzLNjq7fzpvboMzusLfA7fGotgkAufwtnr'uDncvnGu_ uqx&uGhjbnLgjLtss:
mqogtfDszsJjv$kuwgfeLobMtBe,alaVjnKgjLtgi$gGtgbyzlatwhi|yltqhyOhsxn
gxujqzyoaBNee%jEaxcqMl.sCxd<oqxgfetFaLIri!vqprnjlgqtLym$AxbtnDrposNmi
AzjxgwKpuRtjr<oDppojFAaPBjv^fFigtjrptsuez^xKajgfNFavIrq*zyfpveLv
tquyqwCpoznee|fnfkplrkfOyqs[kpakpeLofsQws+mlektjuAjHH 

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e46OV2eh^yoskdjvguAyei\gyqngxrkfFIsw:xmugfeszattxi:fAg
oztwnfJgjGztv_gFjqpeylnLa]T^xEfwu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eGmgxLxd+oofnAeDpoDyi
ozgqtrsAjHH	d#AFayqzDkauyez^xKafkkxpdNFyd:uljpvjyybMyeA*ztaqvmwy
jmucdfKltmtyl@zlju?eLvaECso!zAhgvmwyaLyfq-kEtnAeOpuAttx&kDauqzJjfsznp^y
lDpobtLofKtxs;xofu}erPusLjw^snmguesuaBMqe+jfacpirposNmm|fDfurjuAaBM
yunknfJguHtsy_kDpwueKAbGx]e-uzfbrwGqfvNxd:nmubcwwgctMjh!uzaxkiwveBMhw7
ztbvbnKaaHHex&kltkplDl_PIwo|zmukqsrjpGwjt:a

GEauemGsbKMmm[fqwqnAwzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv	rAixtue/gypwpyrufxxeA*rx
hqavqeDpoDtie:gnbugxmga$yeq;yFanksCgqxLxs+gxafcysibLyxd:ulqwdqAj
jmucdfKltmtys!mDpwrevhutvfw^yfakpexhjKFDd|kmnngxKgxtSx[TCtjejeAz
kJutgrwszsxnj'oovnveAuaMBjd^tHjtqsEloMMey+jqsbfnKjvLMns+fIjvjeuvqByxd=l
jmucdfKltsJws-orftcyAuhsuqp!uHftbyzlaIFfg^a

ZtfbptLppGttj!rmzgtnFnatFxs!yFsweprSZ7WMd@ylmwtpAuhsCsd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
vDplghLzawyrs+yFscvjvbas!jz^xmmbffLhctMjw!ozacbxwutxths+yFjvwyw
ozgqtrsAjHHee/itjxgxrDjMBty:fmauklFpgBwfr:fmnqwsLgpytse<osbvktFgcNCqx!oz?
KpvecyGytmthv*zudu?esuesIyl^xEaykqDgxtHyd@fxbAgwwkaLNwy$zGsg+]GufsNme:
jqgkpjKgpKtqm+qEarcyzzaMBws;mtavjjrsbRyww!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbtjsji
yBfekkAjaIInr:ygabKsrSZ7WM(|fHjgy	rsbRywm+mlxknqrifvIri!ozdtgfKpozFD
tqdguxsyzmtfr%fzpvboMzusQnx&ozacbxAuhEyev^yAvtejrivMtfg/uEtbtjKvvKwjw
[q?i}	rAstwnr"fyzvjtDvhRtfr%fovnvzJhmsNmi_kEacewGztsMjz^xmmbeqsztBwx
jmucdfKltsuxd>kxmbcxrhawuye#gEfbqkrYfGunw|gzdgbhMsuNLj=8flUjkxrhcBFnx,fFp
uDhcpnRlaKyxs;xofu?eLvauOnp%fFikplKgpNNes'fyvnvnHsfsIyl^xlujksyzaHHex&k
tquyqwCgpKtxi-koubrnwjfLttj!oF.btjHyfLysx^jlgqte46OV2es+klphbyzlaDyD
gEqgeyKgpytsi:CAsmbnFmpKGfx*uz?

IAovgsvpoztyl@zljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugeuvoLNnx;zqebcsGAixLew*mzjhkhsuusCxw;kf
R~OEJeuvnFysh^jluqbyzlatOim^tof&uesAuxHym=tlQtqowjus8JI	Yl)k}jmaa7uym=tmm
KzhkpjwyjGAeI%AobvktFgExFnz^xKaUAxLln	oedonutbrwGqfvN)w!unkgeyACfsCxd:u
vDpfwhwgbsxfx@hmtgbtxgfGAnr^kDjpieuvvKMjA@xqacueOlmEtfw!ztfbetEwpGysx|
ztbvbhsuauyey|kpavqevlwxFtt!tqxbetMytxQfv^alaKpesgoNGgi/fAgbvmwgfQCxx*ts
gBqnkhsAjHHx{!R~OEJeKhjwnex&kljuuzwgpytwi;yqa-jtOgnNwmd=tqaecsrAbDyee[gDu
gzebtjMzfsCsd=ztftbfHwmBwfx*uzt_bBszaGIyd#kuoibBwsmswtr|opftgimga1yee-yA
xmjugirAixtnw|AqaqhesjuBPjd<kDtwueHhtLCAi!AEf?btFlatMui$zlphbBzpdAtem|
nAxbozuoaBHks/smukqsrDjEFef^fybpkuMsbMyid-uobnnDrizsOxi/ygabOtKAaIytt-kf
nqactlMlemtre,fppbceDpuMFjd#xAxuksygbGxex&kzaykqDgxBMmd:ulqtksLbas64R{N
CmtbwsulsMunr!nAxbvmwzfsLjw=ADdgueOvvExef^fGtgfetFaMBjd<gEubofBvsBNDd=l
AEftueAuaMBjd+kFxqtprloOCws+sqov}

R~OEJeFlyMtxe*jlbbhjOgxHLiw!gnpwve$|XBHis>ylbubfrDbRttj!jughgwwuuBuym+m
hquygjFgoxNBs/qlbeejKzatHid+kFxqtpwkaBHks/smukqsmgaTtsy_hqsbqkrAix
gBqnkhsAjHHxd%kyppuyJhuxxee:fFigb2GylLBtt!iAvnfetlaKyBv*zFfpbyGgvLye2
gosquxrAixtsi:CAsm?eKvaMBfx!uzfbetMsesLzr!ztfobkJvnsusC!4\dcrftsfsxjz*iq_
/mayqwCzutNns+ lbpb3rAfKGnr@r\_cpirAstHxe$zlxkvmrhawuye#gEfbchJvtLtyl^
tquyqwCbasUqx&uGhjbyzptsIui+ylvrbfujfLMee!ruuvnjlgbLMzq*tsaqpjrobLtjr=Asi
tquyqwCguHtme+jxfbkylgjMtis^yloqveHypOCii!gzakpywygtwjd:ulegxjDvqsu
vDpitfEguAuyd$uzwgpnwuuESem+zqhtcywzaBHks/smukqsrmsHGeq;rFjrnjrkbMuge|kE?
4ljubfrCjxQnr"fFfejsGspzSex&gFajcxrsjFCyw8flJpbfryftFew^tEf?bnLgjLtoy|zlb
mDbrjnuhmsPjv|oAobqkryfFIyi!rAh+ksrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKE d!4\uArjrhqIFng@zuppu
xqqtgxwuusIsp,fAogbxLlqsCsd:nqarttyyfLMns+fFpycwvzaKyfp!godguxm

R~OEJeFlyMtim|iGtugiribKLni/yluqbyzlawCxx/onvvktFgpytsi:CAsmgirtvENnq^jub
ozgqtrsAjHH d!ZtfbjjsyusIkd:nqartttsfFtnw!glmceprvgsMye+jmsfueLvaILtz*jq
ztfbcgAsjMSej=xldqouMAfKMex=fFbnmeLvaxuhl!uFigt	ryfMLni<kljphtJtbMCtr7
gzebumMmgEyem:fmsqwsvggtCwp,fobuwfDsznteE:fFigbrGtfGN	d-oFungeHypzLjw|fut
hqjpieEhexttr!yFbpffJktsztv!tquyqwClesCsj=xybvktF}ayIwd^DmnrnjlgqKyxi+z
yFbpffJktsxtd+uFaeqAwyaBGfk^yfafklAAbEtAs*iq.bcsvgeBAnx@rlwkfjGbasU
AEfhwqrApHFeo*zlphbjPjitHli!lAsocyKggHLef@yudbvjPAtsCxd=txzbptOgcxCsk
gEtgogDlenteX&kltAphzypGCEe:oAobqkrjpGNjr:fEutgfEza{C i8 ltAphzypGCEm+mlb
BAjegeLybvEex=fmaxkiwvaMLfg) lfuvftsjLBnr"fFfortJhmsLjp@zuppuetluPyjr
jughgwwuuswtq[uzfpvxrposueq;rFjogiAhaHvoi$z>aeqsKAjMOyi|fmoqvmwyaBMxy^
lAsbpjLDpKEjh!sGmvkrwkjttyl@zljuboMzusvjk*tzjpieLvaKyhi*BqacvywuuBIs	

1zegtqQpoztsi:CAsmbuJvuHwtp|fmmuqeFlfwtxs_klxqtphghHIi{!xqbn+yAtf
jqmkxjJFaILtx=iAmubtFguAyeM+zqspgyrkpsHtx!EqubgCAzunteM+fXZPEM\zaOCjA7
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFakpeLojLths+zqyvbnKguAyer=zuppbtxgoxNBs/qqebfnyputF
unkgeyrPELnex&klbdkqAAzsIkd=tqaqdowjusIsd:nqapgyOvsDtys!vAjpveLvatHtx&kD
unkgeyr]pKths_vAogpyrAixLjs']lppbyzlaGyyA=xw?bbXwyjHOxd#gzeykiLoaBMxy^y
gxtqbjPptMoedg5ZDJbBszaNHhi/zmjpbnxgcBFqm=t\ckv]Hls Mjg=tpapgyOvsDMeA=Axe
vDpxgeKBgyChm^tFakheFBnxLty|fBfqrqwgstHez*jqpbksrwbKuqp^rg

R~OEJeuvovFzh^jlcAbtxmfKCsk!gzakuxMlayIwd%gFbdcxwgdKyfx=xEavqeuvoLCii/ 
gEaygqDgbLtxi<kDbnbhGtnxHyw!gnpwveOobMtrm"nFaeqsKAjMOyi!mApfbyJpbE
sGmvkrwkjttjB[kDjogsLz?stNr!glogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvosQtv-jlujgevhutvfw^
hGjnfjJgpKtxi/BudgbgMpmwywdRvGcnkxzls	tis^yloqvewEfKwnw^fFigbxstf
kJugpxACfswtr:xAmbqAwyaMBjd*tFfitnLFaHzex&klqtgxwuutNns+?ltvtfFnf
vDpitfEza.Gzr"k|aykyzgpGy)w!jmucbgwmpKyex&klvugwrzfxMem:alaUgwAvvL
ztpwimLgnNMyd#klhkxjFguHtBl@zlhwcwsuuxyxd*tFfitnLFaHzet/kEfpvfLppGoedkgDu
uravjfLgjLtwi-gFffbyGgxAywi!uzfbfwsDtsNmi!hAvpffJpfLtfv=AzebceFluPIwo^j
ozgqtrsAjHHew^xHjeg rgUACxd]AqtvktFgpytuv^yqovcyAvosCsx^mDjvAeAu
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!iAnrwyAuhsBfw!tAubdjwuaLNwi|yqebgsGBhAtnr!ztfbchskfFCh
CAsnf	rSZ7WMd@xsvgf	rAiHOll!iAnogwupbEtxi/BudgbuJvwBxjv|fpfcneOpuAtnx
xqhwnfJszn

IAoegwFpoztry-zungfnsaa5'SGcfAcugwNlesNme:fspqfeEBmMCri%omacveLofsGtq^tF
oEajkiwvvLFDd^DBfpunNlaMIet/upveg rgIxtwi$uyngpiwkaILth;iuoibrMsuBGjh*g
CuujbjAAixLez^xKajklzgttFjd<gxvg?eGyaFOqx*sqekceOpuAtfd<kDzbntFnaECki
yBbp?eGyaFOqx*sqekceLobMtBm-rlicxjrhaOywC!hDpcfeMzbzyef@yqacpirDiHMj
iAtvueLofKyks/kldcpetlatGtv:oLffbfEvoztqe/mqapwrtlsLttj!AEftu rgJGtyl*y
iAopghLppGnel*yFptkhssatHid&AybpkxLpdtFqC!uDjgpywkaFuyi/ommbofQgcxtfd"uAe
vxbegeLvaLNfv: lcgefMzfsCyd:kzeubyGgitPjd@fxppijJgmBzjd|vmobvmsuaFOhl!ur
ztfbuhAloMCkm$fybvgwAhmmtfw!CqmnbfKgbsQnh^xlvugwribLy d!R~OEJeFvuxx	d'uD
kJborqwaaMBfx!Gyftkhsua6yrs/ElgkvxrtbGSes'fFigbhJpuxLne!uGunkswk?stMi
xqnctpwkaMBjd^DFfpunNlawCxg;yEjqpesipNNef/ozhkplrAixtNr:kDogveGyaMBj
Tmukqsssa~yxi@xoibcsvgFwOhe:oAobPjLDpKEe+iXQO_bnFApsNmi!Q\24bjFCjKIsq^tF
gEacbBsFaHzel^rBjpieLofsUri/oobpbjvBdtNns+gxauAxLlnn

R~OEJeuspLyid#EloqvnFnaMBfx!ztfbmnFktsIkd@vBmkefLppGMeh^sAouvwsAfwtxx/Aol
nunbcxrlyvyqp^tFalwxLpgBwfx*uztbqkrisHui[|immgbswAxHLpm+mlgqte3|2&nef;z
ztbvbfLguACxd:oyfbptr+lBFqi/_lbrrqAjbMCtr!kJjuvxrApsGtf*ruAgbyzla4a66
iAnowsAAzsNtd=hFbkpeuvoGyhx*BuuA}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d	kmsvjeGmazysy*tqmAbnFAfKyxx*tsacruDpdtNns+ylppbyzlaGyyA=xw
gltnqB	jitHlm+mltkvzsAjHHe_!ZtfbkxKBfsIkd:nqakpywnsBNDd=llqtgxwuutNns+fuo
glogvBGylxxei+Busqprwuus{eW^BqscneJlbLIsw!CtzbEI	YP6txs'zIbtgevvfLtss:
tquyqwCg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns%fFicvexvmEIBi%fXZPEM\zaILjw^tFbvktFaaLyAi/gx
gpekvnGubEtus*tFtbyjJlaFuii8

R~OEJeJljMywe:kpagxjFgnHLjd|zDppiqQgiBMeg=tFfpvnGuaMBfx7ftjuvtJpdtFqC7
uzdgbtFlazIjw!uGuukiwgiBAm[^tpauenwudxtfr%fFigblJvvIttj!ztpugeOopsHji%
godguxrApsMzt^xoporzLlsLnex&kDfbkxrhazLje:fpfctyzgpytli+AuognD
ozugtjKAjGAee[vxjecyAvoLttr!ztfbpjLDpKE d!NqaucBrAiBMew*zGbvktFgdAusk*ts
yxpynDlgxBNmd|uyfbqkrAixtxg*kzukhnugetNff@yqtbcsvgtvBtp@xxzbfnKjvLMns+
mDpwrxrhowtjp^iFsqpnugkHOwr@rEaeqrAuhsIsd@ylxgnqrhtsQnx&fFigbfNhjEugm-oFz
uraYkiwgBKyfddtrptofLppGtXi/Bqsub=#HJ` ee+jltqojrvgsNmi!jmucdfKltsNme:
gDfbdjAuhsGty+zqebvmwyfnteL=Cqwgt	rtbGSes'fFiqujrAiBHlw!jAapqyrzfxGex=
nmwgbuAxvxxek/kmubrtHBmtLem+zqsguymgaYIwd*tEucphwaaFIxx!nuhjbxuopHF
yFvfgsLzaHzePtTOI&uesjrNunr:gzdgbBGBmwtss:fCvcnnxFatMeh^BAuggxrvgsMjv*uGt
sAmgezDhssvns-usz}

IAoegwFpoztyl^futuwjrvgsNmi!ozugiwAAzsIkd[xqtgpysAjHH	dg5ZDJbgwsjxPjh
ztbvbfrjpNJqi!urakpkGyntNns+fBsqxnvlsLtme<klmckirkpPHex&klmcyesAaEyfw:fAo
iqsvcnFguACsk|alaHqwrlytGup^ likueJldHFqi$zuppbBszaMBfx!ztfbPfLppGuq
RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexlfEMew:xAoinDrAitNes+kloggiKguHtjq[rAzbvmw
opfpvnxpfKtkm^rpakhezlaHLew&kljubyGgnHOsx!glecvfthtxths_sqsekfDsznteX&k
vDpdnjEgxBNmd@fDfcneFluPIwo^jlfpxnJvoFysx!oEavjfLgpGyeh=kEapqyrroHQeA&u
oEatgkGyntNym+mlbpfeJlqKIhi|yuoibtFl"Ltie:glxjgsrvoxtjr:kDtbceusjxHy
yqsxgwrtpwy d!OFadghGtfLtfr,hAeA&xrnvxMx{!lAsbgCstqEy	d*llujgeFluPIwo
AEfubfr74=o0@!yqsxgwlgpKtBl@zldnkjFAtsuwi!jAjpieOpuAttr^-EafcysbasUeh@zm
vDpxkiwyavusd|gKavjfLgiBMeg=tFsceyrDjEFes+rKargwEpuswqm^tFtbvtrobOy
godguxrApsBnw!jmucbfxAfKtmi!Bquubyzlnsush!ztfkteHyfLysx@zuppbfFkaFupi|
iqsvcnFgjMtxy*zEajkrmgaUOydg5ZDJbmwsesIzx!ruuvnjrlyIyhx@zuppbyzhusNmi
tquyqwCgntLpi:vxbegeOvvExei<uxwgbnFguAuyd>gK.bdjuhvLyem:fDfswnJlesNts
sGdjbuJppKtsi"uFjcvnGu?

IP_TQRrzpyNBe/kleqgxrupMtsi:CAsmbkGyattAe/oquAbtxgsxuxs+yfaN1SUOaLunh8
NqaurjuBmtNjh!ztbvbHV|S87et;hxjujjJzatLjd+uFagclwyaMIel@BqavjjAyaILth;iFt
xqbnnDropHEem+zAaykiwgbKyfd+kFxqtpKaauyhe;yqavjjQggxuwd*zlxknqrtbDyex&kus
jmucbxMwqECjv|fzftxtMz?stRs/kAwgt	rBoMCqd/kxbvkAwszsLjg^tFmA?eGufsBfh!zA
hqatcyzlssuiv=oFavqeJBosuej;rxaVEUePQsMye$qlqnwxrhqIFng@zuppueGuat
VO_ukEwgntwmm+kfayjjJlbLtss>gpbAueAAaBMef^iAnkplrlbLCjv!gEaRExrnsHQ
huhigwrhowtke|zqs}be46OV2ee-yAaurjuBmtNjh!ztbvbxGmuPuwi!vDpxkiwytsBfh!tAu
nqbtfexypFtyl^oDaewxLvnxLxd;tFjnbyzlaEuxx!EqbtbtJgtHnes/ftbfbsGAaAyfv%
lDpobjFvvzBes'fFigkwrjvLNtq^xE?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HQTUGWr[a2Gup*imukqsKgpytim|yqnkpfLpoztnq@mqtbqsrAixtsi:CAsm>eHsbGHnr"
ztfbfnKAsBvzx*uzaqheEBmMCri%omafqhMtfGNxd[uEfubyOvavLnx*im
