resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still images).  In the past the
cost of such a large amount of storage space made this model a
prohibitive choice as well.  But plunging storage costs are finally
making this second alternative viable.

If storage no longer poses such an impediment, what do we need to
consider in building digitally stored multi-user databases of visual
materials?  This presentation will examine the networking and
telecommunication constraints that must be overcome before such databases
can become commonplace and useful to a large number of people.

The key problem is the vast size of multimedia documents, and how this
affects not only storage but telecommunicatiuppueLybGMrm|yuppbyAtfn
GzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsr1_"txt^kpakueAtqKuhx*immbhtJggBFjw!ura3brwnbuSyi!uD
rmsigwr]xAChl!oEankpwszsNtd#kltocqDggHLee!sGmvkrwkjttis$Ayfpv[mgaYIw
oztvcsul.syAi+fAobce(!a4vep*tqakveOvvExex@qqavjwwlaFCsy:kEavqeLybGMki/fm
7\ngiftFuxtkm-kgabCsvguAyxi!luhwtjKgbLMzq^fuegcqrjjKwzq|zmoegxlgbGxeh=
tAubvfClaBHys!iAoukiwybMCtr!uFigteMzfKMeg=tFfpfnFnayIwd+kFxqtpribGxBm%zt.
jutmbfujfLMex*sq.bqwrAixtym_kloggiwkayIwd/kypvgevptIFfC8flDwtwwuuswtq_uz
zqmgrmGufsNwe+yyjuunGuaKuyi|fIpwnirifswtq[rqugnDrpnILfg:oobn>exlxsOxi/y
CAvnfetlaPCqp*tsavqeOhjMtyl^ftpwteFldxMxe/EluqbyJhoLGnx!gltkplDlaBGfk^fmu
8$~`bgsBen

ZtjubswjfLMnx@zqtbetEwsxMxm=tfayjnuoaBNxi-llsckxwzattsy_hqsbqkrvuAyw
oEtwgxmga2Hes/jqsbvtrkfvLje|klgknjrzjSyxd|osokhnuhoMFD{!CqaowxLgfFJqs,
rAtuAeuvnILjw|oAobcqyvsBNmq|alaDwyropPtry$nlrwcqAAzswfr!CqachkGyesNt
rAtg{er1psxfx^fFigtjrobLtgi^tlppnDrvoxtxm"tugkefFAaLNzh,fpppgeGm
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffuexvssuet@xFjewqsyaNMjv!mDpwr	rhowtyl*yltvwiQgeBxer=z
rApmbfLgmHMxd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!iAnrtjKzjHH d!UzmAbfxAfKtnh^tFjhAnFn
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffueuhosQjd#ksjpbyGgbwxwi|yltvqwsnfsush!tquyqwCgctHiA*jFi
tqffu 

KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlY+YnFkpPM]f@yqebcuHsjvuym=tEa-uzuoatMeM_gsfswjJF.sNmi
1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujttfx!HqsmgqwFaBGfk^fpbvcgszf	tii_uztvtfLltsNmi
AFjnkyQgpytfd$rufpv]KlsOywd:uBpnqlQaauOyd@rEpbrtAuuLtys!ztfbnnEputNns+fAg
iGstgsLgtHzyA@xqahqwrhawCxx/onvvgirloOCws+sqov}erMpKtjB@sBmg?
gBqnkhsAjHHxd-owfbKrsnfJOjv,fobpbnFjpKJtv@zqaeqrHyfLMns+ lcwveuBsKysx!4
HKajklzgtIyjh7fNSQYS0PHZtri@tFa3brwnbuSyi!gzeb3 (gnxAff,zqt}be`opLyey+oFt
nmwgbgwlosvzm-zfajgeuvoMCsy^jfacpirhsxtnr!ztfbrwGjfLMes'fnfkpl
zKqg+hwyuBzni%fnzbcsrpowyui+jqovbzFkfKQwm:ozhbnftvstNtv,fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imo
hqavAuw|mBwjr|kpadAeLofsZjh^xmmbEtEtvGChe:oAoubHGtnBMxm=tgabCxrptsNmi
imtgbBAAiswnx*Fqoubgsuemttr^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAarwwuobLyee!AzjvbfFkaGIyd&gHf
zAayqwJFatvty:fmqrnDAuhsztv!glmkejFzfn

ZtfbdfKpdsCii@ lCTQ26YJZ1ei-gnptcywk.sCxd:ulucmjrojzB]w[kqebtfvppsxfx@
zDbpurAztBIsd@tpaetjsAfsuef@iwcqpjrufMQtv)fFicvesAavywx@ozauvwsAfzCh
vAjpvxrposNmi!tquyqwCgxBFqdOmmugyfQ+aBHys!glngfnMt_LJji%fBbemjLgstxns
[u?g}	rvoxtyl@zlswpxrhus(!	yfwjnqgQAfL 	d|ulujcyrwfKBft|fnzb3@+~_"[@9
vqprnjlgmBEjd:nAtgbnFguAyee;jufpejrmpKtyl^fBskejrvgsueZ{XldqwqvgqNLhl@yq
glngfnMt_LJji%fDbfktrmpKtyl^fAghkhwgpKtms_kfajcAwggNFqd+kFxqtprjpGHjg:oHjvA
zAavjjrPoMywr^zfacpirwbKNfo^fAgbcqDgjMMew^xHjegxlgxBNmd+uloggirmpKtfr!LOD
rudgpxwgbGxer=fDfiwqsyauCqp!lDpobyzlaEIhe-fopootFgdtLwm^xgabDW74O~3LK
vDfugsLlesMjz^xmmbfjLhjEMes'fmafgrGutMLfx*uzarttBldMthy/xqovnDrAbDCsk
vxbegeAua`usd	oqhqbfFkawyxg/onffbuDhoLnet^tpjpiexBowCsk7fFpbksKAbEFee
lGmn+gGyfsHjx>uDlbksrAixtXe+fRscphAzdHtfv^ggabVmAzaGyyA=xwaykqDgitPjdA$*
tAegueJBoGCsk!gFadchCipGyew[kqeu?esues&#@!uravjjKlaGIii|fIjnnetlaECgv@xufu?
CtjejeAuaMOwr!CumnbgwguAyek@zqxcAeHvsMMex=fFigb8_b5sEnp=hKugbwskjHMex&gF
CumnblACfswtz^xmhgbkGyaMBjd+kuhjdtJopHxxd|ADsqwsvpoztyl^fxjdtfJpfLo

H4PYPW1NHsHjB:fqyrnfAufwtUe/zl27}7*@.suer^ClswnjrDjMBnr!Zuunge*@aHzex&k
IAegbtxgGxxjv@rlSgizDhuBIsw!kzbevjvgcRtyl^fRDEbnFg2==0	!f6ikueJBmx
itbnnjFnfwtyl^fuofwxLyzmtBl*itajcxrvoESer=ClskujFguHtyl^fAdecxAvomtys
hGjnfesgstxns!ztbvbBGBmwtwy+fmubptrtpKyex&gzaqpjrDbMNes'fAvvrzLgqHQjv!gze
AEfbcexhjKFDd^DAukeeEluAIid=llnqfzDhuBHld:nqatciAvaPuAi!immngirzqKyfh
yBfevwMt?stXt/kmebuuwjuKOrd*tlgceyrwfKGnx|fFigbgMpmwCsk!urapgyOvsDMew=
ztbvbsMtfKIzw!jmucbhGtnNHng@zuppueuhosIhg;xltkozDAbGyty|rK.bynLopNN
ozugtkwyjGAeA*ztagchzgpMBjv7fIjvjnFguAyew@sqaykiwgstxns!itbppjDb

H4PYPW1NHsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^frsgszwudByxd@zlxjkhzguAyev@jupubBGBmwtwy+
gDfbxjJFaLBtv:fIbxgeKphGuqw8flUjgDrhsxtBi-rlbdqAwgtMush@xpaokhJvxtPjd@tp
xmect rgXBNmd@fDbfktrDbOyex&gFauofDs.sIsi!CmuvbgwjpFyxd@fFsgojFkpNMet;toi
vqsbdnLgbGxex&AEaocpwzaMLfr|sutuktFgbMtwi@yAocdqwgtIyjh!vAtukgDl?stNr
uDegteLvaFCsm_oLfbvmwgqHNjr:ommbhtJgdHHli|zupp?eLofsJws(koubkx
AzegtysrjGAex=fDfkouDlnxHyd|uruycwwgxAChl!nmtbdjwuatPfm-gnmgbnFguAy
tquyqwCpoztgy|ozfuuesuesCxd:gwfpbkGyazLfr:kpapqBlggHLei\gyqng	r1D9gNT7
xAvvksygbEAtv*ztnu?etyjwAjw7fmofblsAfPuDw8flJpbfvkjMCtr7fFigbuJvkxwy
vxbpueLvaMupi!ztfbYF1ZaLywz^xltqhyOhsxtnr!ztfbrztsjvtis_guobcsv
xqjorqwtfGNem:fEpbvmsAaHHjd$gzajcAwgbs%FMnfEftxjJgpGtfdhgoakpxLlbwttj!g
1zjzbrsjiBHj	!f6igbRwtfQtWi|kmseje1utMCyy:klcgnnwCfLtyl@zlmkdwsyjxM	d*t
vmsvkhMsbKneA*rxaycsLguHtzw^fFigb2SPTsMjv<kDtbynLoaIuho^zlscfnGbas@mm|
vDplghLaaPBng&ftbubfrAftGes'fmcqwyrAxxFAi!vqprnjlgxBFqd/AzavjwGBhAt6!D9
gzebynDsaBHhp;jqavjjr8~[tqm#xmskgxrhmKyfh,fyfpvnGufwtfw!CqmnbfKgpMBjv
vDphgxKppGuqw!yGdjbfKguAIxi!ozavjjrtfwChe-fBsqhjKzjHH	d^tsjpgjJpoznee+j
rmx}be`ovLnex&kloggirptsNtd$xqbvgesuaBHkv@yFsweyMyfsIkd/gpjqueLobMtis!tAu
sAwgbfJvvGx	d>nudj?eTYP$8WMbMliqrjKaaPCqp!yAmxgesgqKIgp^sloqveGumRtks/
ructcwAltsvzx!lAsbksvpwBxze-ylxjq	rizsush!rmsigeLvetS	d%uloqvezhwxtfg$kEt
zAavjjrPoMywr^zlgtqrrAixCwd&uyfubfFkaHzkm$kE?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dkxAkgeyrvqxLfx*tsahtjIBfGwni|f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrhauLni'fpjuezKzjHHet^xupf?eOojvBee-yAaeqsusvwyid:nqafcD\z
vDpegjvpozM	d}X1XPTNYNaLNfx^jlujcyrAixtuv=pqdvbBszaHJjv@zuoibnFggHOw
lDfswjFjjxM d!ZtfbuqGDaLJji%futbquwybMCsk!gFa650rtfzumi/zL.bcsvgjMtBs;rp
rmugteyvaNJex=f&3`brwnbAywx.alaYkyzguAyel*mt_urjwkayLju;kzdA?eLof
uzf+ojyhcRNjd/gpjqueOpmEtwy+fmub4 *ghBAff*zE.bcsvg2n-eA*rxatwsrhus- ~8
GFa7}`lgstCsd$gzadgesggtwys/ lcwveAAaPIzp%ftbxgeLvauyex/uBjecqrybBH	
AzmkmjrDitNej@rxtbksrtpLNet@xFtbqkrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLo

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ#oeddSMHGbHSWU@`J{!ZQYVbHSWU@`J{!U8FTXNW4a8ZeX 46aCPI
flabbergasteddSMHGbX`VST1JdaU4NCVX

3umnkfEgI89YSi lwkejrwsxMnh^tFaqheGwfKuym=tE.bK]6LUmtrs%kDbvgirAiBMew^yEjqp 

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
QQOPG4r[aYuhx=xEakpkDBfGwnr"fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llDZRe?gBwPfr:gsfubtxgvLCsk
juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbAwytNMet&uFpequQgbGxeq*iDphkqEg(sUet/oybtAeyvbEttj
I0Q>buMimBMmm+mldjcqDlozyxdQfOictfuAfKCxx*iEaqheuvqByxd[xuovgir[a0Ofp*zK
uraucrHsfLtfg&oqwgfeAuaBGfk^fobrvzJla}tXi<kDbnbksjuHLxd:ulcgbhGutBxjv^j
ozaejtGzjGAew$gzokplr[aXGul@yutbqkrJY9ttr!zungnDrhowths|z\fhhjuAjOy
vDpfwhLppGttj!hxbem]sue Qmm:klqtksLleszfg|oyjngxr[a~yxy-zEaqheHypwOhm+m
sudtqkAsnszws_fpjikyssayCqi|f;aCfAsuutAjw!uraetjsAjGAeq*iDphkqEg(sXjx@oxt
iAoegwFpoztuv=jGdvktFg(sWtw:yl(bTtDlaHzeh*muucneLldAHtp=mKakpeDpcKuwC
vDfugwNhuBIsdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GzogbPWUOX'	d@yEpekfLlawCwi$zAs?bIwwbKNri+zlphbUJltxLAe:oAobcsv
IAougwNhuBIs{!IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuA?eGwfGyid&kDavcqCgcRttf|kDwkplrAitNex&k
IAspgqDgYxLtB!VDplghLg)V^U=!nmtbdjwuazOnh^jlcAbyzlatMxy_vFjqpeLobMtyl^
gnjnkyQguHtuv=jGdgbuJpoMyid'gotkonDltsIwd:ulsgrqsjfsJft^xlxkvmrwbIyw
CAvnfetlaBGus/zmov?esAaEyfw:frptbyzlaILjw^tFaigswybMCtr!urawujJzatHi
kCvkrrwuunteW&kleguhJpcxxex&xqfbhfuApKMex&gFakpkDBfGwjh!jqwgntHtfGNes'
ztfbrwGqfvN,d!7>aDghsBtxtyl^fBsqljuAaAuxd^sBicunRlesNmi!vDfugwNhuBIsd=l
jqugtnGybMCsk!hDjvvqwgcHIpw7fFigbvMhmBNDd=llxjcyrDbLtuv=jGdgfezhesNtd#k
yGghkhAloMFDd&osibvtryfMOwr!glqcrjJgsxJqe$kyfpveLvaMBjd|nqmh}erJY9tBe|
uzmAbnFAfKyxx^jljpbzKpoziedw]lbbuDKAfFtyl@zlxcueuvtMajj'koukxjlgxAChl
sqbpveLobMtnx!nmebvtrifswtw:/oporjLpuBPjd>oFibvmwgqKIhi|yqtbezJyfGNqC
gHbknftsfmtuv*tojrcqDFaIBtx=iAqAbfFkaFChv=lumo?esues([d+kIaqteuBsKysx-E
gHbknftsfsJws%AoubjfJkxtLjd@tpauqkLDbKy 

QQOPG4rkfLwwm#kpavjjrheOusx@mqtbvmsAaNMnr"fpjikyssaMyhl+uxpiAeGmgxLxd=Bqs
hAujbuzvuHwtt,fmofbrAjsHznp_.la3_e`ofsJtx^tFjcnewEjLNxd:uldtgfLlattmm"nqs
wGbnkyQgsxJws%Aoukqsrvgsueh^zqskqwsAjGAes/osjpcqrAitHeg=tHfpvnGubE
ruhjv]DloLtyi$nzpnqlQbas*[d}kobwujrhawClm:gxakofylaBMee+fqoeqiwk
xqqtgxwuutNns+ ljvbhsuauyev^vDpfwhwkatAfm+fmofbfyhjGtBm:nloqbwwzvENnr"
rAtubtxgrNuqm:EfacueGwqHMjh!zAavjjrzjMOfx*uzaykyzgmBAmxTrqoubuJvdxMxi| 
ozayjnuoaMBjv^futbfnKjfKHnf-klekhkwyfGwjd#kFxggsrhaLyhs+jlbpfes
yGcugvMloMtli+kDbvktFgpytfr!oybig rg4	tFd%osjvcqrpntAjd$gzadgeEhoBJzp@zqe
ozacbsMtcxLes'fIbAueLvaBGuv=Bqakofylavuux;xq<bhtJgfQurt-kfaZgwGEaAux
jqwgntHlesueA*tppyksygbIJqm$gFjqpeLobMtjr@hxfubtFlaMIeg@vFvtgesgqtAj
iAovcnFpoztgs:nlugzyrhowtnp-AEutcyAvoLtnr!glncpswyaMBfx!uBukonRltsNmi
xqqtqiMjuBIsd=llcqvmmga{%nx&fxjijy	sfGMex^itoqntyF.sIsi!sGtvbhzvpLyeA&ooi
zAaqryAtjSy	d:kJubqwrAixtnp-AEutcyAvoitnr!vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDtjGA	d:nq
iGstgsLgqKuhx*iqakueLvaLBts:fmobkqDBtMLfx^jlqcijrAxBwj{!uzdgbyGgiBAmp*mtu
ztfbvjPAatHid:nqaughGuesNnq^fFpbrwGCjwyex&klcguyrjbINzv^frptbyzl
oxmwuyJhuBIs	Sfl5_bFrkjzCye-funcijrjbGtfp|ulcgbjvpuxx	d%kztkvDrsfOyqw
gpkwuywkaMIev^sAwgbzFkfKFnr*tsacpirzutCsw7fmofbyGgjGwwi@yqanglAijECyC!lAs
lmjpvevvdNGjr:ygab7[rVo Mhv^kzakpxHldMCtr!imobvfClaIFfg^fmubvmwguBGjd=l
ozjvkfDgtxNzt!gzebciBBtMGjr:ylncfjrwsBIwd:ultecsFpoznej@iFptueLobM
yGcuvfFAjtFqC!xqewejrAixtsy_hqsbqkryfMupi|fDfswnJlesCsd]AmmkvDrjpGNws-a

GlqtkrsyzsAte-fAgbE38gitMef^kzavqewCbEOfx^fFigbuswfKtty:vGubrwAuuxxes+
ztfbZjJvysXtg;Zqdj?esgiBAm[|vqffbuJpoMywd:nmubrwGkvvyxdA$*_frnrwbzyxd'xAn
yobppjvgjFuli|fmubceJhuxttj!7#6brfyltsueq*tGug}erRF78J3!xqdqwsLlesMjz^xmm
vGcnkxzpozthl@rxfpijKguHtwi[xqtgpyrmbBNmj;rlbpfeDlhBvqi!xqqtqiMjuBIsw!ur
ztfbqwAnjGuqw!ztbvbyzla-]#[%vuaequQggHLex&klnquyrwbKNew;iofuukMsmR
imqvwwwk?stKs/fqycouDl.sGfr,fAgbvmwgexNjv*uDbvksygwHFzq^yljpbyzlaILtn^iF
CqsgbmwhwBFDd*rxvuvwsAfwtBm:nlgkpjrsjGyeh/gIjpixrvssBfp'zAogueGyavuri!oz
rmoiwfyltsMzg&fmtbLfHhoxMj{!ozayjnuoaMBjd#Aumfwurvgswme/gougtxrjpFJwm|kp
uraxcwQpoztxx/uwfubnKgeBzkm$AxubvtryfILth;iqacveDvxxLev^yAmwvnGutitf
yGsrtnKpoztsy_hqsbqkrAixGeg@sqaykyzgbGHtx@zuppuesuesGfx&kybvkhss
lAsowqsz.sQmm$nljvbBszavLnx*immbvtrifsugp^fFpbfzHsjvuyi!kJbevqQb

QQOPG4rupMyid:nmub3[rAixths[oqtbcwwgcxCsk!vDjpvjvgpGtue[kDavjfLgnxyyw!ztf
GZTKbxLhowuwh|frptbuwygHLre+iq.b4[rAixtIs$A6fejeHyjGNjv!sqfvueLofsGfg&ozf
gzebvtFlssLju;oDfogsLzayIwd[xAqgteskixMns+fAgbrwAuusNtd[gsf?bfKgexMhv*hqe
hKavjjrUbMCtr@rlBtemACfLnee+jlujwxr0-sJft^xlqtqiMjusCxd$uztkfjJlesNtd#k
ztfbcwuojOuqd^wGjxcqwuusIkd[xqtgtAsAjHHet&uFpequQb

QQOPG4rAixHeh*yovuujvgtxPjv@rltcouDltsIkd:nqaswfDpuRtfg&oqwgfeAuaMBj
vDplghLguAuyd&gpadgjFgeBMyv*hGugfeAuattme+jAvv?exvssyCe_vxf?bfrjpISes'fm
vDjpv]Gu_wyre+jlwgtxAvosIkd:nqa3~6'gSxyid-kouwtjrvosNmi!yFfcoeLBsuCsi7
CtjejeuvoMunr|ftbnhyGufLnep*tqaftfOpozM	d@tpaknqMzuKuym=tEagogwkexxem+
zqyv>eLofsznv|zlgqwwrspHMjd[gsfubnFguAyez=rGngbhGtqtLjh!ztfbefHAvKy
imqcdnDpuByxd=lltecsFpoztys!vtpvqhGwzsztv!gltvcsvhswtyi|zluctlwA.sNmi
OQFGbxLhowuwh!7^8Cb6+#8sNjw:foictymga2Hee-rljpuysudxMew$gzokplrwsHPj
