across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions and Realities

The electronic library has been a vision desired by many--and rejected by
some--since Vannevar Bush coined the term memex to describe an automated,
intelligent, personal information system.  Variations on this vision have
included Ted Nelson's Xanadau, Alan Kay's Dynabook, and Lancaster's
"paperless library," with the most recent incarnation being the
"Knowledge Navigator" described by John Scully of Apple.  But the reality
of library service has been less visionary and the leap to the electronic
library has eluded universities, publishers, and information technology
files.

The Memex Research Institute (MemRI), an independent, nonprofit research
and development organization, has created an Electronic Library Program
of shared research and development in order to make the collective vision
more concrete.  The program is working toward the creation of large,
indexed publicly available electronic image collections of published
documents in academic, special, and public libraries.  This strategic
plan is the result of the first stage of the program, which has been an
investigation of the information technologies available to support such
an effort, the economic parameters of electronic service compared to
traditional library operations, and the business and political factors
affecting the shift from print distribution to electronic networked
access.

The strategic plan envisions a combination of publicly searchable access
databases, image (and text) document collections stored on network "file
servers," local and remote network access, and an intellectual property
management-control system.  This combination of technology and
information content is defined in this plan as an E-library or E-library
collection.  Some participating sponsors are already developing projects
based on MemRI's recommended directions.

The E-library strategy projected in this plan is a visionary one that can
enable major changes and improvements in academic, public, and special
library service.  This vision is, though, one that can be realized with
today's technology.  At the same time, it will challenge the political
and social structure within which libraries operate:  in academic
libraries, the traditional emphasis on local collections, extending to
accreditation issues; in public libraries, the potential of electronic
branch and central libraries fully available to the public; and for
special libraries, new opportunities for shared collections and networks.

The environment in which this strategic plan has been developed is, at
the moment, dominated by a sense of library limits.  The continued
expansion and rapid growth of local academic library collections is now
clearly at an end.  Corporate libraries, and even law libraries, are
faced with operating within a difficult economic climate, as well as with
very active competition from commercial information sources.  For
example, public libraries may be seen as a desirable but not critical
municipal service in a time when the budgets of safety and health
agencies are being cut back.

Further, libraries in general have a very high labor-to-cost ratio in
their budgets, and labor costs are still increasing, notwithstanding
automation investments.  It is difficult for libraries to obtain capital,
startup, or seed funding for innovative activities, and those
technology-intensive initiatives that offer the potential of decreased
labor costs can provoke the opposition of library staff.

However, libraries have achieved some considerable successes in the past
two decades by improving both their service and their credibility within
their organizations--and these positive changes have been accomplished
mostly with judicious use of information technologies.  The advances in
computing and information technology have been well-chronicled:  the
continuing precipitous drop in computing costs, the growth of the
Internet and private networks, acpirAixtjB[rAtkxjrpovLje|kljpbuMimBwqC
gHbknftsfsCsj=xybvktFgetNff@yqt}

LAsbgCstqEy	djIXDbjfKgcxwtq^fAogbtxguAyep@xsfuveuvnIOyi/fzfvytJr
uDhcpnRhuBIsw!ozavjjrDpKFid#EldtgfLpoztfd$uAqgtfLpwxthe:gxpiksygoxNBs/q
uraoqwwguAusdA *~`bqAistLni|fIptniOpexoedjt\mkpjrwvuFng!godguxrjbMuqs"y
tAxbujJCfsGnp-oAoubtxgvLyww!uzaoqwwguAusdz$f~``evleBwfx^jlugtrAubEMem+
ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcqGufnteX&klVpkAwytBNDd=llDcnnxvsGCfdhKXW1NeGu_ECsi
imucntygtRMyi_ftbubsGDaxRue+jqebksLvatHem+jqybffLhctMjd/krftgsulaLywz*iq
gzebuzHwpKNxd_uDfbvmsuaLCCd_oxmkqsrzftLhl^ylbbAjsy?stFr% lmkdwsyjxMel@Bq
hqdqojrAixtqe/mqtvblJvvIttj!iGtvqrwytsIkd{J\SQOeHBcECxl*tsavghzupEIlC3
sAsgbyzhos(#{E$*aqryAjbEtri%omarwgDpdtNns+yltwemrhtsNms|klphhjJlesvD
OzgqVwsjatHidnoxwgte8sbMNjv!gDfbuztzdKCgi%fFpbdDr2?`oep*hDbtkjKb

ZtjubrsydAttj!zqdjptDvhRths+zuowgxrhowtnr!ztfbpjPAawyhe%klxknqryfLOqx!oz
lGsvjjJgjGHtz@zuppueLobMtfv^fqyvtjElmRtim'ludwnyrApsJwi%oou}be#obMtnw
ixfcteAzaMBfx!ructcwAltswfr!tAxbitrifRIsh!gGuqofLppGttj!ztfkteGyexLej*rqt
gzebefLhmHAxd:ulbwvtEhuBIsd=llujgnJgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kE_+csvgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIeg*xovoxjFAaMBjd'oEdcneDpnBNfx*uztbvmsAatJui@xluqbttAbBH
zAecA 

ZtjubJDldMLtr*ilMkdwsyzs!yv@zqhkee8sbGtwi$uyngpiKgbsJfv@juhobxzpgMtnr
ructcwQgtxLAm$kfacpirkfFIsw:xmugueLofsMyi[ylogejKzbKSex=fBsqxnvlaBGuv=Bqe
ructcwQgtxLAm$kEaykyzgmBGnx^jldcrfupuByxd@tpaqrjJhuBHld*tHfuvrwuuLo

YQTUKT6gJ#aF

GzogbPWUOX'

ZtfbEtJufEF>2^xAybLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHev^yGmvgirposNmi
xqdqtiAuhsIkdv *~`bgJpuMFjd#uAlubfKg7[]]h[olekinLhmsCre"kEacpirAix
vDpfwhLppGnes+fpfocsvaaHzel*mt_swfDpuRtfr%fmsejnNhmESew=AzebrfHls
xqqnchwtfGNx	!f6igbuJvkxwy{!CtjejeOhtsMzt[uDugfetFaMBjd{uynkuxAvosIs
VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtfp|uljpxjKAjzuyi%fEpogeGmaMBjd*yEvgueKBsKIzr%ozh
yobppnFn.sMys/ozh?bwwAsByAm+mfacpirwsHPnh*tsacehwztsNtd%osjvcqrpntAjw!oz
glogvBGylsysz*xAoogsLb

GzogbPwuoxSeA*rxahqhMzaHHew=sqaqheLofsCxw;kEauwwJvvGxnr"fpjtghLgtvusr*ts
gEakfjFAjyCjh!ozavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:alaCotFnaMBtw^fFpbdjrkjLwzw|kp
gDf<beAtbzyez^xEvubywEuswft:ADf>bnFkfQCsk!gzebchultLjem_gsf+efHAvKy
imqcdnDpuByx,!gldqousyjLIsd:ulqjqyGjpISee+jlnkewGmjEG.d[xAeweyAvosush
iAtvbfFhmRMnw3fEuqtfylayIwq@zE.brwGApvIqw7fmofbxLhowuwh|?lbpfeLofsOxi!ur
ztjubxuhoGCsk!zqdjptDvhRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!vGsrqxwz?

Ztfb8#=|eICeh*muucneAtbzyxd[xAewejvgjGtyl^fOptpjDsa%yws\f2sqljuAaILtz^j
nuhjnDrhdvyux@hxfbhtJgdKyfx*tsarcuwyaKyup@iqngpyKgpytii:kDjqtfLpoz
uDjikssstnteX&kl2?`#=gtvusr^jlwqnzEltsJws<opffbfFgbKLfC!urakofyl_vuux;xq
itbnnjFnfLtyl@zlbtgeuvnFIsd:ulokpjLlfGNm[$kzuwtDrwsBHym+mlugemFprNyxd@tp
kyctkyLsfwtre:kDjcn	rhowtyl@zleghDrAixtzw^fAgbvjPA_vIsz^xEjqpeHypvyxw^yg
ZtfugeuobEFjr"kEakphDBextim_ozjujjvgdHHyv@yFadgyOlfGtyi\zlbpfethdDAws;tp.
lDbikqwgbGxeh^zqskqwsAfwtue"kE.bwswCfGtuv*tFjpi	rlmtvtv@zqavAuwggtwjw7
lmjpvesuesvtp%fFfzveskktwjr$EfajcsvDsBNyi+fFfzvesuesusr=zmukqsKaaGIsV=smo
rmoiwfyltmtfr%fmarttDpgxLfx*uzaqheAsmNMyv@zqebofLlsBuqd^snfffjvgjGtyi\zg
ZtfbnfLAfKthe:ksptAeAudEOii%ftjij]xyfJOjr$ElbpfeDvx zwi]AqoeAezhmyNtr^yf
iAovksMvvLtys+klqjqyGnstJmw7fuovtnuhuxtre:nqncvnuhmsxwe>ozhu?eEhqLn
kFdjksyz.sLjz^xEf+rtDhsBNDd%xmxkplKaatHid^tsscxnFntn

ZtfbZjJvysJws:uFzrgeKjbGHnr"fEzuvjEgqKIAm%kpacbsMtcxLes'funrqwLhoM
lqbvwwwzayIwd$gBuwtnFnaMBnw!juwgtxwgntNjv*gx?bbYwjiGChm@tEawujvgnNFym[rq
ztsgumGsesMjx:ozhu?expmMyww7fxjpgesyusush!nmmhvtFlawykm+oFjqpxl
gGuqujytfGNfx*uz.bynFkpPCsk7fmofbxGmuPuwiTkpjvksygqKIlv@sEavqeGwuBGnD^
oybigeuhqMOwi8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?eLojLtuv=pqdvbkGjvLyid=tlqtqiMjuBIs	
ZtfbitssaPuxd:ulncmjrzdtHsm+mlbubfxmpKxff-klbpfesjdxJye#rqacu
vtpvqhGwzBHld@tpaokhJvgBFrm+mlgqteHyfLywz@zuppbwwmpKGfx:ozh}beS
zung+fFk_vIxx!yFvfAeuvowOhx^jlewtnFnaMBjd-gEubvmJlfsGtr:nEaqheLojL
vDplghLgdHHkm/sqebvmwgfvIss_ooaxkftpmBNDd=llekinLhmsMhe+tuoi?esuesNmi|k
luofksyzaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyid&kDf}

LDpobyzlaHOyw^zfavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:fIbubuJleBwfx^jlppbyzlaNMjd=l
tAorttHyjxNfv,fEucpisyeLtfr%fFigbzKlaHzeg=syppbuJvuHwtp|fIigpeKAbGxfv%y
juebptLgfQCxx8flEkinLhmsznp^ylxgtjrjsxuyi%fmtbVNXMaBGfk^ylxjkhzgxxLj
iAnrtjKzfwtuv*uDavqeKApKuli!AEjpieYypNJe8!IOJVVeuvnILjw|oAo}be`ofs^jv=D
yAgvyfJlaBMeQnfPPUbgszfwtfr%fGuknnRltsIkjTztfbumwsgsJws"xmnubxMjisux
SudtqxGmus%nr%uItbcsvgXtHlddsmhgb2AGbKx d!ZtfbfnyputFep*hDbtAeAzawyxm"tqe
zAadgezhswQfv^/uofguwuexHyd@tpavqeHypOCii!ozugthzhozyff*ruuAbBAAisIyl^x
oztvkyMAjHHxd:nDpwimrufMQtv)fopppjuAjHHx	!fMdegxKguHtyl^fpjikyssayCqi|
ztfoujDCfLtnw!zIp+vnwyfwied}onmkqlJhqAChd/koptfxrmpKtyl^foporzLlssznp^y
gDfbewwhuxxem+f4MKPesuesWtv+kxm&ueDvdtFew,yFfobfFkatwhi|yljpvtrAixtfg:Amm
juhkvfDgjFuli|foporwAzjGAee!hApmbnKgqKIAm%kpavjwGBhAtfd%uovogsLgdHHyv=r
yFsweyMyfsush!glogvBGylxxem_gsfbhnDl_Lywz^xfadqyzgpytBl*itaykqDgcx
jqtetntlen

ZtfbrwwzfGNfx*uzaykqDgdHHhp;jqaykyzgbsxnw$AEtkqsrvgsMtq^fAgbvmwgjLMzi|
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmaMBnw!zqdjptDvhRtfw!glqtgxwywtNns+fFpqne}zuHLfk^ 
xqgtgxzpoznef@iwvr_ 

VmngnfrHOW`Jd@tpaLwiAAis"NH?X

ZtfbPfLppGuqd?mDjewqLBstFeP*hDbtAe}UB5 el@ylicfewEuxHxm<klfzrjJpfGwjd>oFi
xmtvgwrzdtHsm+mlphbuJpoMyid_gFftkfDz?stXm+iqa3~!-aaMBjdgonsctDrobL
vmsvkhAwbMyid*tlujge6huBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!ZqyvbIAnjMCEm+mlQtqowjus	SEoJ2-
gldqquwybMCAi!krgqtyrifMQji+fZBNbfFkayIwx,/rjxgeDhowtlv@tFawpnNlsLCyC
ructcwAltnteE+fAwgtAAlxsIkd:nqarttBldMtBm-rlcgbuJltxHyi% lhkxnFnaBNx
nutvqwQgbGxeR?R/tbuyJhuxADd'uDavjjrmvMOwi8

Gzakp]vlqMBeh*yovuunGuaHzeR?ZPQbynDsayIqp=CfakphDBeBHld@fpfuewAwuBIsd=l
ztfbuhsuoBHld[xAdguxlggKIrd:nqaicyzlsBHld=llujgeHyjGNjh!smugtnsstsNtd:nq
gDdjkAAuhsIkd:nqagnjuAsHHng!vmhgu rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlsgszAyfwtks/fm
yFbpf]sspGyew$gzokplrDpKExx@zuppbfFkaMBjd*sBptvfFjfsIkd'oxfbofFhhxGjr:
yAgvyfJlaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyi	!fUtuwjKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaBGfk^ylujgrKlmOyxd>oxm
hqacfiJltLyid#xufhnDlgtNwmd@yljoclwggHLre:?lcnchCgbGxeA&oFfbxjJzvLths-uD<
mDbAbxuhmxtAi/yGtbfnLofKCsk3fmofbwwzpEOym=tg

GxtqbiwzdKCgi%fIjnnetlattxx;jKaewwJloMFDd*tlqtqlJltLtgC!TMMbvtrlwtFze:k
ztfbwxwmvEHjw|fAgbetFCfKNnr"fyjettxpmFtys!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbksrvswywd:u
oyqtqAwgbvwjw|alaYkyzguAyeg=uBftcyAvosIkdoAElgijwgVGCAi/yuuA?e6HMsBfw
yqmgeywkaMBwi^fDfgnxrvgsGng/urjnoexypFtfd$uxmgeyAvosIkd|oJuA+xwCfGtwi^rE
iAovcnFpoztyl^fBbrgwKaaEyyx^xE.bcsvgeKuBm+mEaqheYlpKAjdrgEikplLvosWfv<kD?
ZtfbvmJlfsLji-ylxgtjrjpGPjv:kpakpyGg4m-#@!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbwxAuhsu
yBfekfDpAxxeq*iDphkqEgtvusr^xgabVmwgtxFjg:oAo?bkAsnBHl{!gzebksvlyBHld=l
ztjubrsAfKCfp!CumnbgwgeBMhy|yqe}

JAocnir4B!YWW

VDplghLgPIysd}uAl?byzla^uqi!1zjxgwKpuRtQm#xmsA&xrlgyIwx!zAaeqsNlsMt6@7
$*~bdtGrtszws_fyjettxpmFtys!juhkvfDgjFuli/EfakueuBsKysx-EljpbfFgbwPfr$kp
yFbvgeGmaIFfr+ozhbcsvgpKAfr*Fmukqsmga!BjdtgxfbNntybKSel@yltgnjuAfwtf
smkqteNlowIwd:ultgtAwgbLtfd[gDupgwrposNmi!vDplghLgbGxee|fEzuvjEz
ozugiwsApKoeddtljvueHypIIxe- lujgeKBdvyxw'AxaxgsvvssBjp[kpakutDhuxtfv^gE
uratkxCgbGxey+iqsvcnFAzsuxd>kxmbcxrrfRtnw|Aqtbvtrifsuih/kEtgfevBsBHld:nq
ruggbtxguAyet/uvfev rgUAye3@rqaNkgJhsRtnw!tAxbrtAzfwtys!jqdkfjrDitN
smugtnssaBNeA*rxaeqsNlsMtys!juhkvfDgjFuli!lAsobfFkaMIew^kwahwsvpozn
ozjvkfDszsztv!ztfbhnJzusJme|klbpfeLofGtks/fFigbjFAjKyet/uvfev 

ZtfbrwGwpLuqd:nmub1fDlatwhi[zqebhtJguAyem_vxfogsLhuBIsd=llQtqowjus9ui+
HApmbBAsmsJws<opfbcyrAixtjr%fAgbvmJlfsJme|kEacbhGuwxLxm=tltwdxQzuxG	
hDpyunFnaLNfx*uztbfnKAsBvzx^jlppbyzlavurt;ylogvBGylsQnx&ozavjjr6bEy
RuctcwQaattxy#yKtvgrrmpKtxx=xuoib6=a~[]ef=uwtbcyr9~[tfr%f^~`biGAtsJjv
ozdj?esuesHjx>uDlbchultLtys!ztfbkrsnfsJwm+zqsu}erWsBwnr"frptbyzlaLSxx^s
oyqngrwuutNns+fmtuwrwzaMBjd^DutvgsulaHze3@rq"ubhstqNMei:nqspgyrufMQtv)
gzebkyKgiBAm[|vqffbnEhhxtuv*tFftu	rhowtnr$rGegueGAixLev^wGjukywgitLiA@xq
gzebutxAxtLj{!gEaygqDgbLtxC|zqnbksLlhKuym=tltgtAAjfLoedkxAqqujvgpIywe:ozh
iAtvueAudEOii!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgntCsx^tmoeg	rivMtis!tAubksusvwy
kEukofLltsztv!ztfbhfupmBNni|fybpclwtfGNes'fFigbxLvstAjd%kHjegxrhowtnq@mq
yqsxgwKb

5mmgbxwsfvNjh!oFtbxjFkpKtue/zzftbnFgbsztv_gxarttultLnet@xFmAbkMuexxef,
ztfbEtEtjLMns+frptbUJltxLAe:oAobcsvgBvwjw|alaHqqDvxBHld@fDfswjKAayIw
vDprqxss.sNmi!5mmgbQAistLDd|kxfevjvguPIez^tpptueszayCse-oEuubyGgxHLpd>oFi
5mmgbxLhgytys!mqogtfLlattii:gumgfesubESxm|fAgbtjIBjKyri+zEahqwrWsHDjg:
UBfpbGGvlnteI@itaxgsvvssOxi%fFigbwwzvENxd=llujgeJlrNCwi_kzuubfFhmRMnw!zA
mqogtfLlatHid|AnnkvesggHLre-fBsqrtKhmsztv!ztfbgsLpsxtuv=pqdv}er1iBM
iAnrgyAAjOyet/uofuueFvusIsp,fqocdqwkaMBjdtgxfbNntybKSex=fEfnghLgjMM
vDjocwQgwxHis/fBbtvswyauOyd@rEpbtjNlbEyid_AoibcgGBusNmi!yFbvgeGmaMBj
oybiksygjGxzw:xK.bcgGBusNmi!BmsAksyaavIwt=xmugbhGtnBNri+zEavqeLofsGfv)kFt
lAsbkrsnjGAex^itoqntyF.sush!gnpwveLofsPfv,ozhbqwyhoBTfx*uzbnbiQubFChw
ztsqwlzgxAChl!smkqteuvnIusm^ylbtgeJltIIsh*tsavqesuesMji)ozhbvtrkfOyqs[
ztfugeEhsDyyw8

VDplghLgPIysd}uAlbkxrmpvOxi%fEqgenxpdtFqC!uzavjjrjpGPjv|oAobqkrpntAjw
lDpobrAjsHznp_fFpbfnyputFej=xy?bbYzlaMyhl+uxpiAexvssMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_fut
xqbfkqQgbOunp@hxfbdzLgjLthl@tsjpieJhqBxqC8flJpbnLzaILtn^iFatgvMpsxGjr:yf
ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKagouzhtBTjh!lqbvwwwzaHzex&klugemFvmHADd:nmubckxldMtyl^
zqdjpnuhmsKze-oFzbqkrkjzCye-funcijrwsHxzg:oAobcsvguAyeg=yFtbqkrjsxuym+m
gzebuyGyjGAex&kljoclwgmBvwe/EaabYmsAaEyAi-ylphbiAnjMuqd/kEpnwyAvoswfr!hq
goikgAwkauSew$gzokplrtjvLtj*ry}bbMGDawIjw!BmskcyAvosCsd:nqaswfDpuRttj
sudtqkAsnmtue/zudwnfJszsCsd'oxnbrwGkvvyid:ulqtgxwywtNns+fEucpisyeLn
grggeyrAixtvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyx !f9icveLldAHtp=mufubhsuatH
uBftcyGyaxzki$zuwgnDrhowtjg=tAnkefDszsuut-ElxjgsrzdtHsm+mlgknrrAp
yqqctfLlaMQt[;vljoclwzatHid:uldqpyJvmsztv!gzebetJyfvNem_gsf
oyqgtkwjuBIsw9flIqyeuhosKze-oFzbetFAsHFef^yFadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyG
juhkvnRpoztBs/qlgnqBrAitNem+ixvfgxrkpvOri+zljpfjPpoztfr%fEuqtfyl}

ZtfbchLBbEtfr%fqyrghLlesOxi|fAgbfnyputFem_gsfu+]KApKuli7fnsqyxAuhm
vDjpvnFn.sush!UOS++mwsqsxjx^xyjpgeLofsMye+jmsfuexvssGje|ADjpieLofBL
wGbnkyQbasVws>yuoibnKgfLJjg*gxmAbnEwpKNfr: lcwveLofszfg*ruukgxrhwtCqe#rq
lAsbtjskfKMex=fnsqyxwgjFuli!jAdwojFAtsCxd[kDicrxrAixtBi@qqtvbfKwfvNes'
oybiksyguxwmr=rAhAbfFkaFIxx!ozapgjvgpytii<kxprojFA?stFw!oFafgkAufwtnx|
xqrwkwwtfGNx{!ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKaeqsuloMLfx^jlppbxGtfszzr%gyfpvfDgbLJjg:y
urawuftpmBNDd'uDakofylawIhy_kzuu<erKpxMex&kltAuywtaAuAi!yGghkhAloM
lxfzkgAsjMSex=ftbpfqwguAyej;rxatcsylaHzeh=iGngpyrAzIyx{!ozdnwiAuh
sAoqiwswiLneq;rFj+rfJAatHid_AxukxtDBnxtxi:yfacpirzfKCfp| lbubBwsmsux
smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFz}st2l@zldqpAwuuBIsw!gDfbpjultLuwC!zAakfjFAjySee
jAdwojFAaNHnu;kxzbhtJgtMIwe"klbpfeJluKCjz@rhabYmwyfsCxd:nqafcysibLyes'
xqdqtirmpKtxx=xuoibgAimBIlv@vtjebnFmpKGfx*uzacdtMAaMBjd*smhgbiGjvFysx9
NAxbcwwgctMng!ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgueGmawIhy_kzuu?eKBdAtfw!vmhkpfLppGneq@jq
godguxAimxtys!ztfbtjskfKpedcuIactjrAixtnq@mqafqhMtfGNxd[nKtkefDsz
vDfugsLlesIsd:nqauewwlosNtd:nqatgfvlso

Ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKafgxAnoxxeT/uvfeve7wfGtGs=qlppbyzlatMxy_vFjqpeLobM
sudtqkAsnsCxd_uDfbvmsuatxju;gFfbcxrhaFyim;slgqteHyfLywz*tsavjjrjpGNjr:fAg
jqugtnGybMyid-onsctDrtbMywm@rE?bbFKgqEusr*tsakpeLofsJws(koubjfKgbwPfr$kp.
oFakueAudKyfw*tsmAbhDlbKtyl@zlujgeuobEFjr"klphbiAnjMuqd*smhgbywjiGIqs"E
gzebvmwglxSex=fFigbxMjdxMxd=llfhhtJAtsFno^f2sqljuAa8Jjr!HApmbnKguH
vDpxkiwgbsGje+ylphbgGAisJwi|kDwkplrhowtnq[xAwkplrhdvyxw!zAavjtKl
jqugtnGybMyid_gFftkfDz?

YQTUKT6gJ#aG

Mqptijr1I87F

OzavjjrBtxttj!kxfevwGujvtnq@muoibkGyawIhy_kzubrwwzfKPfx*uz.bvmwyfsuwi
yqwgtfDgjLMzi|fFpbetFzjwyw{!yGdjbfK?asysw;xuoibfvlrNuyi!oybigeIBbECyC7
smjpvfAujGAew;hEucpyAhmswtr<kDtkqsrybMyxdRztsqwlz|qNN[{!vDpxkiAuhsOsm]Aq
opfpvnxpdtNns+frptbfMApFuyi%fmdegxKgbGxev^zDjgxfDaatHid@iopootvhuBHl
hAvpfeNvmNGjw!gzebhwsnjEyeq@zqskcqm

ZAaocnFAbBHel*mtakofylaJOfp*zK.bkrsnfsJws$kEtkplrmvGwym=tEactjryfJOnv^j
zAaeqwJldMtyl^fpfhkhAlovCjw!ozavjjrzdtHsi%funcijmga`Iri!iAnogwupbEFD
gHbknftsfsMDw:kytbksusvwyex&kEfbhzFjuBIsw7fIiknjrzpFyeh=fzpv}er1ix
yobppjvgstQem_gsfbozKAauyet/uofuujvguHths/xqdvbhGuuKuxx!jqgkenwudByx[T
hAujbuGvssIAi/gxmbetFAstMyd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!ruhjveHyjGNee+j	ptbisyl
hmdmiwGBownee+jlwctnsimxths+zDbuveJltNFym+mlgtqrrzutCsw!gze
hxfgf]LosHOll8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fFigbxuhosxjr|oFzbozKAauyee%kCvcvjrApsuqp=C
rqhkdnDpuRttj!vDjpvesuesMzj'oojgpyrmjwyqm:EljpbyzlaIMjy%u\icnkLvoxxek/gK
smugtnss?stGs/jqsubtJgqtAj[^jsfbgkxldMMeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh!lAsbdtLo
iAnrchLpcBFnx,fmofbfwzuAyym$ygabRfylaLEjA!sGtvbgwgdHLwi$zqebhtJgbxMyl^zud
xqbuqsKgbGxex=fqocdqwgbvwzv@zqaejfJhdMywd/kopipnLppGtnj!jqtktjvb
IAnrqzFkaBGfk^yldqpxAzuBHld=llcqvmrAxHays+kpavgCLgbGxek/gK_uefDl
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!sGtvbgwgqKIhi|yqebcuHypILne:kxzbvtryfMunr!ztfbszssjMSes'
kmdj}

YQTUKT6gJ#aH

PqbpbGSYP7UX

YFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC!yojgpyAzuLnei+muoggwKaatHi
hGtkpjKzaFuse"kDtbksrHtLIhm@zuppbkGya2Hks/smukqsrhowtNq@mqaOcssnfFysx
[MJKO[rzutHie/jEaeqrEpuMyjw!imobdjrhqIFni%fFpbgqwjuKIsm$funcijrtbGuli_kzu
[QJO_eHypvyxw^yljpeqMkjGA,d!jAdwojFAa{Cre"k>avtfFzgxL	d/kFskgAssatHi
kHbnwfLppGjes[zudcnevptDtfr%fppewrwuusMhe+tuoi>esuesxtg;sqovbiwzjzHee+j
iAoxgwKppGoedrnqobetEijGyid>oFibGN5gtRMyi_fBmcpsAuhsush!uBftcyAvoLn
yFbpffJktswfr!gEtkuyrposAjr^xmukplrpntAjd%gFbdcxwzaMBfx!gDf
ozugthzhozyff-klboqsygbsPfv*kFzbqkrzzLNjq|alaVjjrhqIFng@zuppueGm
jughgwwuusuut/umdjgxrmpKtnq@mq_vclypoznem+jqykpllgdHGuv^yEjqp	rhow
zDbpukwyaHzyi+fobwujrBovywx@ozuAbhGudxLsm+mlFKOeKFtMyrd$uyqcvntpmBND{
immkdwsAjHH	d[kDgqtrsudxnee+jlvryfJkavIrt@zucknnLF.sOsx*rltvcsvhsw
oyqngrwuutNns+fBbtcrwAfKMee/klfuvftsjLBjh8flUjgeSPJ6txx@tpbtfxrAitNee/k
hqjpievlwxFtt^jlgqteLofLyee[vxjecyAvoLthe+fnfbwxwkaMIeh^iDfcujrAix
AzdgtyspoMS	d|AodguxxBmESem+zqhtcywgjFulm+mlqtqhwztxM	d@tparttEvuxt-s[kz
yKtvgrKb&stFMdSljubfFgbvwwi%oFffbFElsBwfr!Tmukqsssa`Nfr%gDeubNFzuBNzx^
[MOUK[rzutHie/jEafgAwspIywd>oFibotJlaMBfr!zIfpvDrjpFGnx:kqtbetEwsBMjh!ur
9*~bxtDBoMyjv|fDfrtjKloMCsk!AEftu	rCfGxtv| lbpfeEhoNzfg:ADftu rgUAy
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzaMBfx!gDfbfjNlmHJjh!ozavjjKlavIrq*zFfguezhwx
tmukqsssatwhi[zmoegesuesJws<opfbvmwgctMnw!lAsbksLlsGuym=tmmbjfJtpGCEe:oAo
ozavjjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgoxQeM+zqspcyAvotFeS/mmokBfLppGtks/f5ucpisyeBTfx*uz
[UTQ_eKAbGxfv%yg

ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobfjKjsBvjw!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbF1PN,MeIdSltvcsvhswMee+jlb
tqxbgkxvsMtfx!GUJO?esgetNff@yqaqpeKAbGxfv%ylqtqowjuLtnr!glxkfjrmstGjA=xw
urakofypoztnr%AEutkjKgjGwqy%ozhbefHAvKy	d/koptfnFn.sJws$kEtkpll
jGqnkhsAjHH	d%oEutkgMAjHH	d%oEqncDlgfOuqy@zupp?esuesJwi|kDwcvnGu?stYl^
GUJObNEhhxLDd	gFbdcxwgxBFqd$uHftbnEhhBHld|zmofcwvzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC
smoAbtJnbGCEe:oAoubnFgntHDd%orggtjFAavIzr:xufu}erPusQnp-foppvfAu
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFz"sxfx^yfaqtnypoLnev^rmugfeFhuBIse-fmof
ozugtssAjHHfp!vDplghLz.sMye:AE.bmjQgxHLiw7fmofbftzuKuhx|alaVjjrHO`3eM_gsf
ZqdjptDvhRtXx@tpbtfxrIptLid/kCvguywkaMBfx!yGdjbfrkbMuge|klcgbjKAbuFnw&kp.
gEafkirAixtNWj\UovgwFhuBIse-fQmgeyJvuxwmr*immbEtEtjLMns+fVpkpyr1bLEeJ=xof
uzaKofylsRoed?OUNbynDsaMupi!uzavjjrsftxjv|nuqbttDlayIwd:nqafcysibLyee+j
iAptfnFhuxtnx|fpfxgqGwnxHyd>oFibujNlstFew:gzectiKgexPjp=vqsu}

VmutkhAhaUUYXdT

flabbHzhstwyi/oEukexrvgsMye+jmsfuexvssxnk*zmmbkrsnfKS,

flabbergas{eR@zGsgbtxgeBAnx@rlugemFvmHADd*sBmkgxrjpGNnr;ozhbxtDhuBFnx,a

flabbergas{eT/kojrkyGBtsMye+jmsf+xwAuBHld+uFarqxKpcEyee+jlqtqgsimRtss:
flabbergasxjw*xmcng 

flabbergas{eW:gzectiKgbKyee!iAnrnjPgjLMzi!ozwqnAAuhsNmi!sqekwrlguAy
flabbergasBfv%Cmsg?eLofsMtj:Cmsg?esuesNmi!zqdjpnuhmswft@iuuAbkGy
flabbergasLjt/upvevnNlayCii-oFzbcsvgdEuwm:Eg

flabbergas{eX&klqtqlFvtBMej=xlsgnnsimxtfv$nuwcneKAbGxfv%yl)cuevlgBHjh!hK
flabbergasFnf/gDjcpx{gjGtyl^frptgxwlbuFjd'AFvtgeAzaIItv8

flabbXAnoBzng@tFarqywuuBuqd@tpacvyJhdMCAi+kEtbqkrkjzCye-fFfejsGspzSee|fm
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobojvpvFtfr%fmdegxKgnxwme+oEn}

flabbUJveNwym<klvugeGmawClm:gxakofylsRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!xqrwkwwzat
flabbwwjpGwjt:AmmkBnFnaHzet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKgjGtfd<uxbvkqwa
flabbxLhowuwh-kEtbytJsen

flabbHGudxJyd=llncpfypozths+zuowksygbvwjw|fuobvmwgeBAnx@rlfpxnJvoFysx
flabbwsAixLex&gzahqhMzjGAes+fFigbuwyntHjr$klphbyzlaFyim;slbpfeDvozayi/s
flabbfJjiBPfp!yFbpffJktsxjz^rAqgfexvssNmi!gzbnqlrDpKFi	

flabbYJhoLCym=tlqgtnGk;stMs>fxppiesuesQme:fFpbftn

flabbergas{edmkpfhkswg&tLhl*Bmm}*

flabbergas{edmkypxgeLofsvzv%kzaqhe,hsvBnz@rldqrD,ggKIrd[gBftbfJAjyuhx|a

flabbergas{edpyqafklAAbEtyi$nzpnqlQggHLew:uDbig	rkfOyqs[fybpclwtfGN
flabbergasMyv@zqhkgxrmpKtwi'xqtjksygnxxny_ lictiOhsxtfr%fEphvBsyfn

flabbergas{ed{xqbvgesjjwakv^klqcrjJgdHJni|frptbyJhoLCym=tlqgtnGkauuho;v
flabbergasOsx*rlxgbiwCfEIud/kxjcdqwgqKIhi%ADfubkGyaxHxy/ozhbetFAjGOnr"
flabbergasuhg^yEavqevphBNfp!lumgu 

YQTUKT6gJ#aI

YFvctyr4F2VJP!flabbergastYl^f4pngeGma`1RP!SmsmwurposNmi!I1SGbUJvkxwydR`>

ZtfbgrwyhxHhi!urajklz|tIyjh!zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubswAxHLpw!gEacbgszjv
lqbvwwwgpytyl^fEdjqqsymRtBs/qBmcejrptsxwm<ozhbvmwgexGfr%frptbjDldMLtr*i
jAdwojFAawyqm<kDz}be`osxyeh*yFjpeyrjbMyls/oqtbqkrlmxwyv=tud
vGcnkxzpozgwi[AnmkumAuhsuwi!tqdguxsyzsNtd|ABqqtyrhdvyxw!jqncpiKgjGtyl*y
kyftinFnaxHAm/uzngpyg

flabb6m/asWtr<kDtkqsrvgsJft^xlptbrAjsHznp_fmsejnNltsNtd^rqdvttFpdsztv_gF
flabb7m/asWtr<kDtkqsrvgsyqi$zDppkhrmjEyxd:ulgqtrsAtsNfm-uDffbyG
flabbergasyqi$zDppkhryfMLni<gxacpirkjLJqe,
flabb8m/as0wm_gDzbgqwjuKIsm$fBvdnnKojGAe+_gFftkfDzayIwd>nudjbyzl
flabbergasyqi$zDppkhrCfKMns+futbvmwgqKCre/ElgqtrsA-

UOMEbmszaxRui/oyfpvfDgpKtuv=jGdvbiwCfEIuq^tFaceyACjMCjw!ozagchzgpytyl^yq
gDfcu rgBFIsk!ztfbemssmxHli|fFicveDpfsumi@jljubyzlaBHyi"xmukqsrvgsNmi|k
ztsggeLFqxMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd|zAsgueAuavImi/kzubfnKAsBvzx^jltAuywttn

ZtfbET0La{Wmi_oEutAe7umBHjdmkFskgAssaXRui/oyfpv[rWsHDjg:futbceEvexFej=x
ztfbetFCfKMns+fAgbnfJnfsNjB:fmofblJhqAChw!iAmnghLppGMej=xlxjkhz
kxfevwGujvtyC[kEfvvnFnayCqi|fmsgbfNhjEugp^f<dcvjyvsRt7=8flUjgeStfKChe+
Itfokhssa`Ihm^zKajcxrtbwyee<gumcdqwgdHGuy:kDavAuGnstJmC!lumguevhuBHld'xAn
7&9`bkGyaBNxd:CqovAeBvvKHfp|alaVjnKgdHFqi$zuppbtxgtHGjdw~*alqzJubEaDi@xE
oEadgnFnavIsz^xFffbyGgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLre:fFicveOpmEtgi!godguxAimx
ztsqwlzgtxPjv@rlfpf]MzfKtft[rudcvnGutn

ZtfbwxwgpytXx@tpbtfeYloxLfp*FqebOfJrvItQe+mGbige}ZH66[d=lrftueLofsGje+y
zAaecuLBsxtyl^fEutwhLBstFev*itoguxrvgsNmi!uDjiksssatLym$rqtbksrhaPuDd:nmu
CumnbxMwqHLyd@fHbtkjLFaHzev^zDjgxfDaaGuAm"gFjqp	rhowtim|vxbAbtHAjHHx
tqdguxsyzsNtd+gHjicywgfyzjg:oHfnAeAuaOywC!rmsigeLlyMtie:gnbugxm

GzaUIR4geHwzq^tFaeqsKptMMes'fFfzveLobMtnw!smsmgirBqsQnx&fpfuewAwuBPjd:gst
ztbvbxHldBzDd:nqahwsuAjHHes'fmaikAwuaxFjq^tFaykyzposNmi!jAdwojFA?stFw!g
lAsocqrsbGAze"kldqpxLyvvN	d@tlTIOQrkpvOri+zldcpetlaIuww^jlbicnFzusu
jAdwojFA_MSui!jqgkpnLppGt=HoJ>avjfLgvGurf*mGpwuqQgexznr^ylxjcyrlmxGjr:y
gDfbcqDvxxxee+jlxjgwwgjGtyl^fppewrwuusNmi,fobpb=GyaFOxxSfAdewwmga!Bnw
lAsocqAGfwtre[fAgbcwLpdEyew:xGdvwwwgbEFtA|fFigbzKlssCsx^xrbegevltBAsd:u
hqawphGBqEyid'xAnbvmwgvGxjv-EuoibisAbuuxi!yKtvgrlgbGtnq[uDucpyrzuxJ
zAxctirpoMyws[kDbdkqAAznteH^sAouvwsAjHHes'fFikueKlqtLff*ruuAbnKgbsJfv:fAg
ztfbET0LaILtn^iF.bymwyfBHey|kDakpywygtwjd%kEjipxripKHes'fHftAevpgyywi+z
vtjnqxGwiByxd>oxmbchultLtyl^fEbogevhutvfw^a

T1UGU,
flabb=)/as@mi!I1SGbuJvkxwyd*ylbbetDsbuIwe:oAobcrGuhsWtv+kxmbWsACfKMnx,-E
flabbRsuos6nf/gDz?bGwsmsWtq_AzjecyAvoLtWi|kmseje}IfEFhs/k>.bvmwgBFywm$gz
flabbHzlnBwfp!YAdkgyQg)TWX=7fFigbHzlnBwfp!GntvtfuAts!jv<oofb-HSZ-mtfr%
flabbTUSDn

SudjcjDgMX!Pd!flabbergasted!flUjgeUVSXtJp^iFsqpnugDAyrm|zDzbNntybKS

GlncltJgpGaqm+klgknjrvgswmi_oobnboGBsGuqd-oFftcyMyfswtq[rqugbBAAi
mDbrjnuzaBMef^ozhbfjNlmHJjh!zAavgxLguAyey|gnjnkyQgpytky-rKagnjuAsHHng
godguxrApsxtg;sqovu	rhtsuen=ozubrwGqfvNes'fOptpjDsa@Hnz^xEjvA	rAix
GyftkhsuaVBjq*immbUtupfMS	d:nqaEjjEpdtFeE#yFsceyKgTxLAm$kfaQEQUaatHi
HqmnetJla{Qnx&fmefkyAvotFew;vBptvexypFtXy+fYjettKFtMyrw7f5qtksyls $jv-gs.
Juhkvf1gFJOnt_kzubEtJwpKuym=tfaUqsQgDHLus/gFjqpeGmaTGjv*im.bcsvgBIJqi
IAnrwywyt	oedjADahkqwgdHHye*tEavjjrHnxLng@tlDjgrAjbEtXs$oquA&xrvo Fnr^
pAvtpfDz.sMzt[rqngpywkaPCyl!ztfbiwswiBwxd'xAnbvmwgqtJjv!vGcnkhsAjHH d!Ztf
ozegznFnaHzex&klbtvnusfLtkv=slDjgrAjbEtFf|zDbevxrKpvOri+zEakuesCbBFff-k
ozadqyzgjFuli!gzebvjPAayIwq@zfacpirzfOywe-fpjhhjJloMtnr:kDgcejKgdtHef^
AEff}erVvKtls@rEactjr]2	tys!gEtguxrAixtjj'koukxjFltLtfr%fmdeguLhcBFnx,fAg
kxfevwGujvtfg$kEtbvtrwsBGfv,fvpwtssstsuxd$uyqctjvgxBNmd[gBft?esues	7=!zA
opfpvnxFaMBjd_uEubfjKpstvqi!lGoevnGutsIkd:nqawujJgjGNjv'gofbvtrho
kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnbqkrqpNLse-yfakphDBeBHld*tlqctyAjvEuwd@foporfJptHHes'
V1CbfjNlmHJjh!tGngttMzaLyqi$zuppbhJpuxLne7fuoenzvpozied@frjtoeuvnFCyx^j
zAakofyl_wIhy_kzubofFhhxGjr: lujgesijECyC!zAaugwNlatMew,yFfoueAuuxAwe:uD
ozacbqsyhxaxg@rqarttBldMttz^xltgxjJhmsSje/yfakpywyfLNem+fpfxgqGwjGAex&k
xqrwkxAAfsMtj:CmsgbfKgbsMye+jmsfbwsAixLex&gzacbhMzuHGet/upvev	rhowtf
CumnksyufLMex=fuoxgxLgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^yljpbyzlaILtn^iFakvxwsgn

ZIpbxjFkpKM	d	KOacpir5fKIC{!CqsgbxwsfvNjh!gEahksssjLNxd*tlPevttlss&@!v 
gzebynLoaMBjd|ABqqtyrvgsNmi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtje$n
CmtbetEtjLMns+kpavqeyloxLfx^fmafgyspmxxev^wGjtgrwuuLtfr@rKtkuexvssNmi
vDplghLgbGxex&kzavqeKBcFCyd@frptofDgqKIus|gxahqwrAixths_vxfvktFgpytyl^
vDplghLaaPBng&fuoenzvlesuef;jsfvbfFkavIxx|alUjgeLlsFMeA^xqavjfLgQ8VeA=Axe
vmzbvmwgmHMjv8flUjgeJltNFyw!lAsb1fDlaHzem+BAmxksygbsPjr%uDakphDBexx,
hDpcfeAuwHFAi_kzubqkr6bEyew:grgbchJvtLtyl^fnpctirhusuev^rmukxjDFaEIB
iAtv?eOojvBeq@ElicxjrspGA]x^xyauklFpgBwfr$kljpbhsysRCsk!uGubvmwgqKIoi$z
[FxgpyQ|gBPjd:ulujkwLFaNHnz^xEjvAeHlpIFjd@xqagplsnfwtnr!V1C_>etluMyw
AzegtxLhowCsk!uravjjrmbvNtv|fFicvesmgxwyd$uDqqtfLlaKyxt=tEfbvtrtbKEjx|
lAsbkrsnjGAet/upvevxhgbswtq[kFjvkAwgqKIus|gx<bcsvgbsGtv^fEprjnKAjvuyi%
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw8

ZtfbotKAaBGus/zmovbksjuHLex&gFafkxLpozOnw&kpavjjrCfGxtv|fGofgw
iAoukiwybMCtr!CmtbvmwpssCii+zugkefLppGtBm:nlujgeuBtMIri/alaVjjrzjSyee+j
ozugtsssavIrt-kJjvAeGmaMBjd$uyqcpDrhmLIeA@ylbpbnEwpKNfr:frbevtJbas0TF!Cmt
rApmksygbMtqe/mqaeqrHhoByxd:nmubjfvgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^ygabKsrAixtjr% 
ztfbrwGjfLMek^tqscvjvggHLe3@rqavytrjpFJjx*zuwgbuJvqHMfp| lxkvmr5fKIC(|
ztfbeqwhssQnr+kD?bb2S1F~!ex&kzafgxuyjuyid:nqaeqrHvoxHyw!uravjjrwsHJtw@rf
ztfbfjKphGtuv*tojrnjKaatHid|uyfbqkrAixths|zEaguyAtbMyid'uDavjjrwsHwjw|a

IAnrqswuuLtfv^fqtugsLpbEFDd'uGs<besgdHHAi/yuppbxMitRMyi_ lb
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd|AntAuywtayIwdv$f~``etvpDMe+@tpaRQGrlyIyhx|
8*~bvtr!~[tit*fEuqtfyl-mtgv=CEjpieKAbMCtr|fpjuvwAivMyid=tlujgeuhnIOx
tquyqwCaatHid+kFxqtprhdvyxw!zAavjjrpntAjd[xuovgwKb

GyppieLofsxjw*mzartnFjjIFjw7f2PDbBsuuxxeg=tHftunGuatNex&klikimwzu
vAtukgDlaKyxs-AFjqp rgBLMzq*tsaVKKXggBFjw7f6JHHexpmxMeA*ztaIttMwa(
iAnrtjKzjHH	doI2|KR	rhowtjx&kDogveFluPIwo!uzaecrHBtmtUS}fIbpvjvgb
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!gBqtqfuoaPCyl!oybigevvdNGjr:ylekuyJpcNNjh!zAavjj
CAsmuysAjHHxd@tpaociwgbvwjw|onmgbyzypNAmd+gFjxgeOvsDMye:oAobksLlsyuhi|
yGdjbfKgXBHis>ygabRTTgbEMtd*tEjuvjvgpGtfd[nmtgfeswqKIfg&fFp
oyqngrwuutNns+.la3_esgtMushTgxppg	rzjGAqiTAEft?eDvx wtw:fqovtDrpoMIex&k
hGtkpjKzaPCyl!glxqtpKAbMCtr!lAdwujvgpGths+BqsuktFgbGxee-rAxkplrWPUtys
kJqnqwwgvLywd@iofuu.r9-sGtz^sqovbnFApsuel*mtft+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGuaPCyl
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd@tpaowqLpqEyee$iqtubxLhuBIsw3fmofb8{gb
nuhj+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGu.szzp-/obrchAAzsMys/gsf?bfFkaFOqx*vxfbdwGDtBHl
yFbvktFzawCxx/onvvgirAiKIzk&uGubvmwgdtGuy|a

ZtfbetKAtsJws[uEffbkGyaLNfv:/GqbcxKBnxxex&klfzkxLlovyes'fFigb4ssfsHjx>uDl
gzebkyKguPIeH=iGUgemrpntAjd[xuovgwKbas9yl^xltvcwL|vIths|zEactjrltMCre:kp
gFa^3eEpmECtr!uHftbyzlaMBwi^fBicujKbasUyd:nqagpirvgsNmi!vDplghLaaMBjd@tzvcn
uBftcyAuhswtw:ylfuvnEhuxxet/oybtkqQggHLex&kltqhyOhsxtfr%ftbtfBsyfsJws[uEff
iAngbyGgbuIzx!*^~?`#=aauOyd:nqtgbjPjmNxjd$uEuubkGyaEugs/fzfgfjvgjGtyl^
iAoxgwKppGtuv=iqtu?eFluPIwo!gzebrwAuuxLey|gsf?bfFkayuhm-oFjgueEhotAjq^tF?

LuocnqQaaMBjd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEarttvBdxxej=xlZcnjrhaFIwi!yAqjkxLpdtNjh
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw2flujgeEhotAjq^tFaqheuvnIFjB!jAdwojFAtsCs
oybigexvsFtnw!tAubceHyfLywz@zuppbuJvcEyr{!tAubceDpcKuwC!vDpdnjEaauOyd@
mqogtfDgqKIgp^sljpbfrisHui{!mqogtfDgjGxzw:xK?bbUJltxLAe:oAobofLlsBuqw!gDf
AEfhwqrmpKtii<kxprksyguAuyd_gDlgvetldtOxi!uravjjrxvtFnx*kEaqheLof
smugtnss?stKs/fqycouDl.sGzg&fAgbkyrptsIzx!uraequQyjzBy	!f6igbwwzpEOym=t
uramgDrptLOjw!yGdjbfKguAyeu;gxjvAeGmaLwfr+ozhbcsvgjFuli!hDpyunFnatFxs
CumnbfxmfvNeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd:nmubofJrfMo

ZtfbvjuooHFtk,futbtjskjESee<gumcdqwgcNNeg&gzhkplrybICip,alaKpeLojL
iAovgCLgpytwe[opaejfFnfmtxi<kDbnbksjuHLxd@lrfeveIBbECyC!gzebetKA.sNt
Ctjeje8VCsCsx^tptbvtrwbRtue/zudwnfJgbMNjr:oAo?bkGyaxRfq[rq.bvmwgwtLns;y
rqwgnxrvgsLjw=rGukqsrAitNeg@tlcgbfuojxPjh8flQQDetlmByAi|fuubefFgcKCsk
xqtqnzLppGtzt!zAa8`#rkqBnef;zlbpbnFAfKJtp@zuppbuJvdxMxd'xAnb6#=guHt~@Efut
sAsgbqArfES d!ZtfbxfJpbMCtr!wGbnkyQgjGtrm$xAgknrrDjEFet/uHfbvtrifsu
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFahchLvsnteTjHlncAeJlfQurm+klujgeKAbGxfv%ylvugirApsznp_fuo
ztfbhnJzusJqe$klcAbqGvlBHld@zlujkxrwsHwjw|fmtbcexvmEIB[=tluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}

UFigteAtqHLye+zlgceyGytsCsg-Apf<beLofsNjg&turwgxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLof
uBftcyGyayIwd&gzenksygntNjv*gx.bvmwgxtSxd=lljpvjyybMCsk!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
ozuqbyzlawClm:oLjpieOvsDtkp=CfacpirhaPIwo!lxpybyzhusCsg-ApfubnFkfQCsk!gze
yFptclwbas0TFNylsgszAyfFysx!Cmtbvtrifsugp^fFpbfjssaPCyl!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
gFavjjrwpBHyd=lltecsFpozoedonGt?byzhoDMex=f0ftqClgQ8Vee+zudkrfLltsBfz*ts
glngemsujLGeA&ooibynDsatFqs>fuubptLgpGFDd:ultecsrposvfx$nlgqtrlgcNNex=
xqwkgBrAixtre:kDjcneszaBNek=kEavjwGBhAtyl^fEdcpswyatHid$uzutqqrxvtFnx,
lDpobyzlaHOyw^zg

ZtfbuysuetLiw!lAsbojszvKCsk!wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFtbfjHlowtlv^gFmAbtFguAyey|kE
uravjjrtbMywm@rfakphDBeBHld|Antgszwuus9HV7fEuqtfyl.sJwm+zuoi?esue
hDpyunFn?stGy:fqtrghAhmESee:futuwjrmpKtUS}futbvmwggtwnp*zKahqwrisHQxm+mg
ZtjubksjjECyC7f9BVGW~gttCi{!oEargwzhqLtyl^fIfcmjKAatMui$zlphbnEhhBHl
zqdjptDvhRtfr%fFigbrGzusCsd+kqebqkrkfOyqs[sqov}

GlwctnwAzsIkd'gouqtxrhgyyhx!ztfbwxsijECyC!uraeqrHsfQtis$AyfpvxrposCre"k
lAso?estpGAex&ky;bb6{guAyee#oxjvAeGmaMBjd|EEugoeLvaAush-klujgexBmEtwe+mq
urafqhMtfGNex,vqt?bsGAaCOxx!sAoqiwswiLtgy:fEftkfDz.sGzp:o\qcty
sAoqiwswiLnee+jlncpzKjsBJyw3f@-bvmwgmHwfx*uzaqheLofsxfx@hmtgbtxgsxwtv%
lAsbdntsjHAwe[nudbksxvsFuym=tlbdqzLguAyem_gsfbftuBnxHy{!Ctjeje8VCsQfr:y
zAagpywyaHHhi!gzebksrAixtrs|zlvugkMsaIFfg^ lujgeGu_ECsi!imucnty}a* ee
jAdwojFAaBxjr:orjgtexvssLjj^xqoeksyguAyef*hxjqiwswiBwem+lAsocyAvosCsd=tq
vxbegesuesNmi!oybigxrposuss:nqs>b9{guAyex^itokszwggHLeq@quoibyzlauuxm$
ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgbtxguAyeh=iGngpyrhdvyxw*hxfbvtrAixtwi@jqs>bfFkayCse-rK.
~>avjjrwiRMng@rlqtgxwuutNns+fAobvmwgD~@es'fFiqujrkpvOri+zE?bbU7IaBMev^gpz
zAaeqrHsfMyex&oEarjfKlaGIB	!f1ogbqszusxjg*yuppbnFCpEPjw!jqdkfnFnaPBng&
smugtnssaMIew$gz?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+doORGbhnDltswtr|zuuwvjrkfszfg:ultvcsvhswt+diG4B&uewEqxLni+iq
CuujbnEhhxths+BqsuktFgtHzyA@xqacpirAfQNeg=tHftunGua}tWJ{f!436e?
IAoukiwybuFjd'rGybetFjfKHnr"fmwckqsimxtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbxGsvMCtr|f
