chemistry students on a variety of tasks suggest that searching tasks are
completed much faster with any electronic system than with paper, but
that for reading all versions of the articles are roughly equivalent.

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

Text conversion is far more expensive and time-consuming than image
capture alone.  NAL's experience with optical character recognition (OCR)
will be related and compared with the experience of having text rekeyed.
What factors affect OCR accuracy?  How accurate does full text have to be
in order to be useful?  How do different users react to imperfect text?
These are questions that will be explored.  For many, a service bureau
may be a better solution than performing the work inhouse; this will also
be discussed.

SESSION VI

Marybeth PETERS

Copyright law protects creative works.  Protection granted by the law to
authors and disseminators of works includes the right to do or authorize
the following:  reproduce the work, prepare derivative works, distribute
the work to the public, and publicly perform or display the work.  In
addition, copyright owners of sound recordings and computer programs have
the right to control rental of their works.  These rights are not
unlimited; there are a number of exceptions and limitations.

An electronic environment places strains on the copyright system.
Copyright owners want to control uses of their work and be paid for any
use; the public wants quick and easy access at little or no cost.  The
marketplace is working in this area.  Contracts, guidelines on electronic
use, and collective licensing are in use and being refined.

Issues concerning the ability to change works without detection are more
difficult to deal with.  Questions concerning the integrity of the work
and the status of the changed version under the copyright law are to be
addressed.  These are public policy issues which require informed
dialogue.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                Appendix III:  DIRECTORY OF PARTICIPANTS


PRESENTERS:

     Pamela Q.J. Andre
     Associate Director, Automation
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  PANDRE@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV

     Jean Baronas, Senior Manager
     Department of Standards and Technology
     Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM)
     1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1100
     Silver Spring, MD 20910
     Phone:  (301) 587-8202
     Fax:  (301) 587-2711

     Patricia Battin, President
     The Commission on Preservation and Access
     1400 16th Street, N.W.
     Suite 740
     Washington, DC 20036-2217
     Phone:  (202) 939-3400
     Fax:  (202) 939-3407
     E-mail:  CPA@GWUVM.BITNET

     Howard Besser
     Centre Canadien d'Architecture
     (Canadian Center for Architecture)
     1920, rue Baile
     Montreal, Quebec H3H 2S6
     CANADA
     Phone:  (514) 939-7001
     Fax:  (514) 939-7020
     E-mail:  howard@lis.pitt.edu

     Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director
     Memex Research Institute
     422 Bonita Avenue
     Roseville, CA 95678
     Phone:  (916) 784-2298
     Fax:  (916) 786-7559
     E-mail:  BITNET:  MEMEX@CALSTATE.2

     Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     James Daly
     4015 Deepwood Road
     Baltimore, MD 21218-1404
     Phone:  (410) 235-0763

     Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator
     American Memory
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764

     Joanne Freeman
     2000 Jefferson Park Avenue, No. 7
     Charlottesville, VA  22903

     Prosser Gifford
     Director for Scholarly Programs
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-1517
     Fax:  (202) 707-9898
     E-mail:  pgif@seq1.loc.gov

     Jacqueline Hess, Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Susan Hockey, Director
     Center for Electronic Texts in the Humanities (CETH)
     Alexander Library
     Rutgers University
     169 College Avenue
     New Brunswick, NJ 08903
     Phone:  (908) 932-1384
     Fax:  (908) 932-1386
     E-mail:  hockey@zodiac.rutgers.edu

     William L. Hooton, Vice President
     Business & Technical Development
       Imaging & Information Systems Group
     I-NET
     6430 Rockledge Drive, Suite 400
     Bethesda, MD 208l7
     Phone:  (301) 564-6750
     Fax:  (513) 564-6867
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs,nef^imvugeEhoNuqd-gnptbnKgjGPtp<kpa-vmwguBGjd*y
gxtqbiwwfGxjr:fAobvmwggtwyd:nmubotJlawuye!nmtbvtrifsGtz^jlbtqzFkaBHex&k
smdjkswgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsIwd+kFxqtprkfOChi|fFicveHlsyIwq!ztfbuhsuoBHld@y
CqmnbfKguAyew:uDbig[hga* eq^jubbetKAtmtgi$gGtgbfLgiBAmd/kEpnwyAvoLtqe/mqs
lumguezhwxtys!hqauvtJleitfr%f$-bvwsutFCxw*uzaeqxLz.svjg@AEfbvmwyfsCxd(AEu
sAsgbisAbsNtd#klutcsKtjMNjh8

HGubymAsfsLjw=rGukqsrAbDyxd$gDfbqkrAixtnw|AqaqheDlhBvnp*zKakpeAtbzy
wGbnkyQaaHNmi/fpfhkhAlovCjw!nmwgbyGgeHtBm:nldqpyJhtMtfr%fqmgojFAtsIsd:nq
vmhgbxuhoGyid=xlujgeAtbzyex&gFapgjvlesNtd#klsgotNlesIwd$rmskhnwk?stYl;yf
ZTPOCeHypvyjh^jluqbnDsvLNwe:klwctnGBtsxjj*iufpenwz.sBtA!ztfAbfJl
smokhjKAfwnee+jltgxjJhmsNjg&turwgxrApsIAi/iAngbyzlnn

LuygfeLosxMms-juoibBszaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGCvy^fpfuewAifwnew;oFbdnjrmpK
hxbem]sue Qmm:klugzylgxAysd:nqaeqsLybLNeh=kEapqyrCbKSes<kDavjjrwbzy d!Uzf
imobjfNlaFusC!jughgwwuusNmv^ytpnfeDlwxFxd*tltecsFpoztii<oofu}er1iNM	
ZTPOCeGmgxLjh!gzagzfEwmxttj!kJutgrwszsJts/foppvwszumtBl*itatgxMsuxxej/uy
ztfbhfuAaMBfx!ztfbuyGjlsQfw!gligcAQgsxx d!ZtjubnKguAyew=xFaqheAtbzyex&gF
CtfpbrAjsHznp_kpahcnDzaMIet/uHjfgesuzsFjk*humkvDrDitNxs^Bqs}beXpyxx
ztsgumGseBHld*ylujgeOhzsNtd$nmoigeLofsvqe$q\uq+wwkavIsx/gEubvtrAix
jqtktjvgcEuhoTzA_yjnLlavIsx/gEu}

UFigtewEbFJqi|fuoenzvlesGfx^xubnbyzhusBfh!hqfpbgJvxGyid=xlzgnqGDfwtgC
gsf}be`ojLtBe|fmmuqesgdtMjd=lldqpyJhtMtii'oojgphQaatHid$uDsgeyAvosQfw
jAogbgQggBRjh!ztsgumGseBHl	!fMahksssaxRfq[rqadqnDzawIBr!zAavjjrzbFy
ztjpi	rzmBAmx!BmskcgAsjMS	d#AFakveAzaGIyd|osokhnuhoMoedaoJffbyzyfLBtp%ozh
yAmxgxrAiBMet/unmgoeszaPyqp8flUjgeEpdKIkm-slfswnNhmxHyd*yldgtyspoESep^mucng	
hGubkyrjpFyxd>oFibffJratLje|alaVjtMnis@MShGlekfeFvusBfz^fmaunnvlaHzex&k
sudtqkAsnsCsd:nutbefKl.sBjd%opaujtOguAyev^vDpfwhwkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzy 

3tfpbtFlaAuxd<gDjcdqwgdHHyv@yFaqxjJgbsJfk^fAsbvmwgmBAmx*tsaqxjJguAyet@mq
gDfcbAsyjxM	d^yBfekfDszsCsd:nqaecxwgxAywi!glcqwsvgwHFzq^ftbubqAniM
ytjpksygpGtnx7fFigbnEhhxtry|zlcgbuJvdxMxi%fnzbcevFotGng!ztsgumGseBHl
yoigojmga8Hjd|itfog	rkzGurm$fmwgtfypoznee-rAxubyzlaMBwi|nAmfbqwCfEtss:fFp
hqahkCwkauOyd:ulcgbwwjpFJzx^jlgqtewCfKSet*DqmbhwGtaMBjd+kuhjdtJpoz
itbtchLlsBMym$ygabVmwgoxCll#uDtbqkrhaICCi-fpfvgwEpoxtBl^xqavjjrAiKyxl=rp
ytpwnirifsMjx!lAsbvmsAaICCi-a

ZTPOCeKopPyid@tlfzcrHsfsIkd@fBbigeLobMtme%fnfgpeEhextii'oojgpyrizsu
BmskgyQgpytyi$nzjswjKaaBHhp;juoibfrivKHeq@xw.betxmfxtxx@ozt?bfFkattDi-rAx
smsmgwmgaTJup*imukqsrvgsuej*Dqe+vmJltAIqh*tsauemwtfmtYLjSMactlMlemtrm"nF
zmlgbhsyfsIkd|kHftcqrkfyChm^tojgueGuaMBjd[gsfbdzLgoHNee-rlphbyzlnn
VqshqwEpoztyl^fobnezDhuBIsd'uDacbiQubFChd:nDfujtDkaLyyx*ts.bjtOlwxL	
xqnqxjKgnHMyd=llujgevlgBwni+iufubxGguAuyd@zlmgcxLguAyex^DFakueDlhBvqi8

GzpvjjJgqKIgp^sljubwwwsxMjr:ozhbceyybRtqi<kxaykyzgcEuhoTgze+ymAAfsJnB^rE
hKacbuJvdxMxd)tAxpbfKgeBNmi/ozhbqwrlmxwyv=tudbuhJlfGCsk8flCwvevpuAywm+m
jAfubsGAaILtz*jqaiqtvgjFuli!wGbnkyQggHLet;xqadnfur_tHi[>nuugbywEuNuq
smugtnss?stYLjSMaknqMzuKuyi%fFikueHvjGNeA*ztagzfEwmxM d?rFiqwlzgjMM
yGjvcgAsjMSej=xlqjqyGwsBHyd*ylujgeJlbLIsd'uDagnjuAsHHng!yosggsAuhsIw
juujgwAuhmtnx!imopqyrifsOxi%frptbjNlsRths_vAvpfeAtbzy d!OzavjjrkpvOri+z
ztbvbBszawCxx/onvvgirizsW3T7f6IQOFrupMChi%fFicveLofsxnx&kDffbnEhhxttj!ztf
OQFGbywzuswme/zlfxksulesMtq^fpfvgwAvstNns+fuobvmwguxRy	!fTfbrwwzfGNjh!gz
kJutgrwgfQurt-klphbiwAfKCtv@zuppbnFguAyex^DFakpeOojvBeg=sBpwpiwk
jAdwojFAtsBfh!zAadgeKlusLnk&zlcAbtLofKtyi$nzjswjKbas@mi!zqdjpnIBf
oxmwuyJhuxxef,fFigbuJltxHyd^DmnrnjrDbLtfr!oybigeElszyem+fIikemrAixtue"k
oEauefFufwtyA*iqacpirAixtxi:zuoiueyvayLtq!luygfeLosxMms-jluqbyzl
juujgwAuhsGfx/oJ<bvmwgsxMzp:ozhbkrsnfLtfv^fyftijvguHtlm<klujgetltM
xqtwnyKgxBNmd^goibvjuooBKzi8

ZTPOCeAsmNMyv@zqebjtOgeBNmi/ozhbkxrhmLIey|kpakpeFvoIBtx=mDbrjnugpK
tAortnFAaFuyi/ommubBAAisusd^Dmnrnjrvgsuek/gKjujeHhhxtkv=slbbojvpdtFex^DF.
CtjejeOhtsLjt/upvegirApsMms>fmmnbtxguAyek/gKavjfLgbIJje/kpakpeLof
uDjiksss?stIm:nqskplrwsHPnh^jlbbtjHypwOhx*uzaqhessmsNmi!mDbAbnFguAy
uDjiksssaHzee+uFigtewEbFJqi!lDpobyzlaLuri!zqyv}

ZTPOCexpotFqC!oxmwuyJhuxxex&klqtqgDlnsIkd#uDegtnFn.sIwd[gsf+giyl.
krggeyKbasVts)ylbpfetvvGxez=rGngueLobMtfv^fBmcejvgpGtfd[nAuqetHFaFuhl*tq
uDacbxuhoGywd[xAewejrwbzy]i%mqaghkwjuLtyl@zlbtgeMuexMnv@hxfbhtJguPI
xqbuqsK?as&[d:nqacgxLofMChw!uravjjrpntAj,!grugtessmmtnj!ztfbkrsnfsCxd:u
hqartjKlsOyi{!uzfbftwzaGIyd+kofuufJpmRtBe+zluqbpwlqsuqp!urakvx
jqgkenwudByx,!8>aeqrHyfLMns+f<xkvmrAixtgs/jqskplrwsHvqi_f6IQOF
oxmwuyJhuxx	d:nqaeqrHyfLMns+fDbvktrkfMywm=xmugfeLyfFysh=AEmA_ rgPGyeA@E
zAagnnEpotNjd:nutbotJlaLywm=AEartttsfFtnw!zAajcAwguAyes[kDbvqwrhusNmi
vAjpveGmaLwfr+ozhbynFkpPtyl^fBbtveGmaMBjd*smhgbyzhusCxd%kEjtcgDlatHi
gGuqofLpdtFqC!zGspbfDsaHzex&klqkzjDzaHOyd=llujcyrwjvNzv^fFpbymAAfn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfMN&uewEqxLni+iqaykyzgtvusr*tsadqzFkaFuyi/ommub+rKjMBjv*ts
=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
xqqqtywkaT7)w!kJqgtnwudxtBm:nltecsFpoztgs;tpaocywyjtFx{!CtjejezlaECpi+kp
zAavjjrwsHvqi_yljpxtDCfwtnr!AEjpieHopMIhs[EuoibrsjiBHjw8flWgtDrmfP
jqwkejKgjGtyl^fuofwxLyzsIkj^xlcqqp	lezyew$gzokpllgmxNee-uzfbdtGravLfh-kE?
ZtfbrwGimxGeq@ElcgbzFzpEPff-kfaHNJ1ZD12FY Xltckilgcxwfy|klbbnfJnfsyss;mt
smsmgyrkpxMer=zlfzkxLggHLee!vDfugwNhuBIs[]AmmkvDrzdtHsi/alaCOeAzaNMnr"fm
QGsByjAsaLwfr+kD.bymAjisCxd@fnpqm]wkhxtxg@tzftbsGDaLIqh!hKaZgwGE?

JqwqvnFnaMBjd/kybkpiwyaHzel*ylctkjxgqKyxi+zmukqsrApsxnx&kDjpi	
LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kxbvgirHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!gldqpyJhdMIwd>nAaycxrBtBHl
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jlfswnHtfGNee+jltqhyOhsxtys!xqewejrtpBLjd[gFugtsKggKIr
vDjpvjvgitFkx=tqt}beSTaMIto!ztfbufElaBGfk^fmofbzKlesNmi!juujgwAuh
gxhqtnLonsNme:frptoxrwbKNes'fFigbxstfs5zv.Cqjnb3wypQtxg@tzft>eAA
jutiwnKlesGtm/klqcvywyoLtry$nlnqtjrlgyyhx*BqmA}

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@rEpbqgKlsOyid:nmubfnLofKCsk!vDpfwhwzattgm+gDzbhnDlaPBng&fut
AEfhwqrmpKtsy_kDpwueHBsIIxi| lgqtewEbFJqi7fBskpyAuhsCyd=tlbbnfKlssJwm+zqs
CuujqzLgitPnr"fFpb*ww|itFkx=tq&bkymgaUOyd*zlugpiKguHtii'kmubgkxpdBysx
iAnrtjKzjHH	d#kobwujrAixtAi/ElujksyguAuyd%oFigtxrApsLjh;iqaoqnJlaIuyx^xzt
gxtqbywueLtys!CAsmbfyhjGMyd$uyqtgxKppGtxg&kyfu}erHNsNms;mtubvmw
jughgwwudxtnr!oybigeIBbECyC!CmtbytJAisCy	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dmkxbvkAwgvLyee|fmaetnLlsBIsd'uDaRQG\zaLyqi$zuppbtxgcHIpw!zA
hqaeqsNlsMyid*tFpbfnyputFej=xya)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns% lXCVJ0ZaGIyi%fFicveGufsIkd:nqaetnLlsBuej=x
yqmgeyAuhsvts)ylboqsyguAye5E *~`byGgcxths+BqsvgirpoMIeh*muucneAtbzyej=xy
CAvnfetlaAIBd_AoibtjDhuBPjd;yqavjjQgxHOqh!xqdgkAw|_ttxy#pqdvbxLpmE
xqrwkwAuhsyAe-Amukqsmga!Bjd$nmmngsylaPCqp!hqavqeMuexLxx@tpayjjLofK
iAigtjFAauIim^ylphbrsAfKCfp!CumnbnFjsxuxi!AEbigeGyaPBjx&kDaRQGrziHOqh
yqfmbrsAfKCfp!ztbvbnKgcxCsk!AEff?eKjbGtyl@zfacpirtbDyem:fyptgesjdxMxm#rq?
V1Cbonyousxjg*jqavqevphBNnD^fybvgwAhmLtyl@zlbtgesssxuiC!nqbxkqQgvLyi{!oz
uDegteLvaFupi!ztfobrGyfsuhg^yEjdnjrhowtii$xqbugeOlbKttr!ztfo}erHoHNmi/
gBqtqfuoaPIzp%fnfbvtrwsHPnh^fmancwylauIiC!urakpywsmxwyy@rxzbetzlsxHy
smugtnssaMBfx!smzbdjrBtxxeq=xqakpevphBNfp!lAsobyzhosCyd*yldwtwwuuESey|kp
ozaokhJvgBFr	!f2PDbBGBmwtxi^qlncvjJpbEtyl@zlxcueGBusIkd$uBztklzA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMSQPF~g(s9wm"ozacpirzdHJjd=llBKKRr[a!Sui|fAgbftuBnxHyw!vDpfwhwkaBH
GUJO&xrzutHie/jEarttyybFt+d	uybkpeGmaT3NQNyltvcsvhswCEe:oAobytJra}tFMdS/t
yFsweyMyfs{eX{f!83bfFka6!77!=lFnghLypGChd*smhgbrsubzyri+zltvcsvhswMe_
ImugitJpfLttj!KUNbuysuetLim.gFjqpeOofKyeEdOYauvfFkbKxxd@xqadgnFn
jqwgntHles{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PqbpbGSYP7UX{!yqokqwrtbGuli/ lEgrfJAnxHyd=llTvcsvhswMee+jlUgemFvmHAD{
GEtqensAjHHej=xlJphtJtbMCtr!gzebKrsnfs7fr@mqngpyr]B23R=7fpfuewAifwtyl^
tAu+htJ|qKIkm:fmtuqhAhuBIsd@tpavjjrubMCtr@rlbpfeAuuxLse:oAocneHypzLfq|
lAsbuysuetLim.gFjqpeAuaPBng&fMJKOeAzatwym<k
