     Anne R. Kenney, Associate Director
     Department of Preservation and Conservation
     701 Olin Library
     Cornell University
     Ithaca, NY 14853
     Phone:  (607) 255-6875
     Fax:  (607) 255-9346
     E-mail:  LYDY@CORNELLA.BITNET

     Ronald L. Larsen
     Associate Director for Information Technology
     University of Maryland at College Park
     Room B0224, McKeldin Library
     College Park, MD 20742-7011
     Phone:  (301) 405-9194
     Fax:  (301) 314-9865
     E-mail:  rlarsen@libr.umd.edu

     Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor
     The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
     l333 H Street, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20005
     Phone:  (202) 326-6735
     Fax:  (202) 842-2868
     E-mail:  PUBSAAAS@GWUVM.BITNET

     Michael Lesk, Executive Director
     Computer Science Research
     Bell Communications Research, Inc.
     Rm 2A-385
     445 South Street
     Morristown, NJ 07960-l9l0
     Phone:  (201) 829-4070
     Fax:  (201) 829-5981
     E-mail:  lesk@bellcore.com (Internet) or bellcore!lesk (uucp)

     Clifford A. Lynch
     Director, Library Automation
     University of California,
Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labejp^jlBPUNeHJ27	
lAmnqBwkauSex&klowogwyatHid:oFmgbtxguAyew:gzectim

HMSQPF~guAysd*rxvuvwsAfwtyl^fppocnFgpytFMdS/tbuysuetLim.gFjqpeOvsDoedauD
kJborqwaaT3NQ!oEavjjrheFCsm|zDbvqwrvgsNmi!1gT}bYwjiGChe-fMexkxGyzs1ws;v
[6BI_eLvaMBjddtFftpfLppGuqdnzmofcwvza8Lle+oLbvktF_ts	NWj]lugemFpdtF
iAnokyLlfmtYG!r'mbOnuypzLft&ootbcsvgPINng@rlNgotJpfLtks/fPpewrwuusush
Oybige0ldHLim+mfaUvtJhhxnee+jlVug rgB23Rd=lrjekfDszsQtv)ylujttMnisUSWdfuo
ztfbksLlsGuym=tmmbuysuetLim.gFjqpeHypvyxw8

HMSQPF~gexMhv*hqebCN1T"Ltxx/AouwtjlgjGwqy%ozhbkyKgcHuwh!urafkwwjuHLx{!oFt
yFbpffJktsvte/jlphbyOlmOyem+juwkfzsstsuhx*BqakpeLofsCre"k\ncpfylnxHy
ozewuyJF.sCyw!yFscvjypdsJqe+tuoibfFkaEyle-fmeokxKpcBFnx,fFbumexvsvyx{!gze
oFtbPfLppGuqdnzmofcwvzaVIzr$ox.bymAjisCxd$uyqtkxwkaHzex&klngogwytsIkd@
tGndgwrvgsIwk@tuAcvnGutsQms!BAugbtFgfOywC!GUJObxLhowuwh!hqgqtjrpusCx
vGcnkxzlenteF?X1OCUeHvjGNjh!uGubvmsAaT3NQNylmkcnKvoLtii@rlxkvmruvFyws;y
uFigteKAbGxfv%ylegxjDvqxLx{!ozdnwiAuhsNmi!uBukefDgeBMpd$uynwpnLF.sIkj*iq
gzebrztsjLBnr"fEzuvjEz.sCre"k\dqfjK|bGx]g&gDbevjJgtxNeg=syjvvjwz.sush!ztf
Tmukqsssa2Hks/smukqsrZutHie/jEaQtlsujSuym=tl)PKX7/?

HMSQPF~gjEFzw:xmugfeLofsJws$kpvtgxrvgs@Hd-!x.bymAjiswtz^xEacnqrhtIyhx|fAg
oybigeEhotAjq^tF?bb2zlosUNMh-EapcyAvotFet/usscoezhtswtr$kBuwcqAGfwtfd+kI
vDplghLaaBNem|fGtwcqDFaLOgq*zFffbyGguAyem+zqspcyAvotFep^Bqm?bxGguAuyd:nq
sqndgwrjpNHyv*kEaqhe`JaE+qd$gzaukrMsutHjs;yxzbytJraHHex&klegxjDvqFysx!ur
ztfbuysuetLid=xlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA?stGEmUZBUbfDzpsCqp;yFscvjvgbswqe|yud
sudtqkAsnsMye+jmsf?e5Z3*neA&ooibfjsstsQnx&fzvogwGBtsCre"ozhbetFjfINxd:nmu
gBqnAeLvaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCsk8flPtklAubEFDd%kHfnquwkaBHex&klm~9#KaaKyAm|kp
ozavjjrs0+]x{!gzebtjNptxxee"guobksrs0=&	d:nutbuysuetLid*yltejjvBmxxej=x
gzpvjjJgsxPnw*uz?bbR~94sCxd@tlbevnNlaLNfr%gDebymwyfuSey|kDtbofQgqKIus|k
tqxbfjFzjMSev@tsfubfFkaGyBd_kFiqfxrvgsyAe-AmukplrmjEGem_gsfubnFguAy
yFbpffJk"Ltwi<oEjqp 

HMSQPF~gexNfm-kpaugAwybEtjp^iFsqpnugjFuliTsmocijEloMtxx@tpbtfxlggHL
oztvcsul.sUSWd\MJKOe5Z5(nee!wGbnkyQ|dHHyv=rlhwkiwsjGyej=xltecsFpozt!	z_
hKa33-rimtwp[@tp_yjnLlaHzkm$kleqezEloMM d!ZtjubxLhowuwh!oEawujvgxBNmd:nq
OQFGbksEaBGfk^/\bbetFAjGOty|fFppgeHopMIlv@vtjebnEhhxtBm:nlhtcDrzdtFjw7
zqyv?esuesMjz^xmmbetFAjGOty|fFppgeHpdMOwi|/\bpfeSPJ6tyi|zluctlwAaGOrf^x
8facbwwwsxMjr:gFjxgevvdNGjr:fGtgfeAuaHzkm$kleqezEloMtre+gsfogsLb

HMSQPF~goxRyd=AFmkpjvguAyej=ADaecywnpKCjw!uraGKRrzutHie/juAcvnGuaBHeA&ooi
GUJObxLhowuwh|fmsgbgwpoztii<kxprgiggaMLfr|lqsbcsvgsxNwm^Bmm?bjNhmNuym=tf
uBukefDgeBMhd@tpafqhMtfGNew$gzokplrhqIFng@zuppu	rhowtii|osobcsv
iAoxgwKppGttj!jAdwojFAtnteW&klegvfAsfwtxi<kDbnbtxguAyeq@ozarttBldMMes'
kmdj<er8-sCsd:nqaecywnpKSes'funcijrAstHxj^xlbpfeJluKCjz@rfacbgA|mxPjp
oybigeLybGMki/frptofLaaT8XMZGUJObR~`4mtBl*itakuesgqKIus|kpauvfFkbKxex&gF
jqtetntltsuej*rqajgfvlssztv!oybigeLybGMki/fnfvyjwuaNHqm)kltAuywttsQmi+
ztfbkrsnfLtfv^foporwwztxxey|ozhbI8rhowtL8!iAnrtjKzjHH.dw]lujgeuhuxAtv,fAg
oybigewCbEOfx*uz.bymAjisCsg-ApfubyzlaT3NQTvDprqxwka!`70!zGuqtnssaHHem_gsf
xqtqnzLppGt=x&oEavghzujvuqd/kBptveOpmEtyv^gFavjjrkjyzjv^tofubfFk
yunknfJpuByxd#kFxggsrjmtMxm$gxaqteHopMIlv@vtjebfFkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCskS?
9>afgxAnosush!iAoxgwKppGneA&ooibksusvwyxd@fBsqrtKlesNjg&tudcneJlqHLy
immngir+GHLrw!JqtkisrVqMCrm.gFjqpexvssYNQOf<ujkxryfIIwx!iAoukiwytsBtA
mqogtfD|qNLus|klcwunFltLtks/sEaecsrifsvjw:fpfuklFlesMtd:nmubuhsuoBHld*y
uBukonRleitwi[xAhtcuzpdswme/gougtnKAjvMew;itacueLFqxnev;rqt?bgsjlzLty+jf
zuov?esueswtp=xlxknqrsjDyBm|klcgbyJlbMyid*tlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA-it9=
jutmbfFkawIhy_kzubuhsuoBHld@vBmkefLppGMem+ixvfgxrhaILtn^iFac_eGuaIFfr+ozh
vxbvvjJzatHid%oElbofFhhxGjr: lc_btFghxHjv@zuoibfFgbIJqm$gFjqpeHypyCqi!lAs
KUNbymwuaBGfk^ylbtgeKApKyid@tpafkxLyjuOyi%fAobEI	YP6nee+jld_btF
kHbnwfLpoztXGnO@.bcsvgiHQee!iAnoqsrjpFGfr%fEfvbhsuauyek^tqscvjvggHLeW{YU3
yAavjfLgeHwzq^tFauefFufKMee/klnqtjrlbLCqC!ozugiwsAfwoedRGZTK:F1PNs7X9x
CumnbfDzpsuut-EluqbhGtqKyxw^jljoclwz?	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMUVKSr[a!Bjd*sBmkefLppGMes'fEucpisyeLtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!=lBbofBvs
untvchDlaMIew;iofuukMsavItt^xmukqsr[aTtmm+jDbpejrApsuhg^yEakpeLofsxnk*zmm
kzwkttFtfGNe_!YFbpffJktsueh=Anmg+jvnfwtxA=xpahqwrAiHMjd$uzdgtswkaPCyl!ztf
vDfugwNhuBIsd=llujgezBntHev^iAsfb+rUftL]x^xyarttyupLCxd'uDatgqAhcEy
gDdjkAssaLNfr%gDeub+rWsxMjv<gFjqpeuvovywr|frptbjDldMLtr*ilngfnsg(s8ji%
lAsbtjuvovyux;gxjBksygpNLet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKg(s!ye+jmsfueAuaMBjd/kmm
CAsnfesuesNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGt+dikqebvtryfwykm+klujgeuvovyux!ur
gDdjkAssatHid:ulcginFguHtyl*twakpeLlsFMes'fxjhgeuFdEyxdQfOpqrjJhuBIsd@tp
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijyr[aVIsg^xztbijFlstNjh!hKafkxuBtLCtr|fAobvmwgqKIgp^sE
urartjKlsOCsk!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^f;aIgswybEtuv*tojrnjKguHtgi!gpprvjvgjGtf
CAsnfeOpuAIzx!yFbpffJkts{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VmutkhAhaUUYXdTfartjKpexHy{!ztfbEtEtjLMns+fAobRwwzfKPfx*uzacpirHdvyxw
[OQC_	rhewLjw|kpavjjrpnIFng@zuppueGmaLNfr%gDeubkGyaILjw^xHbvktFbas!mi
rutvgirzfOywe-fmsgcxrDixLjd:nqankgJhsRtuv=lqtuktFgbGxex&klbpcqGnaPIwp%fAg
ztfbrwAuuxxef=uwajcirtbwyei+uDnqwxrjpGNwm#AFjqpxrvwxLex&klqcuyrovGxwi%
Eqbtu]	mpKtjB@sBmg?eAuauCgp*usscrmAjayIwq@zE.bdnFkjGAew:gzectiKaatHi{!sAtv
oyqqtysuumtnr!jqugtrAujGAeA&gFaeqsKAjMOyi|fxppijNpuRttv!gDdjkAssaJOfp*zK?

GxujqzyoaLNfr%gDeubmsCfsFnk&zqogfeLofsJwi|kDwcvnGuauOwh^tlujttMnisNmi
jqwgntHtfGNes'fzbvktFhmsush!ozugtssAjHHfp!iAmncgGybMCAi!vDpitfEz.
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!glqgtAszjOyeq*yFswuyrvgsIyl^xlqgquDl"Ltxx@tpbtfxryfFunr|fm
smkqteGitMuhp^fFpbuzujfLMky-fopqrjJhuBIs{!HMUVKSrzbBx 

ZtfbBjssaMIee$nufxgeHlsyyhx*uz.btjyhswFjw|fAgbvmwgdHMy{!nmtbjnFkfKyi
xmujgwrAitHej@iumkvfLlesuhg^yEakpeKvnxtnr|zmoegxlgbGxem+fFigbiAnjMuq
kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbsGgsxuqd|zmofcwvzaxRnw: licuetypNAmx!gzakttFpdtFqC
pGtvbwwDbKx 

HMUVKSrhszOjh!ztbvbxLhowuwh|fmsgbfrkpNvqiTkphgfeKDpKxej=xlujqxwgdHHhi/tqe
CuujbyzlaILjw^xHbvktFgpytyl^ftvocsryfvIwh7fFicveAz.sNmi!vDpxkxAvosIk
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fuobceEBmMCyy%klphbrwkjttfw!lmsbksLvaMBj
lGuwtjrhtsJtw|onmg}erZutHie/jEactjrltLysx*gxavqexhdBFnx@zq
ozugthGuoxwym<oFzbcsvgbvwjw| lcwv	rIB!@NR!ymjf?esza5'SGcfBpkpywkaHOy
Eqtvgwvhzmtnj!yqubvtGgtHIsd:nqzbefFgiBHii/fosgcyACjMS	d^DBbpunGuaHz
imqcdnDpuRnee+jlujgetyptxjr*tsaqhesjdxMx	!f6igbhzhstwyi/oEukexrvg
yFbpffJktsztv!juhkvfDgjFuli/ElekhkwyaKuim$gxmAbkJvnsNms|klgqtesubEIl
oybigwQbasUsh!ztfbpfLBsxttj!juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbnEwmByxd$uzukpzAuh
BAmcvnDpuRtfr%foicplwbas@td/kuugtfLl.sJwi$oBjvqzKgtMush@xp_ugyLpozthe+
ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EqebuysuetLi[|kFukplryfLOqx|fuobemsvtn

YuoegeAuaUUYXdT/TbquAujHHex&klogcw	AfKGet/usoqunKggHLev^rubdnjrhsvBnz@r
yFbpffJktmtfw!jqgkpjvgcRtqm#xmskcsKgjGtyl^fmocntygxHLqh7futbrtGy.sNBs
gxugtssAjOyxd/kybkp,rgtMush*tsarcyrDjMBex&klpnfeLldAHtp=mK.bqw
xqdqphwwuNuqm.ozh}

VDfugwNhuBIsd$uzdgtsKggHLei-koutqsAjaFyim@frbnneAuuHtyA=fsfpgwssawIre*tE?
UzfbkxrAixths+zuowksygbLMzv@tofbqkrhdvyxw!zAamptOsfwAjd=xuhkpfDsz
mqogtfLlemtxx=xqe?biAztxGnr@zqe?bfFkaNMjh!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAso}er1iBM
jAncksrjpGNfm+yltgxjJhmsMzf%oHjuktFz.sCsg-Apjpie'/aMBjd$rAtgf	
vDprtnwAbKSew,yFfouevptvOxw^jlujgeHyfOCty|fpbA?etBowFjh!ozgqtrsAjHHew;it
gEagnjuAsHHng!pAvtpfDzatHid"uHftprwuusuli+iKatghGyeLnee+jlfnghLypGChe-rK
vDpfwhwkaHLeg@vFvtgirybPtie:gbacpir9-sNmi!gBqnkhsAjHHes'fpjikyss
zqdjptDvhByxd:ulujgeJlgHLre:zuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbqwAnjGuqp,fBvdnnKofwttr!g
jqugtnGybMCsk!gzbnqlrtfwCzq!yGdjbfKgbvCid[gBftbtJgwBxjs:gBf}

ZtfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqhewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaKyvy*xqtbceJldHHhi[zGbnkEAuhsIkd=AD
vDfugwNhuBIsd[xuoekuDltsxzv*tsacbAGsbMCqi7fEucpisyeEyxw!zDbpunLppGtBl*it
smzbnfKAayuwd-uzhgteLobGtfr,fAgbwxrloOCxm=tluqffQbasVFXoOZawtlwkaMBj
tqdguxAAzsIkd|nugvksyggHwzw!lDpobfKzfLMnr" lngcxMyjGA	d@tpaugyLpoz
yFbpffJktsztv!ztfbrjJtbGysg^fAgbvmwgnxxny_fFpbvmwgdHHhi[zlphbrsubzCsk
iAovksMpoztfg$kEtbvtrpoyIwq@zuppbxLvsxxes+fmaxcwAluRttj!sqekcesue
xqrwkwAuhsuez@xufvAeGmaxPjvTitbpinFnaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xqahqwrhdvyxwT/m
lGofcrwuutFew&orubhtJguAyep*hDbtAeHypyyxw*uz?

HMUVKSrvgyywi%fmartnElssIsd&uIavqeEvwxtks/CmsfbBAAisLje|uzbdnjrjpGznh^tof
ozacbBGymwtBm:nAvvbxLhowuwh|alaJgwrjpFGjr:ylggnqrypNAmp,fuovqeLDpsMjg:oAou<
7>auvfFkbKxxd*tlujgeJlbEtBs/rpacpir9-sNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGo

OzatglsyesNtd/kmm+ytJsesMye+jmsfu	rIB!@NR!gDhwgirAixtsi^jluqbwwkfyCsi!ztf
iAoeguLgpytfv$nuwgbfFkaMIef^muobvtrAiBHpd*tlugtrKgpytqm'kldAeqwz?stNr
ztfbrfKA.sNmi!tmjxgesztNGux*uzavjfLgqtJjv!CAvnfeDhtMtks/kHftbuJveNwjh!g
imwcnnwyatNym:ApfbvtOhswtqm'kldAeqwz?stYl^fFscpxAloMtse:ADfbqkrAix
kxfevwGujvtri%omajcxrjpFJjp-kpargtHsfsNtd/kopipnRlatHid@iofrveMwgKIsx!ztf
iAoeguLgpytqm'kldAeqwzaBHet-gofbqkrwfKGfr^toz}

JuhkvfDgtMush@xptbjfNlaMIef^fpfxgqGwfwtfr%fEfvbnFgbswts[kDbvkAwgdHHyi\z
zAagpxMyfsykj*iufpvewEdAusk^fAgbksxvsFuym=tgabOtJlpOyw{!jGskplrAiBM
zDbpunLppGtui/oAe?blJlbMywd'rqykdnDpuRths+iqspksygiHQeg=tofrvxrzvvBee|
hmdmwurjpICjw!gzebcwuojOuqd$uBjgueAuaMBjd{42actjrkfyCsi%futbpjultLuwC7
uDavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbyGgnHPjd'uDxctirDjEFef^fxpuv 

OzavgwEzaHzeg=uBftcyAvomtue/zudwnfJszsCsd:nqawpnNlsLCyC!yquvksyaaUUYXdT
gxtqbfJnvxxex&kloggirApsuAs*jlhqksygpyzem+fmajwsvyfwtim'lqsgpy
jusgeyAvoLoedonqaERFrobLthe:gxzBgirhaLGfp-fssqwurvgsOsm<kDtkvnwzavuqp^j
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijy	|cxwfy|klMcbLMhswCfd?oDqqtyrptsQmi/klnggyAuhLtye)k
vxbeg]	ObKPfv% lZcnjlgDHLsi-rfaRtnFjfMIs{!VqopbXLhuxneX^tzfuujwa
YFbphtJk.sush!15D?byGgexPjp=vlbbfnyputFet/kEftxfLppGths+yAsvkzEguHtqs=q
gFacnqrAixMjd*yEvguesuesxjz^rAqbfjrmbvNtd|zmofcwvzatMeA^fypxgesspGA	
oztvgfvgpytBe*zuoibkGyaLIri:nuoibyzhusCxd=lrjekfDszsvqi|yqe}beUvoMCsy*ts
zAacruDFatHfp=mlwcnzwzatHid%krjpkyAvoLttj!yFbpffJktsNtd:nqafklAAbE
kzwkttFtfGN	d}G6UKPeKhjwneA*rxaghkwjuBPjp,fxfcfeLvayIwj^oFvtgeGmaMBj
hqoghnLzaHzeh*muucneLldAHtp=mKavqeJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuww&oB?

1zegteLofsMjg=tpatwgJpdmtyl^fBpnkyAjtsIkd/kBsqfzuAjHH	d}G6UKPeJljMywe:kp
gzaqhy	tbwyee/mGngpyrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebqAistLD{!tmngnDlguAuyd*z
oEaoqwwgeBzkm$AxubvtrAstHxj=xyavjfFguHthv^gFf?bfFkaGIBl^xqakueLobMtgi-oqg
kJqtgxKlesGtv^fpscofLpdtFqC!ztbpbnFguAyeg=tHftunGuaHzef/oFungetvpDMex=
tqxbojvpbnteT/kEftxnFnaBHks/smukqsrwvuFnw&kpakpewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaBHAs-Bqt
smlkplrzvKyex&kljphtJtbMCtr!xqncksKgbvwjw|onmgbfFkaMBfx!juhkvfD
ozgqtrsAjHHem|fzpvbqGzusNmv=AsibtjHypwOhx*uz?bbNFguAyee+gxpibBGymwttj
vtpvqhGwjxMee+jlnkewGmjEG	d:nqakuxMlaHzej*jqmkvDrApsNmi!uDjiksssauyhs_kE
vmscotMuumtfw!jAakuxMltsIkdO3tpugexpexFnx,b|acpir+XAIxi!uDjiksss}.

HMUVKSrlmtvtv@zqebvmwzfsuwk;sqovueOpuAtfd'kIagzfEwmxMej/uyacbwwjfGNew:Apz
iAofwhLlesvDd:nqaERFrvosNmi!vDpdnjEzaHzet/kEftxnFnaMyCx!gzebkrsnfn
JutewxKppGMeA*ztauemGsbKM	d-onsctnsutmtfr%fovtcyGytsCsd@fHbtkjLFaHz
jutekuDpoxMeh^vqofgsLgpGtyi\zlbpfeAtbzyek^tqscvjvgbsPfv*kFzbqkrjpGwjv+yf
lAsbgCstqEy,d!7>aEquQgxAuyd*yfapqyrDitNex&klugemFvmHADd*yldcrftsfsIk	
ZtjubnKgwxLDd*sBptvfFAayIwd:nqajkxLvsRttj!opfcu rgTvBtp@xEaykxzguHtpr=C
CtbvbyzlatOyl=xltcyesuesQtv)kpahttEbasUsh!smlgbfNhjEugp^fmubvmw
CAsmuysAjHHex&klprrtJAvGCyC!zAagtfKlatFqd:nqafgkwjuLtfr%fqojcsulaMBj
vDfugsLhuBIs	!f@-bVmwggBxjp*zKaqheJlqKIiy$zupp+]OobMtnw!mApfbjFvvzB	d>nmu
imobyjrhgyIwh7fmofbyzlawCkj^xqoegeAAaFupi|/\juuzwzaHzew;hvfevnNlaOyww;y
unkgeyACfsLjw=rGukqsmga* eX&klekhkwyfGwjw!hquygjFgqKCre/ElbpfeKldHHie/E
AEftu rgSxMyv*iFjpieLofsxjj*tuukqsrvgsJwm_gDzbwxwyaMIex&klppgeAuaPBtw^
jutekuDpoxtyl^fybvgwAhmsBfw!hqfpbuMimBMmi%fDvpueGufsBje%rAoibnFApsNmi
xqbnkyQguAuyd:nqtgbuJpoMyid#uAlubmsCfsBfh!gliquyrvgsIyl^xlvugwKggKIrd@
nAtvbtxgpMBjv!jutekuDpoxM	d>nAapqyrvoESeA^xqanqtCpoztks/fHftAevpgyywi+z
ztjpixlgcNNeA&ulbnutrzitLjh!BmmwgxrCfKSeh*lrftgsLggKIrd:nAtgbtxguAy
vDjocwQgvLyw	!f$-bVmwgsxFfx*uztjkurvgsNmi!yFbpffJkaHzev^vDpfwhLppGtys!tqx
imqcdnDpuByxd=lltejtDhsLBntT/FigbgJvxLCsk!yFbpffJkaOyww;ylbpbfJjiBPfp
yFbpffJk?stMs>fspqfeEBtMtyl^fmsejnNhmsMye+jmsfbgwcasWfr!glekuyAudMCtr!hq
jDbypetluPyjr!vAugpyAhmsOxi/yljpbxwAuBHld|zmofcwvzayIwd/kBsqfzuAjHHa
GDdjkAssaLNtv@mq.bwxwgdHJni| lctqBKpozths[oqt++tMniMtfr!gFugouLguHtxi:
yFbpffJktsyAi+fnfbofvl}st0=!LuocnqQaavIxx|alaJqBrtvvBee/klxgbuJlqtLjh!zA
vmzbvtrjbINzv^fmcuqqMAfsznh^ruuA{er4itNee/klujgeLybwy]s'lEadgyOlfGtAe|zxz
kzicphwkatwhi|yfafglJlfLttj!luegnnLF.sush!iAtvua

ZtfugeKAbGxfv%yfaDCY`POswtr$rGegf	rzfKPjd:uldqouDpdtNjd'ADujgwrAix
xqqtqiMjuBIsd[xAdguxlgbGxee%jluqbyzlaEIsk!rutvbtxguxwmr*immbuysuetLiw
ztbvbfJlaGyhi|ymsAbyGgfGMzv^fIjfgxHyftxee$iqtu}er4bRMex=fmsvkhMsbMyee+j
gzbnAEwguAyeg=yFtbvmsAatLjd@zFbejjvguHtyl^fpjhhjJloMtqi<kxtbqkrzutHie/jE
sGtvbgwggHOsh8

MuwgpeLofswme=yldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz.sQmm$nlqtqrAzfLtys!ruoigwrmpKtyl^
lAsgujwhcEyej;zGsg?eTHU!3Sd;xsffbfvvqMCtr!uravjjrmpEFtA*tsaigswybE
vDjpenHsfLi

flabb+rZuKCAi!zAawpiwytMush!ztfbemsuhBHld*trptofLppGtwi]AusgojFAtsIk
flabbxuopEuwp,fpjuenHsjGyxd@ylnqtjrhowtrs/klugemFvmHADd*yljpvjyybMyid*tFp
flabbyzlaILtg^yEaqheJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuwp,fopoozFpdtNns+fuobqwvlssNtd_kqu
flabbkMAvKyew$nAmctqQgoxyiw7fzpvbyGgcNCqh!lAsbvmwgqtMy	!fObrvzJl
flabbiwAfKCtv@zuoibnFmpKGfx*uzacveLofsBnk&kEubckxvswugp^fDfuqqMAjHH	d^Bqo
flabbyzvvzBex&klekuxwtjGuym=tlbpfevptIFfC!zqdjptDvhByxd>oxmbnfyb

flabb+rKfOyqs[fopqrjJhuBPjd_koicpnKttsNtd'uEugtesnsxyri+zlppbuJvuHwtp|
flabbkGyawIhy_kzubuyJBdMOwi!gzebqyzlssCsx^xoicplwgnxwme+oEnubswjfLMfv,
flabbkGyaPCii|vDfcfevptLyrm+gFjqpesuesOxi!hqgqtjrvgyChm@rltvcsvhswMee/k
flabbxwA?

flabb+rHdvyux!ztbv?eAuattyv@tEjvktFgqxLns% legbksjuHtxx@tpbtfxrDjEFel@Bq
flabbyGgcxtii<kxprgim

flabb+rJbINzv^fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlbbyfQguAuyd)kqqubfDsaHJym=tEaqrjFgbGx
flabbuJvwBxjw!lAsbvtLhmswtr<kDukdnDpuRiedjI4.buhsuoBHld=llnkewGmjEG	
flabbuJveNwnr"fyjettxpmFtkv=sltecsFlesxtg;sqovu	rluvo

flabb+r4pKEeg-uEfnAeOpuAtyl^fsfpgwsApKMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd@tpavjjrivBFii/y
flabbtxgoxNBs/qEacpirkbMuge|kEavqewutNLjd:nmubetFAjGOnr"fmdegxKpcBFnx,fut
flabbfrwsBGfv,foppejJuayLtq!ztfbdjypoGCsk8

flabb+rWjzADf@iwaqpeKAbGxfv%ylvpfjJgexPjp=vyfpvexvssNmi!hDpcfeEhsDyy{!gze
flabbfNvjwtqm#xmsA+xHldBzng!yFbpffJktitBs/qlxkvmrAixtAi+jAsu?eAuaHLii/fFp
flabbysrfsuiz@tFbigeGmaMBfx!CtjejeAzauynr"fEucpisyeBTjh!lAsbvmwgsxMyd=l
flabbyzlaPIwp%a

flabb+rJpGwjr:xmugbjxmpKNxd=tlncpfypoztui/smogphwgjGtyl^fpjikyssaPIwp% 
flabbwsAixLex&gzargwxldMCsk!ztfbntFnfOCyC!uracbusyuBwzp@xlngfnMt?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmswtq_kzuubtFgU2ZKdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtgv*krafkxuBtLCtr!vqskqirAitNej=rxpygirIB!@NRNylqtgxwuutNns+ 
HMSQPF~gfQJqe*tqebvmsAa!3KJ!CmtbptLgexPjp=vqebksrjpEFff=xmukqsrDjMBes/
AzegteLofsuzw[oofubtxgB23R	!f6JHHeAzatths_vmoAbuJveNwy{!tAubceKAbGxfv% 
oEaqyswkauSex>uldqtuGybMCtr| lbpfeAzatFBe,yldjcsypozoed}G4PPCXrhmLI
untgtAwkaMBfx!GZTK:F1PNs7X9x lbbdn	sfOyqd*smhgbkAsfsNwe+yrftbkGyntNex&gF
gxmqyxrBoECpi!yKtvgrKguHtjB$nmoigeAtbzyx{!oEaeqrHhuBvqi!CuujbY1MGsuxd>kxm
gEaykyzgEXW)w!gDdjkywjuNLjd@tpaKDR\za69IG?\UPEC 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
N1PVQSr[a`yAi/gxaswjKAjHHxd:ulcgbhGutBxjv^jljpbiAzdNMxm+mlugzyrjpGPjv|oAo
=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1PVQSrpoMLth;iqebvmwggBHfp!zAqke	rAfQNeg=tHftunGu.svDd+uFjpieLobMtnx!oE
hqdqonFnatHem+iDfcunFnmRtnq[uDucpyrwbKNes'fFigbnEhhBHld#AEjpgxKbas7fr,
vqprnjrupPtwi@ruAgbyzhusCyd^ttbpejKguAynv!yKtvgrrApsvjd@hxfbvtrobOyeq=xq
gzebotJlavBfv@iFftbisAbsuxd[gDubqkrAixCwd*smhkplrzzLNjq8flSgbyzlaBMxy^fAg
UOSbxjJzvLtwi)kKjpi	rOP8@TR!vAtgfeKlwxLfp!wGfuvnGuthteL=Cleqgxrvoxtli:
zqyvbnFApswtq[AFft+wwhetvqi!lAso{erKpxMes+klvugesBuHGfx^jlqtqhwztxMa
JAfubtFlatNyi_vFavqewsjFCse:klujgeMzfsIkd=vqscvtJzaPBjv^fBpuuntsfo
YFbpffJktsztv!godwtfuF.sBjd|gue?bfJlaxRyv^sqmAbnEwpKNfr:.lakveEhlxMee
smkqtevpgyywi+iqakpeuvtMtfr%fFjogeOofMBjv!uzfbujLzatMee!yFbpffJka== 9
vqsegsLgbvwjt:gzdgbtJg0=o0d[kDdgpymga1yeq^tFjqpjvgpNNxs;xojpieszat
vAtukgAsjMSej=xldqpAwyuBHld:kJu}beXpotFqC7fIicveGufsxti|fIjvjeLofsCre"k
zAartjHhsxtnx!lAsbvmwgsxwtk+oFjqpeHypvyxw!oEacnxGgjFJtv:gzu?bmwgttCi{
hqdcwxwgtNwmd[xqqctfLppGthl@tsfubmGDaKyhs"tuukqsrptsPni>kp.bcxrDfEFee|
lmdknnLhuxMev^iAhpkyAvosCyw^rr?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
RQTMb+rYpEyxd=llqctyAjjIusx|fuobET0La}tIe:glgnqBr[a!Bjd|imopksygqKIhi|yl(
ZtfbkrsnfsCsx^xrbege?gSxMzp:ylphbjPwfKCri+zEakpAGswBHld:nqawujrvg
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyv@juukqsssaIuui/foprkjKg(s@jw:ozhbvmwgjLMzi!ur
yqsgpiAwjMSe_!IAoenzKppGMe_
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

SudjcjDgMX!P{!kJfewyACfsxnv^iFpt?eUvnIOyi/f5dkgsula~yxi@xoi?bGwsm
IAnowsAjbMCtr|f4fugfJjimtNr$al)DgqDjpKy[{!jutewxKlesNmi!Itfokhssa8Hqm+k
XqutkjNhmsYCt^xungpyr]D8`J=7fmaeqtHlstNnz^fBsqljuAaBHAs-BuoibHGyoxFq
1zjxgwKpuRneS{RO.bDjDsdHLj{!gzebvmwgBFywm$gzaEjjEpdtFeW=iufvAe}HD`  

RQTMbxHvlxttr!7>ajqBrAixtxg@tzjpieOhtsJjv'uDngf	rpovFzh*tsavjjrBoNMze-
lqbvwwwgpytue"kltgirwuutNns+ lbpfe"/aMBjd;yqaociwgpytyl^fFfzvesuesNmi
oybigeAuaxRui/oyfpvxm

3AsmksygxBNmd:nqaejjEptMLDd(uGspcqKg)uyhe;yqaCEXrobLtgi^tltcxnFnaBNx
zKqgujLAjGAex@vqtbunFjfsNmi!sue+3@-%tsush!ztvubmszattxm"tugkefFAauuhoTxGo
uravjjrtpLNem_vAsvcsLgdAyrm|zDzbltMyotFxd*tlujge!ujMyidnzmugu[lgD8`Jd*y
gFugouLpoztys!iDfcvjrhosuzx=smugfeuofFChe-fxjdtfJF?stFt[xAykofLlmRtf
wGbtvjJgpytyl^fBbigxrizsMvy@xqakphzgbKyeq@jqawreGmaBGfk^ylph
wGbuk]HpdMIwm@rlncvjJpbEjeh^gxjpieOpuAtyl^fsscrmAjavIrt=tqovueGmaMBj
vmhgueAzaxRyv^sqmAbnEwpKNfr:alaNGX3gexMhv*hqebvmwgsHFjw!urarcwLpdBJfr:y
ozaEQWW?as&[d?I5arttNpexMeg=vKskimLgqxLrm|yupp?eBvvKHfp|fAobrfHlsm
pAvtpfDzaHHeq*iDphkqEaatHid|uyfbqkrAixtii'ozjvktFzaHzex&klgknjK}a& ee:
HqmnetJl.s6JWffoikgkDFaIywj=xytbvmwgetNfd[xqqctfLppGneA&oxfbFjFujLtJk@t
vqshqwEzaxRui/oyfpvxrvosNmi!AEftueGmavBjq*immbcgKAstwyw7fmofbxMwqECjw!ztf
ozegznFnatHid+AyftqzKgntAsi:ooavcuwz<st8=!IAspgqDgqKIAm%kEavjjrzjMyes'fFig
kJqgtnEloMje8Sf1DNEevlwxFtt|fDfvtnwCbEtxs'zIbtgesuesIyl^xlvugwrpoMywj@iqt}
2mskqzKgntHzj@iFvtgwKgbGxet;hxjujjJzaAuAi!lGspkxzlesIyl^xlignum

IAoegwFpoztie:glgnqBlgCxFqg=xqatghwpwxMeq*iDphkqEgbGxet@vqsbhwGtaTWX,!ztf
sudtqkAsnsCxd|imopgirizsIzx|opfbxjFkpKM	d>numgbyzlaIuui/futbuhsuoxx
oziqwxwgpGtfr!OyqtqAAzjHHew$gzogt	rAxxHyC!vmhgueHlssGnr;zqacve&%~sxum7
CtjejeHypOCii|fEvhhnupfGNeu;gxjvAexvssuqp!vDbevnuhmsOxi|alaNGX3gxHOqh
vDfhgwrApsBfz^fyptgeyybRtqi<kx.bdjuhvLyes+klphbyzlaTWXd(uGspcqKgqKCsx|fAo
yAngbhGspKyid[gsfu?eOojvBeg/kmuguesgqKIgp^sg

HqmnetJlaIywj=xytbcqDguACxd|imopksyaavLje:kEacbusnf Cre"klgknjlgbGxee-yA
yqmgeyKggKIrd:nqarclwzaMBjd"xmqjkhKaaMIeq*DlxkvmrAixtyi\zlgknjr]xAChl!oE
jutewxKlesFfx^xljpbyzla$Iwo|nAq_}er1ixtzw^xljubfDDbRMew^gDdjksyguAyeEnIUJ
lumg?etBusMmi!uDajgeEhzsMji!glekuuDhzsvfw^jlppbyzlaT!HMdfAsbcevptIFfC
hmtgfeGuaMBjd*smhgu 

RQTMbnDsvLNwe:kpajqBrAixtuv=mDbobuwygHLrw!vmhgbfFhmRMnw7fmofbyzlaBGfk^
ozugtksjfnte+onqawujJguRJjw!yqwgtfDgxHLiw7futbrwwzfGNjh!CuujbfrsjLN][
AEvcnqQgpytyl^fFjvnjKgpytfv:oomgueuvoMunr^jljpbfFgjLMziT/FicvevlsBPjw
lDpobyzlaT!HMd ldnkhCzaHHee+fudqpesuesLjg^oHfubfFgjFuli!ztbvbrAysHLxd@t
GOTbrfyl?	teP YWacnxGgjEFzw:xmugfesuatFyi/tmukxjrpoMywj@iq.bdfKlesIsd:kJu
uzavjjrHTV3N{!ztfbut	jbEFjh!YGqgtGGvlsCsx^xrbegexypFtGi-roptg 

RQTMbswEusJwi|kzugfeLofsLjw;rFtbqkrhosyCt^xungpyrjpGxzg:kpadAeVloGCxd mmo
gzebksNvmOCsk!ztjtvD	zjQtxx;jqovuesAaVIwr^rx.bqswguACwh!uravjjE
AzegtlJheNuyi!itfokxLyzsGfn=xE.bqswguACwh!yqokqwrBowywk/gpvcvjrjixGnw:xK
smkqtxlgbGxes+klujkwvghKuiy@zqaejjEptMLDd|zGegpyKbasUex&oDebqkrAixG
xqdgkAwkaMBjd[gBftboGBsGuqw7fFigbyJheBNns+gxarcuwyavIum^ylbpfeuofFChe-
gntvtfuAtsIsd[gBft}erHaMBnv%fDfegnNlesCre"klekuuDhzLttj!ztfbrnuAvKyxd=l
ztfbrfyltmtfr%fmavjnJkaKyhi*BqebvmwguxRyd%oEqncDrDjMBet=v\vrblJhqAChw8

ZtfbuyMkfGNxd>kDfbinNlosMjz^xmmbszwzuBIsw!smegbzHgcRtxs_kldjgrAzuKS
vDphgxKvsLoedonqaswjKAjHHxd'kxmbksLvayCAi!ixbuujKaaKusk*tsahttEgwxLDd^gEz
zAaxgwQgeBzkm$Axu?bfFkaBHhp;jqebszwzuBIsw!jqtkiswkaMIew*sGmcvjrisHQxm+m
gEaygqDgbLtfd:xmekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaKyyv*kHbn+yQwfsNfw)a

RQTMbkMyoBMmi%fFigbkGsmHQnr"fDfuwqLz?stNr!ztfbuyJhjzByj=xIbtfeIBfLNns+
yqbtem	|uAyeu;kEukqsrifBHl{!CtbvbnKguAyet&uEqjqwMzaHRDk^tlcqpirkjLNfr$k
gzebjDvypQSet&uEqjcywc_ Nmi!yFvfgsLzaPywi!zAmfbyzhusNmi,fopwnirAbDy
lugvgjFgnBHzx^ylbpf	rAixH	d*llujgDrDjLBjh7fsjxgeMw?stYl^fEuwfjFAtsQnx&
vmqgteLvpDtrs/klujcsrmjyNji+fyjpwywzaHHee<kDbig	rhowtDi:fypuveGmaMBjq
mmwgbzHbas@mi!yFvfgsLzaPCyl!kuujgwrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMnex^DFaqteAtbzy	
xqdgkAwkazIth!yoptgxrposLje|uzbdnjrAjFy	d&gDenAewCfKtme%fFpbinNlaNJ	d@tp
AEvcnqQggHOsh!ztfbtnyoususw>kD?

OzavjjrisHQxm+mltvwiQaaMBjd|zGegpyKgxxLjd"oHfpbfrsjLNes'fqjijyrApIChw7
zAmfbyGgjFulm+klujcyrhosCxw;klphbyzla3Izv+gxaqheLofsUri/oobpbHzlnBwfp
YAdkgyQgitxen;yFacruwhsxxes+fFigkwrkfLEx{!gzebyjJlatFxs!zAmfbyGggECu
ztsqwlzgjMtfr%fFpbhnFkaMIum$ylngpyAvoxxem+fFigbnKzvxoedonqacxjJhhxtxg=xqt
CqsgbftvvMtyl^fEbog rg)!Bjd|zGegpyKgxxLjd:uxebvtrhoLQjv!Eqtbqwrupsugs;z
CtfvjjJgpKtss:fBbtvnuBmtLex=vudubfHwftLjh8]laVjjrlsKIww7ftpygAwy.sQjv^
wGjvgevpgyywi+zgabVmwgtMOii+zEaykyzgqtJjv!xmsgnDrzbBxex&gFauqrwAiBHl
gBqgcwwkaPBjr!oFajcirupMoed}AFavjjQgpyNjr!lmjngirApsznr%fEpogyzpoz
gouwcqDFaFysx*uzffbnFguAyem|yGf}be`ofswtq[AFftbuwvqEyej=AzebpzElsHOx
ztjpixlgcNNex&kKacnxGggKyvy^tFmAbxspesNme:fmavquAjaPuxd_kzukqswkaPBjr!oF
CmtbptLbas	Yl^fDfcutFaaHzeg=ADtg?eOhtsNme:fFigAeOlsxtui/lAsoksygxHLi
yqbtemwz?stYl^ElxgtjrmjGxnr"fFicveOvswMeA^xqaogsLppGyid@tpavjjQgxxLj
iAoenzvpoztyl@zlujgDrobwtfg$uyqnkxzlesNmi*xlucupm
