                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without knocking, and hurried
upstairs, in great fear lest she should meet the real Mary Ann,
and be turned out of the house before she had found the fan and
gloves.

  `How queer it seems,' Alice said to herself, `to be going
messages for a rabbit!  I suppose Dinah'll be sending me on
messages next!'  And she began fancying the sort of thing that
would happen:  `"Miss Alice!  Come here directly, and get ready
for your walk!" "Coming in a minute, nurse!  But I've got to see
that the mouse doesn't get out."  Only I don't think,' Alice went
on, `that they'd let Dinah stop in the house if it began ordering
people about like that!'

  By this time she had found her way into a tidy little room with
a table in the window, and on it (as she had hoped) a fan and two
or three pairs of tiny white kid gloves:  she took up the fan and
a pair of the gloves, and was just going to leave the room, when
her eye fell upon a eDpuMFjd#uFungeLobMtxx=upapgfJguAyep=uwjpi]
mxbuu rgUAywi!Cmtbptrsbuyqd:nutbvnElaPCyl!ztfbytJkts|IVdTWaOG	\
hGubpjNlsMBjp^yEaujjrBovIwo^jljvbfFkaIOyd*zluqbmwyaECuw8fl!KbpFvx
Y1NGVM1UHsCsx^xqtvksygjLtxy/kluqbmswqxH	(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	
^IigpjNlss3ei@zlptbiJpoDtfr,ztjpi.rzps3)p-fvvuveKlfsQme:fFiku
hAuvnjrkpxM d!OleqbmGwfsCy(-rlncmjrtfsAws>fxbtijrhhtCs{!lAs
xqbnnDrP"Ftvy*zqavkwwkaHzef^ozhbuzuoattym+ElmkvyDlaMBnr"'/

flJvbiAkaLIem+jqff?esuesGzg&fEpqpjJguAusd|nqajcirlyIyhx^ja
hqgqtjrzixtme%fpswpprobEzex&klcqvyDl.sMmi!lAvpfezlssBje%fBsguxAuh
gsbkpxLguAyeg^oxjpi	rhowtme%fFpbuyGvqsNtd|gHfbjjJgoxwpd'xAnbdjAuh
hDpmgsmga`Bjd&gEuknDrwvMtis>tlujgetvuMFj{!ymzkplrApsBjv|kxg
^6icv)KgrNCyi!kzpwim	|JsBtt^fUaujfF_usAws>fmoAbrGyf aFw!oFaku	rP
imo&veylusIzx!gFavjjrkpHL][dfppbynKoa2tme%t/ubfwMulsKzm:kltq
sGdj#)

flBncx/gjMtBe|fFpqbqsAfsNtd>oEibvmsA@stXl^fIfpveGuazLtA*ts.bcsv
mDpyksyaatHid<kDzbutGuaAuid:ullpgjDgeHQsd=tlujgexspHL,d!oz
gzpvjjJgnBHzx^fFigtjrDbLtss:fqwgpeJvpFtks/fFiku	rhowtxl^fFskgi
ztfbgkxldMttj!rKjpievvxGtBm:nlppgewscHQee"guouveLofsxts/ lbpfeLof
uFigtesynswzv-kpatqzFkaAywd&kme}be~AjEFew&klxgpyrvosAws>ozh?bfFk.
gEacbqszusLjw=ADdg?eKofsJzx!uzfbcwEgpNNes'fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpaqpj
lApvbzHguAyeg&oyogA	rhowtxe*jluqbmwytxFkdGTAxbKeuhosxtd+ulnqtjl
CtbvgAwyaAuut^tE?bb2zhus%NPgfnfeqrwgpytri9-

flMwepAszsztv!Gxjeg	rAixtqm:zxfbofypdsvtx:rqajcirupPtme%fuuubkMsm
krggeylgbGxew&klhtgBrupsFfv"kD;bbxLpmEtnx!CmtbxjJFaNHhs_lAsvcgDl.
gze?bfKguAywi!yqfogirApsvjd+ultqtyrvgswme+iqaqhezlssyAi/fsfvvnFn
uGubqkrAixtws=slbicnFaaGIeA=tpftbxzlayyqx!AzicruQb

fl!KveOhtsGzg&fBmgcxsuuxLee:ftpog	\guAIzk&zlqqqwrHmBwj{!^IigpeGuf
Cmtp&yrhmPuDw!mDpyksygmtLli/fmofbxEhmEyw{!gzebdjAuhsIwh^xqebcgGBu
hKaokhwgbGxev@hnjvu rgJsuqq=yFaykxzgJsBfh+-FaiqswgeHQsd:nmu
xmcdky	opEy][@tpaAgy	|bGxeC^z\_kv)KgstNmi/fovtktMz.sSty!qzpy?
ztjubxGyusIkd-orf#be1geHtBs+jqsbymsAaVUSd&gHfbjfHwfGyid:ulng#
3tfpbNrBtxxex=fDfcfexhjKS]x@rqt?bNrmbGwni%fFicveCpowttj!ztjpi
tqwgtezhqIysi% lbpfeFvxsBjv^fUacoeAuaMBjd_opengeGmaHHj%!f6igtj
uGhjveLvauyee!hApmbBJpuMysd@hAvvbrwaaMBfx!ztftgeGBhAN^d!Gzebymwu
OlhtqBrBqmtN(-rlxtkywgpGy][#AFaK&rrnsHQsd;vloqy	\gtAyee%jqebksrh
yAstqBxBmsNtr^?l!cveDlbLNex&kDf&ueFvaKItq!zAaittOgvItfr,fyptg
NQSG})

fl!DwyrAixH	(!ztpwimLgBEChi7f)tjcqDgJs8JZ XlhgvesuzsIqh^xlujcsrP
gyapqBnga!BfxNrxadgesgdHGks/zfaqpjrDbRa]r^Bqsbvtrifsusd=rpayqrsu_
/nvvbyzlo afp>gKtbvtrobOyep^yEppueLvaEyfv+'laQj	rPaLBty-jz"vbqArf
ZTBV#)

fl!Qj	rFpNtks=rutjbFDpdx:)d|nqacpxOlsxxel^xEfnh rg!1IBd$gzaAqz
rqbtpeDltLIsw!ozajgwwcas%mC7fFigtj\zaAuwh-ElsqqrrmpKt4Sp lbpfeFv
xApobfLgbEFej=xlbpAeDltLIs[#uAlu#)

flBpfeKvaLBjd>kzubqslgutEnr"frjtuyrvoxtxm%klbpfeLofGtyl^fAujgwl
gzebofCpoztvy*zqacbhGuwxLxe:oAobqkrpusuqx=mqujgwhgcNNee'zqsbcexlx
suowvjKgtAyel^gDebceNvjvyes;zEjfg	rhowtxx=vBffbyGgmBMyi+a

fl!OcwQgBGH^d!SmsAbFFu@,txe*jlujgeNvjvy d!^RfvemrtfsGDd"rAwgu
ztjubrGtfGN^(!f6igpeuhnxtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusIsd:nq
yFbktxmgaTFng^fwogyeAAaPuxd:nqaTcgtpuswtq*tsavqeDvpDtks/ftft?esue
ytfbvwwtcEyid:oxmbumwgtAIto!ztfbjtMzfmtvy*zqahqwyluMCsk!ztbvbxzl
CmtbptOgbuIzx!glujqzKhowtym_kEacueDhszyee|fFigbWsicBN	d@tpajcirup
xqbuqsrApsvjd@lDbkfeGmaBN 

flQtgxwuuESex&klScdgAAavuri!ABavqeLofsxts/ lbpfeLyjxxex=fAqgpeAA<
hGu?bfKguAyeh=uDaqrjFlesCsA@xpt?bfFkaTFng^-EagngGDaPuxd[xqtugi
nmsfbfyhjGMyd*zfavjfLgbMNjq[zlqtqAwkattke*rGsg}erHmBwjd&kmsfbnL
ymzbvtrpuLyqj!^6igpe1_mEtls!xAvpfesuesAjx!ozacveLofsQnr%uI?&

fl!VJF`gzHOeA=t/u&byzvvzByd?rudg?esuemtfj:kDaycnLpoztym-rltjg
lmoekjvgtAyel^gDebvmwgStvgm:fvvuveMuexLex&klxkpiGD.sMmi!yGefgsDF
yBsgcirvvMtmi/ftbpf	rhowtre%klbbussAdAtnr!ztfbcnJbas!mi!juebptL
mqubjtDkaHzee+EFikpllgcNNew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqaujwAllsush!glgcnq
