his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  tvmwu
nqafkuHlesCyd*tFpbjnKgdNJes'fFfc?esuesFts)kpacveAAatAfm+.ladwyrof
iAvnfeLojGEes'fzpvjnFnauyyx^xluqbxsFaMBfr!nutbhnJzusLjq@xw.b@NL
CmtbvmwgCX!Yd#AFugt	rFpNtpr=Cg"

flBnkhwgitxef^kzanqtCpozttz^xlikueKopNFii/fIjvjeKvnxthy/oAtkvDm
^9icvesggNHsC!Cmuej^\gtAyev^smsmgimga/3yd:kxmubyzlawuDd=llujg
sAovj	rhowtis^yz"vbywsmsQme:fA"enturaBNem|'/

fl!YjDrziHOqh!oF}&brMAuxLjh!ztfbJfLAfKoedGJAfub472SsQfx$nlugnq
EAvbymsAaRyfv!oFakua\

fl!QheuvvKMjd+uF.&bFDpdxtwi[ruffbAwyzsLje%oxz<be]ivMtyl@z/t
hqdcwxwgjMtxx@EEavjjrzbFyeC^gDahqwrzvvBee!rAoibyAtfsNtk^ztft})

fl!YjnuoaBMen;yFavjjrjbLyeA*ztaOKSWa"sMfm%fFigbMsAuxL 

flBnkhwggxFyd%xqbfhzDszsJzD.rqe}be`ofs2fx:kD"ubwwtbKEew^kyffbyG
nmwgbsGgtHLyd=llngcsAuhsCsd*zfacpirFfMtnx!CmtbejJAbBHqC!Kzhnkxzb
^Uafqs\AaJOnx^fGofgwKAbGxeC=Af"bumwgttCi{!gEarqqAAfESee|fEig
iAvnf 

fl!VjjrKpKGty|kljubfKsfxJee"guo?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJaatHid&klqqwwwk
glmkvyDlaAIyd:kmawrtFgjMMer=yq?

flUjgeVvsFIzw^fEiqqprpuLtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC7fmofbxspemtBm:nAvv
uBfpksygjMMei,kE.b@TxgdHOww^ lphbhGBsLy.d(AEubymsAa2tBe|fspkplrAp
xqnctprtzLyqj8-

fl!JcAwgzHOek;kEtgfeLofsLnh%rqaAgyn_aMBjdcgFugteKhjwnex;xzjpieLv
GxjegesnbBH 

fl!Pq	rPazCAi!oFawr	\gBEChi!xqqnkjv?as|Bl@z/tbvmwgbGMBi/b/

fl!KbmsCfG.yd:nqaunnyouxMyd*jqb?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJb

fl!PqwrP.,txe*jlujge5hsvBeL@xq?

flBnkhwgtBAmi%fIfctnDF?st%M!ztjpmeQvvsGnk&zleqbxGtfMBnr"fnfvvjJ
CuujbyzlaMCri7-ltjgeKhjwne$:nmobyfKAfsCyd*tlbumnFnaKCih-kEavjfL
nmwgbsGgbGMBi/yg"

fl!KheQvvsEsi>f6jogeszaPyqp!gEaKbiGa"sMfm%fFigbMsAuxL	dGEAv
CAvnfs\AaMuqo!gnpwveOhtMCsk!O6?bbNL_ts2NQ8-

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClxjcyrFpNtri@tf"bufAkaTFng^a

fl!QheuvvKMjd,uGafqs\A@,tyl^fTbvvjJgttCi{!zAtuksygiBMel^gp
iAovgrHAvHOxp,ala@Kevhsxtxe,fKpwbswCfKtjz^tltrqpwguHtYm_k-"

fl!RgwzhqLtss: /aCnnulavuzx*uGtnAeJlqECjh2fl!dwyrPaDHtA!OlicxjrAp
hqbvbyAtfsQmi+fUangfJuaFOxm$a/

fl!Cj^rAitNee$iAvpvxrmpKtnx7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs}be]OfsQtrNzltvcsv
hqbvksybas8tA7fugbAtMgpGFDd)kBubqsrnpHxex^xytbynLoaACr{!nq"fbiG
gxnquyrhoRNmm+mlzqweDplxxeA*ztavjjrjmHwp	!fRptbnFzutHhi7fEvrrtKl
oFaygwwgoBHjd=-omqeprposNmi!sAspksyaaCOxx!zungbyGgcxAnr!rqtuqsK?
EAv&feGumRtme<kluqbBzptIywd@ftjpveLva!Cri7fmofbwGBowtls^ylujg
ixpemeAuattyA*twmkpl/ga1uqjTvmtvbtFl.sNnq^frptbiAuoxL^(

fl)@KeGumRtBm|nljvbBsz.,tyl^fYbtemrObKyew@opavqeAAtxFkd*tlb
CtjurjJb-

fl!VjfLgxHOqh!hqaitfFk.swjv:guonA	\gttCid?rudgbyzvvzByj;rxz<
^nvvbyzlo aNd|nAvnfs\Aauyel;tssAbkGyaBN	d,uGamptOb"

fl!Pqyrhusznv|zfargwzhqLn)d|guebvmwgItNyi/.la@dzLgzHOeg=Axebmjww
oFavqezhmyaue|zlppgeszaEIsk!gEaAqzrsjDyi	N

fl!KueLobMtyl^fIbAb472aFuse"kh"bCqAjfsuxo^jg

flUjgeZhuMywd|nApmbmAzaAyfh!sAvtpkMsmRoedGTAubK^\gixtwi[ruff}
^9fbszsysxFqi%fxbuve5hsvB][(AEubdjxvsxtMI!Cqovbrsk.sSty!qzpy+]\
[BpkpyAuhsQnx&ftjubywhaLJts+fmubvmwgNtLhl!Nmsg?[r'_ Cyd>gEacveLof
mDfcveuvovywx!muwgpetFaMBjdlAqfpbtxgIxuwx| lbpfe1gitxex=fEjpi

flabbergaste)oCuomnjlguPCso-kfankyLsfsvfxH
flabbergasteL=ClJbytFkfKtBl@zlzqw)JlatN^)

5AvbmsGDaMBjd|uzh?buwyitJx N

fl!K&Awgixuwh!yAngvmAuhsFno^fuu?&eKhjwtFp*iq?

fl!KveyvfLttr7fKpwbpFvxm.ex&klIcvywyavIsx*tGff?e]posNmm|fIbA<]	

flabbergaste)pvlbdqAwguAyeA=xxebAtMggES	
flabbergasteP*qqacbywh_MLfC!ozavjjrzlRo
flabbergasted!flabbe`DjGEqi7fFxkppDl_ ?)

NqsgbyzlaWIwq=AEfbumGvlsCyw^rr.bcsvgcxAfr!yuoiksygjGtnx|fEmggu
^6xkppDl.sNBm+qxf?byOpoDFj{!zIjpmqw|_,tfr%fIfpveGuaLIep=tsavjfL
ztfAbmskaMIet*toibkyrApsGfo^fuubuyGw?

fl!YgqDaa2.id&gDenAexpoBMmi%fFigbkAytMtAi/yq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwl
^IigpeLofs~zi^tlkwouwkaNJee+jlccyqwkaHOy{!_Tf&ueEBswywm+mlujg
zung#erVgytBm:nlikuezlbw:-(

fl!JqBrksxuij;rxzbufNhhx:)d^DomckrwkaTFng^a

fl!CpirlwxLew*tofbvmsA.,tyl^fTbvvjJgxxHyd=tljpbfrtpNLsj;rluqpjl
^tfbytF_usxtd@fFikplrPatMp%!fUu&uessxtSxd|oJaq&hDvdDtss>a/

flBbdwAniMtnh^gldcojrpoMIeE-oof&uezlbwoedGOEavjfLguAyev^gEppbxG
smoAbywh_MBnr"ylbtgeHBusIzx!nqsg{)rzixtfw)kp?

fl!1gxlguAuy(|fuu?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJgxBNmd@fEjij,rg!BN)w!gxxcAx
zqb+vnEl.sush!Cq"xgeFvaMCri!zAaycxzguAyex&ozhubgwAxxysd>numgu \

fl!VjjFgzHOeo^kBaoqAAuhsLty+jfaKbxMwqHMj NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!GzfuAmRtxs7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs<be]htsNmi!ztjpixrnfMtzw^jlvr})

fl!DwyrDitNel@vBfpueOofGtDs;fopogeLvaMBjd#ksjppnFnatAfm+b/aCnnul
BqovwwwkaMIee|qg

fl!UwuHvtxtBi!itbpijrAixtxy#pqdv?)rAixtRe/itaJcwwgjGNjv/ABugf	
Emxpksybas|N(_fsfvvnFnaMCwi%fAgbvmAz?stNd<uFfbvmwgzHOsk!rmeA
zqmnueMzattxx=xK?&

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oleqp)LglGIBd=tq.&bxspesUqm$kfatcyzlssuqe/sqebcy
ztfbrwGwpLuq	

fl!VjjFguAyeH=xypwujrzitFq%NfFigAetvuAthv*kp?bb%#hlxtzt7
JAsoqzKl@,teE+jlujgDrwjGwmi%fuubqsripMBew*jqtbcyrvovy 

flUjgeVvsFIzw^fEmqyqQgpIysi%ftjubjQltnte$dfIbup)LgbLFji[ /ajg
ymjfbnFgbsBte/yq.bhjwimxtAs*iq;bb%1gixuwh!kHftAeOvswtDs;frfnntOz
CqsgbxsFjGA (

fl!VgqDgvLtfd|zAsA#)rzbBxex&klNcthzgItLj	

fl!1gxlgqEyfw^fpp#&eHsftxjh!Gxjeg 

fl!CpirifsKzm$qlbdqzLgjMn)d@jpffbyzla1uyx^xfa@qwrFpN.qp!hqacuqwlq
gsbkpetlgHLjd*z/tbftFl?,
