Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than befouDf?bfKguAyeQ@xoibJfJlaAuid(AEubwuKlu
ztfbonDr_COld*tFpbjnKgqEuyi8

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlxkumrApsIkj^tpavjjrKpKGty|klbicnFaaLIew&klcgifF
BqsAbhsBuBIzw-Eaab@GMAa2tis+-FawpiwytMush8flXjgwwgeBxex&kKaftfO
ztfbvwwhdEyej/uy}&

fl!1qzrjbGtiv@ClxcvjJgpNNes'fmaycywy_Pyqp7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs>b%Kv
OltjqzDkaMBnr)fKpwbhGBmwtiv@ClutgfusfsIzx!uracbyJlbvFj[>kxm++jza
yFvrkin_

fl!DwyrAixSeA^xqaKPeLofsQjp- /aCnnulaLunh!zAavjjrKpKGty|kfapqy
itpqunFnaMIer=zudgbyzptsFfw:fDfocwCb

fl!QheuvvKMjd:nqzbyjJl"mtxe*jlujgeVvsFIzw^?l!++BwsmsCs	N

flUjkxrhoLQjv!yAaeqsxBtxxet=uDaCnnul.sNme:fEigbqwAaMBjd	uDnqwxw
mAaqpexvssMtq^fFjogeOpuAIzx!ozugtwMwuBHld*zg

fl!VjjQgxxLjd-kmspksyguHtiv@Cf"bvmwgEHLrs;yqaygsLgpGneC@Czjpiesue
xGcdksygjMMei,kE.bhtJgjMtBe|fsfvvnFnaOywC!yxfgrDhg!tHid:nqzbfwwD
gxmbofFufKttj!ztjpix	|fOywC:nuoibyzhusvjk*tEaykyzgbGtR[T-

fl!YjDrDjMBee+fY}&bxspesUqm$kg

fl!YjDrupMp)d|guebvmwgNtLhl!Nmsg}

flBnkhwgxtMew*rqov}

flUjgeVvsFIzw^ftbfbhDvtxxem:ylfAgxrizsNmm|fFjog	rhowtBe|fspkpl
urgbksLvattis.kbadwylgpGtgi*tsarksuofwtgC!ztfbJfLAfKnem:fIpmgeMw
gsbkpeOpuAtfd-oFungeKosByp{!gzebyjFAaHH,d!^\_vjfLgcxAnr|fIjvjesu
SfauwhzgbLtrs;yq_vtfHz.sush!ztfbotGu.sush!sqnqtDlgbGxeq;itogux	|
EAvbmsGDaRIzd|gKavjnFntsuwi!_yvejeGmattry$nzfuu-	|eBxeC=Alfxgw
yqfbuzuoattyl*tsacuesgeKuBm+mlphbfrtvvBsi|yh"

fl!TgfDszmtss>fKpwbfKraFy	(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKaowhzgdHHky|kp.b@N
jAo&veLojGE][N

fl!VjjFgzHOew&uGmfp)LgutFp{NfEbkfeLofs2fx:kD?

flUjkxrwjxwjd=llswfjFltLtBe|fyptgeLobGtFp*iqaeqzDkauyfv2fltjgeyvu
ABakpeyyftNeh*ysvuv	rhowtBe-qqebqkx}aMBjd	uDnqwxwggxFqd@yxfgr
oztvcsLszmtfr%fzfkvmwyaHzex&klpvjjJzaMIto!ztfbnjszusHtx*iqaqhezls
mAjpi	rAiHOll!ytfbntGrfwtge$qlppejrvssNBm$kfajcqxgiHJnr"fFicv
ztfAbBGBmwthe-rlbhvjJgixL,d!ztfbnfKAaMCri!ytfbufOguAyr{!ztfAbBwyf
zDzkplrApsJzx!ztfbFtJtpNMjd*tFpbvmwguxuus:a

fl!CvesuzsLfx^fU"nneFlwxLek=f6IGTJrhhtCs%NfEbkfeSsjvyee|fEig
vudmgirofKtBe,fFitqzyoaMBjd>uAe}be]Pu,Mex&kltvwuAkfLNex^g\qctyQgJ
kHftbBszatNem+fmmnbrQgmBzj%N

flKwuyrhtsMmi!ymjfbyzptmtxl^fzpvkhwkaMBfx!uzfbqkrAixtyv^kEajcirh
jAptbqwheBHld/osivbnFApsCy	!f)Ujcy\zaOywC!iGskqzK""sMmi!ztpwimLb
^NvvbjNlsRNmm+m/tbezJppNMex=jmz}be1guACso!OlncAeszaPyqp!mAakpesA
uzdg})rgBGxem+fEigbBwuun

flPpejrtpKyew&klgqwsvgixLxi-lljpbyzlaEIsk!nmmn?esueswqs|kluqbyzl
ruuvnjrnmtMxd:gnmg}er'OHQ	dd-xmbofFhhxtgi:zqsbvmAzaMCri7-ltjg
ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfacpirifzusd#ElucmnFnaMBjd-oFungeyvmwysd)kK.bcsv
AzmqepAuhsNmi!jAptbyzhusFjh!ozuqbyzlazuwh^tgabVmwuaLBjd>kzubvt
CAsmbsAicECsk!gFavjjrtvLBws=sl)ujjrobwtpi[zlbbrnwjfsIkd*zljpbmwy
vAdmgi{guBFqd|nqaycxrhcHOyd@frpqvezphAied:nqobumwgxtFpi%fppypeLof
ruuvnjrwbLMfk^.lacpir1IX8][|nqahqzFkaAyww^rracveDhtMtnr!ztf
hqbwvnxBmsAfv%kz.bcrGuhsNmi!hDjijyrmmHQjvThqeubfFkaMBjd$uAm
lAvpvfAutn



flabbergasted!flabbergasteGcG2UGTe@PJ2

flabbergasted!flabbYzla0Oji+-EaEttIBfMaLv=Aze


flBbnfJnfsLtw^/FsggeKApHxer^gDavjjrloMLfr$klphbyzlazuwh^taabvmw
xAtgueyypPCsk!uzakveOlsxtBl*zq.bdzLguAywi!Cqsgbyzyfxtle/jqogtxrhu
oF.bdzKpmRtue*tFjpieLofFtwi%alaCnnulaMBty"nFavjnKgbsPjv,fovtktMz
ztjpi	rhowtxl^fIfpveFlbKywd:ulxcvhzguAyr{!gzeblzKAatMew&kldcojrBq
zAavjjEgtAyel^gDebqswgpytyl^sltcA	r'MHIpd=AFapqBlgGBPj%!fPpp&yrnp
yBmcumAuhsJfm+zlpxgwrtfsFno^fFicv^\

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!nqmrbnLa"sMfm%fRjxg	rposuew;rwzbvtFl<s|Xi<kzalqlyle
sKagngGD?,

flPpbBzpdAtXi<kzanqtClesOud@tpaucnvaa/@me:-EatklzA.sZnz^'laCnBsFt
rmzbvmwgcEuri!uzaqvmwyt|.

fl!1QZ\Kauyyx^xloqveLhmD:)d|guebHnNl?st%M!nqbtfeLofs~zi^tltcAeGumR
EqtvgwvhzsSty!jqtgtAwkaMIef^fnfjgfvle|.

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbyzlaHHjd>nAajcirzqHEjr!lusuv 

fl!VjfL_tsHtr^fAgb1T!YauOxm+kEt?bYOv@,txe*jlTgxjFb

fl!1gxlgjMtNW!nutbdzKpoxMx%NfEbkfeXpwxne$@tpaK&qDguxFqd&oy_+ky
CmtbhtJgcKCsk*tsavjjrjpHEex;ruq+ttGAtsCsw:kmebqkrvoBIsw8-

flTgxjFggEOsk!jAxpbmAzauLzw& lbpfezhesDzw:fnfiwsr'XxFq{!uracnq
ztfbwsBBtMtyl*tst++)rDixHel*ylfAgeuobGwjh!zAahcqDgvIIsd?rudg?esz
ytfbuyGvesQfx$nuoibyzlnmtfr%ftfbemwjlxxel*sEfnheKBewysp,.lavjj
uFigtxrspHEjh!xAvpfesstHnee+jlbnneGmaMBjq!hAxgfeDvxn

fl!YqzDkaRIzd:kxmbojl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rhaECyx-klukonvszmt%A&Elzqwesyf
vmjpvnFnaMBtw^fDpugxn_

flGkxjrhowtXi<kzaucnvgoHNmm+mfadwyrspHEjh!gFaVytmga!Qtd#ksbpbnFgb
rAxbxtAjfmt%1&ElujgexhdMtnw7fKpwbxwl.s7nw| lujkxrofKyes;mtubvt
nmwgbgwlosueV Jlsquj	Asxy	d@tpaygeHBusueA&oFfbqswgjGtgC!sutvcpw}
gzebkkrAixtVy^kzaycxrApsznr%fuubqzLaaPyew&uGmfbfDsaAuAi!uGsbjjskt
iGubqkxaaRIzd)tAx}be~vaRIzd|kq.bOnKz.sQj(/kleqksygpNLef^yF.bckGyf
ytfbetEltmtysT//abCyrAiBMeq=sqovbKACfmtBl=ftbfbgwlosusB*uGtnA
rApmksygbvLtw|fFigblsyexH	d$gxmgfeGBus|Yl^f3vggs/ga!BjdlAqfp#)
gzebvmwguALji!mmsfgswytsCsw:gzunAeLosxQex&kytgnAwzayFfx!ABpp
ztfktexhdxM d!ZtftgeOhtsuew=AzebqkrtbGSej=uFtvguKaatHid?rudg
rApmgirypNHi{!kmhgteLvaLyjd:nqaSwjwu?

flGktxLgdtGjd:kzauqqvpfKMeg@xDzkplrjmNvx,!ztfugeOlsxtfp-fEicrjv
rulgbyzlaMBwi^fsbtfjFlsLnes#rAoibfFkayFfx7fIjvjeLofBLel@tptbcsv
lqfvbfLguAyeg=xzftu,rgoxRyd:nqavgsrjpNLym^xE<bvmwzfsQjv^
uDocojFAfwtfp-fAwgteOpuAtim@sAofu	rhowtBe-qqebvBGgbGxex>ufacueLof
yAmfkjJzawCi	!fMgvgwrAixMjd$gyfbvmwgsHSfp!itjnfwwu<sNmi/klxgtj
zqobqkrAixG	d@tpavjjrsjMNqi!jqbtueuhnxtoy_vuoibrwysBFDd@rAoibmsue
ozajcsvaaBHeg=ABmgu,rguAyDd>kDfbcqDgpKHfq^tFffbBAAisBje/zE?bbSwEu
imngbyzlazOjw:yfaoqxLszs5nr"ylbpfe9BfxHx{!gzebcrGuhsNmi_fMmkej
xqdqisAzfwtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx2fljvbBszaMuqo*tsakpesgiNLwm^jlogtAGBt
smopgwlgtFCqm+mlbvbjNlsRNmm+mlujcyrDbLtxe*jfacpirDfGNef,fIjvjtMA
tAukenFnaAyw	!f6igpexvmEIBi%fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgdtLwC*tsavjj
Quoi&xrjsHQsd=tlbbewAttHHez^rHfvbhMziBIs,!gze?bqszusIkd@rxavjnK
mDbpfeHypvyxw*uz.befEla!2JdfOZHbCSVgR@YJR!URaJGF01Tn
