her face like the three gardeners, but she could not remember
every having heard of such a rule at processions; `and besides,
what would be the use of a procession,' thought she, `if people
had all to lie down upon their faces, so that they couldn't see
it?'  So she stood still where she was, and waited.

  When the procession came opposite to Alice, they all stopped
and looked at her, and the Queen said severely `Who is this?'
She said it to the Knave of Hearts, who only bowed and smiled in
reply.

  `Idiot!' said the Queen, tossing her head impatiently; and,
turning to Alice, she went on, `What's your name, child?'

  `My name is Alice, so please your Majesty,' said Alice very
politely; but she added, to herself, `Why, they're only a pack of
cards, after all.  I needn't be afraid of them!'

  `And who are THESE?' said the Queen, pointing to the three
gardeners who were lying round the rosetree; for, you see, as
they were lying on their faces, and the pattern on their backs
was the same as the rest of the pack, she could not tell whether
they were gardeners, or soldiers, or courtiers, or three of her
own children.

  `How should I know?' said Alice, surprised at her own courage.
`It's no business of MINE.'

  The Queen turned crimson with fury, and, after glaring at her
for a moment like a wild beast, screamed `Off with her head!
Off--'

  `Nonsense!' said Alice, very loudly and decidedly, and the
Queen was silent.

  The King laid his hand upon her arm, and timidly said
`Consider, my dear:  she is only a child!'

  The Queen turned angrily away from him, and said to the Knave
`Turn them over!'

  The Knave did so, very carefully, with one foot.

  `Get up!' said the Queen, in a shrill, loud voice, and the
three gardeners instantly jumped up, and began bowing to the
King, the Queen, the royal children, and everybody else.

  `Leave off that!' screamed the Queen.  `You make me gk*jpz}&
Gzebvmwu.sNzv+ozhbvtrAixtws|k\utgjlgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'XAuydcG8FbAtM
hqfpbiGpoztmi/kh"

fl!OcDrpusJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAka!Qt{!ozacbAwyzsBzq#rqavqswa
mAjpievvxGttr!uzfbmswlatMel^fEqqmjlg!PyeA^xqavtDAuh a)

fl!Kbxwl@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d>nAajcirtftHBl*rqadgjFgfQurm+ozhbvmw
xAtgu rg!8zkd>oFibvmwpssBje%y-"bcsvguAyet/uofuunGuaFIAi%fAo?
ztsggeGmaMBjd|uxekgwKgsxGfm+ozhbdjzpowtys!kJfewywguAyey+lAsvwssAf
mmsfgswytmtBl=fDbpbyGgBEChi!lAsbrwGAfvNns+a

fl!1qzrzitH)x!hqadgmwhexx^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee+jltjgeHBusNmi_fuovqes
rmsigexspPyw[[uFavjfLgtMIth!tqbt}er1ixtyl/kqauqqvpfKMeA@tpftgi
gnpwvexvssueq*tGugbtJguPI	d-uAlkplrmpKtyl^sfacpirAixHeu;oqunA
smsejjvgpyzee'zqsbvmwgpMBjv|a

fl!CtjrAixCwd&kmeubtxm},txl=AFffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!VjjAyaAyfh|fmsgblGufmtnj!oFarnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF@,tyl^fEpnfnwyt
ytpwvjvgjGtwi[rK?

fl!VjfL_tsLnk&z-"bumGBuxxex&klRwgjFbas|He+fKpwbuDhzswws]Aqu{&

flUjgeKvmwCjv|fIftgeKpmxHy{!gzebntGrfwtfx!Gxjeg	rhtsNmi!wGfuvnGu
CmtbgAAkfGNqC!sqbpvexvssBjv8

fl!1gx/_aLBty:kpaCnnul?

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz@&bwGhsxxex&klRwgjFaatHid?rudgboGpoxxex&k
vDpegxKppGneA=tpftksygwxLDd_AoibymsAaPIzp%ftbrrjFgoxRy	

fl!Kv)K|_BN)w!glwgtDrmjGyeh@E-"bufAkattym_opaxqnulatNel^xltkfjm
YtfbyfKgxtFpm+mlcAbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnLaaPBtd>gEargjHpoztfr\oAvunD
ozuqbmwyayuhi8

fl!XgwQa"sMfm%fMmkejgga/a]A&kDf&ueLofsXzg&kEt{&

fl!Jwxz"as2zw&'/aucnvguAyeV@hnjvbnFgbsFtA7ftvttnwkaMIsi8flIg
rApmgirhoQCty|rKaqxjJgiBMew&uGmfgwrhtsBjd|vAlg?esuesNmi+fDbkujv
nunugqxgvIIsd:oBuqg	rwvMtmm|fypwvmrjmHMjd:uligtewhsmtfr%
CtjurjJles|Xl^-EawpiwyaLysx^tofbqkrlyxwzx*uz?&

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!FkirFpNtxe,f|XjcyrhaICyCH_h"bvmwgStvgm:fmtmgim

fl!Pq	rPawCirNzf"bufAkaTFng^.la@Kevvo,Nex&ozlbky\zatNee-rlbbrnLF?
Oltckir+XAuyd'uD}*&

fl!UjjripQyid:nqaSwjwu"Ltje/y\_&byzla~ugf*zlcgifFbasUqm$klhcxjrh
ruuvnjrzdKyfq!uranczyouxL d!^1i?bmMzi|.ex&klScdgAAaPBnw[kDffbnFgb
lDjijywufwtys+kgab@Yzla0Oji+fIjnnezlbKtDs;'la1qzrzfxnew&kldcoj
xmujgwrsbMy	d@tpavjjrXvxysd|gue++)