	Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
	Through all the world bears Rosalind.
	All the pictures fairest lined
	Are but black to Rosalind.
	Let no fair be kept in mind
	But the fair of Rosalind.

TOUCHSTONE	I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
	suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
	right butter-women's rank to market.

ROSALIND	Out, fool!

TOUCHSTONE	For a taste:
	If a hart do lack a hind,
	Let him seek out Rosalind.
	If the cat will after kind,
	So be sure will Rosalind.
	Winter garments must be lined,
	So must slender Rosalind.
	They that reap must sheaf and bind;
	Then to cart with Rosalind.
	Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
	Such a nut is Rosalind.
	He that sweetest rose will find
	Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
	This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you
	infect yourself with them?

ROSALIND	Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.

ROSALIND	I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
	with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
	i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
	ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.

TOUCHSTONE	You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the
	forest judge.

	[Enter CELIA, with a writing]

ROSALIND	Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.

CELIA	[Reads]

	Why should this a desert be?
	For it is unpeopled? No:
	Tongues I'll hang onFgfOywC!zDfg?
e6icveKobEFeg*BumbufQpozMew&uI;
e5pog	ropPtgv*kravjjrsjyyes'fybp
e4vpuezptsywv*tsarkqyyjFuli7
e6icveLofsMyv^zoikplrvgsuew[gz
eNvemqwzaBHel*yltwoeGmatAj,
e5pog	rvgsPns-gFffbAGDt
e/UykCLguAyew=AxtbqkrmsBysh!gzebhwAlowi
eNvvbzHvosNmi!lmjtgxLgcHOll| 
e1sbcyrlwxLDd|kzugphwgfGx	
e9jnne1gSHMfp*tpbbywAAfm
e6fcemAuhsuqp!ztbvbwwhesNtd)tAx
e6igbvMpoMyxw^tofbqkrlwxLDd|vDjvg
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ozankyLsfsMms>a
e6igtjxvsxtMi@BqobPfLBsxthl@xsff
e6icveGufsvth,fEiqwqvgcxtkm-r/e
e9jvjessmsAwe$kEaykiw|fGFfv"kp;
eZbvwwwgqKyxi+zxzbfnKAjEF)h
eTfngs\zavBji) lcwveFvusBjv!nqbtv	
eOmgqusAst.xd_gvfuvDl
eMucnfFAb,Mef^zFftbusyum
e5bfbQMjsxNneNylnqfjKAzn
e6iwue0vttFnr%fAgbofFFaIuwx|
eNzbjjsCfGFDd|EzpfbBszawyAm|kp.
e1gbofFFayuhi| lfAgxrhowtmi@xFt?
e6pbjfNlaMBjd:uGdjgxrkftLjw:fBskBjvb
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ztbvbxzlaMBjw^fsjhvxrziHOqh!nmwg?
eMofbNrApsFnz^fmofbiAlaAywd|rmwg}

X1TCNN6K 8trs|zlhgpyDlaIOqt*zqs#bBzhusNjh*uGtbjtEpmRttj!rAwg
etbxgeQvvsQje/oqebAtMyaIuwm|nuppgwKgxBNme- lbpfeFlwxL
eoskgir_ItPjd[gFjgphwaazIth!vqprnj/_

IQMKCdZvxsHtAHfnbem	rmsBysh|'lTjguzlswnek=fAghbfrsjMNqi8
eSpbynLoaACr{!yustcmm

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_kfaujjHofKx	d-kFawueEhlxtfr!nAoqwwsimxtwi:xqbv>
eFiqwlzgoHNeA*ztadclrhowtge"mmhg?eQlusQnx&fEdtkurhowtxg/oBqcijm

e}FzgzFAaV9WMifmofbY72D1!YSiK{

IQMKCdVpeLNex&uGajgfJguAyxi!Bqsugxn

X1TCNN6K 8neC^yfaKbmwhswtyl^slbnn	rhowtrs/kluqq.rmpKtxs_klph
eFigoezhesCsd:nqnbotJlayyjx!ztbpbyzlaOyww^ylxqwqvgcxuw	

IQMKCd`obM.xd+ulncvywy;sNmi!lqfvbrAniMtgi@xlujgeNlsLyx	

X1TCNN6K TS	d#AFavjjrmfxNeA^xqancrwgbGxeg=AxebptLgcxuw
eFigoxwswxMeA*ztpwveLofsPjv|klbpfeLofKyks/kltvqtv
exbogqQgjGtyl^fHftujm

IQMKCdTBusxnh|zlujqzroftLeA*ztpwveOvowywm+mliqyeLozsHfq^
eEiqwqvgcxtme+mqebcsvgdtLAi%fGqqpeLofLyex/kqt{

X1TCNN6K 2tBe|fEfxgsrvgsNmi!tuogbisFtsIzx!uravjjrDpGxjv
enfhqwwgzHOeg@sq<bhtJgmHIpd&kDfbymsAa2tks;tpaqpes
eBbno]LyfxoeM!CmtbpjNlssMtd#k\sjArwkaLCsg^
e2zvjfyvstM)d:oyf?byzhus3eA@ylbpbNJptAtwe: lxjkhzgJ
eobpbmsyeESev^sqndgwm

IQMKCd`ypPtDs;fIiqbmsAisxtr^fFikua

X1TCNN6K 2Mem:fmaocsn

IQMKCdSuesueg&guo?byzhusSty!uzdgbBGyfmtff=AFajkxrufvE 
eOicplwgzHOeg=rAvt{

X1TCNN6K 2tuv*ztfg?eOopo

IQMKCd7gMHLi{!RAsf#eAAaBMee!nmsfbrsAuxLej=xlgtkjFktsNt
eyfgv.rivMtrs;tFbkpxrtbRtgi!xqnqxjvgxBNmd^gDujszsrfL
emofbxGgfGwty+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubymGgjLtnx9

IQMKCd1zaBNet=yEjdnjn

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!OlqtkyzlfsHtA!CuujbrGzusJjx*zuppcwQgwxBjq^tof?
eFfnneElaPBtd*zlju}

IQMKCd7gxHHii/lGm?bBGuexLky- lbpfeEvtMtBs+jqshwq
eIppfjJmvE:ee+jlzgvesnbBHeA=tpfthzDaatHid@lFftbyzhum
eAvvbtxgbEFel=uBjpi^

X1TCNN6K ZIth!sKaeqrHsfQCtrHfppuveLopNtyl*tw.bvmGBhAtNd@s
eobrcwAzpGyid-owfbceEhomtNd&gHfbcevvvuFjx!gzebjtKlaBH
eyzbfnKwpLCym=thaQpjrpovBes'fpfncDrtpKyem|fm
e5pwvm	zftttj!juteqAwyzitNd[xuujgjlguxFqd_klxjqeAzaBN
eCvkepDF.sush!yBfcmeswbvy ddfIpwnirAiHOeg=Axeuv
eEucorwy.sNme:fFiqweEphANxx!vAvtbyzptswtr$kmmgfeEho
eAvvbtxguASeq=AFi?bfKgxBHjd$uyfubtMAaHzee!tmstqB	
eypwvmwkauIyx-kfagkyzlssNts!sGdjbfLgpGwj{!uDapqswgbM
emmn}e1gqKCyl^kfavcpwguAyeg=xwaqwyrvgsNmC!sAvvjeLobM
eybAbiJpoDtyl,fFjfksyz?

IQMKCd~vaRIzd_gKarwyrhaFusd*tlzqwwrifEFD	

X1TCNN6K 2Mel^fAgbItv_tsGfo*ts}bYmsAaFusr^xlphbrsu}s3xd&oE
etfcfeOvsMBee!nmu?btJgiBMeg&ozayqwLoattgi@xp}

IQMKCd6hzmtmi!nmujbgMAattqm:zxfbdjsyen

X1TCNN6K $BD{!MAebynDsaLysh!sAsg?eAmaMBjd_gzaykqDgcx
eFicppxBmhtqi:fyfbuysFaMBjd"xAxvjeGmaACxd#kmsf?eAm
eFiqwevlmtSeq^fzpvbyzlaDHtA-kphgbtxgiBMeg&oz?

IQMKCd1AaBMeC=AzhbQwDhowI	d:nmubvwAwqxxey[fFigbBJltMFjvNy
etfgnxrhowtDs;xligcwLgcHNmd*tlbpbnFzutHy	

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubvmwgexPnp!zmlgbrGjlBHl\!yBfcm	rzbwtgv=Clbpf
eFswgeEhjwo

IQMKCd1_ayunx& ldqB	r_uBMel^a

X1TCNN6K 8Lqe+jA}

IQMKCd7ymtHis8

X1TCNN6K TFfw!ztfbffQ"aPBfx!ytbnne1geHtBm:nlnAbiGBcEyyd@tp
etpugar4itNeh*jligbBzlosNms;fEbygxLgiBGadrnmubufAk
etf{bMGDaEIto^jlig{e#ofKynr!Cqovbmwca$Bfx!smlgu
etjobmwyfotIm%ftfbcxCggHLeq^blXjgwwgsxGfm+ylig{
eTpybusyuxxel^fIjvjeLofxpee+jlxjgsrzitFyd:nAvbujw
etjobfyhjGpeE+yIftbrwgjGttr^fIptf 

IQMKCd%vvsGzw:fnptttOgnxtLe/mmovwf\zaFIzx&frjtuygg"MCxd@
eIptfeLvpsAwi@zlgqtesuzsGty:nlphbyzptsuliNyltkBjmgUH
eEbAbfQgbGxer=fFpbvmwzfsJfv:oovncwKgjLtrs/klujcsrAp
emouyjJgjGtfd$gFfejnKt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd%uFibjjrroHQex&gFaKbfEgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAatHid*t
eybp&xrhqIuwi-blMqqpKgixtfw!lDfujqQgbLtmi!juebvmw
epbAbmwgxKyxx-kp}

IQMKCd1AaBMee|fqbuAeLvavIzr:fmuqonwzatMex=fDfuqqNlaMBj
eBsqrtKpuBIsw!uracbqGCfKjef;zlucmjrhaMuxx^fAgboD
erjpfnFnaACr{!gzebtjDptAtnx!CuujblGvesIgw^xHbpejm
eUahqzFkaACrd;tpftbfrAsxy	d-owfbcevypIJjh!goptp 

X1TCNN6K 2Neq@Elxgnqrifswfp-kpaLqAw_tsNwi^ lxjgsrpusxws[y
erptvmrzvvBej/Auu}

IQMKCdYpwxtri!gGekgsul.sAts%fybfcrm

X1TCNN6K 9Ltg^kp?

IQMKCd`ofKyep@Elig?eKAsxNhl^jlbnqsyaaECpi!glxqwsvlesEsm"nF?

X1TCNN6K !Bty"nljvbgwgqBNDd:ultggeKBdAtfd|osiv?eAAaPyqp
enfeqrwzaMBjd"xAvpf 

IQMKCdUyzs.ms-rm"bvtrAiRtys+mGf?bNrwsBNmi^?ljvbhMywxNx
eGougfKvotvqC8fTfbyfKggNLsm|nqebnnClattmy+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 8nes_ozpwu^rofswtq^yluqbpAsmsGDd&kmsv}

IQMKCd1gxHOqh!yuoibrQgtHHld>oFiqwyrhauOwh^taavjtMgcKCsk^yF
eyfbqzLgpytyy+kg

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AloqveCupPtNd@slbbytEhootBl^tlJbvmAulmtNd_AEu
eEqgcpmgTPyjx7fEbAbtFb

IQMKCd%vvsvwm+mlngbtMA?s!tj:'ldqojKgixtss:ftftga

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe2HR@YX;

X1TCNN6K ,@nw!nq;buqAulsvD{!gzebptLlaACr	

PMRWGXqPaMBfr)fKpwbkGyaRIzv!iAnrcsQ}auOy{!mApfbkspuAneM!nme
emtbnnwmaAuAi!hqfpbrQzfEzee-uzf}

U4MCPI7fBGxew=ftbfbNhgcNNeC^zfahqwrmbLBns+fEbmg	rPaMBfr)fKpw
eFpqbkGyaRIzv!yAdkgyQb

PMRWGXqNpwtgi!Cu"bAtM?aEyy(|fyfgveszaECyx-klbubBwgdtH 

U4MCPI7fJsxtd%kEjtgeOlaFuDd#klcgvywyaLNwe+mqsu}

PMRWGXqPaILfC!EAv?brsyaGIeq=xqavtjwzaPCyl!CDjvksy
expxg]KvozMem+fFigkwribKEx	

U4MCPI7fJsJwe,fKpw?eEhssHtd_uDfbqkrtzsPjv|kEaykyzgsxuim+m
eFigoeAsm zfz=ADffnDm

PMRWGXqYpLuqm+jljubDGBssFtz^-Eapcrwc

U4MCPI7fZxM	d(AEu}

PMRWGXqPawIer=zlmkmjrofKtse_kg

U4MCPI7fUAywi!CmtbptrAiHOll:fAgbrqwhtBHld,uGayjjFgtAyeA@y
eoitkxLloxx 