and instruction, and this involves the use of computer information
technologies in two areas.  The first is the development of
computer-oriented instructional tools, which includes simulations,
multimedia applications, and computer tools that are used to assist in
the analysis of sources in the classroom, etc.  The Perseus Project, a
database that provides a multimedia curriculum on classical Greek
civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholartnD
iAnowsAjbMCtr8

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpaitjsAfKths+tqdvkAAAzsMzk"kEuubyzhusLjw^gDdjgwKgbKyey|ozh
iAnrwysAjHHem+iDfcunFnmRtnr!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpvxmgaVIsr^iFjxkyQgjL
oyqqtysuusNtd|itpncwKojItgi$gGtgbnLgfKuxi|fFigbiAzutHhi!ztbvbxwwbKuyi|
yFvfgsLzayLtq!zqbejjJzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd:nqjtbhGsmxuly^yfayjnDlatFqs>ozh
AEftueLvatwhi|ylsgotLlawuye#gEfu?eKobKyem+lAsocyAvosCsd_gzzbfnxmfKysx
sqekc	rjpGHjg:fFpbvmwpssQtv)ozhbetFAfQNeA&kDfxgwrAixSee/kfacpi
iAmncgGybMyem+fmmnbuzhtxMes'fDfugfJjin

ZtfbetEijGuym=tlphbyzlaMLjr%fFpycwvgfGx]y|kDaeqrHBuBHld@tpavjjrAsxHi
zAxctirjpGHjg:oHjvAeKBhzyxx|fFicveLofsMhl=rmsnAeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
xqtqwwultmtfp/kmeAbjNpexHyd@sAoibxGtfsLjw^gDdjgwKaaPCqp!yAppbgwjpFyee+
kEucdqAzixxej^gFvtgeGmaLwms-gDtjkumga!Bjd^lrfevxrvgsNmi|klutgsvz.suqs+m
CuujbtFnpBHld$nmoigxrposMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^yfarqnFAaMIee!lGuwtjrposQmm$n
nGncpnLpfLtwi|kmsejjJzaPCqp!AEfbetEwvMuym=tlbpfewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uz
zAajgqHguAyrd'uDnwnfLlaBxje| lbeejKzaLIzv$kE.brjJmpKGev^yqbteml
iAmncgGybMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw7fEfgmeHlfKtwi<oqx?buMimBMmd@tpafkxKlnBHfx^
xqtwnyKaatHid^tsbigeAuaFusC!uFigteHypyyxw*uzbnbfFkaxxzg@zuppcqrhdMCAm:oqt}

OzauwrEhsRneQdITFNUT6gfFJme|oLffbkGBssJtm+zE;bb6{gBsJtv:oAobqkrovFusm:oqt
yoiqnfJzatFwi@jKaeqsKpexLei-koutqsAjaMyCx|fFigbuJlgxLwi%frptofLggHL
gzbnAxAzatHid%oEtgonFhuBIs	!f@-bUhzvmtLxd@xqawunFnaMBjw^fqmgeyJvoBw
zqyvu	rposwtr(AzdvktFgxBNmd=ztftbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxM	d*tlbnneLof
vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?st8=!ZtfbjzEhoBNni|fEdjqqsyt,
CAsmksygdHHyi\zljubnFguAyet/uofuueGmavBfr"ozhbhwGtaILnr:fFfejsGspzSex=
kxfevwGujvtyi$nzpnqlQaaBHeq@tKaycDKgnBLws/ozhbvwsutyIwq@zuppueLobMtme<k
uodwtwwkaHLee/klpeezJyjGAeA*ztjpbyzlaLwni+zugkeeuvnFOsm:Egab6[r1ixMj
itbpijKgbKyes$iGstksygjGths+pGoevnGuaPCyl!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufP
iAnowsAjbMCtr!sqekwrggaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd:nmubcww
itbtchLlsBTjh!hKavjjAyavuue$oFzbvtrheOusg^fEdjqqsytACud*tlbbymGsmRtzr*wGf
Cmz}

SUDJGQ~VOsuqw=fDfkvjJhuxxel^xlujtjwgqKCsg*vmmbcwyBnxHyw2flm_bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvuesyfsvjw:fGofgwKApHxem+fFftoxrvgsNmi!xqmcvnGutACud:ulpvjjJ
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyl^fssqynFnaILtq*tqoegeGmaGyyA=xw_ogiAhuxx
yoiqnfJziBJ d!8>aVjjrwsHMui$zEahqwrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsFni!ozavjjAyavuue$oFz
zAadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyGguAyes+/xjpgeFluPIwo!uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultsNme:
iAnrtnKlaMBjd+kIayqwCpozths+zqyvbkGyaLwms-gDt}be&/a~yyv=yBfevnNlavIsz^xEjqp
urarqwLppGMes'fFigbxuopEuwp,fDfeqwvgtAIzp%fnfbceClzsMyv@zqhAbfKgjGztv_gFjqp
vDpxkiwytsLjw[uzebvtrjitHli|fuobuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!vDbevnultn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
2QDEKFr[aT7)w!kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbfFkaIOgp*ilvugwKgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqt
=lBObfFkaBNxd%kEjipe?gTBNjd|kxfevnGuatHid^BmmwcyAuhsNmi!SmdkpyGzi
oyqngrwuutNns+fAgbCRr[aVBfv@iFftkxLpdLttj!ztfbunPgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfL
yqmgeywka}tHl@xmdvgwAzuBwxd=llBO&xrBtxLxd*tlujgxwgmBvwe/oqtb)e8yjGwnt@r
CmzubF5gjLtgi*tsawujvg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpe@LDV3F{!zqbobqwhexL	d@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMO?bfKzpvCfx^fopqtiAubMIw{
Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz.sAfz^fmalqnFAaILjw^tFbvktFbasZnv|zf
hKaycDrvgsCsx/upvevnGu.s$JG{OMagzuDhjGyid&kDacpirMSXYREi-EatqqwzaBH
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[mga`ywz*tsartnFjjIuqp,fmtbcsrvcLywz^xfaXGHUPBsBfw
gEtkuywkaPCyl!ztfbgAssvtNns+fBsqljuAaHzeEh lqnchAuhsURd$uxmgeyAvoLtnr!g
BmskgyQgpytim'lqsgpyrzjMyxd@xAvpfeLofswty+zDzbcsvgixFum+mluqbtJnbGCEi!gze
oyqngrwuusNme:fBsqljuA?stKV KYBPbmszauyjr!gzacuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKttj!GY
gzebjfKgcxysd*tHpnxjvgqKCsg*vmmnAeOpuAtyl^fuovgwHyfMuym<klncvjJpbEM	
vDfrcwAuhsMtq^fAgbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebjPojuCyw!gzebrwAuuxxel*yFptkhss
ozgqtrsAjHHex&gFacehGtqtHni|fMNbcsvguAuyd*ylsgszwzuxxef,fGtgtxmga#YHGdG
gzebHWWLNT8ew&gDffbfFldwIye-fAcugwNhuBIsw!iAoegwFpoztFQ!CuujbuMimBwey|kDt
uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultnteR=zIjvjxLhowCsk!glgckwDFaLNwy$zGsgfewCbEOfx*uz
ozarttyyfLM	d#uFibXJUJJTtfr%fRSGGRSUavBtw^fzpvbyGgsxJtv:fAobuuwjjyChw!oz
zqsoueGmaGOrf^xE.bgyub.svjg@AEfbvmwFayyqx!oFaycxrApHtje/rKakpeLof
kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbyGgeHtxs8

GYakuesuaxFjg:xAokeesydACAi!urartnEhsRtxs;xofbofLlsBuqw!lDpobyzla5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLM	d|kxfevjvgdHFqi$zuppueJlqKyxi+zuoibfrCbKCjx,fAgbhtJtbMM][
vtpvqlJhqAM	d"xmqjkhrhsMM	d/koptfjvgtHOsh7fypvktFgqBwyy/kE.bdwGheLCii| 
gzebutGu.sJfq[nxfvuesuesvts)ygabKsrAfKGxd=llujgevltBAsd=llujkxrzzLNjq7
ztfbksLlsILjx@zuwgbjPojuCyw!nmwgbgwlosEjt:fEfrcwsAfszws_fFigbuJpntLD
xqtqwwultmtBm:nlhqqiryftMtr8flBeetEwbGSnr"fFikueuvmEyhx*uzactjrwsBHyi%
jAdwojFAbMCtr!gzebwxwyazOnh^yfacueOlmEtfw!mGjfgxrAitNeJmKQNCPeHyfIuwi%frpt
zqbejjJzaLIex&gFavjjQgntSef^muobwxAuhsNmi!iAovgsLgpytyl^fEzuvjEgbMttr$kg

2QDEKFrkfLwwm#kpavjjrlwtFze:oAobrwGqfvNef^lAsgbysslBHld@hAvvbyzlaIOgp*i
AEftueGmaT7	d-oyjvksygixLev^smsmueLvaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	d#kobwujrMSXYREi
CAvnfeLhmDtrs/kltrghAmjvuqp,fmcqwyrzdAItp|frsqoeCpowywk@xFfpbyGguPyqj:n
mDbfge}R_"*[	!flIcxnFnaLNfv:kpakpeKwsBHldv#&2?byzlaxPfp;gFjqpeuBsKysx-E
ozwqnAwzaMyxx*tsaqheLofs7fg*tFpujeAtqEyri+zmukqsrvgsUR	!f5jpejrAix
vDjocwQghHuqd=llujkxrlwtFze:oAobkxrApsxjx^xyjpgeLofsGtw:fmqrttHyjtNj
gGekgsulaHLee;jufpejKggHLeEh lwgtDrkjyzjv^tFaukywzaPywi!yqmgeywk?stYl*y
smlguewCbEOfx*uzafkkxpdNFyd#kobwujrvgsNmi!BmsAksygexAwi^ylphbywjiGIqs"E
ruugtfuFatGtr"fFigbxAAfLoed?SljubxAAvtNjh!ozahqwLF_yIzv!rAdcvnGutmttj
CtjejeKpysuwi!vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEacpirzjQNji+fmsgbxuopHFx	!f4frtjKloMyi
gyppieLofsMhl=uxtbcwwgfEyri+zmsA?eBBoBIwd&osi?bfFkaACll!yoiqqqKb
JutvtnuAaHzkm$kEacnxGgbKyem+BAmxgirposNmi!kHbnwfLppGneA&ooibynDs
iAoenzvlaBHew;syftb6+$4n

2QDEKFrmpvOxi%fFigbwwtbBHii/fAgbjjJgutFpd=tlujgeKpysJzf-ooankgJhsByx{!uzf
urayjnuoawIzf-kEacuesgtMuyi!ructcwQbas@mi,fDfrtjKloMtfd/gzhgbtx
mqpitfHojvtfv^gEacpirhaKusk^fAgbfjEvhKuul*ildjcwsjuxLnw:oot}beXvs
kJborqwaaMBwi^fmsgbqGjbMyid*tlvtdfFgtxNym+mE.bvBGgjGtwy/gxaugyLpozM	d@tp
uzfbksrhaLOgy/hmobujLAjGA d!Glscplwgpytyi$nzjecqrlyIywx*yqakueLvauyej=Aze
gyppieLofLyej@iumkvnwzatMeA^rx?bbKGyaxRfq[rq.bqswgjLtfr!_MqrnjrsjuLfv,fAg
ztfbhzLBsxn-d>numgbyOvaHNmi/ylbtgeJBstFes+k\sqqrrsjuLfv*kE_+ksrvoxneEh
yuuubfLguAyej/uzubfjKraGyCx!zAacbyJhdMIwd_gzvcn 

Gxmbrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrobOyef^kzagzyJlnxFDd^tFiwunszuBw	d|ABqqtyACfmtfr%
gBqtghAhuBPjd=llujgeOvsDtyl@zlBObmszauyjr!jAjpi rgWXWHM?foictfuAfKCEi%
BmskqzKgvLyww2flNquyrBtxLxd*tlqwdqAjaECgv@xufubiwzdKCgi!ztfoujDCfLtfw
mqogtfDgsxuii/ybaqheLofsMyy%kzuubBzvaNMjd?SljpbyzlaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	
ztpugeAuayIzv:nlhtciwgbGxee#uHfbujwtaFIxx!ozugtjKAfwoedkAnmkeeDpcKuwm^y
ozatwwssaLCyi|fFfpfeLvatNyv@iFatgyAyfwtui=vxf?bBzvaAuAi!hqfpbmAniES
xqdgryACfsNtd?SgabWxwytsNjr%fFpbhfDsaBHys!zIpbcivpuBIse-fobvglGyjxM,
vqprnjrpoMywi|zqebksrAixths+zqovbfFkaACxx=xudcneuvoGIye:oAoubtxguAyxi
vDjocwQgsxMty/iqt?bfFkaMBtw^frbuenFhuxxef,fFigbywjiGIqs"EgabVmwggHLre:
xqdgkAAuhsNmi!sAtvbhGtnxHyw!nmtbdjwuaFIym=tlqkeyMyfLoedonqacfzDAaNMjv|fuo
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEactjrtpKyeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fUCObhGtqNNjv| lxjgwwhtsSty+m
vqprnjrzfxGeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fqjvjjJgJU7es/fYbeksLvtAnee-ztpwimrtpLNes'
ztfobxwlnsNtd$uyfbhwGtattRe$ozuqumribvElv=Aze}be`ojLtxe_klugpiwudRtnw
lAvpfeAuaMBjd|itpqnxm

3tbvbpAueLttj!ztjpixrkpsOxi/yleqbBAAisUR !fUobceHBcEChd-onsctDrAixLjd@xq
zIpbofAuazIfp|fAsbyfQzaMBfx!GYakuetljGAey|kp;bbfKgbGtnr%oHjfwfDgmxuwr*ts
zApn?esuesuxd@fxfkuzJlatwym<oFz}beSkvENep^gDokplrDbLttr^fmsgceLobMt1I{IUB
CAvnfezphAFnk&zlbubfrwpLMnf-klbrrqAjbMCtr!lAsbceLvpEtxy$nlbubF5bas!mi
jqtetntlesuet@zDppbtxgbsLzv@rlqwdqAjaECgv@xKayjtrjpFyxd*tlfxgwQgetSes+
nutbnzFjisBty/fmofbqAAfKuqp,fDfcfxrHNmtri:nAekefDszsAtm+mlujttMnisNmi
iAmnghLppGtnq@mqadAeAtbzy d!GFavjjrlowttj!nutbjtMyaAyeq@qqtbcsrlmxwyv=tud
hApmofJr.sJzx|fuubksrojLtus$qqu?bfFkaKyyy/tEavqeOvsDoedonqapgCLgetSel^
iAngueAuatHid/kEvogxrDixLjd&klmghyrvgyoeddtFftgxLpozFD{!ztjubrsuaAui
tqwgtetlfGtnr!ztfbnntybKSef^lAsgbmwgvLyid?SgabKsrhoHNmi/fEncnqlgsNLfp
ructcwQaaMBjd$uAsfkssApKtwi[uDuubyzhusURd*ylbbrtHBmtLee$zuwkvDrmpKtxs_k
uravjjrvmwyw{!xquktjvgqxIup^fuobvmwgdHGry+oFz?bBzvaHLim+gDjnAeOvvExer=z
AEfb*yzvtxtyl*tst?*]	jpFJzx^xE?bbFFvuAywd^Dmnrnjrvgsuiy-zlmgcwFpoztnr
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEakuetvpDtlv=ABt?btFlaHzeA&ooi?bnFgqtLym$Axbt?eAzaNMnr"fMN
gEarcwLgpytnx|fDfcfnFnaHHem+jGtvtnssjSuym=tfakpywnstNns+ lbpfeMyctHnD@zupp
ozavjjrlbKFDdv#*~u}

UzfbnntybKSev^vAsvueLobMtfd'gyjnAeAzaNMnr"fMNbvtrofEJei%AobvgeLofBL
itjnfwwu?stNr!gzpvjjJgjGMye+iq.bksvpwBxze-ylgtqrrhaEIhe-fyvugzEgdtGjd*t
zAawujrHNsNtd[xqqctjrhosyCl*huubqsrApRMes'fFigbuszunteX&kEfbvBGgfQurt-kE
kyqjcxAGfsNmi!sutuktFgpytyl^fBvdnnugmBvwe/ElbubfrjvENzv@rljpuyAAvMCtr7
xqbejnFnaHOyd:ulqgquDlaPBtd%uloqvezhwxtyl^fEbogeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEyex=
ztpugeOopsFnz^fuobceEluKIus-oFbpbfJlbsIwd&gHfbchultLtys!glncltJgmBvwe/Eg
UzfbtzJhmsFnf/gDzbtjHvsMMex&gFalwsAvssBnk&fEdjqtDgtMOii+zEakpeDhszy
tGndgwKgdtGjd*tlppgesmuxLss=tluqbzKlaT7ej=xlfpvjJAbBHri+zgabCeFBnuywd=l
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEatguGyuxxek/kmubksLlsxMyd@sAoibuGzuvuwh!iAmnghLvsLtnr!ztf
JqutqnLgdHFqi$zupp?eOojvBeA@ylfuujFAjtFqC!gldqnqwjuBIsd=lljoclwzaNMjh!uz
vAtvefJktsuws;tpavjjrAvKHes'fFigbhwuuNLD	!f6scksrivyzxd@xqaukrAsbKFD
ozugtjKAfwtgi$gGtgbyzhusQfw!glukojrvgsAwi@zljpvjJltMtnr!xmjnttskjGA 
VqprnjlgjMtBe|frpwpilgsxFfx^fFpbvmAuhLtyl@zlujgDrroHQes'frjtuyzhowoedauD
kJborqwaaBHef=ztatwwssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeA&kDfbCRrDbLtre%klbxcnDhcEy	
untgtAwytsLjt=xFffbyzhusNmi!uxegteHlpIFjd>oFibrjJzpGuqd/kyfodwsudxMes'
ztfbvzJuaHzex&kldgpyMyzsQjv^fsscxnLhuBHld:ulujgeVluKInx!iAmnghLppGo
ZtfugewEbFJqi|fEftxjvguHtzr%kDteqwwgN2WMIgY1O&ueGitxLAe:oAobtjrAix
ozugiwsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbcsvgjwyfwT/FicveHlpIFjd-kmspbgwzusQmi+
ztfbofLlsBuqd/kxbvgxrApsMtq^ztjpieLofRtpr=Cg

2QDEKFrtbwyex&klgkpfDgqHCsx!ztbvbnFgntHDd$gEfubF5gtxLAi|fmtbc
vGcnkh	yfEuym=tEavqtDggHLex&klqwdqAjaECgv@xufubyzhusuwi!zqtvksygjMoeddt
uzfbefKl.sURd*ylcgksygvLyid@ylbbxjzpdEyex=fEfewwwgbwxnx*uzbnbkMueBHld'uD
ztfbnntybKS d!OzacptLofKthe|kfaCOezhtsMjv<kpacuesuaBHxt*xmukqsrApsNmi
yFbhheGmattre(uDanqhssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyzsCsd:nqaUqzLoaMIex&ozlbcgGBusQfC|fF
