version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.


ZtfbRjJzfNMeT/uvfevezhtsusd^BmmwcyAvosNje_fmubvmwgVGCAi/yuuAbtxgNtLDp@tp
ztbvbmszauyjr!jAdwojFAjGAeT^xEfwu)rlgyyhx|fAobgiMjbMCtr8flQgtxwBtsCxd<kDz
vAqwnfJaatHid@tqdfqyssaxPnh^tofbksvpdtNjw!ztbvbnLgjLtme<ozhbcsrlgyyhx!gF
vxbegxrvuAywd:nmobJfJCbKx	d'uDagzfEwmxnex^yFaukywzatNeF@rxaUvfLl
1zjxgwKpuRneH/ADzbEtDsfzy	d@tpapwrwypNMew_gxmbrqsjfLtBl^xqaqruGyuNHnx*kE
zAawujrCbLNee_uGovueGmaILnq@xKafcysgntSer=zlfzkxLbas9si!jAdwojFAfwtjj'kou
oEavjfLgbKwme^uxpikhss.susx&xAqqntypdtF	d@tparjnDvmHAng@rlsgujsydAtnw
hqjpievvoxtgC!ztfbufElaIyww=tljpuywhesIkd#ElujtjwgeBzki/kzubrjGwmxo

ZtfbetFAfQNze-fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlQgtxwBtsCsg-ApfubfFgpOywz*kIaguxsF.su
lmjtnDrsjGyfv!nutvqwAjbEtjw|gKaqpeLofsznj:nldgpyMyzsV G8fFicveHypOCii|
ruomueAuuHtyl^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommb-jmn?mtMi/uppvwxlgUAOhC%opfu?esue
Vxvvcwuo-mtAm@fEncnqrnstSey+jqsuetJpozt=s+fFigbxuyfxH[d=llmkppwk
vmtuclwz?stYl^yqactjrobGxre%klmkppKgjGNtd=ztftbrsAfKCfp8

ZAafkkxlsxHyd^DFfpvxlgnHMyd=llujgeHypwOhx*uzayqwCgxtMeh=tqacveZhsOuwh7
CtftgeLofsJjs[rqacpirAixtju;oBngpyrhsxtqs$gFff}erTvvBes'fFig
iAmncgGybMCAi!goukxnLFaBHAs-BqebffLhavIqp^iFjqpesuesMyv;iFvtksyaauyhe;yq
ztfbofAuavBfp-kzhgbfFkaMBjd^sBicunKgpytUi/yqvubnKguAyek@ztftksygpy
vDjocwQgntNjv*gx.bvmsAaBM	d#AumfksygbsOxi'AxagpAAypGGjr:frptbxLBeRCsk
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq.betDsfvNnr"fpbvc	rhowtre)ozhbkyrBtxzzp8
YKtvgrK|cNCqh*tsakuevlgBHnx^rKapqyrAixtre*tldqphwyonteX&AE.bozuoaHzex&k
CAsmbmszaBHAs-BqebywAAjGAei|ymzu?euvmEyhx*tsakpkGyntNns+ lsgywAAjGAem: 
gzebvfynjGAem:alaVjfLgdtHef^fpppgeGmgsMnx^alaVjjrjsxuym<klmkpprmpKtyl^
uHftxnwDaxMxe,fmtbyjDsatMej=xlcqvmrzzLNjq|fmofbisAbsQfw!iAmncgGybMCAi7
gzebyfKggHLli%fHjcbJ	tbBFee+jlqcrjJgntCqd>oFibrwGmfLMtv|fmubRtEvottfr%
HAxfqnFb

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
IMMCNZUHa}tUP	-EartnFjjIuqd'uovubfFkavIsx/onvvktFguHtxg&uxbtumAwa}
2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbrwwwbKuys/EluqbgwnjGHnr"fFigbuJvkxwydQfNbukxrmpK
vDplghLg(sVfw*ilswnjrposwtr<kDukplrWMWt+d{uzdgtsAuhsNmi!oybigxrpos0QH!=
XGopksygQ5Xey+jqsbceNhsByyC!uratgyJpfOuqd|uruycwwza}tJr$upjpieLof
jmucdfKlattme/j\gqwlzAaBMxy^f;aXcwAvvLtki@zGsguevlnHHxx/gFffb+rPnIIwx@tof
urawujJgeHwzq^tFbvktFg(s6nq*zmukqsKgpytyl^fOE+TT5gwxLxm=tl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KDjebHSSB5#HE7fHjegeHyfLCii+zfaEjfvDzvE]L^gxfA?e1udnneh^sAouvwsAfwtf
yAgvyfJlaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosIkd:nqaRcyJvmHAne!RmukpfrKbMuge|kl)RNI{bas0QHNy
vDjpenHhmsztg;ylgtqrrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi!vDplghLgbuIzx!ztsgg]sue u]l@rr
EqbtuesnpsQfw!uzaeqsNlsMCsk!Suhpg)KgMtNnr!yqskgxlgbGxem+fFigbjFk.
IMMCNZUHaLOlk^yFff?euvoOyww*uzaqheLofsNjB:fIjnnetlaMBjd_gvptbhGuuKCgy:oAo
zAauemGsbKMmm[alaECQSSVVUew:xqtugirAitN	d@ylqquxAimRtyl^fAonAeHyjOuyi
vGcnkxzpozttv"gzjBcyAvosuyd:nqaYqwCziHJ	d{nmeyAhC|Ixuqi,ftbfbxGBhANer=
lqegtfDggNHiw!uDapcyAvotFej=AzecvnGuaLOut=xFadgkGyfsyrf@xwjpieMwpGtyl^
vDplghLaauOyd*tEugcirobwtwi-oqebwuGuattlv^gFafgfDgpytms_kIptmesue
smsmgyAuhsNtd@ioporqAzisNmi!zmtmbtxgdHHAi/yupp}

KHftbxAudxtyl^fBpuuntpmBNni|fAgbetEwvMyw[|kmsejnFnaAuAi!kyftijvaaLwms-gDt
ozavjjrmjxFid=llmcvjrhovCjr:fmofbjsymRtri%oqwcneKAvwCjw![BikntKvqAyww7
ztfqntypbGM	d$rmtukhAzuLnee+jlujqxwgtMOiC*tsavjjrojLNtv,fAgbpfLBstFep@C
gzebvmwgiBMys/ElphbyzlaEyle-fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llXguywyoswnz*ruAcvnGu-sBfz^
hqfpbqGuhBHld'uDacbkMsmRtxi@xoicdqwgwxLxm=tlphb2wzuxLsd-oFftcyMyfmtks/
kJborqwaatFqd:nqavgCLzaHzeE;mGtvkswgbGxeF^xzbtfeGmaVFfm/BmvzbfFk
HAfvjnMz.sHtx!zAaogsLppGtfp-fFigbxwjpGxfv,fmofbywyuBuwC!gGujqwKb

2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbcwGzfmtHEgGXVECeKhjwoednnAvnfeGufswtr<kDubOnyufo
YtpwnirAixtie:gnbugetlaxHhs%kp}bbNKgjMtsi$kEtctDrApsxtd:nmu{beZvxsMms;rp
oFadgevlmBPjv^jhabYmsAatvty:fOE+TT5cas!nr$klujkxrptsuex/gztkvnGubE
sqekwrlgxASei<kzadqyzlssNtd$xqbvgeKvgMQfv^fFpbtzFgpGtfd{J\SQOargTBHhi
kHftAgGkzsEss>ylqgquDlaPCqp!hqapgyOvsDCsk!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nKaiqeLvaMBj
zDpwdqw|_PBng&futbhfJghKyfx^xlxkvmrJE `TQ!ztbpbBAAisNmi!vDpfwhLppGttj
smhpgyAjawuye9flGkpfDszmtms>fppgueGufsGfo^fFigbisAbsuAe*rmcngargDtHeq@tK
uravjjrovKxqi|fFpbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrpoyIwq@zuppbyzhusMtq^fBvdnnKofKMel@Bq
oyqqujvgvIIsd%gFbdcxwzauyei-oyjpcywk}

ZtfbRQVgqKIoi$zlxcuethtxxes+fFigbuJpovCup^fFicveuvnIOyi//Efcthzpozttj
zqyvueAzaFIxx!krggeyACfsQmi+fuubkxrkpGyeA*ztacbqsyhxtie:gnbug rgCxwfy|k
VXEbtjHyfLysx^jlbbetDsfvNns+fFicveKlsOyxd|ulncpDrkjLwnt-ozfubfuypLMew=
smoAbuwyjHxx{!oFaycxrpsKyxm|zucng 

ZtfbdfKpdsLzp^fuobetFCfKNnr"f2MFbBszaMIeh=fzpbjfJt.sNtd@BAjfbyzlaLCsw!ur
ozutwxAvosCsd|Aoibcevhutvfw^.lapqeAuuKIiy$zuppbtxgoxQjv!kpjvktFz.sHt
uz_vjj	zqHNeg&gzhgu	rupsywe%oobvksygpytfp-fBpuuntsfszfp|ktpqfxrmsHGee+
kpjvktFbas@my| lQNFeAzaGIyd:nqahksssatwyd*tlfnghLypGChd[AnmkumAuhsztv
ztjubiAzdBJqm+kfadwyrzjFJqC!ztfbdjypoGCsk8flUjgeuvoOyww*uzaqhe8SEsBfw
kHpmgiruvFyws;ylvpcsLpdBJfx^jlrwgxLppGM,d!NAxbynDsaBHks/smukqsrifsOxi%b
3tbvbftvvMtsi:CAsmksycasWfr!ztfbtnyouLttj!glecvfthtxtgi!vDpvghLleo
Ytpwnirvoxtuv=zqdvbyzlaKCll:ylphbfrkbMuge|khabJtOgdtHem:fnfbofvl
gHbknftsfo

ZtpugeuvoOywx*tsaRNIrhmLIex/oqebvtrhwHCid:nqauksKgpyttq*yEjqp	rAitNem| 
kJdnwiAuhsJtv:oAoubtxguAyeg=rxfevnGutsIwd>nAmgbxwjuBIsw8flXjcyrhcHOyd:nq
oybigxnga96Id*ylgwnqrvgsCre"kE.butElatLjd^DFsgojDFaICty|
tuogvjwuuAahi+zGsAbwwwsxMjr:gFjqpxrvgsNmi!LmujgwKaaPBnp^fAujgwKgdHHye*t
nuhjnDrpoMywi|zuoibjDlnxHyw8flUjgeyvbEtBe|fFpbetNlssuqp!ztfbvjPAaHzeQ*mzf
[uoenzvpoztss:kE.bksrNsxypd@tpakpeZlcKyB{!ztfbnfLAfKttj!Ctjej	rpo
vmsvkhMsbKneg@AEfubuJvcEyrw!ozaetjsAjGAee!yqbtemrzuKOhx;xq-?bfDsaMBj
ozekejKaatHid^BqobvmwgjFuli| lxjkhzgbKyef^ozhbuhsuoxxem+fEfrcwsAfES
yqbtemsimxtkm-kE?

YqwgtfDgOHLyl!GyftkhsuaBHxx*zGukqsKguAuyd&gHfbrqsjfwtfg]AutkvnGuaKyvy^yFt
lAsbvmwgQ5Xeh@zmccujrobOyev^wGfuvjvgjMtnr!smhpgyAjayIwq!CuujqzLgtHzyA@xq.
CtjejeElbGMex&kKactjrhmKyfh,fDvppnFnaBNeA*ztpwveKvgMQfv^ lxkvmGBu
gzzvjnFnawyrs+yFscvjvgbMtyl^f9ptmxzvqn

3tbvbhsuoHNet/goukefDszsvjd%uzfbkxrnpsvfg)fmofbwwjpGPjv:fmofbww|fGwth
