PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works only with SGML-coded data.

Viewing a table of contents on the screen, the audience saw how Dynatext
treats each element as a book and attempts to simplify movement through a
volume.  Familiarity with the Patrologia in print (i.e., the text, its
source, and the editions) will make the machine-readable versions highly
useful.  (Software with a Windows application was sought for PLD,
CALALUCA said, because this was the main trend for scholarly use.)

CALALUCA also demonstrated how a user can perform a variety of searches
and quickly move to any part of a volume; the look-up screen provides
some basic, simple word-searching.

CALALUCA argued that one of the major difficulties is not the software.
Rather, in creating a product that will be used by scholars representing
a broad spectrum of computer sophistication,  user documentation proves
to be the most important service one can provide.

CALALUCA next illustrated a truncated search under mysterium within ten
words of virtus and how one would be able to find its contents throughout
the entire database.  He said that the exciting thing about PLD is that
many of the applications in the retrieval software being written for it
will exceed the capabilities of the software emplovzxxer=ClgqteLofsWI[mUY
BqsuktFbas@mi!IP_TQRrmbvyxd"kzvkpjrsjFCye:oAou?eAuaMywq|fAgbuuwlesush
iAnrtjzloLCAi+kEt?bnFguAyeg/kmukqsrvgsuev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqavqeJBosCy	
IMMCNZUHaLunh!nqajquwkaMBfx!ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtueOpmEtis>txpcfeLofsxfx@ 
oravjjQgxBMm{!zAavjjAyaIyww=tmmbetEwvMyww7fmofbmsCfsLje%ElbeejKzaMI
oyqqtysuusNjB:ylppbfrjpGMye+zlccunKaaPBng&fFigAeOpmEtgi!gnmgbyGgvLyem+
ztfkteJltxuwg&fmofbkJvnsQmm$nlujgDrtjzByd^BqobdjrhcEyex=fBvdnnKo?

[OBNCQ!JBsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^fnmwgeFBnuyww!xqqtgxwuuxxeQ*mzf&ueuvmNGsd+Aycgtxl
CtjejesyfsNmi!yFbpffJkaLwms-gDmAbwwmfKysg^ygabRzDsjGAey[fmapqywaaAyew:gFff
ztbvbyzltxtyi\zEaygwwgixuAm-ElffkywkatHid:nqakofylayCqi|fIpwnirhqIyfv!yunrnD
gEacbsGAfsuxd>kxm?bxGguAuyd=tqaeqzDkaJOng)rKacehwztsusd*smhg}[

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YW< X9B1b+rZfOywe-fBsqdqwttsQnx&fIikemrHNsCxd|zumnbBJltMFnr"f;
2mskqzKgtxuwg&fmofbwwAsByAe-fobrcgAsjMCjw!=lJnnzKAstNns+fAgbczLvntNng
yFfoonFnatHid@fFswphsAfwtxi@xoib)eST"Ltfx:kyqvbyGggBHid>gKtbvtrjpGHjg:
imucntypoztys!ztfbvjPAts{eEh-EaitfNputNns+fFpycwvza`1RP!=lTvtnCpoztf
hmmcphwgcxNBi^tlrwcsLpuRtfr%fCvcnnLFa}tMs>fMNbhzJujLBjw!AEftueJldHOww^fFp
oybigxr[aVIsh;iFjpiesgtxuwg&fuobcexBmEayi\zlfpxnJvoFysx!=lNcenFApLBee+j
ONNbrwGApMSui|fAgbCRr[a6Oqx*sqekceszqxwyw!uraCOe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GlegotFzuKuym=tlphbFElsBwfr!SqnqtDrizsCyw!iAptfnFhuHL	d{gDmbHQWPTV2MEpK4.
gzebTnurzsYW1?5facuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKneP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt?bhGudEOii%
ztfbotJujGAew^yEjqp rgCxAnr+ozhbynLoatths-rqdvktFgpytgv=gptkfjKggKIrd:nq
IAovkswuutFeG=tssguxrhowtyl^fOppuyAAvMCtr@rlDqpAwuuBIs{!ztfbqsDFaMyCx
iAmnghLppGtnr!glqtgxwuutvqi!lAsobfLguAyex*sqaqheLofs%tv)ytpr?eXSF2!HLcG7FT
nuhjnnyouxxew^BqscneGmaMBjd[xAcngrKgxBNmd>nudjbF5gjLtxx*rxaytjKAmBHl	
[UobkyKggBHfp!lAso?eLofsxnw)fIjnneuvoMunr!zIpbetDsfvNns+yfapqyrvoESex&k
hDpcfxAkfLtgy:fmmuqeLofszzp-fFfzveOpuAtnp-AEutcyAvoLttj!gltgveGm
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*~bCkJpdtH]E_kDjecsrwbFJmp^zEahttEguAyet^xupfb6_@~sNtdv#!~}_

GEaHTJWTB7tme%fqyrnfAufwtje/ruft?eSTaAuxd@zFforywkaMIey|klbburssmsurs;tF
urakpywyqKyye:oAobvtrpoMLth;iqaeqqDldMCtr|alaKpeLofsJwi|kzubefKl.sNmi
iAovtfuApKnee!iAnrcsQgotGjh!WGjeme~vvKwj{!ozaUkqNlss!uv*ts.bOImaaNMjh
yAgvyfJlavuqp^jlUqqqtvpDtfr%fBvvbyGnfMBjv!glnqfjKAmRtnr:kDbevnNl
ozutqiMjuBIsd:ulujgeuvmEyhx*uz?bbQArfsNmi!zIpbrwwjfwCsk!yBfcmjJz.
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@xsvgfeLobMtyl^fDfcnesztxNeA@ylujgeMuexLqC*tsaeqqDldMCtr8

LXFKUHZOB@YWd[xAdggiwkaMIeh^yoskdjrCbKCty|fEfcthzgbGxev^zDjgxfD
imqcdnDpuByxd>numgbJ04B^tBs/qqebvmwgdHGuy:kD?bbNFguACxd[gDukezDhssJfg)gsf
ztfb*lGguH?et;rx_fqBFgbEFtA^jlujgeMzfKtnr!krggeyrApsDzq[fAvvbtxgUHIqf=uw.
CtftgeLofsCsx^xmdvkAwgqKIlv@slxcueDvdtNjh7fmofbjFAfKtyl^fFikti	wbKND
yAgvyfJlaNMjh!hKaCOexvssNmm|fFfzveuvmEyhx*uz.bymAjisCxd$gxmgfe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAhonteX&oEaycxrAixt2m+jAxubAwytBIsd=llQgtxGubEtQm#xmskcslgb
yAgvyfJlatJup*imukqsrwvMtys"kFigtetFatths_vmoAbnFgSHwpz*rxf?bRvb

YuoegeLofsvws@jEjfgxrjbFyej/uyavjjrYfOIqy:oAoctDr4bKtui/oAe?bfrzftLhl!Cmt
iAofwhLlesOxm+mlujgeOvswMeF/oFjujeGyaPuw{!Cuujbyzlawyke;rFaqrjJhuHLev^yqu
gEaqt rgG5YNW{NTBWGWrkfFIsw:xmugfetvuAtfy:uybvkhrzuxGrm+ml)yjnuoayCsh|
uFigtexvsFMes'fFigbxstfsLts:]lbpfesguKOsg@zqebujsydAoedjtqaqhe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAho,Mew:xAoigxLggxuyy/kE.bvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGA	d>gEatguJltxHyi%fnz
gldjcwLguAuyd*tpjecywkaAIBd=lFfpbBGyeLtgi*tsauqzyousuut^gDffbnF
jAdwojFAtmtBm:nlujgeGufsLjg^oHjpieLofsGtw:f|ikvx,gpuNfm+ozhbvmwgiBAmi|z
yoptg rgUAye)&oFankxL+aMBfx!oEauwuHsjxxex@qqtbvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGAem+zA
godqwsLaaFupm+mlujgexpsLNel*zfakpewmgxwy{!ztfbqswguAyew=lFxctjrobL
yqmgeywkatMex&klnquyryfEyAe+zlfzcrHsfn

3tjngeAuaMBjd:kJubqkrvoxttj!ztfbdwGheLCii!jAdwojFAtmtKP O5DJJF!LS
xqnctpwkaT7)w!gFugouLguHtkm+jlxcAxrApswtr+koubefLhmHAnr"fFpbvmwguxRyw7
CtjejeAAawIjw!ozafkkxlsxHyd>gKtbksrkjyzjv^tFaocsAmfLNfx*uzt}be1uaMBjd$gEf
ytpyp	rAixthe:gxpiksygxtMet@yFffbtF?asURd:uAlbOF0JaKyhs/jEavjfLgxxLj
CDjvvjFgbLttrTruogbwwjpKxxd/osivbnFApsIsi!uravjjrSjuLfv,-EaocnFmstGj
xqutkjNhmsJws"xmnu?eHBmEyid:nqnbqzLaatHid&gzegfeLofFttj'fFpbvmwgdHHyv@iFpt?
CtpbofKzbzyid:nqnbutElxAuyd:ulekuuDhzsNmi_fuobvmwgntHsi/fEiqysmga8Hjd=l
GY"ubvMltMCtr|fut?bIGltsNmi!imucntyBjGAer=xybnnDrwfKztv_kpakpeLofsGfm+lDbog
CAsmbnFguACxd$uzugzylgpKtme%fMNbqzyousNtd:nuombyzypNAmd@jvvuvrwuuLp

LXFKUHZOB@YWd_gpfbvmwgbwxnx*uzbnbuGpoMtyl@zfacuexhssuxd:nqavgCLghHyx{!GY
nmtbiwsCjMuyi%fFpycwvza`1RP![tfbrtAuuxxex=fFigbgGseyuhi!ozavjjrBqIywd[gDu
uravjjrzdKyjrSalaCnyzvvzBei\zDfogqQgmBGnx^jljpbnLzatvnp*zKavqeLybGMqe:k
uDakpywyqKyydnMYM?bUwytHHfp!RuctcwAhosQnp-frvtpnKoauIyl!hAmfbfFkaBNfp*iE
uzauewwloitfd'gusnAewhtRtyl*tsavqevv.svzx!oFakueGufsIkd:nqaycDKgjGtBl*it
YSNNbnKgvLyky-a

YFskmnFnattge-gzdgbgwAxxysd]AmovkyQgbGxeu;gxjvAezhtsvji+fmaocoGyavIsg^xz
uraCO	rDjMBee$iGsceDrifBHld=tqaqheLofsJqe$kEayjjJlaILtn^iFauvfxmaAuAi
lqmvbyzhusFjw|fFicpe'%~ Jjv$kzubchuBstwDd>gEapqyrBotwhi[zmcng 
LXFKUHZOB@YWd$oFffbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofsMye+jmsfbtxguAyev^qqzkplrpowOxx/Ef
tmngnDr$0n[0d[kDdgpyhgbLttr^fEftxnulauOwi@AljphtJtfwtmm_ luqblGggKIr
#&?~7eLva"]#d[kDdgpyrDpNFid%uGcngeLofswtw:a

LXFKUHZOB@YWd+kJubfjEvoLNwe:kpajqBrHNszzv+oEigueMzfKMev^iAvtujrApsCre"kE.
gzebcyrAixtxe_klukojryfvuqp^jlMGUP\zaIInr:kpaswjKAjHHeg=toftpnFnaMBj
tGndgwrvgsJjs[rqayjtrDpNFid-uAlbcyrAiHMjd*smhguesuesNmi!tGndgwrDiHtBs;rp
CAsmbtFszsQnx&fFigbywEunteM'fFigbnEwmBwfx*uzaqhe4LT4.xd]AqtvktFgxtM
yAvpf	rMMX3XGcNMVGTeKhjwnem:fDbkujvguAyew:gwfubkGyaMyCx!godwtfuFatHi
xqewejvguAyez@rGfbqkrAixtxx/gFfiAexvssCre"kE?