Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++c|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtvy^yFjqp]sue usw>kDargwAvesNme:frpnntOlesZQIdYOIJCZWY"L
vDfugsLhuBIs{!yqwgtfDgdEuwm'oobvktFzaPywi!smeg}

GYakuetyjGAnr"fuobotLppGtum$zGsguexypFtfd<opfqfnKj?stYl^frscoj	nstvgi/
jqwkejKgdKyfx^fmayksvvxsIsd@foporzLlssMhv^kz.bymAjisJjv_oFtbwxwytsNt
juhkvnRlattxm+mxfbhwstfsIkd:nqaoqAAlaHLes+klphbyzlaIBtx=mDbrjxmga2N
vDpfwhwzatthv;jq.bttMni ushTxqbfAeAtbzyex&gFajklzgtvBts-fEuwfjFAtswfr
ozdqtuGybMyem+zAarcuwytmtfr%fFicvezhtsQtv)kpaxgwQgoBwjp,fuobvmAzaPuD	

IAnogsLpozttr!LXFKUHZOB@YW(|fmtugwLppGtyl@zlBObBszaEIto*tsaoqwwgbM
yqbtemAuhsCii@ylujcsrDpKxx{!S~MQPF~gbKAzi%fFicveOpuAIzx!CAsfuesuaBxje
jAfubsGAaxRnw:alaHNJ1ZD12FY Xldqphwkfwtyl@zligbtMniMtys!nmwgbfJAjvOqe:kp
nutbrtAuusGtv^fomgcwDF?stR3gUZBUbxLhuxxex&gFavjjQgxxLjd*tlgceyripMB
zmmmksygbuIzx!ztfbufElaMBnr"alaDAeKlbKwmm+mlgqteOvswMee+jlcAbkGydBHl
vqprnjrApsztg;ylppbyzlaPIwh7fFigbUwytxOxdkxAkgeyrmfENex&gFavjjQgxHOqh!mqu
ztfobyGguAyem%km?bbYzlaPuDd=tqatgAAlxLtwi|AxuubnKgutCqs/kpaoqwwguHttr^
quofbtxgvLywd:nmobcsGAixL 

IAoegwFpoztyl^fFpvcqrCpEOri!uraocywyjtFex&gFajcxrifxHet/uofuujvgjGtyl*y
Cmz?bF5gbMtyl*ylqqksLgitMem+fDfvtnwCbuFjd'uDnbujNlosIwd^osivbhGsmxwym=tE.
gxmbqkrAixGet&uFpitfHojvoeddtlujge5hdBHys|nlfpxnJvoFysx7frptbjPhnIFj{
ztftgeHypuugp,fmsgb8(a~[]]8E *~`buzvuHAwe[nE?bbYzlaLIzr%fDfeqwvpozM
tGndgwrzjQNDd*zqnu}er1ixtgv=gptkfjKgoNGgi/fmcqwyr0~[tnx^sE?bbYzlsxtfv^
~*~brtDpuBwfp!imsvqtFzaBHex&klgqtrrvgsxwe>ozhu}er1ixtrs:oAobrnuAvKyx{!gE
ozekxnvBbEtnx^sE.bpzEifKtxm\zKavqeKlwxHyC8

GYacnxGgitMee!smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFaaMBjd-orfbjnKApKSet=xFjqpeGmaHHjd=l
ztfbhjvlstFet/uvfeveKlsByx{!CtjejeOpmEths+zmjpb7l$~[tnr%oHjfwfD
jAdwojFAtmtfp-frjtuy	wfKMtr!tmstcyACfLoed?SlicueAuaILtg^yEacdtMAa*-#
GrskefF|BFywm$gzarcrHomxNx{!uDacdtMAa"*	@E$lqtksLlesJfk^ylgqteLofsJjv*up
7"8`+6+8~nteE-yAakpeLofsQtv)ylbtgeKvnxt9{E$*arcsGybFChd[nAuqiwswiLoed?S
nmtbtjuFdEyid@frbktestpNHyd=llujgeOvsDtis+klcAbQU_ts0wm+zEacpi
VtpvqlJhqAMeH*ButkqsrkvKCsk!ztfbNntybKS)w!uBukefDgeBMpd[oxpvbuJvkxwyd*t
ztfb3@_%tnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtfd|vqdkcqrkjOCxm=tlphbQUgitMex=uxffbzHgbGx
ztpwimLguALty"nlbnneLofsLfq*ludcvnGutsIkd^rqdvttFpdsJwi|kzucvnGuaHz
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzeggilguAyDd@xqayjjwsjGAex&kyaqwyrposAwi@zlcctwwsaEIfh|a
ZtfbrzJwpLyes'fMNbynLojGtyl^fXjdtfJF.sCyd*yliqrjvaaBMex=fobvcqQGfsMjz^xmm
uravjjrvuAywd|vqdkcqrjpEFjg:oAobfnNptBIsw!Ctjejezhwxtss!vmsvkhMsbK
kJqgtnwudxtBm:nfakpeKvnxthe|kE.bonPleszji-ozhubftvvMnee+fmdvkAAAzsMzg&fmt
GY?bbRGyfHPjv7fuobofFFavuxi|fFigbiACjLCtr|fybAbgwgdAuwe$zqskBjvgbLtss:
uzmAbqsjlBHld^DBftkjFjfsCsdOkxfevwGujySnr"_lujksyzauOyd@rEpbksrhvMIre:kp
imucntyBjGA d!SMSEbhsAbEIly*tsacueHybvNng^jljpbyzla@Hnx^jlTvcywzaBM
nqbxkqQgxxCll:kpavqBsyesNmi!jqtetnHAjHHes'fyppqlJhqAtfr%fEftkfD
smugtnsstmtgy:futbozuoaMBnr+kDayjjFgpGyei+zqsubyzlaPIwp%fAgbofFBtvLnt:y
gzebvmAuhLtyl@zlbtgezlmwtnr!ztfbNntybKS)w!sGtkeeuvmEyhx*uzacpirvuAyw
Azjvu rgJGtwi|vAougeLvatths_sqovbgQgMX!P{!ztbvbF5_tsGfx^xubnbnKgwxLD
nqbxkqQgqAIys"xmqjkhlgbGxem|fEpbrwAtbKCqC!hqdcwxwgjGxnz*jGbnbwwjpKxxd&gHf
hqfpbrskfsztv!kmdjbuzvuHAwe[nfaHNJ1ZD12FY XlpdujJCfwtyl@zlbpbnLln Fjz^r
imucntygsxwtv%fqykuyKaayIwd^DmnrnjlggHLei@itarjtLvhKuul!ozavjjrKfMLtm:
VGcnkxzpozths-rqdvktFgpyt797$*~brnuAvKyx	!fUobvmwgdtMjd=llujgeXlexLfp
3DjvgwKgQKIoi$zfahqwrDiBwmd+kmsnAe&a~[]eh=iGngpyKgfQCxx7fDfrtjKloMCsk
ozgqtrsAjHHej/uyavyjFAz MnB!jughgwwuusMye:kE.bCRrDjMBex&klbuunKAbGwjd=l
Qmsgpe~1VT`Yd=llujge5hoNMhv*vFaFkAAzjHHeA*rxacvywtqMtys!luofbxGtfsQfC!tAu
uzmAbyGgitPjd@fopnnjuAjHH]p^Bqmbtjuvswtgy:fBftjfHzattREmIlsgetJkayIwd^goi
yFbvg	rDiBwmd>oxmbvmwuaLywz^fmtbcsrBnuLjp-glgqteLofs&#@T8*~bftuBnxHyw
ztbvbhGtfsOsh^xljv}erIvMtyl@zletcrsgsxGfm+yluqbgwgfGuhx^jgabVmwgB6txx@lr
oEaeqsKlsOuym<klbpfeusjGAxd:uldcvfDvhNCsk7fFiqwlzgpyths;xEfbxnKpuHLxd:uGu
gDukhnupbEtnr:kxmkijFjfsush!tqvtcqrufMQtv)yljpbfrtbGHjv!ztbvbxMnhxMyw!ztbv
vqsjcuKgpGyer^kpapqyrobOyeg@zmmqizAuhsIwd:nmubozuoaHzem:fopwnirifsJzx!gEjfg 

ZtfbofLAfKttj!YSNNbhGkjGA	daRQJUEMZHVX`eg=toffgilgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAo
zAavjjrlbKFni/fFsgcywkaJOjw:oAobqkrxvtFnx,fHftuzKgrNusx*zKakpeLofs6nf/gDz
uraEqsyyfLM d!UraeqzJzfmtyi\zldqpAwytBIsd$gzadgevvoxtBm:nl2``]Hlsvysx
godwtfuF.svzx!oFaogfFzaMBfx!CtfpbtFl"Ltms-juoiuesyfsuxd<gEubcxrSD,Mes+rK
glukpDrhnHOsx!CumnbgwgfQJtw^jfayjjJlbLtui/suuvksygmHQjv!rqwgnxrvg
godwtfuFavusd-kmebvtrlyIIxm+mlptbxzhsBHld-gDhgtestpNHyw7fnvvbBAAisNmi
wGbnkyQgdHLwi|vAofksyszsCrt@oDff}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
Z9PJKLr[aTths+zDbtAewEqxLni+iqaeqsulsGCsk!kxfevwGujvttt:oAoub+r3pEOri!ur
smugtnssaBHex&klXcumAuhMIsd[gBftuesuesuew;msfuvnGuaHzeH@BuebRfurbKxe_
OyqnkhsAjHHxd=llQcepsye,Mew;msfuvnGua}tYv@tEdtkgAuhsNmi!jAdwojFAtsztv!ztf
IP_TQRr[aTwhy/gozbqkrAstHxg/oBukqsKg(s@mi!IP_TQRrleBNns+fAgbvmwgGHOsh*ts
LmujgwKgeHwzq^tFtb)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

LuofksygfGwty/gsfogsLgjGtfd$uyngpyrvgs7NGcKXTQP)KggKIrd:nqaoqwFpoz
yqtuktF|_MBfx!tGngttMzaIytt-kljpbyzlaAOre+oFjgueOlsxthl=uEjpiewsfvNws+oo
uBukqsKguHtis!ztfkteOvsDa]H=xAujAe`4P13L{!kpjvqwlgUAyeT@vqsubtxgHxIwk^
3mtjksyApGnes[kzffbmwyaBFqy|zDbvgirAbEEef,fzpvksyguAuyd&kDagzuwyjxHhi
CuujbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJzatHid+AyftqzKgqxIup^fuobgiAAjGAeA@yldqpyJhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,M d!Z9PJKLrlnIBfw*FqebnnLlstLDd|itpncwK_avIrt-kFfbklFvstHhi!ur
ztfbvjuooHFtk*immbquLppGMee<gumcdqwguHtyl^slptbyzljKtwi-AoucphwgpKnem+
yAngbhszfLnex&kusbftOusBAmx!nAtvkqAAzsNtA@xpavjjKlaHJym=tE?

GrugteHypOCim+mlbpbtNlsOCjA!uravjjrmjOyeJ=AzekplrMbMBjv|fBsqljuAt
[VfhhjJzpGtfx!VDjpejLvomtKv@twmkpesAa^uqi7fVpjpeSkbFMee:fFig
SmtuchzBtxNyw!NutvqwAjbEtXs$oquA?esues7fh*yAobftOuaMBjd&gxmbhwGtaAywd@z
ztfbWsACfKMnx,fAgbXnJnjGCf=7f6XQJNYgpuMjv<kpavjfLguAye1@ytjpiyGuaIuui/yf
rulgbfDsaHzex&klqtqowjuLnem+ixvfgetvuAtxm%kEaqheLofs%fw&ozhvqs
iAstgxHvowysg^fmofbiwhmsQnx&fEpoge'06m]#@!jAdwojFAtsNtd#klqwdqAzixxeA*zt
kJugpxACfsusr=zmukqsrposynk&zKavqewphAND['oHfbxtDBnxM	d@fBsqljuAaMBfx
CumnbsGAauyeg=sBmgvjvgvGNnp!CqmnbnFApsNmi!tqyvbhwuuNLD	!f6iwu	rpusQfw
CuujbhGutBxjv@hxfbgsLovLCfw_fEfxgwssaRyfv|fmhqbyzhusNmi!3mtjksyApGtUe[kDt
VDplghLg)$0U=!mDfgvjvgEtPnh!Vmdmcwv_tsMzk"kEukqsrAitNex&klqcrjJzaHzex&k
LAvpfnFnaYuyl^xEaeqzDkauyet;hxjujjvgftMnp,fmofbnFlyIysw*BqmA?esuesNtd:nq
mDfcvetloxznx!uraCojJpdtHew$nAmctxzpqmtAm@fOE+TT5b

OzartfytbMChd:kDnu?exBowCsk!lDpobyzla9uho@xpaHqzFkbMCtr!CAvnfewEqxxnx^
ztfbvwsutvLnt:oAobqkrAiHOxe+jEaqhevvdNGjr:ylxckyAuhsNtd#klqwveGuawCxo!oz
ztfbYU8gpyzng^ygabHzJAixL	d|ozdgbyzlavIxx|fAgbetDsfvNnr" lffkyAuhmtfr%
iAoxgwLpoztyl^fRpwpiAuhsZfx&kDtbftuBnxHyw!ozuqbqwAuxLuv^yEagfnLppGMeA^xq
xGopksygjGNtd:nqaokqDppGMes'fppnnfJz.sush!ztfbetFzjwywe#rqauvfxmt
ozwqnAwkaBHee-rlphbyzltxtuv=pqdvueOlsxtii<uFjpieLofBLeg@xqftueLv
vDpfwhAuhsNmi!CAsm?eLofs0fg)gDebHtMuetNns+-EauwlyltMCtr!nmebc
xqwqnzLppGuwC!gEqgeygga!Lfr|iDjrvnGutsIkd:nqagpyAyfswtv[AEaqheLof
LAvpfnFnaYuyl^xEarcuwytsQty-jlcgbfNhjEugp^fAobEI	YP6tys!vGcnkhrhow
iAmnglwgmBvwe/oqt?bjNlosBnk&fEdjqtDz.suyd@frsceyAvosIkd:nqaeqxL|_
*!~`+&'`~sztv!ztfbcsFBbEtqm$kztgbkwl_ Ntd[xAewejrhaECrm:kpawpnNlsLCy
