these books at 600 dots per inch is created, using a Xerox DocuTech
printer to make the paper replacements on acid-free paper.

PERSONIUS maintained that the CLASS Project presents an opportunity to
introduce people to books as digital images by using a paper medium.
Books are returned to the shelves while people are also given the ability
to print on demand--to make their own copies of books.  (PERSONIUS
distributed copies of an engineering journal published by engineering
students at Cornell around 1900 as an example of what a print-on-demand
copy of material might be like.  This very cheap copy would be available
to people to use for their own research purposes and would bridge the gap
between an electronic work and the paper that readers like to have.)
PERSONIUS then attempted to illustrate a very early prototype of
networked access to this digital library.  Xerox Corporation has
developed a prototype of a view station that can send images across the
network to be viewed.

The particular library brought down for demonstration contained two
mathematics books.  CLASS is developing and will spend the next year
developing an application that allows people at workstations to browse
the books.  Thus, CLASS is developing a browsing tool, on the assumption
that users do not want to read an entire book from a workstation, but
would prefer to be able to look through and decide if they would like to
have a printed copy of it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Re retrieval software * "Digital file copyright" * Scanning
rate during production * Autosegmentation * Criteria employed in
selecting books for scanning * Compression and decompression of images *
OCR not precluded *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed her presentation,
PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multipBmgbuDhuyIwq|
flabb=5hdBHys|nfaKDRrhowtXy+fIptmxLhuBIswS ljpbyzlaAIui!ztbvbuwvqEyej/uy
flabbfFFaHzex&uEfbrqsAgHLrw!CumnbwwAsByAi!hApmu.rhayOwx&kDaqrjJhuBHl
flabbfKzvFJym=tljubyzhusMye+jmsfbnFAfKzfg^ylxknqrifsOxi%fmtbozuoatM
flabbuGztBvqi7fIigtjrzutHie/jEaecsrifsJzx!ozarnful.svjg@AEfbEQSZT
flabbhGutBxjv|fFikueJluKCjz@rltqhyOhsxtfd-onsctDrhqIFng@zuppbfFkaPIzp%
flabbqArfsNtd#klbdnjrApsFts)fmubofLlsBuqd+uFaqpqQgbMtHs/tqmnbgMAatNes:nqs
flabbnFzuBNzx*uzt}

flabb+r1ixtul/gEfb*iAnjMuqd'oxfbetHFsBAmx!hKaEqwFlmEtZr*BqsukyQ+aPux
flabbfvkfwtfx!ztfbciNpdxttj!IAspgqD_tsFjk@rltvckxgxBNmd:nqaecAwhusNme:fuu
flabbuJvctvqC!CAvnfeFvusBtp%fGqbksrjpNLy	!fOptpjDsawIjw!tAubyfFAaIytt-k
flabbyGgdHJDd*zEadqtCzatHid|kxmbvmwtauOyd>uGmfbqArfsNtd)kqqbvmwt
flabbfNhjEugp^frptbzKlaBHee!ructcwQgfGPnv=tyfpvexvssFnf/gDzbrzJwpLyx	

flabb+rPosJws%AoukqsrAixtxg@tzftbhsuaLwfr!gnpwve&%~sJfk^ylqgtezvvKn
flabbhswuNLnr"f^~`biGAtsJjv!ozdj}

flabb+r1ixt3i/uJauqkLDbKyel@ylgknywytsNtd|imobjfDmuHHjd_gFftkfDgbGxee<uue
flabbyzlaFInv^fBbvvjJutsNme:fAdewwrDixHel@rruqpjrtbMywm@rljubxuhoGyi	
flabb3wypQtme|fnfgpeOvsDCsk!uzajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxtyl@zlxqwqvgfGugp^
flabbyzlaLwfr+kDakvxwsgsNtd/kopipnRlaMBnw!yuuwcyAvosush!jqbnbBAAisCy
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqmA+]sglBHid=llbwvtKlhFysx@zuppbyzhusQty-jlfpcgDlaMBj
flabbxuhoGywd:ulicpiDlaAuqj:uzfbofLlsBuqd@ylxgnqrhtsNjB:fAobceKpozFjd[gsf}

flabb+r1ixtgs=qEauwgBldMyid:ulujgewsbuIwe:klqtqhwztsxjw$xucgfesipOyeA^xq
flabbxwsfvNjh!hqdcwxwgD5UXW!oEacbuJltxLAe:oAobrwGqfvN	d>oFibvmwggBLxx!~*~
flabbgGvlLtxi-kougfeuvnBHld'xAnbEtJufEF)w!smujgrsAjvMeg=rxfevnGu.svjg@AEf
flabbyzlzsQjv^fEuknqrifBHld&kmwknDrBtxxee+jlcgefMzfmtfp:nAvijeLofRtBi/k
flabbnFgoxyid=llqtgxwywtNns+ lujgeEhuAyre:ootbnntybKSee+jlujgeEhuAyre:oot
flabbksjvENDd>kDfbwsuvnyIwx@hxfbjfNpoztyl^slnkewGmjEGjh8fl)VjjQgxtHyi%fm
flabbuJpoMyid$uBz}_er1iNM	d:nqtgbgGvlLtgi$gyfbceDvhBwfp!itpkejrmpKtyl*y
flabbuJvkxwy	!f1ujgwripHExd>kDfbemGzfGtgC!ztfbrwGqfvN)w!yqmgeyAvoswtq_oFuggx
flabbkGyaxRui/oyfpvxrDjMBex&klugemFvmHAD{!gEaygqDgbLtys!sqfvbfrkfFush!uDapgjvb

flabb+rPntAjw!Cumnbgwgexwtq[xqtugirifyIwi!ztfAbfJlaLysx!uHftbyzlaECsi3fmu
flabbyzptsNnq^fFigAesyfswtq[xqtugirhowtxi+zluqbyzlaBGfk^frjnksygtRMyi_
flabbfFkaMBjr!yqovbyGguAyet/ozugteszavIrt/kEtgfeAtbzyx,!ztfAbfJlaKyyy/tqe
flabbyGguAyeA=xwtvcyAvosuxd$uyqtgxKles_#@TjBjbkrsnfLtfr%fFigbBGylLNfx*uz
flabbiwjpFJwi|yqtbcsvgtvuqi|fFigoexvssxnw[rmz++fFgjGykj*iufpveOhzsNt
flabbfujfLMex&klncvjJpbEtyl=AsibkyrDpKExd]AuugbBwsmsztv!vDjpvnFnatHi
flabbtLofKtuy/vAtgu 

flabb+rJMT!Xd*ylbnutrkfvIrt/kEtkplrvos7fg*tFpujesues3GQ7fmauntOgqKIhi|y
flabbwAniMtss>alaGxjFAvtFqC7foporwwztBIsd@tpafghGtqKyxw*uzaykqDgutEj
flabbuDhdxttr!gzakofylavIsz^xEjqpeKlsOyw	!f6scfj	vgyMeA*rxadgeEhexnef@yqe
flabbtFggNNzv^fBfthtJtbGwjd:kEukpllgdHHhi/tuoibBzlsxtyl^frjngeAz
flabbhGtqKyxw^jlbpfeOobMtwi|uxvvktFgjFuli!oEaugsLb

flabb+rVD~tme|fzpvbgwlosJwi$rGegf.rpntAjw!gDfbdjAuhsMys/kpavjfLgitPjd#kqo
flabbxuhoGyid@zlbbjnyoaKyxs-AFjqp	rDiBwmd[xqtwoftszsQty-jltwkyrAixGeA^rx
flabbyGgbGtTGmfBsqejKz?stGi$gGtgbyzlaFuyi/ommbdjAuhsMhe+tqebkxrhcHOydv$*
flabbDwhsLttp%fmofbBszaILnr:kpaykyzgmxMx[:nmo+kiwhmsNjg&tAmqinwz.sPjv,
flabbjsymRtfr%fBsgnnEpotLDd:kEuubmsCfsHtx!vDpfwhwkazIth!xqtwnyKbasVzx!ztf
flabbuJvkxwyd*yldcryMyjGAee+funcijrAitNem|fAgbuzxmjvCjr:fDfuqqMAjHHex=fnf
flabbxMikxwyi%fFpbQH0gjGtyl^frvvwwwbas7tv^uHft?eLofsMDw:kyacthzpuxwyy/k
flabbfFkaMBjd|EEugoeHsbGtme<klbbntypdtFet-gofbvtrzuHLjd@tlPETeAtbzyem'fuu
flabbmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stGy:fFicveAzaGIyd#kuoibiGufsHtA8

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ23 d!JUTVTNT2U29S{!TQUYQW3Z.sUSH!TQUYQW3POZiedjV6JQPXrMP~
JUTUGR1UB!3TR

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UDJb+rPtLOjw!vqsvcnFpoztys!IP_TQRKg(s9ux*uztbhtJgqNvqm|nuoibnFgDWaWShf;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAcgtyr7JV2	d|vqdkcqrhtLCxx@tFavqeLofsuxw=iubvgeDpcKuwm@tlgqteKwfvCfp
vDplghLz.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|yfacpirtpwywe:uDaqheLojLtxi|yupp?expsLNer=zqe
ztfbdqwztxxef;zltqojOobMtfA)CmsfbhAydNGxx@tofbqkrobOCsk!lAvtbAwyz
jutvksyBjLBjh!vqprnjryfILjw^tFjpieFluPIwo|fmofbswAxHLpm+mlptbfLgmxuxx
rqbpksygjGtyl@zlektjuAjHH	d>numgbqsjlBHld@tKppgeLvaLJje)frsqoeLof
yFsqplwzusJtw|onmgbgsjlzLty+jljpbHV|S87x	!f`JEJewEqKyxw^jlujgezvqxtyl@z
sqndgwKgpytyl^fmvfkjFjfsQty-jlkqksrAixtim|iGtuktFbas2jd|zDfuujvguAy
yGcvkyDlaHzex&oEarcwLpdNFfv!yqtuktFaa.9ux*uztbhtJgEBMxi_ozbvktFa&sush7
iAoegwFpoztHHTX1Nu?eLofsCrt=xFbpejrvgsxjx^xyjpksygxAysd*zlxqwqvgcxtBm|k
zAaeqsKpexLeh*yEfokssAjHHem+fOE+TT5gwxLxy|fzfvytJrtnteE!ytprrnFnaECxx!ur
oEtwgxrwfKNfm+ozhbvtrJE `TQ|fuoenzvlehtex&klhtqzFktsztv!yqmgeyAuh
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKaatHid*t\iqwxwgqNvqm$gFjqpeOofKyet=yEjdnjrCfKMzw
tAorttxpusIwd"uHftprwuusJzf-oobvktFbasUew*sumcteDptMtks/fzfvytJrt
ozdnwiwk;stii:kDnkpnFnaPBjr!uzfbumGBmwths+yuegtevptLyrm+gFjqpeLosHOll!g
tquyqwCaaBxjr:orzkplrAixtri$nmokurKgpKtjr:oFjgueLobMtjB*yFavqeHsbvyem:kyt
uzapgyOvsDM	d*jqovkkQpoztyl^fBpqneGmaxRnw:ozhbpjLDpKEx{!jqugtrAujGAel=Clb
vDpfwhwyasQty-jldjqtKlauyyA^kzapgyOvsDM	d@tpakfjFAjySnr"fFigbjDlnxHyw!ur
glcwunFltLtfv/gzhgojFAaBHee!tquyqwCb

UBukqsKggHLet;hxjujnFnaBHeG	/4PO<erhosIzx|opfbrztsjLBjv!Bqsuwx
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz?bbNxgbGtty:yuegbuMimBMmi/futbwxwk.sCyd$gzadgeFvoILtj*zf
yGdjbfKguAyeK=BqspojFAa9Lnr:ozhbQkxpdxt=KkU>aqteLofs8fx*uzbnbYwjiGChe-
OzgqtrsAjHHeW^xHjege}UU2![{!ozavjjrjbLyes'fspxgwFtfGN d!ZtfbrwGzatHid$uzt
gEtqensAfwtBm:nlforqGFjGAee+fAvvunvlaIOgp*ytftbfJlaHvAm=AE?bbFEvoztyl^
vDpu?eLofKyem|fzpbvwGBcEyek^zFjpiesjdxJyi%alaQpjrwbRMex&klcknqrhownem+
krggeylghHyxd=tq"ubBsF?stFq=tsavjjrjpGM	d>nqobqswgqtSxd@tlpwvxAkf
vGcnkxzlssNtd[kDgqtrrAixtBs/qfavjfLgqNvqm|nqsbynDsaIywj=xyavjjrDpKEem:fut
unmkijvguHtis7fnvvbuwyitJxd>oFiqwyrAixtuv=jGdvktFgfQJjv:oEfbcsvgtDCqp!oz
smsmgyAuhsush!jutugrAubMCtr!ztbvbxGtfsQty-jltggpmga!Bjv^futbvmwgcHxDd=l
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKguAuyd%ulqquxwztsNme:fwjpfeGmaxRui/zutgbnF
jutvtntBuBIsd@tpaocwCluBHld#AFavjfLgpuPns;yxzbcwwgtxFjg:oHf}be1u
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz.bqswgfQywg*yqtbhzDsavIsx/ux.bdzLguAysd=tqaowxLgitHip^
smuvgwKgtNwmd@ylekuyJpcNNns+fmofbrsylxNnr"alaUwhzgbKyew=sqaqheLofsIux*uzt
lAsbrztsjLBnr"fuobvmwgdtMjd=llDF+W7T?

OzavjjrjbLyes'fFfejsAjbEtfr%fpfuklFgjLMzi| lxjkhzgbKyee-yAakouGyutHy{
ztftgesyfsGfr,fybvvjJzaPBng&fybpAesAaMBjdruDlujtHgbELje%EllpgBrhazIth
jqbnbftvvMied/kFskgAssaLSxx^slsgszAyfFysx|fmofbhGzuLneA&gFavqevvatvty:
oybigxlguAyez@xupwueuhqtvnp*zufubfFkaIFfx'uDnu?eLofsNwe%k\phhxrifMQji+
iAtvbfFkaIywj=xybpejlgdHHhi/tEacdtMAaEIhe-/msgceFluPIwo@humkvDl
ozugttHlstvnp*zK.bgyub

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
R~OEJe?gDKyfx*tsapgyOvsDyid*trptofLppGtnw!jughgwwuuszws_fGtkplrufMQtv)y
gEacpesjdxMxd=xlekuxwtjGuym=tlwgjnusfs{eR^zIptmjvgnNFym_kpjcbtFgbsFfv"k
yobngevvfLtss:fKfvbBGyls{eX,vudcneUK_~9Rd[AnmkefLppGtrs%kxacbyOv_xxli%
yIptfe?gQNvqm|nuoibnFmpKGfx*uzaqpesgDWaWShfuobvmwgqKyxi+zlxqtqvgpy
oyncvzJlaLNfr%gDeub+rJpGNwe|zlcgvBwlosWI[mUYacpirufMQtv)fBskenFna}
KJborqwzawyrs+yFscvjvgftLqm^xljpbyzlawuDd@ylbbujLgpytnr|AxbtbnFmpKGfx*uz
mqnub+rWbKurs;tFapgjvguHtqm+qlecvfthtxMe_!RmzgtnFnaMIef^iAngbnFjsxuxm+mxz
tqdguxsyzs{eT/uvfeve6LFW!ee+jlujgeAztNyxd=lljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugesuesuhx*Bq
BqsuwxrwbLMnz^fGtgb+r5_$Csh=CEacuesgxtSes'fpjhhjJloMCfx*tsadgyOlfG
tquyqwCgbvwjw|fmofbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsdQfNbttnwytsNtd:nqafkxLyjuOym=t
urapgyOvsDyid_AxukojvpbsCsj=xybvktFg(s8ji%frptblGvemtwi@r\ukojrkfECAi/E
vDpvqhGsts{eX&klrwgxLppGttj!vDfugsLhuBIsd*tFfitnLFaBHeg-oqov+xwywxL
iAnrwyAuhsCsd:nqacefvlnBweA=xxeb)e0ldHGri+jmukqsKggHLet/upveksygnNFym_kpjc
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

IxjhhtJka5'SGc lektjuApKneP*hDbtAeSBuHGfx*uz.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@ 
uBfpgirojLtye-qlxkvmrAixtli+kDbnbttzfKPfx*uzavjfLgoxNBs/qqebksxvsFuym=t
iAouvnLBuxxee!jughkhMsusush!kxvukAwguHJng!hqdcwxwgjMtnw!yAngvmAuhsDzw:
yFbtvnFnaMIeh^BqmqresuesHtx!EqubhzDszsOsh^xEuqqimga5'SGcfoppvjFkfwtyl@z
iDfcvnFnazysy*tqmAbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsd>gEafkkxlsxHyd'xAnbwxAuh
tquyqwCzatMee+fmdegxKgpKtim|yqnkpfLppGtAi&oomgbfFkaPuxd_uDfbutHojLNng@zqe
gzebotJlaLOgx-kgabJjrpoOCyi%fFigbrwtcxLxd=llujgesBeBysg^fFpbgCLybIIqe:kf
lDpobBzhusNmi,ftfctirhcHOyd:nqartjuleBHld%kyppuyJhuBIsd[xAkgeyKaaMIeA&gF
yAsvbtxgbsQtv-jlphbjDldMLtr*iEakpkGyntNns+/\tejtDhsES	d@xoikxfDa
iGmvwwss.syyg8/\ujgDrDjLBjh!zAagpirBqsQnx&fFfpbtJggBzyi^tlzgcwKggKIrd+uI?
R~OEJeKBhzyxx^jlujcyrApsyCx/gBpncywgeBLjg:rKahttEguAyxi!vDplghLzaPIzp%
vDpfwhwgvGJqi@ymovbwwzvENx	

VGuvksyguAyem|yGfbqkrJE `TQ!ozargwKwfvNnz^fnfhqwwghxNym+mljpvt
mqogtfDpuByxd=tlogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvomtQ3iITaqdxwywxxex&gFavjtKlaxHle"kp
ozaowqLpnxxne!zAecAeOopsQnw&fFpbumAwattuv=jGdv?eKvaMIew@EfarttthcESeh=
tAubjfNlaFOhl!itpkejrlyvyux!zAawujrJE `TQ2flogvBGylxxeq;rFjogiAhaHHee
rmsigeKjbEyef@yudcnqQgeHyxd+uFaAgyrDpKEef^imvugeLofsNjg&tAmqiDrkpxMer=z
kJjuv rgGHLei\gyqng	rhoRvth,fIiqbmszaMLni%fypxksygjFuli|fmsqwsvgpOywd:nq
OzugtswAaDHtA|fFicveLojLtnw!gzagzhAAjGAex=Aoi+csv|hHtuv=iqtu?es
lmtekssAjGAee+jlggtyAsfsuwi@frptbjPwfKCri+zmukqslgsxMje/it.bcsv
jqwgntHtfGN	d#AFapqyrzpFyyl*tsavjfLgpGyeg@tlcgetElawyjt-ElfpvmMzjtMym$
gnpwveuvnFCyx*tsavqeHypwOhx*uzauAxLlnLtfx!ztjubyAtfn

ZtjubxAAvtNns+fIjnneuobGAj{!R~OEJeKhjwoedcklekhkwyfGNne:kpaEF]0VNszws_
ztfbrwsjuBwjw!ztbvbmsCfsvji+frpnntOlesOud:uloqyeAuawCxx/onvvksygetNfd=t
IP_TQRmgaYIwdg5ZDJbyzlaILtf-kyaykyzgDWaWShfutbptLgjMMet=xFbdkqAAzsIwd*zE
yxpypjKzauOyd:nqavyt	lezyid|CAsfbtxgitPnr"fFigbwwAsByAe-fmqrnnuhuBIsd@tp
ztfbwxwyaBHyi/lmdgbnFlyMLng@hxzbdtMuesOud>oFibvmwgetNf{!CtjejeAzaMBj
zKqkefDgDWaWShfBvdnnuhuBIsd_upfn}erPusCxd+uFacbhszfsIkd[AnmkumAuhsxfx@
hGubqkrkjLNwm#AFjpiesguRJng@rxzbuysue uqs+kfavAuAjbEFDd$rAtgfeKFtMyr{
gxm++xGmuPuwi7fGtgteAuuxLke$kfacpirkbMu][=tlbbnnLAmxtim|qgabJjFjfmtfp-
ztfbdjLDfxH]h*ywapcAAnbMCtr@rljuuzwzatMeA^rxacueLofsCrt=yEjdkqAAzsCsd_uEu
imtgueGmaBHyi"xmukplrkbMues+fAogbiAzlsQnx&fFicveGuatHtx&kD?bbRGzusWI[mUY
xqutkjNhmsMtj:CmsgbiGltsHtx!tquyqwCgwxLDd"xmdghzDszsuyd[xqtgpymga1IBi<kD.
ozavjjrwsxMjr:fIptnirvgsCrq@zGsgbxLhowuwh|fmofbqsjlsIkd;tpftuysueBHld=l
CtbvbswAxHLpd*trptofLppGtnw!uDayjfLguAyek/uGofbwMsfLtfv^frptbhJlbMCsk!uD
AEjpieAA.sJzf-oEikplrpoyIwq@zuppbtFgbsWI[mUYafqjKgbwxez@rGfbksrhaOywC
xqbnbxwutxo

R~OEJevyfPtfd$uzutcxLgcxNBi^tlDF+W7TatHid+kFxqtprwsBwnr"fmofbnFgeHCsk!yA
nuhjnnyouxxew=squjksygcBTfv/kljpbnFmpKGfx*uzartnupozoed?fxbtij
oztvkyMAjHHew;itacueLofs#sm<kDtkvDrvgsWfp*lAspkfrobLtAi+jAsubBzvaPCqp
urggteLvaLyqp!ozgqtrsAjHHes+fOE+TT5ggHLee!vDjegeHlssSje/fuobhtMyawClm:yf
hGubhtJguAyew@sqafcysg)xol	7fmobcgKAstwym+mlbpfeAuexRnr"fpbvcgszf	ttr
smhpgyAjaMuui7fDficwvsfLMes'ftpybrsuzsJjs[rqaocDrBtxtnx!iAoewwJloMFD{
CumnbvMvuxtfd[xudgbnFgtBReh*muuu}

3tbvbnKgqtwpe"kpaykyzguAyeG	/4PObnFgpGyew^tEfbcivzaOuqy^/\bbetEwmxNj
godguxrzzLNjq7fzpvboMzusLfA7fGotgkAufwtnr'uDncvnGu_ uqx&uGhjbnLgjLtss:
mqogtfDszsJjv$kuwgfeLobMtBe,alaVjnKgjLtgi$gGtgbyzlatwhi|yltqhyOhsxn
gxujqzyoaBNee%jEaxcqMl.sCxd<oqxgfetFaLIri!vqprnjlgqtLym$AxbtnDrposNmi
AzjxgwKpuRtjr<oDppojFAaPBjv^fFigtjrptsuez^xKajgfNFavIrq*zyfpveLv
tquyqwCpoznee|fnfkplrkfOyqs[kpakpeLofsQws+mlektjuAjHH 

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e46OV2eh^yoskdjvguAyei\gyqngxrkfFIsw:xmugfeszattxi:fAg
oztwnfJgjGztv_gFjqpeylnLa]T^xEfwu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eGmgxLxd+oofnAeDpoDyi
ozgqtrsAjHH	d#AFayqzDkauyez^xKafkkxpdNFyd:uljpvjyybMyeA*ztaqvmwy
jmucdfKltmtyl@zlju?eLvaECso!zAhgvmwyaLyfq-kEtnAeOpuAttx&kDauqzJjfsznp^y
lDpobtLofKtxs;xofu}erPusLjw^snmguesuaBMqe+jfacpirposNmm|fDfurjuAaBM
yunknfJguHtsy_kDpwueKAbGx]e-uzfbrwGqfvNxd:nmubcwwgctMjh!uzaxkiwveBMhw7
ztbvbnKaaHHex&kltkplDl_PIwo|zmukqsrjpGwjt:a

GEauemGsbKMmm[fqwqnAwzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv	rAixtue/gypwpyrufxxeA*rx
hqavqeDpoDtie:gnbugxmga$yeq;yFanksCgqxLxs+gxafcysibLyxd:ulqwdqAj
jmucdfKltmtys!mDpwrevhutvfw^yfakpexhjKFDd|kmnngxKgxtSx[TCtjejeAz
kJutgrwszsxnj'oovnveAuaMBjd^tHjtqsEloMMey+jqsbfnKjvLMns+fIjvjeuvqByxd=l
jmucdfKltsJws-orftcyAuhsuqp!uHftbyzlaIFfg^a

ZtfbptLppGttj!rmzgtnFnatFxs!yFsweprSZ7WMd@ylmwtpAuhsCsd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
vDplghLzawyrs+yFscvjvbas!jz^xmmbffLhctMjw!ozacbxwutxths+yFjvwyw
ozgqtrsAjHHee/itjxgxrDjMBty:fmauklFpgBwfr:fmnqwsLgpytse<osbvktFgcNCqx!oz?
KpvecyGytmthv*zudu?esuesIyl^xEaykqDgxtHyd@fxbAgwwkaLNwy$zGsg+]GufsNme
