specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formatsKggHLef@yudbvjPAtsCxd=txzbptOgcxCsk
gEtgogDlenteX&kltAphzypGCEe:oAobqkrjpGNjr:fEutgfEza{C i8 ltAphzypGCEm+mlb
BAjegeLybvEex=fmaxkiwvaMLfg) lfuvftsjLBnr"fFfortJhmsLjp@zuppuetluPyjr
jughgwwuuswtq[uzfpvxrposueq;rFjogiAhaHvoi$z>aeqsKAjMOyi|fmoqvmwyaBMxy^
lAsbpjLDpKEjh!sGmvkrwkjttyl@zljuboMzusvjk*tzjpieLvaKyhi*BqacvywuuBIs	

1zegtqQpoztsi:CAsmbuJvuHwtp|fmmuqeFlfwtxs_klxqtphghHIi{!xqbn+yAtf
jqmkxjJFaILtx=iAmubtFguAyeM+zqspgyrkpsHtx!EqubgCAzunteM+fXZPEM\zaOCjA7
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFakpeLojLths+zqyvbnKguAyer=zuppbtxgoxNBs/qqebfnyputF
unkgeyrPELnex&klbdkqAAzsIkd=tqaqdowjusIsd:nqapgyOvsDtys!vAjpveLvatHtx&kD
unkgeyr]pKths_vAogpyrAixLjs']lppbyzlaGyyA=xw?bbXwyjHOxd#gzeykiLoaBMxy^y
gxtqbjPptMoedg5ZDJbBszaNHhi/zmjpbnxgcBFqm=t\ckv]Hls Mjg=tpapgyOvsDMeA=Axe
vDpxgeKBgyChm^tFakheFBnxLty|fBfqrqwgstHez*jqpbksrwbKuqp^rg

R~OEJeuvovFzh^jlcAbtxmfKCsk!gzakuxMlayIwd%gFbdcxwgdKyfx=xEavqeuvoLCii/ 
gEaygqDgbLtxi<kDbnbhGtnxHyw!gnpwveOobMtrm"nFaeqsKAjMOyi!mApfbyJpbE
sGmvkrwkjttjB[kDjogsLz?stNr!glogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvosQtv-jlujgevhutvfw^
hGjnfjJgpKtxi/BudgbgMpmwywdRvGcnkxzls	tis^yloqvewEfKwnw^fFigbxstf
kJugpxACfswtr:xAmbqAwyaMBjd*tFfitnLFaHzex&klqtgxwuutNns+?ltvtfFnf
vDpitfEza.Gzr"k|aykyzgpGy)w!jmucbgwmpKyex&klvugwrzfxMem:alaUgwAvvL
ztpwimLgnNMyd#klhkxjFguHtBl@zlhwcwsuuxyxd*tFfitnLFaHzet/kEfpvfLppGoedkgDu
uravjfLgjLtwi-gFffbyGgxAywi!uzfbfwsDtsNmi!hAvpffJpfLtfv=AzebceFluPIwo^j
ozgqtrsAjHHew^xHjeg rgUACxd]AqtvktFgpytuv^yqovcyAvosCsx^mDjvAeAu
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!iAnrwyAuhsBfw!tAubdjwuaLNwi|yqebgsGBhAtnr!ztfbchskfFCh
CAsnf	rSZ7WMd@xsvgf	rAiHOll!iAnogwupbEtxi/BudgbuJvwBxjv|fpfcneOpuAtnx
xqhwnfJszn

IAoegwFpoztry-zungfnsaa5'SGcfAcugwNlesNme:fspqfeEBmMCri%omacveLofsGtq^tF
oEajkiwvvLFDd^DBfpunNlaMIet/upveg rgIxtwi$uyngpiwkaILth;iuoibrMsuBGjh*g
CuujbjAAixLez^xKajklzgttFjd<gxvg?eGyaFOqx*sqekceOpuAtfd<kDzbntFnaECki
yBbp?eGyaFOqx*sqekceLobMtBm-rlicxjrhaOywC!hDpcfeMzbzyef@yqacpirDiHMj
iAtvueLofKyks/kldcpetlatGtv:oLffbfEvoztqe/mqapwrtlsLttj!AEftu rgJGtyl*y
iAopghLppGnel*yFptkhssatHid&AybpkxLpdtFqC!uDjgpywkaFuyi/ommbofQgcxtfd"uAe
vxbegeLvaLNfv: lcgefMzfsCyd:kzeubyGgitPjd@fxppijJgmBzjd|vmobvmsuaFOhl!ur