example, that American Memory fits many of the criteria outlined.  He
remarked the extensive discussion about bringing the Internet or the
National Research and Education Network (NREN) into the K-12 environment
as a way of helping the American educational system.

LYNCH closed by noting that the kinds of applications demonstrated struck
him as excellent justifications of broad-scale networking for K-12, but
that at this time no "killer" application exists to mobilize the K-12
community to obtain connectivity.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Dearth of genuinely interesting applications on the network
a slow-changing situation * The issue of the integrity of presentation in
a networked environment * Several reasons why CD-ROM software does not
network *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period that followed LYNCH's presentation, several
additional points were made.

LYNCH reiterated even more strongly his contention that, historically,
once one goes outside high-end science and the group of those who need
access to supercomputers, there is a great dearth of genuinely
interesting applications on the network.  He saw this situation changing
slowly, with some of the scientific databases and scholarly discussion
groups and electronic journals coming on as well as with the availability
of Wide Area Information Servers (WAIS) and some of the databases that
are being mounted there.  However, many of those things do not seem to
have piqued great popular interest.  For instance, most high school
students of LYNCH's acquaintance would not qualify as devotees of serious
molecular biology.

Concerning the issue of the integrity of presentation, LYNCH believed
that a couple of information providers have laid down the law at least on
certain things.  For example, his recollection was that the National
Library of Medicine feels strongly that one needs to employ the
identifier field if he or she is to mount a database commercially.  The
problem with a real networked environment is that one does not know who
is reformatting and reprocessing one's data when one enters a client
server mode.  It becomes anybody's guess, for example, if the network
uses a Z39.50 server, or what clients are doing with one's data.  A data
provider can say that his contract will only permit clients to have
access to his data after he vets them and their presentation and makes
certain it suits him.  But LYNCH held out little expectation that the
network marketplace would evolve in that way, because it required too
much prior negotiation.

CD-ROM software does not network for a variety of reasons, LYNCH said.
He speculated that CD-ROM publishers are not eager to have their products
really hook into wide area networks, because they fear it will make their
data suppliers nervous.  Moreover, until relatively recently, one had to
be rather adroit to run a full TCP/IP stack plus applications on a
PC-size machine, whereas nowadays it is becoming easier as PCs grow
bigger and faster.  LYNCH also speculated that software providers had not
heard from their customers until the last year or so, or had not heard
from enough of their customers.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BESSER * Implications of disseminating images on the network; planning
the distribution of multimedia documents poses two critical
implementation problems * Layered approach represents the way to deal
with users' capabilities * Problems in platform design; file size and its
implications for networking * Transmission of megabyte size images
impractical * Compression and decompression at the user's end * Promising
trends for compression * A disadvantage of using X-Windows * A project at
the SmitAiLIsm@tlujcyrtpNHyw!oybigxrvosMjz^xmmbpjLDpKExdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

NAxctirIF`!JV7f5djqtDgpytQm#xmsAbfFka2Hks/smukqsrZdBysg^ lVpkAwytBNDd=l
VuuvugMyhAnew[uwfbrwAtbKCqC!gnpwveEBmMCri%om.bhtuBtBHld=tljoclwzatHid:nq
hDpcfeAtqEChe:oAoubtxgeBMxi_ozbvksyguAyrd=tlujgeFluPIwo8flIgbfJnvxxex&gF
vxbppnFnaMBjd%oEutkgMAjHHes'fyvnvnEleBueh=iGngpyKgqHMjh!zIpbewAAjvuq
oyqngrwuutNns+fBsqdqwttmtBl*itajgexybFyid*tlujgexvsFttj!zIpbszwzuBIsw2
7>aYjfLgqEuyj=xyaykqDgpGyey|klbpfeOobMtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbBAsmsOxi/y
nmwgbkGyaOCjA*tsaqheLofsGfx^xubn{erhowt7=!NAxbefFgpGyeh^ruwgtes
yGghkhAloMFDd/unvuveKlusIkd*trptofLppGtnr!gzacehwztBvqi!lAsocyrposu
xqbuqssimxtfq=AzubqkrAjFyad!JqqgpiAuhsIsd>nqujgwrufMQtv)fAsbEI	YP6tnw!ztf
sqekwrrBtxx	d:nutbszwzuBIsd/gutguevpgyywi+zljuuzwzaHzew:uDbig	
iAnrtjKzjHH	d@tpavtfFznBMxm=tg

IAoegwFpoztyl^fpfuklFgpytup@zrptoxr]fnA {!yAvpf	rnstSew$gxf?bxAtqEy
iAmqt	rluvo[d@tpavjjrCbKCty|fobrcgAsjMCjw!AEftueEhzsBfz^ lCGUXWY
smjpvfAufwtyl@zlbbnfQlsxxee[vDpcemrDbLtyl^fIbAbyGgexuqd>oFibwxwyt,
imqcdnDpuByx	!fMatgxMsusQty-jlcgbyzhusOxi/ylxkvmrsfLMet=Cqshwq
CAsmuysAjHHxd>uGmfbxAtqESel@BqangxKggNHhx*uzbnkyQbas2jd;xsffbrwtcxLxd=l
ztfbczvpfGwjd:ulbfxtuhuxtxx@tpbtfxrhowtfg$uyqcpDAuhsMtj:CmsgbyzhusBfr%rq
rmzgtjvggNHhx*uzbnkyQgbvLtw|fmaykiwgwtLni:ElphbuDhuyIwq|a

HQTUGWrhmLIee%jDfuujvgqKIgp^sEakpeHsbMztv_fpfuklFaaGuri-EfafghAkjGAel=C
rmsigesgntwmm+kluqbiwzjzHej=xltkvzsAjHHxd>nqobvmwgmtLli|zlowogwyaHzey|kDt
nmwgbyzlaEIBi|zlmgxjDgpytyl^fybejnFl.sush!uzfbfjKpsxMel*mtft
lGoevnGubECyC8flCGUXWYaMBjr!vDpegjvlesNtd:nqaswjKAjHHes'frjngeKpAxtfr%
oFtbkrHsjvuym=tEahqwrufMQtv)ozh}beZlawCxg;yEffbxLpmEtnq@mqtbksrAixtre*tg
LAsbgCstqEy	d@fpjikyssavIqs/funcijrAitNej*rxtbvmwgtvLji+fAgbceKAbGxfv%
sqhc+uwsaPIwo|zmukqsr]TNHes/fZfzv[rDjEFev^wGjtgeGufsGjk@hKugbtxgtMIwe"k
lAsbcsrljzBy[#oFakofylaHLex&xqfbojyhcRNjw!urauvtJhhxtks/fmavtzwgdHFtv!uD
zIfpvD	mpNL]f*zljoclwbas6tw|rqtubhGtqKyxw*uzacnlGyjMBrw![FicveAz.
iAnrwysAjHHfp!vDpegiMyfLtnr!CtjejeFvawuye!oEanqxLgjGtyl^fBsqejKzaHz
iAnrtjKzjGAe:@tpafghGtqKyxw*ts/bcsrpntAj[TztfbgCsjusvnxTxqqtgxwuutNns+fut
smjpvfAufw eq*mtubdwAuhsMys/gsfbftOuaMIee!ztjtfeGmattri"gnzvgeHlssCre"kf
hGubptLgnNwmd'ADujgwrAitHex&gF?bbYzlaJOjw:oAobqkrzjSyeq@qqtbkyrkjyzng;rF
zAahkyrhosuut/uBskcywszsMnD^jltgveGmaMBjw^funcijKgpGtfd|ozhngevptDttv!zA
zDbpurAAaMBjq!wGjemqQgfGIzk&fAobceFluPIwo8

3uujbyzltxtky-rltetjwuaFyleTvqmbkrsnfLtyl@zldqpxLpuNNjd@fFiktirvgsu
sqhcdDLl.sIsi!mquub6l%~[a8{E$*ahwqD|tvLji+funcijKgpGtfd=tq_iklsizMyeh*yw<
gltvcsvhswtHHTX1NbtjHyfLysx|fmqrttPpntNjp,f^~brjJjfGNes'fFicv rgTMIwm+m
oybigxrAixtxm.klphbfrWDsMhv^kza-lzKAa+tgm:fopnqw{gjGwwi@yqtbuyGybzy
imqcenLFaMIe87$*~+37l%~[tnq@mqtbrjJghBAff,zq<b8#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmsAazCAi|
uzfbvmwgtBTjd=llbbEI	YP6neA&ooibksrAvKHeg/kmuguesgntDtv!vDpdnjEbas9si
imopqyrobOyej;rx_uewwlomtky-r\dqntJgjFuli|fIjvjeDvtLFjw|foporwwztBIs,!uzf
sGtvbhGtqKyxw!ztfobtJgvLyee!rAxgteJltHFzx*uz?bbKGyaFyle#EFf+unRlaBGfk^yf
gzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsrha!a6d|vqffbnKgjFJwe$zudcn rgGHLei\gyqng	rvosu
lugvA]Kpy Enp=hmvfbqAufmtnx!zmlgueLosxyeq*tGugueLvaMLfr|lqsbc
uzf+ojyhcRNjd'oxf?bnxgjMtnw!tAubetEwsxMxi%?lbpfeLojLtxt^kpacuxMtfLtnh^gx
iusewrKAbGwjw![zpbqyzlssOxi/foppvjFkjGAej=xlogvBGylsvfr%Cuevj[mga!Bzw7
wGfuvnGutsIkd%oElbchultLnev^sAugbiAzqEuD{!gzebezJyfGNex^rqqjqsw
iAopghLppGtxt^kpaocpwguKusw_oEtkqsrvgsGjk@hKug+xAGfsCre"kEakouJhdMChe-a

HQTUGWrAixHeh*yovuujvgxtSxd:ulegcqrDjMBex&kEfbnfJnfsCre"kE.bhtJgfQurt-kf
iAnrtjKzjHHee+jlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaNMjvNylfpf rgJGtyl*yldqpswjuBIs{!ztf
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!sGdjbtFlaBMeA*rxjpieLvaEIxi!ozavjjrjpFJwi|yuppbuJvdxMxd@tp
CtbvbnEhhxtvy@ruuAbtFlaGyjh|fuobvmwggBLxx!vxbegesyfsOso+uIo}beTBusQme:fut
qzpypeAzaMBfx!iAnrtjKzjHHei+zmjnueKvnxtqs|ylphbisAbnteF Y5FTbzJnfwtyl@z
sAsgbxLBeByxd#kldqpiMjuxxes+funcijrxvtFnx,fuobfnxmfKysx!yuuwcyAvoLnej=x
kJborqwaaPBfx!quofbtxgjFuli|fmsgbswlexxej=xlxjcyrrjGxes'fpjuenHsjGyx{!gze
CtbvbpAuesIkd*smhgbvMhmBNDd*yloggiwkayIwd@fnsqyxAuhsNts- lbpbnFAfKGjh*gFf
BufyksyguHIq{!gzebcwuojOCsk8

HQTUGWryfFuwo^jluyqeHypFCxm+mlutgsvzayIwd$uyqtgxKppGied'xAnbceLldAHng@r
vqsurjuAjOy	d@rsptkyzttsNme:fGtgbBzhusCxd$gxmgfeKBcCyhx*BqatgiMuetHhC
kyqnqDrwsBHhm[rqtbhwGtaOCxy@rlquAhzv_IBDw*iEavqeAkfGNnj,fmofbwwtpOy
ozgqtrsAjHHej/uyavjjrpntAjd:nmubvmwgiNGfr!kKfbefFupMtui/iqjxg.rmsHGee+
ozugthzhozyee+jljpvjJvqxLff*ruuAbuwytIyhx*Bq.bvmwgK9YLdRogf}?e2vjGN
VtpvqlJhqAChd DBftvxrNsHOu{!gzaKUTrzutHie/j>aeqrHyfLMns+fmmiqwAAiFMee-yA
urggteHypFCxi8flUjgxwgjLMzi|fAgbetEwsxMxm=tlbpfevldHGuv^yEjqp	rIF`!JV
gDhwgilgsxMjq#rqebvmGzfsLfm|kpagcwDpfKths+iqspksyguAyeh^yuhpbtxgeBzki/kzu
vxbvhtJttnteK@AsjpieLofswft@humkvnwzaHzet=zqovkfDgvLyww!iAouvnLBuxMee
vDjocwQghHuq	!fNFUUJ0gbwPtg@zqebnfQlsBHld=xltgrfJhuBHld:nqakofyltszws_
ztfbcuHsjvuym=tEavjfLgsxNwm^BqacpirkjLJqe,fFigo	rApsuAs*jluAksyguAyrd:u
vmsvkhMsbKtxs'zIbtg 

HQTUGWrkfMunp^jltgxjJhmsFjw|uztbnjsyoxxej/uyajkxrDpKEee:fNftmjDlzsQnx&
OybigvMlsRnei|vqdkcqDFaMBjd@jHbpvfyltsush!jutcfAsuutAjw!urawunFn
4\XkpiGDtnteM+fFigbqsAuxLeg@zqhqtDlggHLei\gyqng	ryfMLni<gxakueLpfw
jusgeyDFaMIes+k/tbffLh.susd*tFpngwsimxtxm:AmukqsrposNmi!rAoibwMuaHHee
tquyqwClesMDw:ky?bbKAubEFD{!HQTUGWrkfLwwm#kpacbuJvkxwyd=llKkoe#hmEuhi!gF
ztfbUrAAiLIsm@tlJpuyAAvMCtr7fIiqbnKgnHOsx*tsakofyltsCsd@fqyvtjElmR
xGekojFAbKSeA@ElppbyzlaVIrt;yqsxbfFkaZysm^fzfvytJrtsush!oEartjHhsBHld:u
sAvpveLofFttr!GyftkhsgPGtQm+kgabCqLopNAmd:nqacxjJhhxtzw^xlucmjKgpOyw
ztjtvDrtjGOyi|fFpbftOumHuid:nqtgbnEhhxMe+@yEvoksygbszfm/rKahcxLgnHxjqS 
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!oybigxrobOyef^kzafqBFsptxjh!8%.``#rAjFyx	

HQTUGWrjpGwqy%kpajkxrAbEEeA*ztaugAwybEths_sqovueGuaMBjd#AEjpgxK
gDscplwtfGNef^zIfgpeLofs!rm:nEppkfFgbGxeG=sBvugwNbas2jd$uzugpiwkaMBfx!tAu
kzpwimrptsEss>tldqphwyoBHld:nqaxcqMlaHzem_gsfu}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d{xqbvksygeBAnx*FqebrmGApzLft&ooaeqqDldMCtr|fzfctqQ
oyqquxAimxtjB$kBubynLoaEuwk^fAsicsAGbMCtr|fxjmgeEBtxOrw!=lOggirmpKtxx;jK