the nation's electronic collections.  Implementation of the Z39.50
protocol for information retrieval would make such access practical and
feasible.  For example, this would enable patrons in Maryland to search
California libraries, or other libraries around the world that are
conformant with Z39.50 in a manner that is familiar to University of
Maryland patrons.  This client-server model also supports moving beyond
secondary content into primary content.  (The notion of how one links
from secondary content to primary content, LARSEN said, represents a
fundamental problem that requires rigorous thought.)  After noting
numerous network experiments in accessing full-text materials, including
projects supporting the ordering of materials across the network, LARSEN
revisited the issue of transmitting high-density, high-resolution color
images across the network and the large amounts of bandwidth they
require.  He went on to address the bandwidth and synchronization
problems inherent in sending full-motion video across the network.

LARSEN illustrated the trade-off between volumes of data in bytes or
orders of magnitude and the potential usage of that data.  He discussed
transmission rates (particularly, the time it takes to move various forms
of information), and what one could do with a network supporting
multigigabit-per-second transmission.  At the moment, the network
environment includes a composite of data-transmission requirements,
volumes and forms, going from steady to bursty (high-volume) and from
very slow to very fast.  This aggregate must be considered in the design,
construction, and operation of multigigabyte networks.

LARSEN's objective is to use the networks and library systems now being
constructed to increase access to resources wherever they exist, and
thus, to evolve toward an on-line electronic virtual library.

LARSEN concluded by offering a snapshot of current trends:  continuing
geometric growth in network capacity and number of users; sloqBwy
jqwgntHtfGNes'fmqrnnuhuBIsw3fmofblDhdBuqd%kHfnquEloMtfr%fmeqryAvosIk
yFbpffJktnteX&kldjcqDlozyem|fFpbfjKphGtfr%fpfxgqGwaxuhl!tqxbcuHsjvuym=t
yKtvgrrDjMBer^zIptmesjdxMxd@tpauefDhcBFnx,fuobonFk?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
H4PYPW1NHs{eE$iqtubyGguAyeM+zqspgyrjbGHtx!hqavcpwuayIwd"xmovgir[a9uho^z
xmekqesuesNmi!jqwgntHtfGNes'fYFNX44gjGt6!C$\93bnFguAyeH*Butkqsrvgs6nf/gDz
GGuqofLppGtfx!ztfbWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@fl(bbIwzjzHeg/oFftkfrmpKtue$qqu
xmekqe?gBsxjq=tEutcyAvosJws(koubksrZbGtIm^mAacpirmvMOwi!vxbpue?gTILje%
yBfevwMta}tKv^wGfpenwzatNeA&ooibvmwgstxns|fIjnneJBosush!vxbpueLv
xqjorqwtfGNex&klXCKXrzfKPjv!yAgvyfJlaBHex&klqwdqAjawIre*tl(bPjwkayIwd@t
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbtfvppLtyl@zleqbsGAaFIAi!gDpwpir[
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMfagzjuBuBPjd%oDfevtJaa6yri\f4fugfJjis3sw:oFvvg	rmjKMy
vAmngirAixtfy%oqoegeAuaHLii/fFpbujwraHOyd/ksvncwrBtxLxd=llujge1uuxLsi:fmt
CqmnbfKguAIxi!vxbppnFnaMIey|kljvbxGtfsNnq^fuobvmwggNNzv^alaYkyzgoxuwp,
kHftAgGkzsCsd:nqatqtEggtFqm+mljpvtrvoxthe:ksptAeGyaMBjd=ztft?eTYP$8WMbM
smegbfrwpBHyd/klbeejKz.sHfq^rKavjfLgoNGjv=AEakpiACjwOfp| lfurjupbEFDd:nAtg
CtpbwxwguAyeM+zqspgyrlwxLDd%gK.bvfClayIwd"xmovgirAixCwd@iofuueLvaBN	d:nq
yBfgfxrDjMBeA&ooibvmwFatLjd$uzogeywk.sush!nAxbyjDsaBNee-rlxqtpKb
NAxgxjJaatMeFmU9OTKLYgeBMhs<kDffbgwAxxysdv#"8bcsvg2==@d*tlBwuyJhmBu	
oraqpjrDbGNxd@iofuueLvaMBjddtFftpjLgcNNeg@tzpvbfxmpKxem:fAsbjfKgtHGj
vtzukhssauIzr%gDzbvmsAaILjz^tFtbjjJgpKtmm_frsqoeyhjGCsk!godguxlgjMthe+
hqagzyJlnxFDd'xGtvtfLpozoedckltwilwzuxxex&gFadghsBtxttj!koppqrAjtsush
vtzukhssauuwv*kDtbyjrDfKyef^muopksyguHthv^gFfbceOvsExes'ftbxgxrhowtme<k\oqvx
ozavjjrwsHwjw|fAgbuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr7fqwgpeAuaMBjdptuugfe~AbMyx	

H4PYPW1NHsxjx@oxffbyzlawyAi-uBngpyrvgs7JPq5Xakpesjbwyrm$fKfcte'$9[a!5!oz
ztfbFnNptBIsd=llMkdwsyzsUzx=smukqsrhusNmi!1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujtnem+
uDegteLvaNHii/yoptgeLofsCxw;klphbfujfLMex=fFigbxQzuxG	d>nudjbfLguAy
uGuugyrDbLtjB:xqngnDrsjFCyi%alaKpeKopKN	d:nqarttBldMtsi^jqebvtrivBFid@
tquyqwCaaPBng&fmubvmsAaMCri!kzuckqwkaNMjd=lltcvjDsjMyex^itoqntyF.sNme:fut?
vGuvksygftLyl!yFbvktFzaHHeg@sBvubfFkatFxs!gorwkwAuhsMtq^fFfttjKAsBuqd-ozlu
lDpobyzla`Nfx^fAgbEfDpgHLsm@-EaokhJvxtPjd|EEugo rgUAyem+yFbnnfLppGttj
ymugnqAAfsFnr)yfajqBwCfKneh*jloqveKvmOyex&klqtqgDlns	Bl*itaceyMhmES
lAsogirwbKNes'fmancwylssJws#rqnbksNvmOCsk!vAmkvnuzatHid'ozbpenssaKyxs;xofu_ 
LAsbymAsfsNmi!vDplghLguxurd$uGmfblwAattxm"tmmbqsLvatthe_vGt?bnLgitxer=fyfcpx
urafkxLyjuOym+mlujgeKphGuqd:nDpwimGBusNmi!imnrwxmga!Bjd|uxvvktFgjGPtp<kp
gpprvnFnattwi$kzubfjNlmHJri+zljpbBAyfEyxw!iAnowsAjbMCtr!immngirwbvEjx!xmekq	
CtjejeuvnuCsi%fFigbgszjvtss:oAobqkrwbvEjxTyIjvemAuhsQnx&fDbfktmga!Bjd[xAkgey
AEffbyzptsNjg&tAmqiDrApsAjx!ztfbunyubEtkv=slbbrtAuusIsd$gyqwueOofKyem:
imngbiGDomtfr!kmsvjeKAbMCtr!lAsbgCstqEy	d*tFpbvmwgmBvwe/oqt?bgwjbNMjd*z
lAvpfeLobMtBm/ozhbvmwgmBvwe/oqt?bjKwfvCfp-ElujgeGsexLeq@xnmgbgMpmwCsk| 
CAvnfeuvtMt&67$*~+^0l%~[tui/fFftonFhmn

H4PYPW1NHsHtx^jlujcylguxHeC^gDtbclGaaMBjd[xAkgeyrobwtsi*ztftbyzlaIOgp*i
vAmkeDrupKtyl^fFfejsGspzSex&gFayqzDkaAuAi!gxmqyjvgjMtys!AEfbrfurfMtwe%oA
ozacpDrtftHnr"lGmbyfQbas!nr$klujgsrtvvBel@jldjcsylenteL^fBsqejwkfwtys
jquckqryfLyfv$nlbpfevlwxFtt_kzubqkrAixtyi$nzpnqlQaaAIBd*zljubgwpoz
jqqnqDwkaBHeG@rugqtsAh.sush!CtbvbiAyfvNns+ftfbvmGBhANem:fIpwnirAbDy 
ZtfbfjKphGthv*zqskcesyfsNtd[xAewejrhaACllTyBfgf	rvoxaym_kfanqB	jpLN	
nuhj+vMhmBND{!yqdwtjlgmBwjr|k\gtgjrkfOChi![BbemjLgstxnsSfFicveGufswfr
vxvibnFgbGxet-gKavqisF.sztv"kFacdtMAaBN	d@tpajcAwgbvwjw|fFpbvmwgJGNjv+kF?
HKajklzgtIyjh7fNSQYS0PHZtri@tFa3brwnbuSyi!gzeb3 (gnxAff,zqt}be`opLyey+oFt
nmwgbgwlosvzm-zfajgeuvoMCsy^jfacpirhsxtnr!ztfbrwGjfLMes'fnfkpl
zKqg+hwyuBzni%fnzbcsrpowyui+jqovbzFkfKQwm:ozhbnftvstNtv,fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imo
hqavAuw|mBwjr|kpadAeLofsZjh^xmmbEtEtvGChe:oAoubHGtnBMxm=tgabCxrptsNmi
imtgbBAAiswnx*Fqoubgsuemttr^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAarwwuobLyee!AzjvbfFkaGIyd&gHf
zAayqwJFatvty:fmqrnDAuhsztv!glmkejFzfn

ZtfbdfKpdsCii@ lCTQ26YJZ1ei-gnptcywk.sCxd:ulucmjrojzB]w[kqebtfvppsxfx@
zDbpurAztBIsd@tpaetjsAfsuef@iwcqpjrufMQtv)fFicvesAavywx@ozauvwsAfzCh
vAjpvxrposNmi!tquyqwCgxBFqdOmmugyfQ+aBHys!glngfnMt_LJji%fBbemjLgstxns
[u?g}	rvoxtyl@zlswpxrhus(!	yfwjnqgQAfL 	d|ulujcyrwfKBft|fnzb3@+~_"[@9
vqprnjlgmBEjd:nAtgbnFguAyee;jufpejrmpKtyl^fBskejrvgsueZ{XldqwqvgqNLhl@yq
glngfnMt_LJji%fDbfktrmpKtyl^fAghkhwgpKtms_kfajcAwggNFqd+kFxqtprjpGHjg:oHjvA
zAavjjrPoMywr^zfacpirwbKNfo^fAgbcqDgjMMew^xHjegxlgxBNmd+uloggirmpKtfr!LOD
rudgpxwgbGxer=fDfiwqsyauCqp!lDpobyzlaEIhe-fopootFgdtLwm^xgabDW74O~3LK
vDfugsLlesMjz^xmmbfjLhjEMes'fmafgrGutMLfx*uzarttBldMthy/xqovnDrAbDCsk
vxbegeAua`usd	oqhqbfFkawyxg/onffbuDhoLnet^tpjpiexBowCsk7fFpbksKAbEFee
lGmn+gGyfsHjx>uDlbksrAixtXe+fRscphAzdHtfv^ggabVmAzaGyyA=xwaykqDgitPjdA$*
tAegueJBoGCsk!gFadchCipGyew[kqeu?esues&#@!uravjjKlaGIii|fIjnnetlaECgv@xufu?
CtjejeAuaMOwr!CumnbgwguAyek@zqxcAeHvsMMex=fFigb8_b5sEnp=hKugbwskjHMex&gF
CumnblACfswtz^xmhgbkGyaMBjd+kuhjdtJopHxxd|ADsqwsvpoztyl^fxjdtfJpfLo

H4PYPW1NHsHjB:fqyrnfAufwtUe/zl27}7*@.suer^ClswnjrDjMBnr!Zuunge*@aHzex&k
IAegbtxgGxxjv@rlSgizDhuBIsw!kzbevjvgcRtyl^fRDEbnFg2==0	!f6ikueJBmx
itbnnjFnfwtyl^fuofwxLyzmtBl*itajcxrvoESer=ClskujFguHtyl^fAdecxAvomtys
hGjnfesgstxns!ztbvbBGBmwtwy+fmubptrtpKyex&gzaqpjrDbMNes'fAvvrzLgqHQjv!gze
AEfbcexhjKFDd^DAukeeEluAIid=llnqfzDhuBHld:nqatciAvaPuAi!immngirzqKyfh
yBfevwMt?stXt/kmebuuwjuKOrd*tlgceyrwfKGnx|fFigbgMpmwCsk!urapgyOvsDMew=
ztbvbsMtfKIzw!jmucbhGtnNHng@zuppueuhosIhg;xltkozDAbGyty|rK.bynLopNN
ozugtkwyjGAeA*ztagchzgpMBjv7fIjvjnFguAyew@sqaykiwgstxns!itbppjDb

H4PYPW1NHsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^frsgszwudByxd@zlxjkhzguAyev@jupubBGBmwtwy+
gDfbxjJFaLBtv:fIbxgeKphGuqw8flUjgDrhsxtBi-rlbdqAwgtMush@xpaokhJvxtPjd@tp
xmect rgXBNmd@fDbfktrDbOyex&gFauofDs.sIsi!CmuvbgwjpFyxd@fFsgojFkpNMet;toi
vqsbdnLgbGxex&AEaocpwzaMLfr|sutuktFgbMtwi@yAocdqwgtIyjh!vAtukgDl?stNr
uDegteLvaFCsm_oLfbvmwgqHNjr:ommbhtJgdHHli|zupp?eLofsJws(koubkx
AzegtysrjGAex=fDfkouDlnxHyd|uruycwwgxAChl!nmtbdjwuatPfm-gnmgbnFguAy
tquyqwCpoztgy|ozfuuesuesCxd:gwfpbkGyazLfr:kpapqBlggHLei\gyqng	r1D9gNT7
xAvvksygbEAtv*ztnu?etyjwAjw7fmofblsAfPuDw8flJpbfvkjMCtr7fFigbuJvkxwy
vxbpueLvaMupi!ztfbYF1ZaLywz^xltqhyOhsxtnr!ztfbrztsjvtis_guobcsv
xqjorqwtfGNem:fEpbvmsAaHHjd$gzajcAwgbs%FMnfEftxjJgpGtfdhgoakpxLlbwttj!g
1zjzbrsjiBHj	!f6igbRwtfQtWi|kmseje1utMCyy:klcgnnwCfLtyl@zlmkdwsyjxM	d*t
vmsvkhMsbKneA*rxaycsLguHtzw^fFigb2SPTsMjv<kDtbynLoaIuho^zlscfnGbas@mm|
vDplghLaaPBng&ftbubfrAftGes'fmcqwyrAxxFAi!vqprnjlgxBFqd/AzavjwGBhAt6!D9
gzebynDsaBHhp;jqavjjr8~[tqm#xmskgxrhmKyfh,fyfpvnGufwtfw!CqmnbfKgpMBjv
vDphgxKppGuqw!yGdjbfKguAIxi!ozavjjrtfwChe-fBsqhjKzjHH	d^tsjpgjJpoznee+j
rmx}be`ovLnex&kloggirptsNtd$xqbvgesuaBHkv@yFsweyMyfsIkd/gpjqueLobMtis!tAu
sAwgbfJvvGx	d>nudj?eTYP$8WMbMliqrjKaaPCqp!yAmxgesgqKIgp^sloqveGumRtks/
ructcwAltsvzx!lAsbksvpwBxze-ylxjq	rizsush!rmsigeLvetS	d%uloqvezhwxtfg$kEt
zAavjjrPoMywr^zlgtqrrAixCwd&uyfubfFkaHzkm$kE?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dkxAkgeyrvqxLfx*tsahtjIBfGwni|f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrhauLni'fpjuezKzjHHet^xupf?eOojvBee-yAaeqsusvwyid:nqafcD\z
vDpegjvpozM	d}X1XPTNYNaLNfx^jlujcyrAixtuv=pqdvbBszaHJjv@zuoibnFggHOw
lDfswjFjjxM d!ZtfbuqGDaLJji%futbquwybMCsk!gFa650rtfzumi/zL.bcsvgjMtBs;rp
rmugteyvaNJex=f&3`brwnbAywx.alaYkyzguAyel*mt_urjwkayLju;kzdA?eLof
uzf+ojyhcRNjd/gpjqueOpmEtwy+fmub4 *ghBAff*zE.bcsvg2n-eA*rxatwsrhus- ~8
GFa7}`lgstCsd$gzadgesggtwys/ lcwveAAaPIzp%ftbxgeLvauyex/uBjecqrybBH	
AzmkmjrDitNej@rxtbksrtpLNet@xFtbqkrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLo

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ#oeddSMHGbHSWU@`J{!ZQYVbHSWU@`J{!U8FTXNW4a8ZeX 46aCPI
flabbergasteddSMHGbX`VST1JdaU4NCVX

3umnkfEgI89YSi lwkejrwsxMnh^tFaqheGwfKuym=tE.bK]6LUmtrs%kDbvgirAiBMew^yEjqp 

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
QQOPG4r[aYuhx=xEakpkDBfGwnr"fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llDZRe?gBwPfr:gsfubtxgvLCsk
juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbAwytNMet&uFpequQgbGxeq*iDphkqEg(sUet/oybtAeyvbEtt
