and with the support of the Commission on Preservation and Access, each
was commissioned to generate a detailed requirements analysis for the
project and then to submit a formal proposal for the completion of the
project, which included a budget and costs. The terms were that POB would
pay the loser.  The results for Yale of involving a vendor included:
broad involvement of Yale staff across the board at a relatively low
cost, which may have long-term significance in carrying out the project
(twenty-five to thirty university people are engaged in POB); better
understanding of the factors that affect corporate response to markets
for imaging products; a competitive proposal; and a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets.

The most important factor that distinguished the vendors under
consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expechx|
8*~bvtr!~[tit*fEuqtfyl-mtgv=CEjpieKAbMCtr|fpjuvwAivMyid=tlujgeuhnIOx
tquyqwCaatHid+kFxqtprhdvyxw!zAavjjrpntAjd[xuovgwKb

GyppieLofsxjw*mzartnFjjIFjw7f2PDbBsuuxxeg=tHftunGuatNex&klikimwzu
vAtukgDlaKyxs-AFjqp rgBLMzq*tsaVKKXggBFjw7f6JHHexpmxMeA*ztaIttMwa(
iAnrtjKzjHH	doI2|KR	rhowtjx&kDogveFluPIwo!uzaecrHBtmtUS}fIbpvjvgb
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!gBqtqfuoaPCyl!oybigevvdNGjr:ylekuyJpcNNjh!zAavjj
CAsmuysAjHHxd@tpaociwgbvwjw|onmgbyzypNAmd+gFjxgeOvsDMye:oAobksLlsyuhi|
yGdjbfKgXBHis>ygabRTTgbEMtd*tEjuvjvgpGtfd[nmtgfeswqKIfg&fFp
oyqngrwuutNns+.la3_esgtMushTgxppg	rzjGAqiTAEft?eDvx wtw:fqovtDrpoMIex&k
hGtkpjKzaPCyl!glxqtpKAbMCtr!lAdwujvgpGths+BqsuktFgbGxee-rAxkplrWPUtys
kJqnqwwgvLywd@iofuu.r9-sGtz^sqovbnFApsuel*mtft+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGuaPCyl
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd@tpaowqLpqEyee$iqtubxLhuBIsw3fmofb8{gb
nuhj+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGu.szzp-/obrchAAzsMys/gsf?bfFkaFOqx*vxfbdwGDtBHl
yFbvktFzawCxx/onvvgirAiKIzk&uGubvmwgdtGuy|a

ZtfbetKAtsJws[uEffbkGyaLNfv:/GqbcxKBnxxex&klfzkxLlovyes'fFigb4ssfsHjx>uDl
gzebkyKguPIeH=iGUgemrpntAjd[xuovgwKbas9yl^xltvcwL|vIths|zEactjrltMCre:kp
gFa^3eEpmECtr!uHftbyzlaMBwi^fBicujKbasUyd:nqagpirvgsNmi!vDplghLaaMBjd@tzvcn
uBftcyAuhswtw:ylfuvnEhuxxet/oybtkqQggHLex&kltqhyOhsxtfr%ftbtfBsyfsJws[uEff
iAngbyGgbuIzx!*^~?`#=aauOyd:nqtgbjPjmNxjd$uEuubkGyaEugs/fzfgfjvgjGtyl^
iAoxgwKppGtuv=iqtu?eFluPIwo!gzebrwAuuxLey|gsf?bfFkayuhm-oFjgueEhotAjq^tF?

LuocnqQaaMBjd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEarttvBdxxej=xlZcnjrhaFIwi!yAqjkxLpdtNjh
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw2flujgeEhotAjq^tFaqheuvnIFjB!jAdwojFAtsCs
oybigexvsFtnw!tAubceHyfLywz@zuppbuJvcEyr{!tAubceDpcKuwC!vDpdnjEaauOyd@
mqogtfDgqKIgp^sljpbfrisHui{!mqogtfDgjGxzw:xK?bbUJltxLAe:oAobofLlsBuqw!gDf
AEfhwqrmpKtii<kxprksyguAuyd_gDlgvetldtOxi!uravjjrxvtFnx*kEaqheLof
smugtnss?stKs/fqycouDl.sGzg&fAgbkyrptsIzx!uraequQyjzBy	!f6igbwwzpEOym=t
uramgDrptLOjw!yGdjbfKguAyeu;gxjvAeGmaLwfr+ozhbcsvgjFuli!hDpyunFnatFxs
CumnbfxmfvNeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd:nmubofJrfMo

ZtfbvjuooHFtk,futbtjskjESee<gumcdqwgcNNeg&gzhkplrybICip,alaKpeLojL
iAovgCLgpytwe[opaejfFnfmtxi<kDbnbksjuHLxd@lrfeveIBbECyC!gzebetKA.sNt
Ctjeje8VCsCsx^tptbvtrwbRtue/zudwnfJgbMNjr:oAo?bkGyaxRfq[rq.bvmwgwtLns;y
rqwgnxrvgsLjw=rGukqsrAitNeg@tlcgbfuojxPjh8flQQDetlmByAi|fuubefFgcKCsk
xqtqnzLppGtzt!zAa8`#rkqBnef;zlbpbnFAfKJtp@zuppbuJvdxMxd'xAnb6#=guHt~@Efut
sAsgbqArfES d!ZtfbxfJpbMCtr!wGbnkyQgjGtrm$xAgknrrDjEFet/uHfbvtrifsu
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFahchLvsnteTjHlncAeJlfQurm+klujgeKAbGxfv%ylvugirApsznp_fuo
ztfbhnJzusJqe$klcAbqGvlBHld@zlujkxrwsHwjw|fmtbcexvmEIB[=tluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}

UFigteAtqHLye+zlgceyGytsCsg-Apf<beLofsNjg&turwgxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLof
uBftcyGyayIwd&gzenksygntNjv*gx.bvmwgxtSxd=lljpvjyybMCsk!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
ozuqbyzlawClm:oLjpieOvsDtkp=CfacpirhaPIwo!lxpybyzhusCsg-ApfubnFkfQCsk!gze
yFptclwbas0TFNylsgszAyfFysx!Cmtbvtrifsugp^fFpbfjssaPCyl!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
gFavjjrwpBHyd=lltecsFpozoedonGt?byzhoDMex=f0ftqClgQ8Vee+zudkrfLltsBfz*ts
glngemsujLGeA&ooibynDsatFqs>fuubptLgpGFDd:ultecsrposvfx$nlgqtrlgcNNex=
xqwkgBrAixtre:kDjcneszaBNek=kEavjwGBhAtyl^fEdcpswyatHid$uzutqqrxvtFnx,
lDpobyzlaHOyw^zg

ZtfbuysuetLiw!lAsbojszvKCsk!wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFtbfjHlowtlv^gFmAbtFguAyey|kE
uravjjrtbMywm@rfakphDBeBHld|Antgszwuus9HV7fEuqtfyl.sJwm+zuoi?esue
hDpyunFn?stGy:fqtrghAhmESee:futuwjrmpKtUS}futbvmwggtwnp*zKahqwrisHQxm+m
