technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
 flabbwsAfLttf:guogfetFaLOgw:oFvvksyguAyeq@qqacpirtpwyqd=lltecsFlsLtnr
flabbSSYB,Mev^iqovbywzusIkd@tl&kpywsmBAjr:_ldjcwsjuxL]v^iAhpkyAvosJws%Aou
flabbkGyattsi>foporfFF?stNr!ztfbujDldMCtr!urajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxn
flabbM7SNX!ee/mGff?eKvgMQfv^fzpbntFnfKths+yFjvwywzaMBjd=BqstkiAuhszfg:uD
flabbnLgeBxey+zumbcgGBusueC^gDacithgstNmi/fuubkxrwfKBft|funrqwLhoMtys
flabbqGvlsuyd#uFibptOb

flabb+rKbGHDd{utfpbfFkaTFfr!QmuBbtxguAyeY+oHftunLFaHzeW=AFigtsrJbECks/tub
flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxMeM+yFjvwywgcxAfr!iusewqsAjGAee|fmobKsLlsGyydmLO
flabb=0MDs&85y]lbdqzLgbsGtr:nlbiqesgtMush@xpahqwrha!3KJ!ozugthzhozy
flabbkGyntNej=xlJpvjJufMtim|zDjdwyAvosIkd_uzpejwGtfsvnxTsmqrgirpntAjw7
flabbBzpdAtQ3iITaucnvgixtgi-oqwgfeOvvExef^fGtgfeszattii!lmdvqeKAbGxfv%a

flabb+rMMX3XGcNMVGT)KgjFJwi|yuppbkJvnsBje/ozhbvmwzfsLjt=xFtbcsvguACso*ts
flabbftvvMtFQNylfzrjJpfGwjd>gEavjfLguAywi!oEaeqsKpexLff-klgnwCrjpGwjv+ozh
flabbfNhjEugp^ftbtfBsyfsush!yAgvyfJlaLIqy:oAou}erOP8@TR!gssggirhow
flabbhGtnxHyi%fmubvmwgttGjd:oyfbqsr7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtyl@zlujgewxvBJri+z
flabbjEwmHSjh!grggeyKguAyev^yGmvueHypwOhi%alaQpjrjbGHtx!jDbybfrjpFJqi:k
flabbhGudEOxm=tlcAbxsFjGAem:futbfnxmjvOqx!uDakouGztBvqi!zAargwxvsFtTGm
flabbkJvnsMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_ lgqtewEbFJqi7fIjvjeLobMtii<oof?beLobMtxi:fAg
flabbusybFyyi/yfacpirzzLNjq!xqrwkwwtfGNx{!hqdcwxwgoNGjv=AEaqvmwyaIytt-k
flabbfJlatwhs_vxjujnFnaCOxx!ztbv?eMzjGAes:nqsbetEwpGysx| lqgtmswtn
flabbM7VU88es[ozffbyzhusvtx&fFigbmsyePuwi!gzebvmwgtHzyA@xqaygwwgiBAmp,
flabbnEwpKNfr:alaOqxLgpytyl^fBsqdqwttsxnw$AEtgfeLvetSel@BqadgjFgtHFAi%fuo
flabbsMtfKIzw!jughgwwuusQfC|fnzbqyzlssJjs[rq?bbYzvvzBem:futbitGkaMIef^
flabbhGnoBTfr:fAgbxfJppNMei\vqskgsultmtyl*yljubsGAaMIew@ElujcyrpusQnp-
flabbfDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPle
ztsgumGseBHl{!jKoconuguALjw&uxekpllgeBNmi/ozh?bnEhhxtri/mqa)bUsnfsyik^
krggeyKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Mqptijr1I87F{!itjgh	rJpFGzr*imukqsKgFGAnr^kDjpieTybGwm{!Tmukqsssa5Cgv@xK
uraOgiAjjGye+iRY-?bnDsvLNwe:kpaugAwybEttj!ztfbfjxpdBysg*kEafkxuBtLyid#E
ztfbrwwCjHOxd|vqbmgwKbas2jd*tFsqfzulesNmi!zAqkeeGmaLJjg*gxartttsfFMef,
tAukplrAixtfh<gzucijKgpytjp^iFsqpnugjFulm+mgabHtJgfQurt-kfakveAzaKyli+kDbdnj
hqdcwxwgjMtnw!gldqfjvggBFj{!gzebtjss_MCri!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=rljubuGztBvqi!Cuuj
kxfevwGujvthe[zGsg?eOofKyfw!ozarjtLvhKuul*ildcryMyfsCyd*yloqv 

UzfbqkrAixtim'ludwnyAltsxnw$AEtgfeAuaMBjd|imopksygbGxew:uDbigeHypvyxw!Cmt
oybigeIBbECyC!Ctjej	rDjMBty:fnfncgGyjGAex&klpdxnGBtmtri@tEafkkxlsxHy
ztjpixrmpKtre[yfaogiAjbEt3[/gKt?btJgcKIfh$gEubvjDlwBMns+alaKpeLofswfw^fAg
jAdwojFAtmtYLjSMaucnvaaBGfk^fCvcnnLFauInp|fppypeLvaEylm#oxjvAeGmaMBj
zqyvwfDgqtLyw7fmofbkAkfECyC!ozavjjrjbLyes'fsscAeGyavIqs/fBiqvtrwsBHy[:EBf
smugtnss?stQi"onjnkyQgcHCqw!jAxpbyGgtvusd%kztkvDlguAyew:gzectirposGtw:
imtguetljGAe7E$lerk rgJGwwi@yuoibyzlaKyxs-AFjqpeOpuAtxg@tzftueLobM
vqshqwEg7[]es/f!3``evwjmtms>kHft?euvnxMee:fmaeqxLb

HquvgwrpntAjd]AmmkvDrloMunp|fmubnjszuszty/fpjhhjJloMtpm+jEaqheuvtMM,d!7>
kCvkrrwuuswtw:yfadghsBtxtyl^fODFb=Abfnneg&gDhg+hGBqEyeh^Budg_eOpuA
mDfcvjJgoNGgi/fAgbgqwtfGNxd$uEuubrGyfite6SfFjogeuvtMMex&gFavtfFzmtNjd:u
ztfbchLBbEthe[zGsgbhGzuLnef^imvugeEhoNuqd-gnptbnKgjGPtp<kpa-vmwguBGjd*y
gxtqbiwwfGxjr:fAobvmwggtwyd:nmubotJlawuye!nmtbvtrifsGtz^jlbtqzFkaBHex&k
smdjkswgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsIwd+kFxqtprkfOChi|fFicveHlsyIwq!ztfbuhsuoBHld@y
CqmnbfKguAyew:uDbig[hga* eq^jubbetKAtmtgi$gGtgbfLgiBAmd/kEpnwyAvoLtqe/mqs
lumguezhwxtys!hqauvtJleitfr%f$-bvwsutFCxw*uzaeqxLz.svjg@AEfbvmwyfsCxd(AEu
sAsgbisAbsNtd#klutcsKtjMNjh8

HGubymAsfsLjw=rGukqsrAbDyxd$gDfbqkrAixtnw|AqaqheDlhBvnp*zKakpeAtbzy
wGbnkyQaaHNmi/fpfhkhAlovCjw!nmwgbyGgeHtBm:nldqpyJhtMtfr%fqmgojFAtsIsd:nq
vmhgbxuhoGyid=xlujgeAtbzyex&gFapgjvlesNtd#klsgotNlesIwd$rmskhnwk?stYl;yf
ZTPOCeHypvyjh^jluqbnDsvLNwe:klwctnGBtsxjj*iufpenwz.sBtA!ztfAbfJl
smokhjKAfwnee+jltgxjJhmsNjg&turwgxrApsIAi/iAngbyzlnn

LuygfeLosxMms-juoibBszaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGCvy^fpfuewAifwnew;oFbdnjrmpK
hxbem]sue Qmm:klugzylgxAysd:nqaeqsLybLNeh=kEapqyrCbKSes<kDavjjrwbzy d!Uzf
imobjfNlaFusC!jughgwwuusNmv^ytpnfeDlwxFxd*tltecsFpoztii<oofu}er1iNM	
ZTPOCeGmgxLjh!gzagzfEwmxttj!kJutgrwszsJts/foppvwszumtBl*itatgxMsuxxej/uy
ztfbhfuAaMBfx!ztfbuyGjlsQfw!gligcAQgsxx d!ZtjubnKguAyew=xFaqheAtbzyex&gF
CtfpbrAjsHznp_kpahcnDzaMIet/uHjfgesuzsFjk*humkvDrDitNxs^Bqs}beXpyxx
ztsgumGseBHld*ylujgeOhzsNtd$nmoigeLofsvqe$q\uq+wwkavIsx/gEubvtrAix
jqtktjvgcEuhoTzA_yjnLlavIsx/gEu}

UFigtewEbFJqi|fuoenzvlesGfx^xubnbyzhusBfh!hqfpbgJvxGyid=xlzgnqGDfwtgC
gsf}be`ojLtBe|fmmuqesgdtMjd=lldqpyJhtMtii'oojgphQaatHid$uDsgeyAvosQfw
jAogbgQggBRjh!ztsgumGseBHl	!fMahksssaxRfq[rqadqnDzawIBr!zAavjjrzbFy
ztjpi	rzmBAmx!BmskcgAsjMS	d#AFakveAzaGIyd|osokhnuhoMoedaoJffbyzyfLBtp%ozh
yAmxgxrAiBMet/unmgoeszaPyqp8flUjgeEpdKIkm-slfswnNhmxHyd*yldgtyspoESep^mucng	
hGubkyrjpFyxd>oFibffJratLje|alaVjtMnis@MShGlekfeFvusBfz^fmaunnvlaHzex&k
sudtqkAsnsCsd:nutbefKl.sBjd%opaujtOguAyev^vDpfwhwkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzy 

3tfpbtFlaAuxd<gDjcdqwgdHHyv@yFaqxjJgbsJfk^fAsbvmwgmBAmx*tsaqxjJguAyet@mq
gDfcbAsyjxM	d^yBfekfDszsCsd:nqaecxwgxAywi!glcqwsvgwHFzq^ftbubqAniM
ytjpksygpGtnx7fFigbnEhhxtry|zlcgbuJvdxMxi%fnzbcevFotGng!ztsgumGseBHl
yoigojmga8Hjd|itfog	rkzGurm$fmwgtfypoznee-rAxubyzlaMBwi|nAmfbqwCfEtss:fFp
hqahkCwkauOyd:ulcgbwwjpFJzx^jlgqtewCfKSet*DqmbhwGtaMBjd+kuhjdtJpoz
itbtchLlsBMym$ygabVmwgoxCll#uDtbqkrhaICCi-fpfvgwEpoxtBl^xqavjjrAiKyxl=rp
ytpwnirifsMjx!lAsbvmsAaICCi-a

ZTPOCeKopPyid@tlfzcrHsfsIkd@fBbigeLobMtme%fnfgpeEhextii'oojgpyrizsu
BmskgyQgpytyi$nzjswjKaaBHhp;juoibfrivKHeq@xw.betxmfxtxx@ozt?bfFkattDi-rAx
smsmgwmgaTJup*imukqsrvgsuej*Dqe+vmJltAIqh*tsauemwtfmtYLjSMactlMlemtrm"nF
zmlgbhsyfsIkd|kHftcqrkfyChm^tojgueGuaMBjd[gsfbdzLgoHNee-rlphbyzlnn
VqshqwEpoztyl^fobnezDhuBIsd'uDacbiQubFChd:nDfujtDkaLyyx*ts.bjtOlwxL	
xqnqxjKgnHMyd=llujgevlgBwni+iufubxGguAuyd@zlmgcxLguAyex^DFakueDlhBvqi8

GzpvjjJgqKIgp^sljubwwwsxMjr:ozhbceyybRtqi<kxaykyzgcEuhoTgze+ymAAfsJnB^rE
hKacbuJvdxMxd)tAxpbfKgeBNmi/ozhbqwrlmxwyv=tudbuhJlfGCsk8flCwvevpuAywm+m
jAfubsGAaILtz*jqaiqtvgjFuli!wGbnkyQggHLet;xqadnfur_tHi[>nuugbywEuNuq
smugtnss?stYLjSMaknqMzuKuyi%fFikueHvjGNeA*ztagzfEwmxM d?rFiqwlzgjMM
yGjvcgAsjMSej=xlqjqyGwsBHyd*ylujgeJlbLIsd'uDagnjuAsHHng!yosggsAuhsIw
juujgwAuhmtnx!imopqyrifsOxi%frptbjNlsRths_vAvpfeAtbzy d!OzavjjrkpvOri+z
ztbvbBszawCxx/onvvgirizsW3T7f6IQOFrupMChi%fFicveLofsxnx&kDffbnEhhxttj!ztf
OQFGbywzuswme/zlfxksulesMtq^fpfvgwAvstNns+fuobvmwguxRy	!fTfbrwwzfGNjh!gz
kJutgrwgfQurt-klphbiwAfKCtv@zuppbnFguAyex^DFakpeOojvBeg=sBpwpiwk
jAdwojFAtsBfh!zAadgeKlusLnk&zlcAbtLofKtyi$nzjswjKbas@mi!zqdjpnIBf
oxmwuyJhuxxef,fFigbuJltxHyd^DmnrnjrDbLtfr!oybigeElszyem+fIikemrAixtue"k
oEauefFufwtyA*iqacpirAixtxi:zuoiueyvayLtq!luygfeLosxMms-jluqbyzl
juujgwAuhsGfx/oJ<bvmwgsxMzp:ozhbkrsnfLtfv^fyftijvguHtlm<klujgetltM
xqtwnyKgxBNmd^goibvjuooBKzi8

ZTPOCeAsmNMyv@zqebjtOgeBNmi/ozhbkxrhmLIey|kpakpeFvoIBtx=mDbrjnugpK
tAortnFAaFuyi/ommubBAAisusd^Dmnrnjrvgsuek/gKjujeHhhxtkv=slbbojvpdtFex^DF.
CtjejeOhtsLjt/upvegirApsMms>fmmnbtxguAyek/gKavjfLgbIJje/kpakpeLof
uDjiksss?stIm:nqskplrwsHPnh^jlbbtjHypwOhx*uzaqhessmsNmi!mDbAbnFguAy
uDjiksssaHzee+uFigtewEbFJqi!lDpobyzlaLuri!zqyv}

ZTPOCexpotFqC!oxmwuyJhuxxex&klqtqgDlnsIkd#uDegtnFn.sIwd[gsf+giyl.
krggeyKbasVts)ylbpfetvvGxez=rGngueLobMtfv^fBmcejvgpGtfd[nAuqetHFaFuhl*tq
uDacbxuhoGywd[xAewejrwbzy]i%mqaghkwjuLtyl@zlbtgeMuexMnv@hxfbhtJguPI
xqbuqsK?as&[d:nqacgxLofMChw!uravjjrpntAj,!grugtessmmtnj!ztfbkrsnfsCxd:u
hqartjKlsOyi{!uzfbftwzaGIyd+kofuufJpmRtBe+zluqbpwlqsuqp!urakvx
jqgkenwudByx,!8>aeqrHyfLMns+f<xkvmrAixtgs/jqskplrwsHvqi_f6IQOF
oxmwuyJhuxx	d:nqaeqrHyfLMns+fDbvktrkfMywm=xmugfeLyfFysh=AEmA_ rgPGyeA@
