
BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several betFAjGOty|fFppgeHpdMOwi|/\bpfeSPJ6tyi|zluctlwAaGOrf^x
8facbwwwsxMjr:gFjxgevvdNGjr:fGtgfeAuaHzkm$kleqezEloMtre+gsfogsLb

HMSQPF~goxRyd=AFmkpjvguAyej=ADaecywnpKCjw!uraGKRrzutHie/juAcvnGuaBHeA&ooi
GUJObxLhowuwh|fmsgbgwpoztii<kxprgiggaMLfr|lqsbcsvgsxNwm^Bmm?bjNhmNuym=tf
uBukefDgeBMhd@tpafqhMtfGNew$gzokplrhqIFng@zuppu	rhowtii|osobcsv
iAoxgwKppGttj!jAdwojFAtnteW&klegvfAsfwtxi<kDbnbtxguAyeq@ozarttBldMMes'
kmdj<er8-sCsd:nqaecywnpKSes'funcijrAstHxj^xlbpfeJluKCjz@rfacbgA|mxPjp
oybigeLybGMki/frptofLaaT8XMZGUJObR~`4mtBl*itakuesgqKIus|kpauvfFkbKxex&gF
jqtetntltsuej*rqajgfvlssztv!oybigeLybGMki/fnfvyjwuaNHqm)kltAuywttsQmi+
ztfbkrsnfLtfv^foporwwztxxey|ozhbI8rhowtL8!iAnrtjKzjHH.dw]lujgeuhuxAtv,fAg
oybigewCbEOfx*uz.bymAjisCsg-ApfubyzlaT3NQTvDprqxwka!`70!zGuqtnssaHHem_gsf
xqtqnzLppGt=x&oEavghzujvuqd/kBptveOpmEtyv^gFavjjrkjyzjv^tofubfFk
yunknfJpuByxd#kFxggsrjmtMxm$gxaqteHopMIlv@vtjebfFkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCskS?
9>afgxAnosush!iAoxgwKppGneA&ooibksusvwyxd@fBsqrtKlesNjg&tudcneJlqHLy
immngir+GHLrw!JqtkisrVqMCrm.gFjqpexvssYNQOf<ujkxryfIIwx!iAoukiwytsBtA
mqogtfD|qNLus|klcwunFltLtks/sEaecsrifsvjw:fpfuklFlesMtd:nmubuhsuoBHld*y
uBukonRleitwi[xAhtcuzpdswme/gougtnKAjvMew;itacueLFqxnev;rqt?bgsjlzLty+jf
zuov?esueswtp=xlxknqrsjDyBm|klcgbyJlbMyid*tlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA-it9=
jutmbfFkawIhy_kzubuhsuoBHld@vBmkefLppGMem+ixvfgxrhaILtn^iFac_eGuaIFfr+ozh
vxbvvjJzatHid%oElbofFhhxGjr: lc_btFghxHjv@zuoibfFgbIJqm$gFjqpeHypyCqi!lAs
KUNbymwuaBGfk^ylbtgeKApKyid@tpafkxLyjuOyi%fAobEI	YP6nee+jld_btF
kHbnwfLpoztXGnO@.bcsvgiHQee!iAnoqsrjpFGfr%fEfvbhsuauyek^tqscvjvggHLeW{YU3
yAavjfLgeHwzq^tFauefFufKMee/klnqtjrlbLCqC!ozugiwsAfwoedRGZTK:F1PNs7X9x
CumnbfDzpsuut-EluqbhGtqKyxw^jljoclwz?	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMUVKSr[a!Bjd*sBmkefLppGMes'fEucpisyeLtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!=lBbofBvs
untvchDlaMIew;iofuukMsavItt^xmukqsr[aTtmm+jDbpejrApsuhg^yEakpeLofsxnk*zmm
kzwkttFtfGNe_!YFbpffJktsueh=Anmg+jvnfwtxA=xpahqwrAiHMjd$uzdgtswkaPCyl!ztf
vDfugwNhuBIsd=llujgezBntHev^iAsfb+rUftL]x^xyarttyupLCxd'uDatgqAhcEy
gDdjkAssaLNfr%gDeub+rWsxMjv<gFjqpeuvovywr|frptbjDldMLtr*ilngfnsg(s8ji%
lAsbtjuvovyux;gxjBksygpNLet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKg(s!ye+jmsfueAuaMBjd/kmm
CAsnfesuesNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGt+dikqebvtryfwykm+klujgeuvovyux!ur
gDdjkAssatHid:ulcginFguHtyl*twakpeLlsFMes'fxjhgeuFdEyxdQfOpqrjJhuBIsd@tp
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijyr[aVIsg^xztbijFlstNjh!hKafkxuBtLCtr|fAobvmwgqKIgp^sE
urartjKlsOCsk!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^f;aIgswybEtuv*tojrnjKguHtgi!gpprvjvgjGtf
CAsnfeOpuAIzx!yFbpffJkts{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VmutkhAhaUUYXdTfartjKpexHy{!ztfbEtEtjLMns+fAobRwwzfKPfx*uzacpirHdvyxw
[OQC_	rhewLjw|kpavjjrpnIFng@zuppueGmaLNfr%gDeubkGyaILjw^xHbvktFbas!mi
rutvgirzfOywe-fmsgcxrDixLjd:nqankgJhsRtuv=lqtuktFgbGxex&klbpcqGnaPIwp%fAg
ztfbrwAuuxxef=uwajcirtbwyei+uDnqwxrjpGNwm#AFjqpxrvwxLex&klqcuyrovGxwi%
Eqbtu]	mpKtjB@sBmg?eAuauCgp*usscrmAjayIwq@zE.bdnFkjGAew:gzectiKaatHi{!sAtv
oyqqtysuumtnr!jqugtrAujGAeA&gFaeqsKAjMOyi|fxppijNpuRttv!gDdjkAssaJOfp*zK?

GxujqzyoaLNfr%gDeubmsCfsFnk&zqogfeLofsJwi|kDwcvnGuauOwh^tlujttMnisNmi
jqwgntHtfGNes'fzbvktFhmsush!ozugtssAjHHfp!iAmncgGybMCAi!vDpitfEz.
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!glqgtAszjOyeq*yFswuyrvgsIyl^xlqgquDl"Ltxx@tpbtfxryfFunr|fm
smkqteGitMuhp^fFpbuzujfLMky-fopqrjJhuBIs{!HMUVKSrzbBx 

ZtfbBjssaMIee$nufxgeHlsyyhx*uz.btjyhswFjw|fAgbvmwgdHMy{!nmtbjnFkfKyi
xmujgwrAitHej@iumkvfLlesuhg^yEakpeKvnxtnr|zmoegxlgbGxem+fFigbiAnjMuq
kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbsGgsxuqd|zmofcwvzaxRnw: licuetypNAmx!gzakttFpdtFqC
pGtvbwwDbKx 

HMUVKSrhszOjh!ztbvbxLhowuwh|fmsgbfrkpNvqiTkphgfeKDpKxej=xlujqxwgdHHhi/tqe
CuujbyzlaILjw^xHbvktFgpytyl^ftvocsryfvIwh7fFicveAz.sNmi!vDpxkxAvosIk
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fuobceEBmMCyy%klphbrwkjttfw!lmsbksLvaMBj
lGuwtjrhtsJtw|onmg}erZutHie/jEactjrltLysx*gxavqexhdBFnx@zq
ozugthGuoxwym<oFzbcsvgbvwjw| lcwv	rIB!@NR!ymjf?esza5'SGcfBpkpywkaHOy
Eqtvgwvhzmtnj!yqubvtGgtHIsd:nqzbefFgiBHii/fosgcyACjMS	d^DBbpunGuaHz
imqcdnDpuRnee+jlujgetyptxjr*tsaqhesjdxMx	!f6igbhzhstwyi/oEukexrvg
yFbpffJktsztv!juhkvfDgjFuli/ElekhkwyaKuim$gxmAbkJvnsNms|klgqtesubEIl
oybigwQbasUsh!ztfbpfLBsxttj!juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbnEwmByxd$uzukpzAuh
BAmcvnDpuRtfr%foicplwbas@td/kuugtfLl.sJwi$oBjvqzKgtMush@xp_ugyLpozthe+
ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EqebuysuetLi[|kFukplryfLOqx|fuobemsvtn

YuoegeAuaUUYXdT/TbquAujHHex&klogcw	AfKGet/usoqunKggHLev^rubdnjrhsvBnz@r
yFbpffJktmtfw!jqgkpjvgcRtqm#xmskcsKgjGtyl^fmocntygxHLqh7futbrtGy.sNBs
gxugtssAjOyxd/kybkp,rgtMush*tsarcyrDjMBex&klpnfeLldAHtp=mK.bqw
xqdqphwwuNuqm.ozh}

VDfugwNhuBIsd$uzdgtsKggHLei-koutqsAjaFyim@frbnneAuuHtyA=fsfpgwssawIre*tE?
UzfbkxrAixths+zuowksygbLMzv@tofbqkrhdvyxw!zAamptOsfwAjd=xuhkpfDsz
mqogtfLlemtxx=xqe?biAztxGnr@zqe?bfFkaNMjh!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAso}er1iBM
jAncksrjpGNfm+yltgxjJhmsMzf%oHjuktFz.sCsg-Apjpie'/aMBjd$rAtgf	
vDprtnwAbKSew,yFfouevptvOxw^jlujgeHyfOCty|fpbA?etBowFjh!ozgqtrsAjHHew;it
gEagnjuAsHHng!pAvtpfDzatHid"uHftprwuusuli+iKatghGyeLnee+jlfnghLypGChe-rK
vDpfwhwkaHLeg@vFvtgirybPtie:gbacpir9-sNmi!gBqnkhsAjHHes'fpjikyss
zqdjptDvhByxd:ulujgeJlgHLre:zuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbqwAnjGuqp,fBvdnnKofwttr!g
jqugtnGybMCsk!gzbnqlrtfwCzq!yGdjbfKgbvCid[gBftbtJgwBxjs:gBf}

ZtfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqhewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaKyvy*xqtbceJldHHhi[zGbnkEAuhsIkd=AD
vDfugwNhuBIsd[xuoekuDltsxzv*tsacbAGsbMCqi7fEucpisyeEyxw!zDbpunLppGtBl*it
smzbnfKAayuwd-uzhgteLobGtfr,fAgbwxrloOCxm=tluqffQbasVFXoOZawtlwkaMBj
tqdguxAAzsIkd|nugvksyggHwzw!lDpobfKzfLMnr" lngcxMyjGA	d@tpaugyLpoz
yFbpffJktsztv!ztfbrjJtbGysg^fAgbvmwgnxxny_fFpbvmwgdHHhi[zlphbrsubzCsk
iAovksMpoztfg$kEtbvtrpoyIwq@zuppbxLvsxxes+fmaxcwAluRttj!sqekcesue
xqrwkwAuhsuez@xufvAeGmaxPjvTitbpinFnaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xqahqwrhdvyxwT/m
lGofcrwuutFew&orubhtJguAyep*hDbtAeHypyyxw*uz?

HMUVKSrvgyywi%fmartnElssIsd&uIavqeEvwxtks/CmsfbBAAisLje|uzbdnjrjpGznh^tof
ozacbBGymwtBm:nAvvbxLhowuwh|alaJgwrjpFGjr:ylggnqrypNAmp,fuovqeLDpsMjg:oAou<
7>auvfFkbKxxd*tlujgeJlbEtBs/rpacpir9-sNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGo

OzatglsyesNtd/kmm+ytJsesMye+jmsfu	rIB!@NR!gDhwgirAixtsi^jluqbwwkfyCsi!ztf
iAoeguLgpytfv$nuwgbfFkaMIef^muobvtrAiBHpd*tlugtrKgpytqm'kldAeqwz?stNr
ztfbrfKA.sNmi!tmjxgesztNGux*uzavjfLgqtJjv!CAvnfeDhtMtks/kHftbuJveNwjh!g
imwcnnwyatNym:ApfbvtOhswtqm'kldAeqwz?stYl^fFscpxAloMtse:ADfbqkrAix
kxfevwGujvtri%omajcxrjpFJjp-kpargtHsfsNtd/kopipnRlatHid@iofrveMwgKIsx!ztf
iAoeguLgpytqm'kldAeqwzaBHet-gofbqkrwfKGfr^toz}

JuhkvfDgtMush@xptbjfNlaMIef^fpfxgqGwfwtfr%fEfvbnFgbswts[kDbvkAwgdHHyi\z
zAagpxMyfsykj*iufpvewEdAusk^fAgbksxvsFuym=tgabOtJlpOyw{!jGskplrAiBM
zDbpunLppGtui/oAe?blJlbMywd'rqykdnDpuRths+iqspksygiHQeg=tofrvxrzvvBee|
hmdmwurjpICjw!gzebcwuojOuqd$uBjgueAuaMBjd{42actjrkfyCsi%futbpjultLuwC7
uDavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbyGgnHPjd'uDxctirDjEFef^fxpuv 

OzavgwEzaHzeg=uBftcyAvomtue/zudwnfJszsCsd:nqawpnNlsLCyC!yquvksyaaUUYXdT
gxtqbfJnvxxex&kloggirApsuAs*jlhqksygpyzem+fmajwsvyfwtim'lqsgpy
jusgeyAvoLoedonqaERFrobLthe:gxzBgirhaLGfp-fssqwurvgsOsm<kDtkvnwzavuqp^j
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijy	|cxwfy|klMcbLMhswCfd?oDqqtyrptsQmi/klnggyAuhLtye)k
vxbeg]	ObKPfv% lZcnjlgDHLsi-rfaRtnFjfMIs{!VqopbXLhuxneX^tzfuujwa
YFbphtJk.sush!15D?byGgexPjp=vlbbfnyputFet/kEftxfLppGths+yAsvkzEguHtqs=q
gFacnqrAixMjd*yEvguesuesxjz^rAqbfjrmbvNtd|zmofcwvzatMeA^fypxgesspGA	
oztvgfvgpytBe*zuoibkGyaLIri:nuoibyzhusCxd=lrjekfDszsvqi|yqe}beUvoMCsy*ts
zAacruDFatHfp=mlwcnzwzatHid%krjpkyAvoLttj!yFbpffJktsNtd:nqafklAAbE
kzwkttFtfGN	d}G6UKPeKhjwneA*rxaghkwjuBPjp,fxfcfeLvayIwj^oFvtgeGmaMBj
hqoghnLzaHzeh*muucneLldAHtp=mKavqeJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuww&oB?

1zegteLofsMjg=tpatwgJpdmtyl^fBpnkyAjtsIkd/kBsqfzuAjHH	d}G6UKPeJljMywe:kp
gzaqhy	tbwyee/mGngpyrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebqAistLD{!tmngnDlguAuyd*z
oEaoqwwgeBzkm$AxubvtrAstHxj=xyavjfFguHthv^gFf?bfFkaGIBl^xqakueLobMtgi-oqg
kJqtgxKlesGtv^fpscofLpdtFqC!ztbpbnFguAyeg=tHftunGuaHzef/oFungetvpDMex=
tqxbojvpbnteT/kEftxnFnaBHks/smukqsrwvuFnw&kpakpewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaBHAs-Bqt
smlkplrzvKyex&kljphtJtbMCtr!xqncksKgbvwjw|onmgbfFkaMBfx!juhkvfD
ozgqtrsAjHHem|fzpvbqGzusNmv=AsibtjHypwOhx*uz?bbNFguAyee+gxpibBGymwttj
vtpvqhGwjxMee+jlnkewGmjEG	d:nqakuxMlaHzej*jqmkvDrApsNmi!uDjiksssauyhs_kE
vmscotMuumtfw!jAakuxMltsIkdO3tpugexpexFnx,b|acpir+XAIxi!uDjiksss}.

HMUVKSrlmtvtv@zqebvmwzfsuwk;sqovueOpuAtfd'kIagzfEwmxMej/uyacbwwjfGNew:Apz
iAofwhLlesvDd:nqaERFrvosNmi!vDpdnjEzaHzet/kEftxnFnaMyCx!gzebkrsnfn
JutewxKppGMeA*ztauemGsbKM	d-onsctnsutmtfr%fovtcyGytsCsd@fHbtkjLFaHz
jutekuDpoxMeh^vqofgsLgpGtyi\zlbpfeAtbzyek^tqscvjvgbsPfv*kFzbqkrjpGwjv+yf
lAsbgCstqEy,d!7>aEquQgxAuyd*yfapqyrDitNex&klugemFvmHADd*yldcrftsfsIk	
ZtjubnKgwxLDd*sBptvfFAayIwd:nqajkxLvsRttj!opfcu rgTvBtp@xEaykxzguHtpr=C
CtbvbyzlatOyl=xltcyesuesQtv)kpahttEbasUsh!smlgbfNhjEugp^fmubvmw
CAsmuysAjHHex&klprrtJAvGCyC!zAagtfKlatFqd:nqafgkwjuLtfr%fqojcsulaMBj
vDfugsLhuBIs	!f@-bVmwggBxjp*zKaqheJlqKIiy$zupp+]OobMtnw!mApfbjFvvzB	d>nmu
imobyjrhgyIwh7fmofbyzlawCkj^xqoegeAAaFupi|/\juuzwzaHzew;hvfevnNlaOyww;y
unkgeyACfsLjw=rGukqsmga* eX&klekhkwyfGwjw!hquygjFgqKCre/ElbpfeKldHHie/E
AEftu rgSxMyv*iFjpieLofsxjj*tuukqsrvgsJwm_gDzbwxwyaMIex&klppgeAuaPBtw^
jutekuDpoxtyl^fybvgwAhmsBfw!hqfpbuMimBMmi%fDvpueGufsBje%rAoibnFApsNmi
xqbnkyQguAuyd:nqtgbuJpoMyid#uAlubmsCfsBfh!gliquyrvgsIyl^xlvugwKggKIrd@
nAtvbtxgpMBjv!jutekuDpoxM	d>nAapqyrvoESeA^xqanqtCpoztks/fHftAevpgyywi+z
ztjpixlgcNNeA&ulbnutrzitLjh!BmmwgxrCfKSeh*lrftgsLggKIrd:nAtgbtxguAy
vDjocwQgvLyw	!f$-bVmwgsxFfx*uztjkurvgsNmi!yFbpffJkaHzev^vDpfwhLppGtys!tqx
imqcdnDpuByxd=lltejtDhsLBntT/FigbgJvxLCsk!yFbpffJkaOyww;ylbpbfJjiBPfp
yFbpffJk?stMs>fspqfeEBtMtyl^fmsejnNhmsMye+jmsfbgwcasWfr!glekuyAudMCtr!hq
jDbypetluPyjr!vAugpyAhmsOxi/yljpbxwAuBHld|zmofcwvzayIwd/kBsqfzuAjHHa
GDdjkAssaLNtv@mq.bwxwgdHJni| lctqBKpozths[oqt++tMniMtfr!gFugouLguHtxi
