in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most pJfv: ljubuwygHLrm+mlPETesAatH
gouwcqrjpLNet^xlbxgwsnf MnD^fBbigeGmatJuv=DuncvjDFa<+ d!TMMbuhsutsNmi
vmhgbyGgdKyfx^fFigbjDldMLtr*iljoclwgbGxet@yEfubnLguALty"nlujge7JSsxjz*iq?

6UECTeFlyMtwi&kmsugirzfOywe-fFzrkhssaILtf-kytbgsuvvGNjv^jlewtnFnaxxnx*ts?
VDbkunFnaMBjd$kxftkyQgpytmi/fEuwfjFAaPIwo^xE.b2NVHSsIgw^xHffbyzhusyim:ozh
xqrwkwwzatJuv=DuncvjDFayCAi!zAavgsrtjGOyi|fBftbusnfmtfw|AyjpieLobMtyl^xq
gDfbptrsbKAjd:gnmgueLvatOim:alaEqsxBtBIsd@sAoibyzlaMBwi^foictfuAfKMeM7f!.
gzebn	rjpGMym:AFfubuwyitJxd:nqaoqxLgdHGrs+fBsqdqwtaxHhs;tFftgimga'yws^y
gzebbT\zatFxs!gDfbbkJlrNysx-EldqpkMzfwoed	uGcnge5_tswwi@zqacbusyuBwzp@x
vDpdnjEaaxPjr!uzaenjsuaIuli|alaVjjQgbKyew=fIjfgeAuaFIxx!lAovueLobMtyl^E
zAvej	rhowtyl^fEzuvjEgtBGup,fobpptLguxFqd>nqsgbtFlaEyyx^xlfpfxrhowtyl^
uFigtetlhBHx	!fOporqwEaIuli!lAsocyKgpvwfw*uzbnnDrmbBFex=fopnwrFhux
vDprgwDF.sQmm$nlfpvfAstsLjw$gzokplrhtsNms;mtaqpjrDfKyeA=xwjpieOpuAtf
yuoinjrjpEOrr7fqovgwAuhsNmi!G5DKK	rhowtii$uxvopfLpoztks/fnfvvjJ
yqbtemAuhnte1*ztarttHvsMCtr@rxzbuusjfwtyi\zfaQEWrjbGtme<klekhkAjvEND
jutegwFpoztBl@zljubfrzqtwjd@tpayjfLgbKyeq^xqmAbxHhdxMef^zIfgpeDluMyww7fmt
uBqqujvguHtxt@iqtbdjLDfxHeA=xpt?bfFkaMBjv^lAsgbBAsmsGjv"klugzyrvssvwi@q
ABayqwvzaPBjv^fuubumGBmwtss:a

6UECTeKhjwtyl@zljvbhsuaHzyi+fFbmgeDvozywd:ulffkyrhaIItvTiAqAbTUYaMBfr!zA
qqzbkyrmsHGew$xmuej rgOT6el@ylbnutrlyIywm_kzugfeOpuAtue/zubnbjvpuBHld=l
zqyv?eOofKygC!vDplghLgxHLpi/ylhqbnFApsush!ixfcpeMwaMBjd'uDncv	ryfFIAm+m
yFscAeuobKuhx^xEadwyrupMtwy+tuoibfrzqxFq[$nqdm}erUB5ths/xqdvueLFqHMem+
ztfbvnLsfsush!gGujqwK_aGuri| lxjkhzgqKIAm%kEacbkGvuAIqh!lAsbujsydACsk!gze
hDpyunFn?stJz^tlfzvwwtfESet=uD_swfDpuRtTGmf<f}i lg7[aui/iqovbfujvKuhCS
imobuyAsmsvjd|kmsejjvaauyhe;yqapwrwypNMeA=xptbcwwgdHLwi$zfayjnDlaMBj
oyqqtysuusQtv%ylbtgeHypuugp,fDfrgfLlesIkx^tlfpqzyoaMBfx!ztfAbfJlaECpi-E
zAadgexvvGxeg=xDfeveKvnxQmi/kgabNntybKCfr| liqyjNlsmthe+tAubvtDlstNjd:nut
yuuwcyAvomtyl=AsibgsvgvLyww!yqfobrGyfsQnp-ozhbvtrBtxtyl*ylugzyrmpK
yqbtemAuhmtuv=BuegfeLobMtSEgfuofkhsAfLtyl@zljvbnKgvGyim:kp?bb51KB~
iAoenzvlesNme:fDfmgDAuhsIkd:kJubofQgcxtyl^fnfuveJvvMyex=fFbmg	rposMum:k
urapwrwypNMet/unmgoxrDjMBeu;gxjvAeuvoMLtp!gzebetKA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dhupjhAnFnatHem_gsfbdjxvsxtui/lAsoksygPV`e_!TMM&ueuvtMMet^x
vmhgb+ST"Lths|zEargwrwbzyee+jlfzrjJpfGwjd>oFibHjvlstFeT/oEppbNFkvLNwm^yl(
KxfogsLzavIrt/oEjpie6HUW0)w!iAtvueHlssJfk^f;aQEWrhowtxx/AouwtjvgntLpy[f;
JutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsMyv;iFvtgeGmattis$AyfpvesuesCyw!xqqtgxwuutNns+
CtfpbuMAaHHex&kltetjwuaHLet/ozugfe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1PVQSrwsxzfg^jlujgeDlozNmC!jutewxKppGtyl@zlgqnqGDfwtBm:nltgxjJhm
iAnogsLzatvty:fypfkkQpoztfr!oybigetlgHLjd=tqatgfuofLtyl^fBpkpyrvg
vqshqwEpoztTGmalaHqwrlytGup^ ljpbwwnbKxex=fmobcuHsjvuym=tldqpyspoBHld@
yuhpkkAjbGNee_uGovbtxgsxxzr%gzubffLh.sMzg&fmtbhtJt_MSui!jmuc?eFBnxLty|
iAnrcsAltsNth@ElbtgeOvsDCsk!uzaxcwAvvLtpm+jEaqhexvsFtwi+kIbn?eHyjHLex=
mAjpieLosHOll!glsgetyujMCtr!vDpegxKaauSey|ozhbfwGwpNNeg=rAsu}er1iNM	
gorwkwAuhsuhg^yEavqexvsFtii|osobqwrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsGje+ylbtgeOvsMB
iAoukiwyjGA d!N1PVQSrhmLIer=zqebvmsAavIsz^xEjqpeMzvtFqC!smlgueGyauLje)y
uzf&ueAtbzCsk!yKtvgrmga2Nem|fqyvtjElmRtnq[uDucpylgfQNwi_kxzbetKAmRtnr
zqsoueGmaxCyl^xldcrnLhmsCsz^yFngpyrvssMjv<oof?bfFkawyyi/suogueLofsKze-oFz
uravjjryfFunr%kDaqheGuf,Mew,yFfo?etldtOxi!oFafgywynBHjw!ztfbemsybvNjv!ur
ztfbtfOgntNjv*gxawujvgcRtyl^fEzuvjEb

IAoegwFpoztyl^frpwteHypCyhx|fGofgwLhlxHef,fZBN?eLDpsCsw*jqacpirAxH
vqshqwElesvDd=AFtkfjrjpGNwe$zAsu?e^PET`ev^BqbngirAitNee+fuo+jtMzfsMjv<oof
hGsgczrlyxwzx^jlujgexpsLNee:fmaeqxLgcxNBi^tl%0bfFka<&#d[kDarclwggHL
kHftAyzpoznem+ixvfksygcNCqh*tsaqheLofsxfx@hmtg}er1ixtuv=pqdvbzFkfKNfo^t
hKavjjrJpGMzp:gFjxgeYypNJes+fUovgwFhuBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!Xqtgcwuoa{WLM?X>
iAtvbfHwsHRnq@zqmAb&'%aIywd[gsfbhtJguAyeg=tHftunGu.sJqy|fEpogewEqxHxi|
lAsbvmwgtHzyA@xqacpirivBFim+mlphbyzlawuye#gEf}be`ofsUhm%f4bkpe8ypCyhxT/m
zIp+fnKraLyyd[xAewejvgcRtyl^f7okxjJzjMSes'f8ftotFA.swtr|oEukplrvg
ImocfnsuaIOgp*imukqsKgpGtfg*jlscks	|dHMydK`g8`buwyaIuli!lAsbgAwyzMBnr" 
ozdnwiAuhsEjC*tsaqheLofsNjB: lxjkhzgxtMeh=AnmgbpwFfwnew$gzokplrvgsNmi
oybigxlgbGxef;oxekplrvgsNmi!jmucdfKl?stYl^fuo+jtMzfsJws(koubqkxlsxx
iAoukiwybuFjd^gEfbqkrjpGPjr*kzdgbfFkazLje:kDaeqsLypEttj!ztfbrwGjfLM d!Uz
ztfbqyzlssBfr% lujgeKlsOChi!hGsgczKglGIBd:nqjtboGiatHid[kDgqtrrpu
kJqgfnLppNMqC7fnfeczKlaMBjC!nmwgbrGyfsJjs[rq?

GEacbzKlgNFeg=sBbtkxGu.sYW1?5lsgxjssfwtFQNyldquyKgbLtks-rAxu<er(~n+0
iqovueLva<] `zfofpvxrwfKtyl=AEbpfeuobKuhx^xE.bynLoatHee<kDbigeHhhx
iAovcnFpozt7{B$*aejfJhdMyww8flSgszAyfFysx|frptbhGkjGAee+jljoclAuh
ozdtgfKlaMBjd$uEuu}er1iNM	d$uzwgtxAvosIkd:nqavgCLaaBHhp;juoibyzlavIim+mf
iAtvueswqKICm_gFfnAe;0aIywd[gsf}be}1iBMej*mGsgbiGltsHtx!ozdnwiwguA
