the need for an encoding format that will be reusable and multifunctional,
that can be used not just to print the text, which may be assumed to be a
byproduct of what one wants to do, but to structure it inside the computer
so that it can be searched, built into a Hypertext system, etc.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WEIBEL * OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text:  retroconversion,
keying of texts, more automated ways of developing data * Project ADAPT
and the CORE Project * Intelligent character recognition does not exist *
Advantages of SGML * Data should be free of procedural markup;
descriptive markup strongly advocated * OCLC's interface illustrated *
Storage requirements and costs for putting a lot of information on line *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Stuart WEIBEL, senior research scientist, Online Computer Library Center,
Inc. (OCLC), described OCLC's approach to preparing electronic text.  He
argued that the electronic world into which we are moving must
accommodate not only the future but the past as well, and to some degree
even the present.  Thus, starting out at one end with retroconversion and
keying of texts, one would like to move toward much more automated ways
of developing data.

For example, Project ADAPT had to do with automatically converting
document images into a structured document database with OCR text as
indexing and also a little bit of automatic formatting and tagging of
that text.  The CORE project hosted by Cornell University, Bellcore,
OCLC, the American Chemical Society, and Chemical Abstracts, constitutes
WEIBEL's principal concern at the moment.  This project is an example of
converting text for which one already has a machine-readable version into
a format more suitable for electronic delivery and database searching.
(Since Michael LESK had previously described CORE, WEIBEL would say
little concerning it.)  Borrowing a chemical phrase, de novo synthesis,
WEIBEL cited the Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials as an example
of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follow links through the electronic database simply by selecting
the appropriate button and bringing them up.  He also noted problems that
remain to be accommodated in the interface (e.g., as pointed out by LESK,
what happens when users do not click on the icon for the figure).

Given the constraints of time, WEIBEL omitted a large number of ancillary
items in order to say a few words concerning storage requirements and
what will be required to put a lot of things on line.  Since it is
extremely expensive to reconvert all of this data, especially if it is
just in paper form (and even if it is in electronic form in typesetting
tapes), he advocated building journals electronically from the start.  In
that case, if one only has text graphics and indexing (which is all that
one needs with de novo electronic publishing, because there is no need to
go back and look at bit-maps of pages), one can get 10,000 journals of
full text, or almost 6 million pages per year.  These pages can be put in
approximately 135 gigabytes of storage, which is not all that much,
WEIBEL said.  For twenty years, something less than three terabytes would
be required.  WEIBEL calculated the costs of storing this information as
follows:  If a gigabyte costs approximately $1,000, then a terabyte costs
approximately $1 million to buy in terms of hardware.  One also needs a
building to put it in and a staff like OCLC to handle that information.
So, to support a terabyte, multiply by five, which gives $5 million per
year for a supported terabyte of data.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Tapes saved by ACS are the typography files originally
supporting publication of the journal * Cost of building tagged text into
the database *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed WEIBEL's
presentation, these clarifications emerged.  The tapes saved by the
American Chemical Society are the typography files that originally
supported the publication of the journal.  Although they are not tagged
in SGML, they are tagged in very fine detail.  Every single sentence i*y
smsmgilgbEFex&klsginKAsRtsy_hqsu?essmsNmi!vGcnkhsAjHHxd*yEvgu	rkbMyx{!gze
BAmwojKbas8td$uEubhnyBsxMes+fFbiinFnaFuyi/ommbqsrhaIyw[_ksbdAywgctMnw
CqsgbfNhjEugp^alaDghsBtxtFGn-EavAuwzfMNnr"fEzuvjEgsNHxd'xAnbvfynfwtyi\zf
ztftgeAzaGIei\zDbbetKAaIywd@xFjenjmga2NeA@ylvpmsGDosQme:fuubetKAtsUHW!zA
qqzdqfJkaMBjd:gshgfeLlyMtwe:nqsbvmsuaCOxx!qqzdqfJkaMBjd:kJubksrAix
itfcrjKAaILtg^yE?bbNFgpMBjv!CAsfu	rzjGwjd=tqakpywueLtys!vGcnkxzguACsk|
gzebynDsaGyjh!zAadwnDkaMulk^jlugzyrpoMIee!zKqqiwswiRtxC|zqnbksrhoRthe|kf
oraqpjrkpxMex&gFakpeKBdAtfd>gKavjfLgjMthe+fpskxjrupMttr-EluArtyybIBDd#AF
gzagnjuAsHHng!yKtvgrr]xAChl!oEayjfLgBV!em+zqofueLvawI][_uHfbvtrZH66
vGcnkxzpoz 	d:nqaocwypotFeg=yFakueRlsHoedonqaocwypotFeg=yFatguJltxHyw!ztf
iAtvbtxgcNCqh*tsavclylesNjB:fuovqeLofsxfx@hmtg?eOojvBem|fEncnqm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZa)bIAzuBHhx*uzadgyOlfGtyi\zEacpirjpFJzx^xEa)bNEwmBwfx*uzt
uratghGnoBTnr"fFicvessmsLjt/kEfpvfLppGtnw!kzdqfnFna}tIi@ruoibBAAi
iAnrnnuhuxxev^vDfugsLhuBIsw!uravgCLgfGNfm-ylujgeFlfwtks/fmaitfEtbKttj
jAdwojFAts{eZ@xufvAeGmayIwq|fAgbhtJtbEtlv@sybtue?gUxRyd@ylbbdnL|ntJui%
oybigevvfLtss:fDfrtjKloMtfd|kDjqwxrhuMyrt:fFpbtjHyfLysx!zqyvbnF
kxfevwGujvtks/sl(bUL5S.sNmi!ZQJ?biGjvFysxTzKqgbiwjmtLfx*uzt?bfFkaMBj
xqvucgAsjMSee+jlmqplwCjMSes'fpbvce?gUX3eg=trptofFjfsyCt-oojvnDrhmEIBw
kJugpxAvosIwd_upjhkhsAjHHes'fFigbYWPaMuld|kFa)bFvtjGCxx/gFjxgethdDAws;tp
uravjjr1F2t+dnkHftcqrkfLClr!mAbnuexvssNmi!ZQJbvfygtxNe_!GzacdxGsvMyqC
luygfeJlrNCwi_kzubqkrAixtYIdfSvkfjDpoxMe_!ItbnnjFnfLtyl^f6FKbmsz
gFugouLlesNtd'gofb)eYvpwtyi\zEapqyrifRIsh!koppqrAjayyfw*humkvDr[a!Bj
oEtwgeGmaKyuv=jGdkdnDpuRttv!vDpegxKhcBFnx,f;aVjjrptLOjd=llncijKgbL
yunwnfuybsztv!ztfbvjPAaKyiy\f;aQpj\zaFIii-fAgbvjPAawyyi/suogueOobMttr^-E
yAgvyfJlavusd%ulxkvmrhaMyCx!gzebjfKgfvIss_ooaeqsKlrNysg^yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VDjqteLvaLJje)ozhbcgGBus!LQgfmofbrsylNJ	dhooicgqrZQX`GImM\NeSZWLOmtjh*zAs?
ZqyvbJFjpwCsk!OzjvkfLpwxt=X O>.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbKqDpoHCx[{nudcitlggBLxx!jDfy
glekuyAudMCtr!hquygjFguxRyw!gzebetEwvMyww2flUgzyKgbKyee#yFsceyrjvENzv@r
gzebnnFnvBMym$fAclghLzaPBnp^foporzLlsLtfv^foporqAjbMyid[nKtkefDgexPng^yf
nqaucnvbasUgw:xmdvbttqfvNxd$gzoqvetlaIFfg^jljpunvlaIBDw*immbfjNpdxM.d>oFi
iAnrwywytsIsi!imobqsDFaKyuv^yqovbywEusush!goubwuGuaMBtw^fDfrtjKloMuym=tE?

ZtfbtjuvhGCym=tlujcyrhmEtwi[xqtgpysAjHHem|fqoeqiAuhmtXT XNFTI]5jR@YJR
gDhwgilgmxuiw!zAavjjryfvIlr*zuppbtxguPIex&ozhu<er8-s@mi!zAqkeevltvLnt:oAo
lAsbvmAzaLyxw*uzakueKsjzByp,fyjunjskjGA	d#kobwujrAixLjd$gzadgeFvawCxg;yEjqp
urarttKgbGxeg=tEaqheLlyMahs%ozhbwsDltLtBl@zlppgeElbGMem|fBsquesueswtr|fAg
CAsmksygxBNmd:kJubynLoavIrt;zqsu}er9-s8td:kJubefFgcxtwi[xqtgpywkaBHee
iAnrwywyaPCyl=AFauqrwgtHLyd=llfpetvpozjem_gsfubfJlaHHjd>gKaqhewudHxnr"fFfzv	
G5DKKeAzatHtx&kD.bUL5SaRyyd@tAujgwmga!Bjv^futbptrlovIim+mlxkvmGBusMtq^
ozgqtrsAjHHep=yE.bvmsAaBM	d:nqsgbnKgoHtui/lqdvbwwwsHxzg:oAobqkrhaMyCx!ztb
