problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue ofgsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFjd:kJuubnFguAy
nGncpnLpfLt+drnmubetFzuBNzx^ylbbrztsjvuym=tljpbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeOvsExadQ
TqffbkGya5Wex=fpfcneOpuAtyl^foppejHAaHzes+/xjpgeHBcECxl*tsa)bQU_ts8jx>uDl
JqwgntHtfGNeS'ludgbewEqEIwm+mlujgeDpnBNxd=llNCTHrhtsuew:gzectirposNjv_y
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsr[a6ulr*zGegbtxguAyet/unmgoesuesNmi
tqffbkGyawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyQgjGttv%kDavqeEhjGNfm+fmofbxLvsx
kxfevwGujvtnr'uDncvnGua}t2s/qEiqreHhsMChm[gzuubyGgcxtAm^CqebcxrhaLNfv:ozh
vAjpve?gExPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBObzJnfwt+d?fEugreLvxtLid?S/t
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fzfvytJratwhi|yl(bCevlmBwfx^
gzebclGujSCsk!vAmkeDrxvxMym=tlgqte4Ja}tWi!ztfbkxKBfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
jqqqunLaa5Wey/mqebvtrpoBNne:klbbefLhmRNng!vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqe
xqtrqsKpcBFnx,f;aUwlyltMCtr|frptbhGvqxLfx*BqaxgsLBsxMe_!IAnogwupbE
vGcnkxzlsL.ej^gDtb)e~AstNjk*ilrwgxLppGMej=xlhgvyAuhsNmi!oybigesuesNjB:
vqprnjrApsNmm+qlujttMnisFtr"/FftoeuvpIywe:oAob)eUsbKCkm$gFjqpeGmaMBj
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzajkxrypEyee|fypfgwsApKttj!ztfbetFjmNxnr"fEfuunGu.s1NJaU4EbtfAzfwtyA=
wGfuvnGutsBjd#kxjgxjvgxHOqh!hqoghnLggKIrd%oEdwuxAvohte5SfMsgbyzlsxtjr=Asi
iAnoqsssjMCjw!gyppieLopLyes'fGtbvmsAaAuAi!hqfpbmwyfsztv!zIpbffQzaLIex&gF
Cqaecsrzfxths;xEfubtxgbvNns+fFicveKopNFid#klucmjFgjGtyl^frvvwwwcasUsh7fug
yA.bymsAatLjd:nqzbcsvgxAIeq*mtubvfClaMBjq9fl3_bUsyuESeh^xuwcvnNlayLtq
ztbv?etBusIgz*uGtnAeNlsRtie+mqsqwxrAps6Hd@yliquylgeHtDs;fEfgbfrypEyej=x
ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztsCsd@rxavjnKcas9kd$uGsug	rAixtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yE
nAmfuesgstNmi/fEqgenssaLNfx;yljpbfruvFvjv!uravjjKlaFuyx^xE.bdjuhvLyem:fut
tAubrjJjfBPjh!gEacbuDhzxLeA*ztacpewjpGIrm$fEucmjrposNmi_ lcwvesyfsNmi/k
xAmgueLobMtQG!imobrqsFaMBfx!imobjjDwatxAe+iqawueLvxtLid>nqsgbBwgbKyel^gpjpia

Jqtetntpoztmm_yqmhbfKgbGtzr*trptojvgpuMjv<kDaqheLofsNjg&tudcnnLpfLttj!ztf
rmtvbyOvawuDw7fSJHHT0Kawyyi$zqebvmJlfsxnj'kDfpvewtqAuxi|fuobvmwgXHLpw&uB;
7>argtHsfsQms!gDfbxjJFawyjt-EldqorAAuxxex=fFfzv.r9-sJjs[rqayjtrhsxtfp_uEu
vmtuktFhuxtff=AFakofyltitfr%f#-bcexlxsJjs[rqayjtrhsxtAi/EldqorAAuxxex=
CtbvbmswqxHxd:ulujgeFluPIwo|alaKpeGAixLeA=xpt?byzlaGyBd+kFxqtpAuh
jungpxAvomtyl^fmdegxKpcBFnx,fAgbvmwgqKIhi|ymcknnLF.sNmi!vAsvcgAsjMSes'
gxmbvmAzatwws|ylujgeFluPIwo|alaJqBrkpsQjd[AxmbvmGzfsNmv^kluqijLofKp

GpekplrhaJOjw:oAobvmsAaKykp^iFffbM7JLX')w!iAnogsLguAuyd:nutbyfKguAy
lAvtvmrDpKExl=vltjgezhesuyx^tpffbnFguAyet/kHjqwxrAiBLyC!jmzu?eXSF2!HLcG7FT
CAofgwwkaMIeA&gFagzywuusNmm|fyfgvnFnaAuid/kuoxgsLlesNmi!Ctfgn	rvssCkd*z
nmebetFAsBvzx^jlbpAyzpoztnr!ztfbyfQgpytgv*tsjpieLvhxNmi/fmafkkxlsxHyd"xAvr
urargtHsfszws_fFiqujrDiHtss/smmnAeswqxuwd=tlujgeOvsDMms[fojtezAA?

N1DMG4rjpGzjw|kpavqetljGAew:xGdmbfLguACxd_kqukplrhowtyl^fAogbyzl
KxfevwGujvtUm^xofbEtFzpKNny_fAsicsAGfwtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fFicveLojLtBe|fm
iAnkplrApzyyl^xlphbuwvqEyeA=xwjpieGuaMyCx|fmofbsGAaBGfk^ygabCyLlnINnr"fFp
hDjpieLofsNBs!zAhgvmwyaBMew=squjksygxxtty"nFavqetlaMBnr)ozhbcgGBusztv!ztf
lGuwtjgga1IBd=tqaecsrAiBHpd@hAvvbBGylBHld>oFibkrsnfsGfx^xubnbyGgcxAnr
Cuuj?etBusMyv;iFvtksygjMtfr%fpjikyAGjGAem:fuobuzuoattBe,fFicvesAattqe:kD
yFbigeAAavusd#kljpvjJwsxNjh!ozuqbywEumtfr%frjpfesgdHGrs+fIbAbtxgcNCqh*ts
zqyvbfFkaBGfk^yluqijLofKtxs!ztbvbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-EljpbyzlayOyy/kf
CuujbyzlaGyyA=xwauwuHvsMtys!hqhkpeLofKyef^imvugeLobMtnw!nAxbrjGwmxtBm-r
CmovbyGgbvwjw|fuu}

OzarnfFujGAex&klmqpl	AfKGeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd|uyfvjnFn.sQmm$nljubBzhusCx
hqjpievvoxtnr!kxfevwGujvtyi\zfaJQH3LZsMyv^yEffbyzlaBGus/zmoegeFvusIsp,
urafkxuBtLCsk!ztfbvjuooBwfp!gEqgeyKgpytms>fAogbiGltsCyd#AFarcwLpdNFfv-E
uravjnFrjGAee#uGubymsAaMBjd[kAqngeOopsOxi!ztfbuyMmgsQnp-fIbpveLvawI 
HGubetFCfKMjp, lujgwwgbKyer;sqsqwxrAiBHlw!ztbvbuwvqEyew:gDubvtrkpsQnx
