
LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at otr^fFjog	
H~SWOeKhjwneA=AxebdjrifRIsh!RO"ubhswbuCqm:ElbvbyzlaFIri+zfakpxGmbKtfw
gFugouLpoztys!gorwkwwaaHLle+oLf?bfFkaILjw^xHfbvmwtatLjd$uzdgtswk_ ush
vDfugwNhuBIsd>uGmfbgwguAyeq=yFakouGyutHyd$uztkfjJhuBIs	!fUobvmAz
iAopghLppGneKdLRPTFeJljMywe:kpavjjrufxxex=fIptmeGBusMtq^fEfpujrvg
jutvtntBuBPjd/kEqqpxAijECyC!lAsbceFBnuywd=llujgxwgjLMzi| lxjkhz
ozfxkysimRtBm-rlsgszAyfsMnk+orjecsLgdHIui/gFjqpesuesxnw$AEtkqsm
TAcqfDrjbGtis!oFacnqm

RQTMbxMnhxMyi%fFicveKvnxtuy#rutjgwKgntSep=uwaykyzggtPtv!uzaNEetlhBHsm+m
zAaugwNlatMee!jqqqunLvsRttj!zmqgueAuatHei-koutqsAjaFusy|iDjrveKAbGxfv%a
VGcnkxzlsLtre,fHjgyeLojLtfw!gltgtAAjfsNme:fFigAevpesHtx!nmwgbyGgqxLks/s
gzebvmwFaFCll:fEfpfeAuaMuui|alaJqBwCfKneWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifopwpywyfwn
gxujqzyoaIOgp*ytftuezhwxtme%fqrwkAssfGNew^xHjegxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofFtks/fm
rAoibyAtfmtyl^fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFacthzpwxtme|fzfxgwrAvKHjh!gIbAbtJgcxys
lxpqfjvgxBNmd:gBfubfFkaBMej=xqwgteKlowCsk!lqffdfuraMIex&klegrtKpuHL 
YAngbuMimBMmi/yleqbxwuesCsd:gBfu}

GZETGeNpfPyid:nutbfnKjvLMns+fmtbcsrhmEOxm=tluqbyzlaBMxy^fAgbuysuetLiw8
YtfbtjuvnFysh^jlujcyrAixtFEkfEucpisyesush!ztfbVJ1aaPBng&ftbubfDyftxDd#kqo
yAngymsAaAuwq=tuAgfeAuuxLse:oAocnqQgbGxeA&ooibcqKvaLBfv^yltgxjJhm
iAnrcyAijECym^ylxkvmrAixtFEk lcgbmsynHHnD^jluqbjFzvKyew;lrjekjFA
iAnrcyAijECyC!ozavjjrzpyNBe/kgabUmwgeKyBd:nqankswgbMtxe,ozhbNHrvvzByd:u
hqavjjrspvOxd=xlgqtzEggHLew;itajcwEvoBTfx*uz?

ZmlkplrAixtlv=ABakpesgtECll:rKafkkxlsxHyd%oDfevnGu.svzx!uzfbymwyfsuy
rqbuveAuaMBjd+kmsbvjJta5Weq*mtubrqsFattmi-vrvnbwGsfmtQ3iITatgrsylxxex&k
vxbpueGmattsy_hqsbqkrwsHDjg:yluqbhsysRtty:fBsgujJCbMCtr!hKaetjsAjGA
juhkvfDgjFuli|fFicveOpmEtjr%fGqbksrvo Fnr^fAsbpjsy_ECsi!yFptclwgbMtxs_k
oztvkyMAjHH d!f2sguzEhcES	dgIlxknqrsjGEex&oEaocywyjtFew=sqiqyeLvaBNx
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mljpbrGzuswfw^ygabVmMz.sCyd*yljpbfrkjzCye-frpto rgM^8HL!nme
ztfbkrHyfLMns+fFicveEhoRttj!ztfugeAutMCyy:oAoubBGBmwtgi!CumnksyguHtre)k
ztpugexpmxMee$iqtukgDlaMIes:nqsbrjGwmxtty:yuegbyzlaBHxx*zGukqslgqKIAm%kp
ztbvbyzlsxtnw!tAaequQyjzByd[xAcngrmga!Bnw!jqtkfjJhuNGeA*rxatgvMpsx
vDprclsAjGAex&kllpqBDlezyex&gFavjtKlawClm:oLffbkAsfLtjB*yF.butrAitNex&kK
imobgsvgvItnr!uFigteGu_ECsi!imucntyz?stFp:nAvijeMudxLye*tlbdqzLguAy
sqdjcsAznsztv!goikgAAuhsNmm|fDfuwqLaa5'SGcfEbkfeLobMtnx!CmstcsLle
yoswvnFFauyhe;yqakveKlfFyid:ulcgbhGuoxwyi%fFpbutElaHzex&klccunugjLMzi|fAg
imucntypoztfr%fpjuvwAivMCtr!uratghGyeLoeddzlxqwqvgcxtej=uxjuj	rnjOysd:nq
gypwpyrvgsQtv)fFicvessmsIkd;ylicxjrApsxtd@tpaqwwrtftAjv!xqtqwwultmtys
juteqAwyaFOqx*vxfbksKAjMOym=tEafklAAjSCsk!ztfbufElaPIwo8flSgbrAjsHztv_yf
R~OEJeKhjwneA^fmsgbnFgqKyyx,fspqfeKobIy 

HMUVKSrjbEFjh!ztjubfrijztuv=hxfobfFkaGIyi%fFicveLofsWtv+kxmbrjGwmxt=A&u
nmebcqJlbwSeh^vmsvgi{gxxLjd>uDlkplrvosCy	!fMubkxKBfszws_fFigbgwnjGHnr"
CmtbvtrsftLsd&uIavqeuhutFtk!ztbvbnFmpKGfx*uzakpyGgS53Sd@tpavjjFgjGNt
UOME?eKvaMBfx!oFayqzDkauyee$iqtukgDl?stYl@zljuuzwgsxGfm+yluqbgwgsxMtp<kp?
R~OEJeJlkHCsi%fFicveHBuMCsk!oFakpyGgPV6Hd=xlSNKSrDbLtmi-vrvnbnFzpyuwd@y
yAngdtvFaPBtd*ylujksCpozttj!vqshqwEpoztuv^yqsxcyAvosuhx*BuuAbtFguAuyd>uDl
iAvnfeDlbKHee#uGubkymga2Nem|fzpvbswjfLMfv*rKajgqHmvEtks/fuouvnLBuBIsw!zA
smlgbyzhusuAe*rmcng rgCT@YMifAqkpjvguAuyd:nqakfjsgxtMex&gFakveFvusIsp,fnf
lAsbrwwzfKPfx*uzarwwHvtxMef;zlgqteLofswtr<kzjgphwgpytui=vxfbntGrjGAej=x
ztjubrsAfKCfp8flTjgewueHLxi%fXZPEM\zawChx;slujcyrkvIFng@zuppbtxguACx
krgqtyrDbLtys!hqacxtAkfwtgC!kHftAeElbGM 

N1DMG4rpoyIwq^jlujge#vsDMms[fmcqwyrvoxtre(uDaewwJloMtfg:oHjvAeGmaVYYL7
tmngnDrhavuye-usvgbtxgntwmm+k\sgcisimxtyi\zEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxmga1yqh!uz
XXJPbfLgqKyxi+zfavjjrjbMuqs"AqajcxrifxHeg=tofpvwsAfwttr!G5DKKeszaHJus|kp
zAafklAAjSyid*smhgueGmaMyCx8flTjgeAzaxRup=xuoibBsFtsNtd*sBsqxjrAix
imucntyBfsush!smlgbnLgnHLjd>opfnAesCbBFff-kfacpirDfEwtq^jltwilwzuBIsw
gnpwveLofLyeg=toftpxmgaVYYL!uIoubyzlaKyhs/jE.bymAjisuwi!tAublzKA
xqtvtnuAfwtys!XXJP?esueswfr!jutvtntBuxtyl^sliqyjNlssCyd>oEigu 

ZmlkplrBqs6JWf-EagcwDpfKtvy^yFjqp	rIB!@NR!ozrwkwwkaPBjx&kDaNE	rzjGwjd*z
oEacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpdsznp^ylbpfevltBAsm+mlbbojuobGCxq!lAsbfjssjGAeA*zt
ztbvbwsAixLex&gzarwyLpoztgs=qEaqpeKofEPjw7fIpwnirifvIri!xqtrqsKpcEyej=x
ztfbPfLppGuqd{uBztklzAaWyus|oFptAeGmaXFjg:xAokee5huxLne-ygabQkrjpNLxi
ztbvbhGBmwtss:fnfbchuvnIFnw&kpaqxjJujzBy{!hGubkyrDpNFid#kltqojLojGAeP{
iAvnfeHsbGtks/alaIKKXVSWtfg)tAxngiylesNme:fyvejeLopNAmx!CmtbdjAuhsxjz=zqe
zAavjfLgtxNes'fBsqdqwttsush!xquwtswkaMBjd%oEdwuxAvosNtd:nqakuxMlaKunw^j
hKaN1SUO_ Qmi:nqsbqwrupMtuy:zuoibyzlaDCsh!uratghGyeLtyl@zlcqvmrIB!@NR!gze
N1DMG4robOyef^kzavcqCpoztff=AFakpe0SJ7tnw!tAubceKhuBMke$zAsAbxGsvMCtr8
OFaugjElesNtd&oyavjfLgS53Sd@tExgtjvgM^8HLNylptklAubEtus*tFaeqsulsGCsk
yAngbpAuesIkd%oDfevtJFayIwd:nqtgbpAueLttj!smugtnsstnteM+fmaukyMhuBI
