film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic puBcECxl*ts
nmtbdjwuaOCjA^jgabOzuoaHzeA&gFajcxrifxHeh*yovuujvguALty"nAvvbyzltxtyA=
jmzubmszavIsg^xzffbHV|S87et;hxjujnFn.sQmi/kmtbksrAixttrTruogbjFCjKIsq^tF
ztbvbxzlavIsj/uzuu?eLofswtr|zDbkpyKgbGxeg&gxmgplwzatLjd<kDzbfnxmfKysx8
YAppgwrvssFfx^xlMEbBAsmsBfz^fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbetFjfINes'fAo+nnFl
vGcnkxzpozoedogwjpieMwaMBjd$uyngpyrLS$U4d_gpfbgfJsjxLee#uGubuyGyjGA
iAqkgxlgMXVWSifsbxgezlssIBr!pAvtpfDgbLtfr!kJborqwbas2tA!CAvnfeKofsxjt=yuu
UVDEVexvsswtt,xuhjvalgtAyee|qqe?bgwjbNMjd:nqalqzJubEtBm-rlfzkxLgjGtyl^
smjphwstfsuydjIXDbcsvgqxIup^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAacehwztsCy	!fTftgeLof
yuuwcyAvosCxd%orggtjFA.sIBr^xEikreNlsLOxd@iofuu	rhowtnw!yAngvmAuhsNme:
gDjugxrDjMBet;hxjecyAvosCsd:nqaqp]Dpoxtjr<oDppojFA.szfw:kDavjfFgjL
yAngvnEltsLje-oLff}erSbvEnr"fomgcwrhoLQjv|fFpbcqDgpytyl^yqaswjKAjHHx
nqsugqxaa5YGVjTlekfeFvususx*iuqcvjrAitNeP{fIpwnirifsugp^fFpbvfClattws-k
ozajgqHpoztys!jqgkpjrzpFyes'fFigoexvssKzm:klbbymAsfn

M4FGPK1LMWttf|kDwgfeLobMtQGNylOgvBGylsXjz^rAqogsLgPyzng^futbcyLlnINnr" 
gyppieGAixLex&ozhu?eLvaxRup=xqavjjrsjFCyw!uraOCWUgbLtfd|zmofcwvgjGtyi/sE
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFesstHtss:kpavjfLgSxvjg$g
M7FPVMWYayLtq!ztbvbtxmjvyek@BqacbuswfKtys!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrmpK
OzgqtrsAjHHeW$oqoege}HT2![d|AynctnRpoztxi<kDbnbtxguAyeh*yovuunGuaIuui/y
ztbvbBwyfswtq*tsaqwyrvgsNmi!TquyqwCgExPjp=vyfpve7mgBwj	!fSSGGSXPF5Xew@op
nqawpiwytMIth!ztbvbyzhusIkj*iqajcirhaECxxTyqsxgwrzpEChm:ozhblzKAaMBjd)oze
urahgjvibvEev^iqjxgirApwuDd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!jughkhMsuByxd=lljfgsLpgRCsk!gze
imucntyBjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFezvqxxex&gFagxjJFcHxD
CAvnfetlatQfv^fAgbvmsAatHid|uyfjqBrjpGNwm#AFfbvtrAitNeg=tHftufLppGo

TAukplrAxHttj!RO"ubwGsfLnej*xEu?byGgbvNee|fmatguGzjMIwC!uratghGyesztv
smugtnssaMBfx!oEaequQyjzByi%fuobvmAzavIzr:xK.bcsvgtxwtr% luqbrsrf
smugtnsstsCyd&uxeubfNhjEugp^fuobutElaECrm:kpahqwEguHtfd$rufpvjDlaMBfx
mAfubgwFpGxeG=tssguxlgCX!XImfEviijKAfwtyl@zljvbBszaBHhy_hqovbtFgMVtys
kJugpirAiHMjd/kEqqpxAijECym^yluqbfDsaMBjd:nuoiuetljGAet;hxjujjvgjG
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabVmAzaPIzp%fyfcpewCfGNze-rKacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpd
lAsocyKbas6Hd$uGmfbwwxvBLjd:nmubcyrzpFyet=ozubvmwFauyem+fmaegwLhjG
runkvjvgtxNes'frptofLz.sush!ztfpbiwCfEIud_koicpnKttsztv!gxmqynFnaIytt-k
zAacehwztsNms|kljpbyzlaLuri!CmzbvmsAaHNmi/fFikplKgbKyee$iqtugimga!Bnw
jAfubsGAaBGup,fFicveLofRtfv^fAobvmwgoxNBs/qlbpfesCbBFff-kluqbjNlsRIsi8
ROafqjKguAuyd>oFibotKAaHzem:ylckdqAvhKuul*ilsgetJktmtGInYQSbufAk.sQmm$n
kzebwurtjzLfx*tsavqeLofsOym-oFzb-jmn?mtTGgI>aqteKvnxQmi/klfnujmgaUOyd(AEu
gEaoqxLgpytQGNylcqqpKgbKyee<gumcdqwgjGtxs_klgqtrrAiKIzk&fuovgwDpcKuwC
rAbpbtJgtHGjd=ztftbrwjitHnw_ ltqbnFguAyew@sqaycDrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMMes;mtu
zAadgesCbBFff-kluqbtLofKMem+fEpogexvsFuy{!ztpwimrDjMBew=sqaequQyjzBy
iAoukiwybMCtr|alaDGX~LSsQfw!tAubuzynfLNnr"fFicveLofLyeq^itbpkxEzauy
kEucdqAzixxex=sAstqBlgpGFDd:nmubvmwFaLyjq^jluqbkssmsQnx&ozaNE)KgqNLAm^Cf
gzebvmsAaMBjv^fEiqwqvgcxtqs+m\scplwgqEusw!zAaguysimBMmd:nqn}

GolpqBDlezCsk!ztbvbyzvtxtkv=slMEbnFguAyev=uyaciwwlesQnx&fNFUUJ0
iAoegwFpoztyl^fzfgfeLvavIsj/uzubfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGutmtLMaL1SFbzFkfKMhs/kp
ztfbofyujMOii!uravjjrwsHvqi_fAgbymsAaMIeo^kBacpirDitNex=fEfnghLbas1NJaU4E
tAugfeLobMtQG!iGstgsLszsLjg^oHfubxGtfs(6{E$*akvjEzaIywd%gK.bptLgdHOsx*ts
kxfevwGujvtre:kDjcnxlgbGxee/mGffbkGyaFOhl!sAsgbiAzuKCgy:kpatgxHvoLCgm-oFz
ozaqtiwyaMIeq@ozucksrhowtxx=xqagnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHH 

HQTUGWryfLJtr%kpavjfLguAyee|yqndnjvghKIzt!iAvnfetlaOCjA^jlbubfrzutLym+m
vAjpv	rDiHMjd*tuukcqrvqxLfx*tsartjEptxths;rpadgezlmICsk!zAaoqAwgjGtyl*y
jusgeyAvosush!jqgkpnFnaAIBdgIldqwqvgeHtxs7frptbjPhnIFj{!ozactjszaHz
yFbpffJkjSuym=tlptbiAzuKCgy:oAobqkryfLJtr|onjnkyQb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@jpffbyzhusURd>gEahwqDFaxHle"kp.bywwzuECsk!CuujbxGtfsIkd:nq
wGfuvnGutsNme:fBftvfAuaMIex&kldqpAwytBIsd=llpnfjJgiBMys/oobnbrsAfKCfp| 
CtjejeOvvExef^fAogbyzpoztyl@zlujge4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMeq*mtubftmga`yAi/gx
vAjpvxrtfGNns+kpadAeTLT`YWd@tpaugAwybEttx&kDtbqsrAiBMeu;kEukqsrobOyee
sGdjblJlbMywd*sBbeveGuaMBtw^fIiqbfJlavIsg^xzffbBAAiswfx@rAhwksygbGxex&k
tquyqwCpozttj!hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d@ylxgnqrhtsJwi|kDwcvnGuaBNxi-lg

YBfcmnFnawCwi$zxzbvtrHNmtBl*itajgeuvoLCii/kpaycxrhaEuwk^rKawphGwzKCll:kp
jmucdfKl.s64R{NlvtijvgexPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBO?eGy
iAoukiwybMCtr!uraocpAuhsNmi!jmucbnFgjMtfz@oxbdnjrApsJjs[rqakpywyfLNjh!oz
jAjpieFluPIwo!sGmvkrwkjtoedjtlbeetMuusIkd:nqaewwJloMtlv^gFaujtJAbzyes'
juhkvfDgetNfd:nmubkxripMBee[vqbnksygbGxey+kzdwogwyfwtgC!iAnrnjPgsBAmx|
vDpdnjEz.sNmm|fopwtxwgpytfg:oAobetMsesBfz^fmauklFpgBwfr:fqghghLgpGtre)ozh
tquyqwCgnNFym_kpjcbfryftFnx,a

OzavjnKgdHHsi$zupp?eXSF2!HLcG7FTbwwwpKNjh!uzacbkJhhFysx@xKarttLvuRJjd*t
RO"ubTxmjvyes'fUohqwEhuBIsdokoipqqGnzs!jv<oofubyzhusuyx^sBuubyGgbLMtg*gFf
juhkvfDgjFuli|fAgbrmGApzLft&ylxkvmrjbMuqs"AuoibnFmpKGfx*uzakpeOhzLtyl@z
CAsmbBAAiBHee!rAdcnesyfttsi:CAsm+]sgtMyu{!yAavqeKhzmtys>gDebCR\z
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fmdegxKbasZzv:nqs?bF5gitM
gFugouLlesNtd;yqauvfFkbKxeh@zmahqwEzaBHes/jqsbvtrofEJeq@qqavjfL
jutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsuhg^yEavqtDzatHid:nqawpiwymRCsk!jmuc?esuesNmy|
hqmkgAwzaMBfx!ztfbffLhctMjd*ylogvBGyltvqi8

Glegnnuhuxtfr%fmhqpnRpoztus-oozbszwzuBIsd'uDaNE	ropPyAi/ lxjkhzgdHGjw
hmdmbyGgsxMty/iqtbcsvgvGztv:AzbvgqQgitMee+funrchLgpGtyl*yfakueLvayCsh
yAngbfHwsHJwm@zq.bjtFvstvqi7fmofbqwnbEths|z\sgetNlsRtus|yucknnLpfLoed?
iqsvcnFgtDCyx*ytoguxrjpGwjv+ozhbetKA_Kyhs<kDzbjfKgntxjd[kAqngeMutNLj
kJbevqQgxAuyd:uleq}erHNsQty-jlcgbmAniESev^iqqvkAwguHtim|iGtuksyggNLyl^x
R~OEJ)Kgpyzjv!zAavgxLgpKtii_uztvtfLlaBNxd%gFbdcxwgjGtfd+kFxqtp
kzwkttFtfGN	daRQJUEMZHVX`ew@op?

XquwtsAuhsNmi!jutewxKppGtys!CtbvbxzlaOCjA^jlbubyzlaOCye-futuwjrv
