process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not bxwywxtfw!gz
gDdjkAssavIuC!lAsbrzJwpLyxd=llqtgxwywtNns+fuobvmwgdtMjd=lfaucDlguAyeF*rx
uraTklzAtmtnr!ztfbujFzfsNme:fFigbxuhoGyid*smhguesyfsykj^iFjxgqQguAy
gDdjkAssavIum^ylgqteLofsWtv+kxmbofLofFuym$ylcqqpKb


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasteE[vqofkCrP;stUVjM4BO



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabYT0RT19U
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberVO
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaGNJU1S88NG
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe`LY!!



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!f&_3`e2Boxt6!D8

flabbergasted!flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!3mtjksyApGneH8Ig



flabUzHwpKNjh!hKacbLJhoMtkv=slujgeVhwBxee+jlMwenDla9uho@xpaHqzFkbMCtr


ZGfuffQaa=tOy+kl2~~7

TMUKQSSSaWYRSiY6SCVN7Ua5UG{!G6SKWRlgM2VWEm5lNCFN~VO

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl7fDfikxLybMCtr

#a~`bF5gas%jp$uyf

flabbergas0ws|yqsbInxmpKx	d	oDfevtJggHLeW$nAmctqQgQKIlv@sE.bcsvgDtLq
flabbergastedarqjuemzhvxL	d{uAsfkssApKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7fXjdtfJFaHz
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK

#am7bF5gas!jw|oAobK rgDHHyi+zljpbfrUfPtKs/saabYmGgXBFqdpyqaKvesues%me:
flabbergas%np-f6igAeVv}

flabbergasVws@jleguhJpqMCtr!uravjjrybGAjd=llfnghLypGChd*trptofLppGo
flabbergasWme/gougtnRhuBIsd=llxjqeMzfLtnx!gzebjtOgjMtnw!uDaocDrifsOxi%a
flabbergas3sd@jpjvktFguHtfd-uAlbcyrzdAIqe/rKawujKaaMBnw!yqtuktFgxBFq
flabbergasCsg-ApfbceHyfLysx@zuppbtFgvLyef,fEuwfjFAts	P[v8lbpfeuvmEyliS
flabbergasush!ztfbijFlstFet;hxje}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtGjw!JmmA
flabbergasUAv@fYjejjDzpGneE/itjxcqrYfLyfv$nlbpfeWCbEOfx*uzaUvfxm.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgBKwmm<kEacpirYfvIwh|fMeoksAzuKuym=tl)QxjJCjxQ[
flabbergas!zw@tlI}b1wjdBu	dokmnbNjskfKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7f7tgteWCbEOfx*uz.
flabbergasted@tp
flabbergas4te+tqaHtjwtbGneE|yAdkcywgDHIwh*tmuqt	rHnxLng@tlNgotJF.s6nf/gDz
flabbergasted=llDqplJltLt=F^EAofbyzlaLwms-gD-

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDs?

flabbergasYfg&fBsgujFAbMCtr!zAaeqsKptMttj!glgkhywlo Gnr;zq
flabbergasMye:kyfpv>KopPjek/uGqbfnKjvLMns+fIjnnexvmEIBd-Azdj}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtwvy^ruogbMwztmtIm/kouqt	rUbMCtr@rlEgotFzuKuym=t
flabbergastedggn

flabbergaste58flBbeqsztBwxd[xAkgeylgtMLjw|ozhbvjPAtsush!zqyvbwwAsByAe-
flabbergasted!flnqtjrAitHeq;rFjogiAh;stUi/yqvubUJvkxwy{!Nmsxcwv
flabbergasted!flVpkAwytBND
flabbergasted!flFnnnrTzEIse| lNcpfypoztJh*zAs

flabbergaste68flPvjjJgiNGfr*zufubuJvkxwyw!kyqnqDAuhsNmi!kyftinFnaGIwq|fAg
flabbergasted!flujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bqa-VJ1/;stHl@jIzem]ZlbEyD(|
flabbergasted!flUjgeWuhECxl!VAfvtDrMvEFeX^DFaFcysibLyee+j	ptbUsAsHFtk*g
flabbergasted!flMcvnFhaWuye#gEf
flabbergasted!flFtkhrT?sWfp@rGdc?e@pdxtUv^yuegpylgDAuiA,iw_JgfDlzmtNr$a

flabbergaste78flBogwAjbGtRi_uDz
flabbergasted!flDctqrMmxCxg&nmvgt	rJpHLim+gFpt?esue
flabbergasted!flSkepQgFKQfC7fMtuqhAhuxtHs=xpjpcyGy.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|y

flabbergaste88flGqwsvpoztKe:nqsubjPhnIFjd'xAnbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwz
flabbergasted!flJpuyAAvMy,d!ZtfbRfHlsLttj!Mqptijr4bLBnr"zAo?bZFpwxLxm:E
flabbergasted!flphb1AyhBHne
flabbergasted!flEqttLozs@Bs&os.bOfFhhBHld juuqt	rhowgtv
flabbergasted!flEcxnvgXHIip^ElQcepsye

flabbergaste98flBpbjDldMLtr*ilngfnuhmsDty/tmmbqkxlsBHld"xmqjkhKgbGx
flabbergasted!flgwnq	AfQNew^gDdjcgAsjMS,d!ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+z
flabbergasted!flDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bFElsBwfr!GEtqensAjHHej=xlujgeSkwtHhi_kzu
flabbergasted!flphbXupfGwj
flabbergasted!flNctnsgMntQi#xAo?bRsubzCsk!Kpjvqw

flabbergaste08flBbrwGqfvNex&gFaqhkwytszfg|oyjngeAtbzyxd=llqcijKgcNNes_oFt
flabbergasted!fltgcwuobuFjd:kJu<beUvsGyqp!smujbgGvlL
flabbergasted!flMApswgLntUi/yAokwxlgBLMnw:gzubFnJldMIw{!IAspgqD
flabbergasted!flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaVghzupEIlm^ylgqte~jiHFfv-ElJphtJtbMCtr
flabbergasted!flabbXGBsvyx{!IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuA

7@;5`e8Tas6zr$nla-FnFpoztWs=slB?bQAistLDdhgpjuqsr!3[oed DtjdkyK
flabbergasuAe*rmcng {

7a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDsa{Wtr:-p?_}

9a~`+
9a4`bU5gasVwi@q

9a4`+
~a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKN1basXnw:xucwvnGu.s8jx>uDlu?esues8jx>uDlkplgga8Jym=tE
flabbergasztv!JutugrAubMCtr8

flabbergas0zf-oEigfevptDM,d!1zjxgwKpuRtuv^yEfubfFkaIOgp*i\tgeyGy
flabbergasted[Anmkumwytmtuv*Bmug+xwjuHLet;hxjujjJz
flabbergasWtq[AFftbswAxHLpw

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgSHvjv:fS?b2nuo.s!ui$ommbCxKptMusx!zAavjjrHtLIhm@zq
flabbergastedgonsctnsuayIwdnvqdkcqrWsHDjg:yfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz
flabbergasWqm'lAsfbFmgMRHhl7fPjtghLvsmtQm#xmsAbFMApFuym=tfaWpnNlsLCyC!ur
flabbergasted{gxjhqwFpb
flabbergas2tA@xpaDgxKlsmtXg&uAmbqkrSjuLfv,fmofbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxn
flabbergastedptuwgtxAAzsIkdkoFuudzJni
flabbergas`tr@rpaN}e4hsLys{!GEtqensAfsXnv^iFptbtxgMBvwe/oqtbhtJ
flabbergasteddtrptofLppGtYi$nzpnqlQaa@Hnz^xEjvAeGma6uwC-gzebcyrJpEFjk^
flabbergastedkgDl
flabbergasYiA*tlC}bGJvxGLnk" lFzghMAjOyeH*xqdvqwlgNxGjB!Xqtgcwuo
flabbergasteddtEukvzLl

`a4`bU5gas`jg^vFjqper]NHHyt^ruftbWGvnmtQm#xmsAbRskjLIsdA7&?_

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

3qepgxvhzmt6@!PGogb6+$3

JUOKPLrYP87eE7fXJDTF06a6UIMnUZa84
