too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   DecidingibBzluAywd=xloqveLvaBHhs/vAscvjrhaGIwq@zuwgbjFjpwCsk
flabbergasMyv;iFvtgeAuuHtyl^fpbvcgszfLp
flabbergasted!fM?bbNxgpGyem|fEfnghLlemtxl=Axebkyrifs!LQgb
flabbergasted!fN?bbNxgTZ7Q{!ztfpbyzla!YN 

flabb8mgasXjp*BqsbcxrJE `TQ7fybipjLpdsNft^ lptbgGAio

flabb9mgasWfr!uzfbrwGkvvyev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqacfAsudxxei+uGhjbkGyaMBj
flabbergasJtw:jAdvqwssaECsk;oEu?bDwAatwhi|yucngewupNAmd'uDawpfLAfGxjh
flabbergasAjr^xmmbwxwcas!ms;rpaqpjrAsRp

flabb0mgas`jd'gusbcsvgmBvjv@rlogvBGylBHld[uxjekjKaaPBfx!gDfbvmwgsBMpw!zA
flabbergasusd^rqdvttFpdsJzf-oEigta

flabb~mgas2tA!jAfubyzlaxGjv"kzdgbtxgotNns+gxacpirpoMywr@zuppcqrleNwfx*uz
flabbergasHjx>uDlubfxmfvNex&klvugesuesPne#oxjvAeGmaKyxi@xoibrwGqfvNx
flabbergasLju;oDjpiezphAtnr<kEuogsLcasXtd:nqapgBrLvKIui@tlDqorMujMS
flabbergasxnv^iFjxgxrjpGwjv+ozhbffLhctMjd[xAugeyAvosHjg^yEjvcywguPI
flabbergasxnw:ozdvbuMimBMmm+mlqtqowjuLnes+klgqte6vsMBeE_kDjecesuesIsi!lAs
flabbergasIAi/yqbu{

LDpobswDaGIym=tEaqhe,zdAIqe/rKahcnJgvLy-d:ulujgexBuNLjd=llprvnuhmsGjh*gf
BusvwfDszsyAi/EljuuzwgsxFfx^jluqbjDldMLtr*ilqwdqAziBHld>gEackwwk?stYl^
xqtwnyrptsNBs!vDplghLzaPBng&ftbxgetlfGths+yFsweywkaMIet/uHjfgeLofsKze-oFz
xqtgcwuoaKyxs;xofubBAAisNmi!lqxguyrlovOrf/gzdgueLvaNMjd#ElugchzlsLtfr%
vDjxcywgtvBtp@xE?

JAsqvmQgU$9MMb

OzaurwAuhs&@`CfFigbjvpuHLxd=llujgeHhqxLxd=llHgqwyla$uxl*tsuqp	rQpAH
Gpbou	r1iHGfw!PqghgwKvomtOe_kEaOciAzpGnee+jlCgpostjGtKv@twmkpeOlsx
gBqtqfuofwtgC!ixbuunuzaLwms-gDaFcAAka9uho@xpaqpetlitFkd=llujge8hdDuwh
NGncpnLpfLtKs;tpbvktFgxBNmd@fBsqrtKhmsNtd[xAewejrhaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkd:nq
iAnrnjLlaIuui/ylphbjsjisIkd:nqaHqzFkjGAeJ@ztftu rgUACxd^rqdvttFpdsyim:oAo
CumnbxMwqEyri+zlujgeHBcECxl^jlwqnzEltmtre)ozhbvmwgeHwzq^tFtbynvlmR
gHbknftsfsNtd|zGegpyKgbGxev^yqbtemwytsuyd/kmtqpftsfswtw:alaYgewzuBGfx^
ztbvbtMyaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkdrgEikplLvo,MeT@vqsubBAsmsvjd|AntvcsLpbEFD
iAnrnjLlesQnx&ozavjjrufQNex>ulzgcwKgbGxev^gpzbhtJgqNvqm$gFjqp rgXBNmm+
ztfbpjPAaMysd,kmsubtJgtHnew*sumcteUK_~9Rd^juukqsKgpytyl^fRscppDpomtFh@sE.
PqghgwKvomtfr%fYbfkxGuaIuui/ylbnutrDjEFef^fmwckqsimxoed?zlujge4pcKuwC!ur
IAoitjKz"Ltxi|yuppbtFguxwmr=rAhA?e1gxHOqh!rulgbyGgeBMhy|yloqveGumRtyl^
kJqgtnwudxttj!ztfbYfKojGAys+f2brgwKgjGtuv=jGdkplrAixtHHTX1NbgiAAjHH	d#AF
ztfbkrHhdMtyi$nzpnqlQgitMel@jlppbyzltxtre(uDagfnLvsBuqd[xAkgeyKb
GxsgciQaaPyee/klffkyAuhsIzv!BAmwojKgxBNmd@tlfAgeLvaMBjd_gFftkfDguAuyd>oxm
hqatgfvpmRtfz@oxbdnjrposNmi!IP_TQRrleBNns+alaVjjrjpFJqi:kpagnjuAsHHng
kpjvktFgxBFqd[xAwkfjrpnFysw^fBpuuntpmBNni|frptbyzlaLyfv$nuoibtxgeHwzq^tFt
lAsbksxvsFuym=tljpbfrDbRtsi<kDarqxKpcEyef^lAsg}er1ixtpm+jlphbywjiGChe-
ozoqxfLppGMex&gFactjrjvKLjr:rKacxfAsbuFjd@tpaqpeLofsxwe>ozhbdtsyesQnp-
yAppbwwCpEOym=tuAgbmAzuHLng@rlsgujsydAtfr%fFigbuJveNwym=tlphbmAzuHLng@r