in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will diCxg;yEavjjrnfGyxm|fmofbxLhsMazt!vqskqirvgsNmi
pAvtpfDbas@tt*iEaqhevptvOxw*uzaykqDgjGwqy%klikuyGyjvuqd=BqsxkjOa
jmz+vt	kbRtre+gsfogsLgpytyl^fqekvtJpbEtui^xlsgxnwD.sush!smowuhJpqM
zmhiksygbGxet;hxjecyAvonteE!jqnqpxLybMCtr!uravjjrqpNLse-fmofbnLzayyfx;xqt
CumnbfujpFJfr,fFigbuJltxHye:oAo}

RKopge8LS`9SMpY

IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuAbQAistLD{!IAspgqDgJGztv_gFjqpe`ldAHtp=mufu?esues^jv=D
IAsrqwsAjHH	d>oFibvmwgtNJus/zlphbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbGx
GodguxlgbGxeW;tlNkewGzzLNjq| lJpe lgitPjd#kqobetDsbuIwe:ozhbksrhaILtn^iF
zAavgxLgbsJws:uFzrgeKFtMyrd'uDatghGyeBHld#xuuvnjripHExd@ylekinLhmsCre"kE
gzebrwGkvvCsk7fAobfjEhownel*mt_swfDpuRtfv$nuwcneHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLoedonq
vDplghLghHyxd#kKppfeLobMnel=Cqwgt	rApsCsz^yFjicywgtHGjd=llujgeAztNyx
yGstqzFkjGAew$gzokpllgtMIwm+mfatgyJpfOCsk7fmofbuJvwBxnr"fmdegxKguH
juhkvfDgjFuli|fuobceFluPIwo!kzwkttFtfGN 

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHef^mmobksrQbGOfv,f!0~` rgYxLtB
vDpxkiwkaMBjd{uxmgijrSjuLfv,fMdegxKgbGxeW:uDbige~FtMyrdRIXBUU[rzpyNBe/kf
glqtqyGAzIye0E$\eqvx	wfKanr$nl)frn{gtvusr^xfacpirAixtme/jIbtgeFldxMxe/E
zAauwuHvsMtsi:CAsmbuJpoMCsk!uzavjjrKpvOYi$nlqtksLlssBty|kpakpeUvsGyqpNy
IAnrwyAuhsush!IAnowsAjbMCtr|fOfpvjJg)VWH=8

ZtfbEtJufEFew:grgbwxAuhsNmi!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgcxwfq^fmobksLlhKuqd[gDu
uravjjrkfOyqs[sqovbfFkaMyxx*tsarttultLtks/fqojcsulnxHyw!zAavjjrJMT!X
yAgvyfJlaLSxx^sgabVmwgdHFqe#uDbvkAwgotNzv^fAgbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgjL
xqtwnyAuhsCsd@fEzuvjEguAuyd*yltrghAmjvuqp,fFbkntJlesNtd:nqartjKlsOuym=t
gBqnkhsAjHH 

GlekinLhmsFnf/gDzbqkr8.[]#d<uxvogxr]pKtft[xAykofLlmRt8@E *~`bnEhhxM[d&gE
hqfpbhJlbMyid@tpakueKApKyid=tlbpbtHAjvuqd(AwfdqCrAitNev^yuegueAuaVWH	
ZtfbnntybKSem+ixvfgxrhavIqp^iFjqpeGmaLyqi$zlncvmwtbMChw!sAoqiwswiLtyl@z
vDpxkiwzaFuyl^smukexrmbvOqx,fIjvjesuaHJus/zGokvDrApsOxi!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQbas@mi!xqncksAuhsPtp;sqtbyjJlavBtw^tlgqteLofsFnf/gDzbvtrAfLNex&k
BmskqzKgdtJff*ruukgxrvgsNmi!yobppnFnaLSxx^sg

UzfbrwGqfvNes#pqdvkAwgjLtys!vDpxkiwgvLyww!uravjjrJpKHjp-fxjdtfJFatHid:nq
ructcwQgtMukj!Cuujbyzlatvnp*zKavqeJlrNyxx!lmdukrAsfLttj!juhkvnRlesCre"kE
uDavqeJluKCjz^fFigbfuAvtFei-koutqsAjaBGfk^frptbgJvxLCsk8flBbrwGApMSui
BufyksygxHLpw:gFjqpezhtsvji+fosgcywkauSe2^xAy?bBAAisCst;zljpvtrAixtii|oso
hKacbhGtnBNyi^fAgbEtJufEFep*hDbtkfFzatHid$uyqwvjJgqKIki|yuppcqKbas@mm|
CumnbfDspPtzw!zAagzuwyjFysx!CuujbusAsHHee$iqtubyGguAyem_gsfubyzhusGfo^fGq
ztfbfnyputFep*hDbtA rgUAyez*kIjpieKAbMCtr!vDpxkiwzaLyfv$nfatgyJpfOuq{!gze
[GmvkrsAfES[d[xuovksyggNHhx*uztbynLoaxHme+iqngpyKguHtke$oxjvcyw
tmwkifLppGtyl/uGhjbrMsuBJqi!jAdwojFAtn

IAspgqDgdNLwi+zxzbkxrDpKEnr"fFpbgCLlowtfg$kEtbvtrAixtim"oFbnbqAistLDd:u
xqbfgwKgvLCsk!CAsmuysAjHHxd'xAnbvmwpssIkj*iqt}be`ojLtDi@xljubiwCpMyid:u
ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufMQtv)fDfukiwuusCre"kldqpAwytBIsd@tpafgqACfKS
yqsxgwlgbGxeg-oqovbxGmuPuwi!ztbvbBAsmsMzt[uDubtjskfKMeA&ulvugeSwqEy
SmdkpyGziswtq[AFftu	rPC6tBm+jAxubuDhuyIwq| lbpfe~BosQtv)yFbvktFz?
KCvkrrwuusztv!ztjubiwCfEIuq^tFaycxrwsHPnh^jlcAbXMua6Chv=yKtvgrKgxBNm
yGqrqwLggKIrd:nqaEqrEptLCtr!uzaRtjKlsOuym=tlbpfeSjdxMx	

JGskplrAixtxl=C\bpf]LlmEtxi|yuppbtxguAye1=xwtjqurvosYqi$zDppkhr1fQNx{!g
vDpvqyQwfsPni>fEucvnGuaPCqp!hqafgrGutMLfx^jgabKsrhewCym=tfacbiAzqEuDd=l
uDjiksssaECgv@xKadqtCzaMBfx!nmwgbgwlosxnk*zuAgfeOpmEtgi!gHbknftsfsztv
xqwkgBrDjMBee|yAdkcywkaILnr:kpaequAltsztv!iAnrcwAzpGoedonqahkkLlfGarm+AFf
uHftxnwDaHzex&klqtqowjusQnp-fuoenzvlattxp*jqartjKloMuym=tlujcy
iAouvnLBuxMee!_Fpwt-rvgsNmi!vDfugwNhuBIsd%osjvkEAuhsJws$kEt}

ZtfbhnFhmsHjx>uDl+etFufvNjh!BqsuktFgpytyl^fHjgynFnaLNfx*uzaykqDgqKIAm%k
ructcwQgvLyww!CuujbfFvuAywd_koicpnKtayIwd@iofuunFnaMBjd%osjvcqrsjuLfv, 
gzebynDsatFxs!vDpxkiwguAyeg@vmcknnLFaHzez*kIjpieAtbzyxd%oDfevqQbas@mm|
CumnbsGAaKyvy*xqaurjupbEtxs'zIbtg	rhmMBty"nlbbrtOlsyOqd$uyqwvjJgxBNmd"uAe
mDbrjnuzaPCqp!hqapgjvlen

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHel@ylhgpjJhuxxee!mDfcvevlbEttj
ozugtjKAaBHex&klmkdwsyzswtq_AzjvA rgVGztv:AzbvgqQaaHLet^xtbru
lAsvwssAfES	d:nutbrwGqfvNew^xHfubyGgstCxi!glwcuyruvFvjv!uraqvmwyaBMxy^y
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmawClm:gxavghzupEIlC!lAsbvmwgqKyxi/Bmukqsrhowtzw^fAg
jqugtnGybMCsk!ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bBzpdAtxy#yqrwgsLgqKIoi$zEaykqDgoxyid:u
kJbokswbas7zg&fIptmeJlntCsw8

YQTUKT6gJ23

NAxctirIF`!JV!flabbergasted!flabberUfMQtv)ozhbOzDAjFyim@fPbvcgszfL

3tbvbiGgxxtme<kluqbhGutBxjv!ozadwnDkjGAee+jlekuyJpcNNnr"fpbvcgszfLttj
ButwcqrtbMywm@rEakpesgnNFymTAEftbjFCjKIsq^tF}bbYzptsJwi|kzucvnGuaxRfq*tqt
glwctnwAzsIkd$uzdgtsKguAuyd+kqebvtrifsuih/kEtgfetlgHLjd@fyvnvnEleBu
jmucdfKlavusd#kltgveMwaBHee!tquyqwClesysz*xAoogsLb

OzavjjrwbLNem:ftbubsGAauyjr!lqbukgDlaMIem_vxfogsLgetNff@yqtbqkrCjLOfp
smugtnsstsCsd|nmsgf]MzfKtjr<oDppojFAtsvjg@AEfbqkrAfvBss-usjecqribKLni/yg
KmdjbtxguAyex>ulccunugnHxjp|frptbrMsuBazw^xlnwnyAtfwCfd%gFbdcxwzaAux
vAtgfeAAtsIBr!vDpdnjEbas@mi!gzbnqlrtvENnq^jubbuyGybzyeq=jqmb-wwwsxMjr:kp
hKaRttBldMtFx&kzb&ueHhstFqi-fmocntygbGxeh*muucneFluPIwo|]licueJlrNCwi%fmo
ozdtgiAimRths_vxfzb=suesyCt^tEjxg[rpoyLfw:xGdvwwwbas@mi!koppqrAltsIk
yobngeLobMtre)klnwnyA|vLywd|kFvrueuoftJjv!vqsbwxwyaLywz^jleqbsGAaHJjv@zq
ozacpewuwBLtr_kzubvmsAaKyvy*xqtbceuvnIOyi/fIptmxLhuBIs{!BuegqiAzdsJqe,kD.
gzebvBGgeBMup@Elegxnultsztv!kmdjbzKlsn

ZtfbfnyputFeq;rFjogiAhaLNtv@mqaoqiwsaAuxd/kCvktjvgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsMys/gsf
yBbege}htsGzg&fmtbqswghBAff,zqargwrAiBLyC!yFjnneAtbzyx=8flJpbyzlaIuxx!ztf
iAtvbtxgtNwmd@fxbtijrhnHOsx!urauvtJhhxtxt@iqaociwguACxd_upfnbf
vDpjkgAAjOyeg&uudgbfKgxxFq	!fNvvbuDBozCsk!yFptclwgdHMyw!gDfbhnFhmES
smlkplrAiBMew^iAofbfDAfKHfx*Bqaxkftsfn

OrauvtJhhxtss!rAoigwrwpLyxd|AoibcsrpnIyim_kzu?bBzhusxtd>kloggirAp
iAoukiwyaBHef;oxekplrkjzCye-rKauvtJlesGzp:o\vugwrkbMuge|kEaqheNptNuq
smugtnsstoteX&oEartjKloMuym=tlxknqrlytGnr^fFigbswAxHLpm+mlbpf
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAobetFzuKunr:ylujcyrtvLNef^fAwgthGtfsvjj=xqauwhzgetNff@yqt
imobdjuvnxths_sAornfulatHid;yqgwneLvattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[kAqng 

ZtfbmjQgqKIgp^sljubyzlaOuxx!yuAgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbiGjvFysx| lbpfezvxsNmm
