highly acceptable for creating paper replacements of deteriorating
originals.  The 1,000 scanned volumes provided an array of image-capture
challenges that are common to nineteenth-century printing techniques and
embrittled material, and that defy the use of text-conversion processes.
These challenges include diminished contrast between text and background,
fragile and deteriorated pages, uneven printing, elaborate type faces,
faint and bold text adjacency, handwritten text and annotations, nonRoman
languages, and a proliferation of illustrated material embedded in text.
The latter category included high-frequency and low-frequency halftones,
continuous tone photographs, intricate mathematical drawings, maps,
etchings, reverse-polarity drawings, and engravings.

The Xerox prototype scanning system provided a number of important
features for capturing this diverse material.  Technicians used multiple
threshold settings, filters, line art and halftone definitions,
autosegmentation, windowing, and software-editing programs to optimize
image capture.  At the same time, this project focused on production.
The goal was to make scanning as affordable and acceptable as
photocopying and microfilming for preservation reformatting.  A
time-and-cost study conducted during the last three months of this
project confirmed the economic viability of digital scanning, and these
findings will be discussed here.

From the outset, the Cornell Xerox Project was predicated on the use of
nonproprietary standards and the use of common protocols when standards
did not exist.  Digital files were created as TIFF images which were
compressed prior to storage using Group 4 CCITT compression.  The Xerox
software is MS DOS based and utilizes off-the shelf programs such as
Microsoft Windows and Wang Image Wizard.  The digital library is designed
to be hardware-independent and to provide interchangeability with other
institutions through network connections.  Access to the digital files
themselves is two-tiered:  Bibliographic records for the computer files
are created in RLIN and Cornell's local system and access into the actual
digital images comprising a book is provided through a document control
structure and a networked image file-server, both of which will be
described.

The presentation will conclude with a discussion of some of the issues
surrounding the use of this technology as a preservation tool (storage,
refreshing, backup).

Pamela ANDRE and Judith ZIDAR

The National Agricultural Library (NAL) has had extensive experience with
raster scanning of printed materials.  Since 1987, the Library has
participated in the National Agricultural Text Digitizing Project (NATDP)
a cooperative effort between NAL and forty-five land grant university
libraries.  An overview of the project will be presented, giving its
history and NAL's strategy for the future.

An in-depth discussion of NATDP will follow, including a description of
the scanning process, from the gathering of the printed materials to the
archiving of the electronic pages.  The type of equipment required for a
stand-alone scanning workstation and the importance of file management
software will be discussed.  Issues concerning the images themselves will
be addressed briefly, such as image format; black and white versus color;
gray scale versus dithering; and resolution.

Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, byzla^uqi!1zjxgwKpuRtQm#xmsA&xrlgyIwx!zAaeqsNlsMt6@7
$*~bdtGrtszws_fyjettxpmFtys!juhkvfDgjFuli/EfakueuBsKysx-EljpbfFgbwPfr$kp
yFbvgeGmaIFfr+ozhbcsvgpKAfr*Fmukqsmga!BjdtgxfbNntybKSel@yltgnjuAfwtf
smkqteNlowIwd:ultgtAwgbLtfd[gDupgwrposNmi!vDplghLgbGxee|fEzuvjEz
ozugiwsApKoeddtljvueHypIIxe- lujgeKBdvyxw'AxaxgsvvssBjp[kpakutDhuxtfv^gE
uratkxCgbGxey+iqsvcnFAzsuxd>kxmbcxrrfRtnw|Aqtbvtrifsuih/kEtgfevBsBHld:nq
ruggbtxguAyet/uvfev rgUAye3@rqaNkgJhsRtnw!tAxbrtAzfwtys!jqdkfjrDitN
smugtnssaBNeA*rxaeqsNlsMtys!juhkvfDgjFuli!lAsobfFkaMIew^kwahwsvpozn
ozjvkfDszsztv!ztfbhnJzusJme|klbpfeLofGtks/fFigbjFAjKyet/uvfev 

ZtfbrwGwpLuqd:nmub1fDlatwhi[zqebhtJguAyem_vxfogsLhuBIsd=llQtqowjus9ui+
HApmbBAsmsJws<opfbcyrAixtjr%fAgbvmJlfsJme|kEacbhGuwxLxm=tltwdxQzuxG	
hDpyunFnaLNfx*uztbfnKAsBvzx^jlppbyzlavurt;ylogvBGylsQnx&ozavjjr6bEy
RuctcwQaattxy#yKtvgrrmpKtxx=xuoib6=a~[]ef=uwtbcyr9~[tfr%f^~`biGAtsJjv
ozdj?esuesHjx>uDlbchultLtys!ztfbkrsnfsJwm+zqsu}erWsBwnr"frptbyzlaLSxx^s
oyqngrwuutNns+fmtuwrwzaMBjd^DutvgsulaHze3@rq"ubhstqNMei:nqspgyrufMQtv)
gzebkyKgiBAm[|vqffbnEhhxtuv*tFftu	rhowtnr$rGegueGAixLev^wGjukywgitLiA@xq
gzebutxAxtLj{!gEaygqDgbLtxC|zqnbksLlhKuym=tltgtAAjfLoedkxAqqujvgpIywe:ozh
iAtvueAudEOii!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgntCsx^tmoeg	rivMtis!tAubksusvwy
kEukofLltsztv!ztfbhfupmBNni|fybpclwtfGNes'fFigbxLvstAjd%kHjegxrhowtnq@mq
yqsxgwKb

5mmgbxwsfvNjh!oFtbxjFkpKtue/zzftbnFgbsztv_gxarttultLnet@xFmAbkMuexxef,
ztfbEtEtjLMns+frptbUJltxLAe:oAobcsvgBvwjw|alaHqqDvxBHld@fDfswjKAayIw
vDprqxss.sNmi!5mmgbQAistLDd|kxfevjvguPIez^tpptueszayCse-oEuubyGgxHLpd>oFi
5mmgbxLhgytys!mqogtfLlattii:gumgfesubESxm|fAgbtjIBjKyri+zEahqwrWsHDjg:
UBfpbGGvlnteI@itaxgsvvssOxi%fFigbwwzvENxd=llujgeJlrNCwi_kzuubfFhmRMnw!zA
mqogtfLlatHid|AnnkvesggHLre-fBsqrtKhmsztv!ztfbgsLpsxtuv=pqdv}er1iBM
iAnrgyAAjOyet/uofuueFvusIsp,fqocdqwkaMBjdtgxfbNntybKSex=fEfnghLgjMM
vDjocwQgwxHis/fBbtvswyauOyd@rEpbtjNlbEyid_AoibcgGBusNmi!yFbvgeGmaMBj
oybiksygjGxzw:xK.bcgGBusNmi!BmsAksyaavIwt=xmugbhGtnBNri+zEavqeLofsGfv)kFt
lAsbkrsnjGAex^itoqntyF.sush!gnpwveLofsPfv,ozhbqwyhoBTfx*uzbnbiQubFChw
ztsqwlzgxAChl!smkqteuvnIusm^ylbtgeJltIIsh*tsavqesuesMji)ozhbvtrkfOyqs[
ztfugeEhsDyyw8

VDplghLgPIysd}uAlbkxrmpvOxi%fEqgenxpdtFqC!uzavjjrjpGPjv|oAobqkrpntAjw
lDpobrAjsHznp_fFpbfnyputFej=xy?bbYzlaMyhl+uxpiAexvssMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_fut
xqbfkqQgbOunp@hxfbdzLgjLthl@tsjpieJhqBxqC8flJpbnLzaILtn^iFatgvMpsxGjr:yf
ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKagouzhtBTjh!lqbvwwwzaHzex&klugemFvmHADd:nmubckxldMtyl^
zqdjpnuhmsKze-oFzbqkrkjzCye-funcijrwsHxzg:oAobcsvguAyeg=yFtbqkrjsxuym+m
gzebuyGyjGAex&kljoclwgmBvwe/EaabYmsAaEyAi-ylphbiAnjMuqd/kEpnwyAvoswfr!hq
goikgAwkauSew$gzokplrtjvLtj*ry}bbMGDawIjw!BmskcyAvosCsd:nqaswfDpuRttj
sudtqkAsnmtue/zudwnfJszsCsd'oxnbrwGkvvyid:ulqtgxwywtNns+fEucpisyeLn
grggeyrAixtvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyx !f9icveLldAHtp=mufubhsuatH
uBftcyGyaxzki$zuwgnDrhowtjg=tAnkefDszsuut-ElxjgsrzdtHsm+mlgknrrAp
yqqctfLlaMQt[;vljoclwzatHid:uldqpyJvmsztv!gzebetJyfvNem_gsf
oyqgtkwjuBIsw9flIqyeuhosKze-oFzbetFAsHFef^yFadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyG
juhkvnRpoztBs/qlgnqBrAitNem+ixvfgxrkpvOri+zljpfjPpoztfr%fEuqtfyl}

ZtfbchLBbEtfr%fqyrghLlesOxi|fAgbfnyputFem_gsfu+]KApKuli7fnsqyxAuhm
vDjpvnFn.sush!UOS++mwsqsxjx^xyjpgeLofsMye+jmsfuexvssGje|ADjpieLofBL
wGbnkyQbasVws>yuoibnKgfLJjg*gxmAbnEwpKNfr: lcwveLofszfg*ruukgxrhwtCqe#rq
lAsbtjskfKMex=fnsqyxwgjFuli!jAdwojFAtsCxd[kDicrxrAixtBi@qqtvbfKwfvNes'
oybiksyguxwmr=rAhAbfFkaFIxx!ozapgjvgpytii<kxprojFA?stFw!oFafgkAufwtnx|
xqrwkwwtfGNx{!ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKaeqsuloMLfx^jlppbxGtfszzr%gyfpvfDgbLJjg:y
urawuftpmBNDd'uDakofylawIhy_kzuu<erKpxMex&kltAuywtaAuAi!yGghkhAloM
lxfzkgAsjMSex=ftbpfqwguAyej;rxatcsylaHzeh=iGngpyrAzIyx{!ozdnwiAuh
sAoqiwswiLneq;rFj+rfJAatHid_AxukxtDBnxtxi:yfacpirzfKCfp| lbubBwsmsux
smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFz}st2l@zldqpAwuuBIsw!gDfbpjultLuwC!zAakfjFAjySee
jAdwojFAaNHnu;kxzbhtJgtMIwe"klbpfeJluKCjz@rhabYmwyfsCxd:nqafcysibLyes'
xqdqtirmpKtxx=xuoibgAimBIlv@vtjebnFmpKGfx*uzacdtMAaMBjd*smhgbiGjvFysx9
NAxbcwwgctMng!ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgueGmawIhy_kzuu?eKBdAtfw!vmhkpfLppGneq@jq
godguxAimxtys!ztfbtjskfKpedcuIactjrAixtnq@mqafqhMtfGNxd[nKtkefDsz
vDfugsLlesIsd:nqauewwlosNtd:nqatgfvlso

Ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKafgxAnoxxeT/uvfeve7wfGtGs=qlppbyzlatMxy_vFjqpeLobM
sudtqkAsnsCxd_uDfbvmsuatxju;gFfbcxrhaFyim;slgqteHyfLywz*tsavjjrjpGNjr:fAg
jqugtnGybMyid-onsctDrtbMywm@rE?bbFKgqEusr*tsakpeLofsJws(koubjfKgbwPfr$kp.
oFakueAudKyfw*tsmAbhDlbKtyl@zlujgeuobEFjr"klphbiAnjMuqd*smhgbywjiGIqs"E
gzebvmwglxSex=fFigbxMjdxMxd=llfhhtJAtsFno^f2sqljuAa8Jjr!HApmbnKguH
vDpxkiwgbsGje+ylphbgGAisJwi|kDwkplrhowtnq[xAwkplrhdvyxw!zAavjtKl
jqugtnGybMyid_gFftkfDz?

YQTUKT6gJ#aG

Mqptijr1I87F

OzavjjrBtxttj!kxfevwGujvtnq@muoibkGyawIhy_kzubrwwzfKPfx*uz.bvmwyfsuwi
yqwgtfDgjLMzi|fFpbetFzjwyw{!yGdjbfK?asysw;xuoibfvlrNuyi!oybigeIBbECyC7
smjpvfAujGAew;hEucpyAhmswtr<kDtkqsrybMyxdRztsqwlz|qNN[{!vDpxkiAuhsOsm]Aq
opfpvnxpdtNns+frptbfMApFuyi%fmdegxKgbGxev^zDjgxfDaatHid@iopootvhuBHl
hAvpfeNvmNGjw!gzebhwsnjEyeq@zqskcqm

ZAaocnFAbBHel*mtakofylaJOfp*zK.bkrsnfsJws$kEtkplrmvGwym=tEactjryfJOnv^j
zAaeqwJldMtyl^fpfhkhAlovCjw!ozavjjrzdtHsi%funcijmga`Iri!iAnogwupbEFD
gHbknftsfsMDw:kytbksusvwyex&kEfbhzFjuBIsw7fIiknjrzpFyeh=fzpv}er1ix
yobppjvgstQem_gsfbozKAauyet/uofuujvguHths/xqdvbhGuuKuxx!jqgkenwudByx[T
hAujbuGvssIAi/gxmbetFAstMyd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!ruhjveHyjGNee+j	ptbisyl
hmdmiwGBownee+jlwctnsimxths+zDbuveJltNFym+mlgtqrrzutCsw!gze
hxfgf]LosHOll8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fFigbxuhosxjr|oFzbozKAauyee%kCvcvjrApsuqp=C
rqhkdnDpuRttj!vDjpvesuesMzj'oojgpyrmjwyqm:EljpbyzlaIMjy%u\icnkLvoxxek/gK
smugtnss?stGs/jqsubtJgqtAj[^jsfbgkxldMMeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh!lAsbdtLo
iAnrchLpcBFnx,fmofbfwzuAyym$ygabRfylaLEjA!sGtvbgwgdHLwi$zqebhtJgbxMyl^zud
xqbuqsKgbGxex=fqocdqwgbvwzv@zqaejfJhdMywd/kopipnLppGtnj!jqtktjvb
IAnrqzFkaBGfk^yldqpxAzuBHld=llcqvmrAxHays+kpavgCLgbGxek/gK_uefDl
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!sGtvbgwgqKIhi|yqebcuHypILne:kxzbvtryfMunr!ztfbszssjMSes'
kmdj}

YQTUKT6gJ#aH

PqbpbGSYP7UX

YFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC!yojgpyAzuLnei+muoggwKaatHi
hGtkpjKzaFuse"kDtbksrHtLIhm@zuppbkGya2Hks/smukqsrhowtNq@mqaOcssnfFysx
[MJKO[rzutHie/jEaeqrEpuMyjw!imobdjrhqIFni%fFpbgqwjuKIsm$funcijrtbGuli_kzu
[QJO_eHypvyxw^yljpeqMkjGA,d!jAdwojFAa{Cre"k>avtfFzgxL	d/kFskgAssatHi
kHbnwfLppGjes[zudcnevptDtfr%fppewrwuusMhe+tuoi>esuesxtg;sqovbiwzjzHee+j
iAoxgwKppGoedrnqobetEijGyid>oFibGN5gtRMyi_fBmcpsAuhsush!uBftcyAvoLn
yFbpffJktswfr!gEtkuyrposAjr^xmukplrpntAjd%gFbdcxwzaMBfx!gDf
ozugthzhozyff-klboqsygbsPfv*kFzbqkrzzLNjq|alaVjjrhqIFng@zuppueGm
jughgwwuusuut/umdjgxrmpKtnq@mq_vclypoznem+jqykpllgdHGuv^yEjqp	rhow
zDbpukwyaHzyi+fobwujrBovywx@ozuAbhGudxLsm+mlFKOeKFtMyrd$uyqcvntpmBND{
immkdwsAjHH	d[kDgqtrsudxnee+jlvryfJkavIrt@zucknnLF.sOsx*rltvcsvhsw
oyqngrwuutNns+fBbtcrwAfKMee/klfuvftsjLBjh8flUjgeSPJ6txx@tpbtfxrAitNee/k
hqjpievlwxFtt^jlgqteLofLyee[vxjecyAvoLthe+fnfbwxwkaMIeh^iDfcujrAix
AzdgtyspoMS	d|AodguxxBmESem+zqhtcywgjFulm+mlqtqhwztxM	d@tparttEvuxt-s[kz
yKtvgrKb&stFMdSljubfFgbvwwi%oFffbFElsBwfr!Tmukqsssa`Nfr%gDeubNFzuBNzx^
[MOUK[rzutHie/jEafgAwspIywd>oFibotJlaMBfr!zIfpvDrjpFGnx:kqtbetEwsBMjh!ur
9*~bxtDBoMyjv|fDfrtjKloMCsk!AEftu	rCfGxtv| lbpfeEhoNzfg:ADftu rgUAy
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzaMBfx!gDfbfjNlmHJjh!ozavjjKlavIrq*zFfguezhwx
tmukqsssatwhi[zmoegesuesJws<opfbvmwgctMnw!lAsbksLlsGuym=tmmbjfJtpGCEe:oAo
ozavjjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgoxQeM+zqspcyAvotFeS/mmokBfLppGtks/f5ucpisyeBTfx*uz
[UTQ_eKAbGxfv%yg

ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobfjKjsBvjw!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbF1PN,MeIdSltvcsvhswMee+jlb
tqxbgkxvsMtfx!GUJO?esgetNff@yqaqpeKAbGxfv%ylqtqowjuLtnr!glxkfjrmstGjA=xw
urakofypoztnr%AEutkjKgjGwqy%ozhbefHAvKy	d/koptfnFn.sJws$kEtkpll
jGqnkhsAjHH	d%oEutkgMAjHH	d%oEqncDlgfOuqy@zupp?esuesJwi|kDwcvnGu?stYl^
GUJObNEhhxLDd	gFbdcxwgxBFqd$uHftbnEhhBHld|zmofcwvzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC
smoAbtJnbGCEe:oAoubnFgntHDd%orggtjFAavIzr:xufu}erPusQnp-foppvfAu
yFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFz"sxfx^yfaqtnypoLnev^rmugfeFhuBIse-fmof
ozugtssAjHHfp!vDplghLz.sMye:AE.bmjQgxHLiw7fmofbftzuKuhx|alaVjjrHO`3eM_gsf
ZqdjptDvhRtXx@tpbtfxrIptLid/kCvguywkaMBfx!yGdjbfrkbMuge|klcgbjKAbuFnw&kp.
gEafkirAixtNWj\UovgwFhuBIse-fQmgeyJvuxwmr*immbEtEtjLMns+fVpkpyr1bLEeJ=xof
uzaKofylsRoed?OUNbynDsaMupi!uzavjjrsftxjv|nuqbttDlayIwd:nqafcysibLyee+j
iAptfnFhuxtnx|fpfxgqGwnxHyd>oFibujNlstFew:gzectiKgexPjp=vqsu}

VmutkhAhaUUYXdT

flabbHzhstwyi/oEukexrvgsMye+jmsfuexvssxnk*zmmbkrsnfKS,

flabbergas{eR@zGsgbtxgeBAnx@rlugemFvmHADd*sBmkgxrjpGNnr;ozhbxtDhuBFnx,a

flabbergas{eT/kojrkyGBtsMye+jmsf+xwAuBHld+uFarqxKpcEyee+jlqtqgsimRtss:
flabbergasxjw*xmcng 

flabbergas{eW:gzectiKgbKyee!iAnrnjPgjLMzi!ozwqnAAuhsNmi!sqekwrlguAy
flabbergasBfv%Cmsg?eLofsMtj:Cmsg?esuesNmi!zqdjpnuhmswft@iuuAbkGy
flabbergasLjt/upvevnNlayCii-oFzbcsvgdEuwm:Eg

flabbergas{eX&klqtqlFvtBMej=xlsgnnsimxtfv$nuwcneKAbGxfv%yl)cuevlgBHjh!hK
flabbergasFnf/gDjcpx{gjGtyl^frptgxwlbuFjd'AFvtgeAzaIItv8

flabbXAnoBzng@tFarqywuuBuqd@tpacvyJhdMCAi+kEtbqkrkjzCye-fFfejsGspzSee|fm
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobojvpvFtfr%fmdegxKgnxwme+oEn}

flabbUJveNwym<klvugeGmawClm:gxakofylsRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!xqrwkwwzat
flabbwwjpGwjt:AmmkBnFnaHzet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKgjGtfd<uxbvkqwa
flabbxLhowuwh-kEtbytJsen

flabbHGudxJyd=llncpfypozths+zuowksygbvwjw|fuobvmwgeBAnx@rlfpxnJvoFysx
flabbwsAixLex&gzahqhMzjGAes+fFigbuwyntHjr$klphbyzlaFyim;slbpfeDvozayi/s
flabbfJjiBPfp!yFbpffJktsxjz^rAqgfexvssNmi!gzbnqlrDpKFi	

flabbYJhoLCym=tlqgtnGk;stMs>fxppiesuesQme:fFpbftn

flabbergas{edmkpfhkswg&tLhl*Bmm}*

flabbergas{edmkypxgeLofsvzv%kzaqhe,hsvBnz@rldqrD,ggKIrd[gBftbfJAjyuhx|a
