known is that compression entails some loss of data.  BESSER urged that
more studies be conducted on image quality in different situations, for
example, what kind of images are needed for what kind of disciplines, and
what kind of image quality is needed for a browsing tool, an intermediate
viewing tool, and archiving.

BESSER remarked two promising trends for compression:  from a technical
perspective, algorithms that use what is called subjective redundancy
employ principles from visual psycho-physics to identify and remove
information from the image that the human eye cannot perceive; from an
interchange and interoperability perspective, the JPEG (i.e., Joint
Photographic Experts Group, an ISO standard) compression algorithms also
offer promise.  These issues of compression and decompression, BESSER
argued, resembled those raised earlier concerning the design of different
platforms.  Gauging the capabilities of potential users constitutes a
primary goal.  BESSER advocated layering or separating the images from
the applications that retrieve and display them, to avoid tying them to
particular software.

BESSER detailed several lessons learned from his work at Berkeley with
Imagequery, especially the advantages and disadvantages of using
X-Windows.  In the latter category, for example, retrieval is tied
directly to one's data, an intolerable situation in the long run on a
networked system.  Finally, BESSER described a project of Jim Wallace at
the Smithsonian Institution, who is mounting images in a eqyvtjElmR
xGekojFAbKSeA@ElppbyzlaVIrt;yqsxbfFkaZysm^fzfvytJrtsush!oEartjHhsBHld:
