statistician faces a major difficulty in specifying, identifying, and allowing
for the quality of goods and services. The division of a PPP GNP/GDP estimate
in dollars by the corresponding estimate in the local currency gives the PPP
conversion rate. One thousand dollars will buy the same market basket of goods
in the US as one thousand dollars - converted to the local currency at the PPP
conversion rate - will buy in the other country. GNP/GDP estimates for the
LDCs, on the other hand, are based on the conversion of GNP/GDP estimates in
local currencies to dollars at the official currency exchange rates. One
caution: the proportion of, say, defense expenditures as a percent of GNP/GDP
in local currency accounts may differ substantially from the proportion when
GNP/GDP accounts are expressed in PPP terms, as, for example, when an observer
estimates the dollar level of Russian or Japanese military expenditures;
similar problems exist when components are expressed in dollars under currency
exchange rate procedures. Finally, as academic research moves forward on the
PPP method, we hope to convert all GNP/GDP estimates to this method in future
editions of The World Factbook.

Growth rate (population): The annual percent change in the population,
resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the balance
of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be positive or
negative.

Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs - narcotics,
stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis. These
categories include many drugs legally produced and prescribed by doctors as
well as those illegally produced and sold outside medical channels.

Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana (pot,
Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, Marinol), hashish
(hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).

Coca (Erythroxylon coca) is a bush, and the leaves contain the stimulant
cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa, which comes from cacao seeds
and is used in making chocolate, cocoa, and cocoa butter.

Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.

Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and include
chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal, phenobarbital),
benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone (Quaalude), glutethimide
(Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl, Valmid).

Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental, emotional,
or behavioral change in an individual.

Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that results
in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an individual.

Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-awareness, and
emotion.

Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot), mescaline and peyote (mexc,
buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants (PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP,
angel dust, hog), phencyclidine analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others
(psilocybin, psilocyn).

Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).

Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.

Marijuana is the dried leaves of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis sativa).

Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to opium,
opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics include opium
(paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol
w/codeine, Empirin w/codeine, Robitussan A-C), and thebaine. Semisynthetic
narcotics include heroin (ho=xEf?bxEhdD 	d@tpajAiJvnHLul=tqa-FnDhvwCi=8
YKovjjLpdsHfv$uFjeueAudEOii!sqqgtnvpoxttv!VqujkiAufs	Ii_kDpn?e5lqxLle+]f
squjciGufs	Is-uBikpjlgNxNme%uEf_?esuesIyl^xEa-FfJCpGneP=sAukn[m

UBjwoeAzaMBjd_oxlAbjPBetNjd=llujgeAudBMjh7fGotkuwgtxyit=jlphbyzlaHJny_fBprrDm

UBjwoeHvqISe+kgBbxgwrzpFHnj^xGn_bnKguAyew=ADdgbkGyaFusC!tmuwtfDgbGx
yqnkuDFAixNng!tmseqyAjtn

VAqrAeKAstQeg=tofpvwsAfsCxd:nqacnpsspBxeh^xuwgfexypFtyl^fybvwwwgeKCjh!uBjwo
vAqrA 

Wmub-psA.sEme:]ljubfrzuBGzp@tFahttEguAyef;jEaqteDlbOyxd=llDcvmsgfwOqm|fFicv
oEaejjOlesIwd%xGombfKguxu 

YFjowqsuuLtfv^fpswixrAitNev^rufxgeEpmwtii[xqtuktFaaBHhv^gEfbgswyhRtfr%
goukxnLF.sush!ozdnwiwgdHwfm+kl)eqpwaaLHtA7foscep{aatGul^zmnkpjKg)Wyxs\Ez.
JqygfwAuf	net&kzngvwsGjGye+kxqmwfnF/.sGjx&ExqjgsAkbMye+moFbnks{aatHid=ztftu
[OzngwLaa`uss/kJ.bVjFBbMy[	

OzgcpyrtpKNfp*zKatcyw?a!Bjd+AycgteGmawyfx&yluqbnFmbGNxd;tpftbtFlaRyfv!uxebks
glhkxjFgzxuwd[kDan?#=%aECAi!husvjxrvdvOwv*tsakpeLofsMfq^fKfct 

RmofbzKl;s2zq@tlvugeGmaMBjd-gzebuzJmbvyem|fobvglGyjSyid@ylbtcgDlaEush!/lmcpi
iGmvkAsAfwtks/fosqrxrAitNee/klsgrqsuuxxee'zqsbgfuoaAuwz^yFa-ymwhumtre*Fq.
xudg_.rwfKGfr^tFaettHza tqe+jldwnyACbMyid'uDaettHzaMBfx!gDfbptLgsxJqe+zqe
grugtewhdAtme/Bqtvb=upuKOx{!iAghgjlgsNvgi/]baogfvvxLtfr%fBbuvzJltsaep@tp
vqsocswuuESey|kpahqwrofKvfg^uGtbhtJhhxthv=vE<bhtJltMtfr%fIpqfqsuesaep@tp
AzegtevloLyes/fAqgpeKAbGxxd=llutgjK}atHid=ztftb]rhoRtqe+jluArjrupMtxt^iugk+
immnAeEloMCtr^jlbdqAwg)NLge+fmsgcxlgsHuiw7fpfugwL/?s@mi!vqsegsLhhxtkm"ADfbhtJ
oDskifLlesFfr%fDfhgwKguHtyl^fBptvnGuaHzex&klfpvnJlatGty+zlphbqsuesuwi@fFicv
oEactyAmjvCfp-EltwruDpfwtBm:nlxcvjJb

RqbfgwK?a!Bjd$nufhbtxgtMuyi!oEavjjrAjMOqe/fxfcfjJgpytyl^fopwpyJFaPBt
xqqtgxwuuLtyl^fEucvjrhusIkj*iubnbfFkavywi_uzjcnexBovCtr|fnvvbnKgoHNem+BAmxgi
CuujbyzlawuD[:u\ecAesjuBPnx*kEaqheLofsAtz^xzngpymgUAyel^gpaqheyvwxLsq^tFaku
ztfbciEpoBMyv@zuwgbqwhexLeA&ulncpfyltsNmi!jmz+vt	kbRtfg:oHjvkjKgpytyl^
mAwgtsEloMoeM+fFigbZ3aaMBjd_uzbtemrptsNmi!itjgheGmaLNfx^ lbpfeLofs0wm_k
SuokuywyaBMex&kligcirvgsAtz^xzngpymgJGtyl^f7T?byzla9Ljw*jqovbnKgcHNmd:nq
itjgheGmaLNfx^fmofbyzlaAyfh!uraiqAwyoFysx8

RuggbjPwfvNfr$ElbvbgAyuAieX&klbxgwsnfsHzq#kDaqheQlbKMex=fnfbnnNlesvDd@fssqwu
urargtHsfsuqp!hAspbnFguAyew@sqaAgfJaaBzeq=xFbnkyQgbMtje$nlbigeJlntCsw
iAouvfFAaBHex&klgwvzJl?

RuugtfuF;s@mi/klbtgeFvaNHnz^xEbnbiwmjGCym=tEacpirzutHie/jEaqheDpuxLfg,a
1zmguxrvuAywA*yqapqywk.suqp!xmuguesyfsvfw^jlppbyzlaFIxx!iAnoqsrkfyCsm:oAob+
ztfbcgAsjMSex=fDfcfesuesQwm:klbvbfrzqxwnj*kpacijmgExNfm-ozhbvmwgtMush@xpt
ztbvbnFkjOCiy@rldqwsLyjxMey|kluqbfKzfLMex&klbdkqAAzsNtd/kmebcsvgxKCyi!oE
hqzqpirAixtxg=vqaqheLojLtuy#rudcvnGu?

Smqu<eSsmsGft|fIjnnetlatPfm-gnmgbtFszsCsd:nqartnFAfwtAi/yuppbkGyaMBjd'uDf+
yqfcdqwggNNzv^a

SmskvnElavFfm_yaaVjjrwsHRnq*zKaqheFljzBgs/ozhbuysAfLtre,fBsgxjFAaLIri
tmukqsssavFfm_ylgtqrrifBHld'AxmAbjPAfGxjh8

SqsejfFAaFuwm+kaaCnqrziBJxd^tsbigirposNmi!imstkfylaHzek=upt}bFDsavIrq^xojcn
BqtugqKg)tMes[vAtgfeLvatFqd+uznknnLhsRtxl*vE-?bBzpdAtjB$rGegueLBhLnej*ytjpi
BqtugqKaaHzkw&uDfbqnDgsBAx{!kFd}>esstHnee!mDpwrnFnaHzeq^xoicpyrziBJxd#E
tmukqsssjMSes/fDfikxLlsn

ImqvkAwgsxAnw:kDa+bFryfzCxx^xlphbxzpqLtre*tFbkpjvgcRtfd:kDskvtJF.sJtw|kEtkqsl
uDaeqqGuzsJwm_gDjnAeGyaxRhp;yuwgnDrmpKtyl^fGtgbtxgtACuw!uIogfeAuaMBjd[gDfpv
iAvpvwQ}atFxs!xqggtwwkaMIee|fmobqkxziHLjd/ksjuvjJaaMBjd=lrtjqwwgfJOnz@rqov
uracpeAuuxLse-fDfikxLlsntXl*vEaqpesgdtJym<klsginKAfKtBm-rlgnAeLofsMfq^frmci
gEavjjrwbKysx!iAvpvwQaaHLee!rAdcneNhsBusx!urakv	rivMtBm-rlcgbxMikxwyd:ulujg
smskvnElaEuBw!gzebvfPhuBIsd/AxfubtxguAyes'lEiqtjrAfKLnx=xK?bCqLopNAmd:nq
tmuwtjrvgsueg@vFjxgeJlhBMyi/fybmgxrpusyxt^iubnnDrkfLCwe#rqahqwrziBJxd=CzffbnF
ztfbrfJloMths;tFsA?eBBtMtfw!ozavjjrpoMywr@rlsginKAfKnex&kltjkuKgntSee-yAadg
uIogfesisHui	!ZtfbefHAjOyev^mutvgwrAixHee$zEacuesggEuld=lldqpAwujxHhi
xqhkuywy.syCg^vFavjfLgjMtnw!tAubvmwgsxAnw:kDaqhesuaBHii[kzegpyrzutNj	

LxbibtxgdHHAi+oqoegeJlhBMyi/f\aCbssAjHHfp!xqhkuywyaHzki/ozhbtjyptMLfx*uzavqes
sqsejfFAaLBnt!tAubqBFlesCsd:nqahnfygtMuyi8f6igbrsqpKtkp@mEaqheuvoOysm^tof
[RPE_esAuKuhx!ytjrueLvaMBjm/fDfikxLlssvDd<oDuwgeGmaEIBd'kqt?bqGDaHL
tAogznKAfGNex@DmukqsrvgsJws'oFt?bfFkaECgi/gxaocsFpoztwi]AusgojFAtntYv;klGQE
xqhkuywytsuwi!itbtchLlsBTjh!hKajcAAuhsLjp@zuwgnDrmfPttj!ztfbumAwtsLjk*yFftgi
gouwcqDFaHQsi%fuobvmwggEuld|zmug}e`ovLneA&oxfbxnJAvtFqC!gzzbhqsnavusd#klvugi
lAsbumAwtsOsh^xlbbinNlosMjx!uraekwuBnLNfr$kE.bcsrMPVtwi"oEugteAzaHHjd>nqsg
ztfbofBvsBNDd=llujgeElsvBfr:frmggyrptsIBr^jlbdttsk?
OFakuesstHtwi'kDsgfeLvatMee+fAqgpeJlhBMyi/a

LxbibxLhuxt]donqapcyAvosCsd>nudjbfrziBJem|fDfikxLlsxxee+jlxjkhzgiHFiw!rqhcn
pGskuiAjuBIsd=BqsbquwybMCtr!uravjjrziBJ	d>nqujgwrhusBtq^fAsbcgJvbwo
JughgwwudxMem+frmcieKAbMyeq@xuukojrsfzCxp@zuppbiwAfKGnr^ftpybfrziBJem|fybppjv
gzebvfPlesush!CtfvjjJgbsztv^oso+qBFlesMmm[fybAbgwgqEuhi%fAobvmwgsxAnw:kD?

OzugtsssaKylm|zqsb+eSgsxAnw:kDaqheKojIMeq@ozuckswkatMee!yGcugyrvgsuer@zuppcq
xqhkuywy?s!mm[ylppbyzlaBHyi/tmmbtjyptMywd'rKavjjrubMCtr@rlgnclrhowtme<klujcy
tmukqsssjMSef;zlbtgeKBcCyhx!zAacbxwwbKuyi!yqubqkrtbKCym_klswnjKggKIrd:nAtgbtF
ztfbofAuaGuym=tmmbtjyptMyw	!Ztfugevpgyywi+iqtbwxMhmESem+ixvfgeDvxxLex@Dmukqs
urarttxpuLneq@tzjpietFayIwi*mzapcyAvotFx{!gze?bzKBbEFD{!uIogtxzpqsIzx|opfbvmw
lxbibxLhuxt=A&kzakvexBovNns+ylbubfFgG8Wev^mutvgw{ba!BjdiuDxginsua2Hyi/tmukqsss
YtjrbWwnjLNjv!gzebFfFptAtNr:kDocvnGubEtXl*vlSginKAfKtfv^fFigbrGzusHtx@hxf
kJborqwzaHzee+fuovgwFhmsLjk*yFft}
HAujbmsCfsvji+fuouvwMtfGNfp!ozauvjEtjGAej-osivbkJvnsNmi!tmukqsssayFfk!zA
lxbiueGmavIsz^tufpejrhowtnr!gFutchLpoztks/kuhp+tOufwtxl*vEavqeLofs8tv>ksjcp
gzebFfFptAtkp@mE?

SqsejfFAaLBnt!/lBbxjKzfEtyl@zldctwAltsAts%ylbicnFzusJfC_kzubqkrmsxCll:?
iAnoqsDFaNMjh!zAafgsGAfsusC!tAookqAAbKSew&oBadwyrhdvOwe:kxzbtjKAsBwyi%fFp
iAnogwupbEtAi|yqmubtFszn

Xqhkuywya tYl^fDfeqwvgpytfd|nuq&ueGDoxLxl*vlbpfeFhuBIse-oFzbcxrsjLNjh!Cuuj
ztfbofJpuBGjd@AFiqtnLpfLttj!gldqwsLyzitfp|ufavjjrjpFJjr%oGnbqkrzvvBem+juwkfzss
ytjru)ryfzCxx/gFjqpxmgSxAnw:xmukqsrvgsuew&oBarttNpexMem:fIjvjesgotNns+gxjvA
gzebofCltsCyd|AnkgeyrApsNmi!rmxubtxguAyeg=AzutAeAuaPBng&fDfikxLlsxxe+:nqahnfy
yFbvg[ryfzuwh-kEtbqkrAixtse:oAocnnLFaHzex&kltjku\zaNFym_gFfbqBFlsn

SAogAexphNLjw2fMmnbfJlaxRuv^yEffbnFgdHHyi_vAscpjGBts#Xd%uxmctxrBoEyxw
uFigtBAzfsCsh*imugf 

TqubonyybMCtr!xmug<e`ofsvfp@tofbdjLDfxHex&klowogwyaHzet^xEppuewuuxLnr"fmof
rqbxksygbswty+zDzbfzJpoztyl^fKfcteHlss&	@E$lqgtxGuts	ge|kpaqpeEpeRyfv
vAqwnfLppG  d?tlfzejKzaHzet^xEppuewuuxLnr"fFigbhGBoMLDd*ylsghjJyfwtys!gEapgy
oynkiwsAjHHe+xa%7bonyybGNx<v *~`buGwvEuym=t><bcsrlyvyxw!urargwKvoLtqi@Buoibyzl
iAvpvwQgbLtsi:fqnkiwsAjHHe+T#g38brAnstHywZ7f~``eHvqNFfx*uz-}

VAqwnfLppGieJ*mGsguesyfsyxx*smuguexypFtyl^fNvtgfMgpytyl^fOfpuzKgctMjh!uz
yFbvkxLpdLtkv=slqqrzDhuBIsd$kztwujKaaOCye-fDfikxLybMCtr!yKtvgrKaaHLew@sBmg
yGsxgDKgqxLye*tuoibyGguAyev^iqovbuszumtfr%fAobcxKBnINns+ylbdqzLggNNzv^fFsgpiKb

ZAucnexlsMCqm:ElscvjggUAyee<kDbigeFBnuywd=lldjkqvyfGtyl@zlxqwqvgcxtgs/tlqgt
CAncpeAmatFqd>uyfpbqACfwtys!ztfbgsvgpytyl^oDaejnDkcxuwm+mlzgcwKgbGxef=xq
itjnfwwuatwhs/juoibyGgbsAnz^tlggtyAsjMSev@zqacvewhdAtfk^a

5qbtu,rHmEtDi@xlsghjJlovyxd@xqahqwrAixthe-kzecteQlbKt=Gt]lvpnjKzaBHim$gFffbfK
lutecqrFftLe+a5>?

TAug<e1ugHLre:oAobhtJguAyeYnfmofbZ~gexJjr%kzdkgxrDbLths_vumgfexypFtre:kDjcn
ozavjjrwvuFng!jAncksrhowtis^yloqveJlqKyxi+zlJpvjDsjzysg^fOpoozFpuRtjw:oybvgxm
ZtfbJfFkcHIpd=llJpvjJubMCtr@rlFeqsGtjvtfr%fQoxkwGunxHye-f5ucvnKAjvM	
vGcnkxzlesusr;gxmAbnFgTxJyi_hqsbdDrAixtHi+zDbnbNFAfEFnk^tofbClwudRneg=tFbkpx
jquckqwkaxwtr=sudbksxvsFuym=tlgqteLofs9wk@tuAcvnGuayIwd iAoqonugDHIui/gFjqp
gzebFjNlmHJri+zl)QGHV/avIzr:xufu?eWhtMywr!KGsqrjlguAyer^CxzbksvlqxHii+z
xqqwdqAjtsIkd:nqahqwElssHfx*uztbqkr6vzIxp@BubbcsvguAyeW=BufvbZFppGnee+j
yqmgeywkaHNmi/fopwpyJpfLoeX&klIcpitvpDthe+fnfbqgLhjGyid>nqsgxjJgUAye1=xxe
LmdvdtGraBMee<gumcdqwb


GBqgpiAEaTi

f6igbZFpuxxeR@zuppue~FtMyr

flabVmwgV7tnw!iAnrqxwkaHzew*DlqtksupqtFes/mmoubfFkaGOri/uGtbuztvswCse:k
gsfpenwzatHid#upjgueszayIqp=CE;

7>aUghJlutLne:

8>aIgswybEtFw|kycnA,
flabbZ6JI`ted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOfpvjJggHLeL;smobUjLAmxGjr:yl)JcgAAbM 
flabbZ6JUTXed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOpphjJlovyes+f6scfjrhowtIi<kxprojFA
flabbZ6KQsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fPfxgqGwnxHydkxAhtcr
flabbZ6LQsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fQoxkwGunxHydkxAhtcr
flabbZ6MQTted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f2prwqsAjHHeJ;tp
flabbZ6OD~ted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f1ghkhwgpytMm"nlDqorAztBIsi/frptbWwmvzyjw
flabbZ6PDXZed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOikniJlo,MeJ;tp
flabbZ6PUT`ed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fUouvnLBuxtks/f6scksAuhsush!Xqtgcwuo
flabbZ6YXTted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f4fnkjxgbGxe1=xwtbClwudRtks/f2bngxLpox
flabbergasted!XqgwijwzaBHex&klOgcwrLbLN
flabbZ6ZGsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f5qgenssaYOsh
flabbZ62asted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f7okxjJzjMS
flabb2XJasted!3AsnfeXvpwtHs;tojn
flabb2XWasted!3AsnfeXvpwtUv=mDbo

9>aUghMyjMSeG=Azdkn,
flabbZ6HWX7ed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fMoiqqsgWxLnj*imukqsrTjLMns+