



                ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND

                          Lewis Carroll

               THE MILLENNIUM FULCRUM EDITION 2.9




                            CHAPTER I

                      Down the Rabbit-Hole


  Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister
on the bank, and of having nothing to do:  once or twice she had
peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no
pictures or conversations in it, `and what is the use of a book,'
thought Alice `without pictures or conversation?'

  So she was considering in her own mind (as well as she could,
for the hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid), whether
the pleasure of making a daisy-chain would be worth the trouble
of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a White
Rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her.

  There was nothing so VERY remarkable in that; nor did Alice
think it so VERY much out of the way to hear the Rabbit say to
itself, `Oh dear!  Oh dear!  I shall be late!'  (when she thought
it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought to have
wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural);
but when the Rabbit actually TOOK A WATCH OUT OF ITS WAISTCOAT-
POCKET, and looked at it, and then hurried on, Alice started to
her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never
before seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat-pocket, or a watch to
take out of it, and burning with curiosity, she ran across the
field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see it pop
down a large rabbit-hole under the hedge.

  In another moment down went Alice after it, never once
considering how in the world she was to get out again.

  The rabbit-hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way,
and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly that Alice had not a
moment to think about stopping ajgwKlmytgi'uDfbumwggHOsh!nqsugqx
lmmnksygeHQsd@fHftAevlfItBi-rg

flFkvmwyaMBjd>kxmbyfKgwxLDd%kqq?btJgtAyej^rxaxgwQgtEIBp, lgqteKof
nmebrqwuuRttj!zungbfKgtAyeA^tFafqBFguHtqs=qlbdqzLgixLee+jluq
CAofgwrDitNeA@ylhqksyguHtme[vqobpjPA?stKm/yF.bumwguKCjh!zAanqtC
jAxpbfFkaFupi!uGubymsAaLBjd>gEaeqrAuhsNt{!hGubkyrDbLtys=fpbtmeLv
yqfbcsQAiBHl,!ztfpbxzlaEIto^jlbvbyzlaLCii|fAgbvmwgxxFq{!gze
tAukejvguAuyd:nqzbyjJlayCqp^jlxkvmrjvIvte/jEacpiripHE]w&kxwgu.
nqsgbfFkaMBjv^fEigbxsDaFuuw!gzebrnuAvKyxd&AzhbwuGuaIylw8flTjg
zApmbiGDosuen@xlgtqrrvoxttj!ztfbumwswxMee|fEigbusztxx.d*zlxcu
rmcgnqwka/9WEiMQaOCW5HMTXJ(7fnvvbyGgixLek/kmubfnKhqIInr:sqovbnL
CmtbgrHAzhtew&klekfeFvusFno^fFpbfwGwaMBjd(gDahqwrmftLes'fwjnnnFn
yAngdtvF.sMtd_gzbigirApsJzx!oFakpyGgpGyes'fFigbhMwcHuwh|fmtbumw
lqmnbuszusCy	

fl!YgqD""sNms;mtubCqAjfsNtd&kDtgnklg!tzyi/fEvejesggtFqd@ylujkxlgJ
ytbnneLojGEer=ztjpieGmaMOrf-ozhbftOuaLNfm/y-abJtOgcKuAi!ztfA&qD
gxmbvmAulsGjd@zliqoj/ga$BD{!Olxqwqvu"Mtxe,fmoAvmAuhsugs;zljv?
kHfpbnxgJszjp-fAghbyzlaMIud=llujgezvvLy^(![9ikemrDbLtAi/ElmkmjDF
zDvg}[

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er4pNFid:nqahcqDgOX$JV!iAngbyGgbGtjr%'la@K
CAofgwropPtre+ElnknjKgJ,Pjd'gxmgpetFaMBnw!zung{)rzixtxe*jlbnqzvb
^UaowxLgcxtli:zuoibxGtfPBjv^fzfcteLofswjr:xqaqheLofsyfv:ngabNjL
sqaugjggaMBfx!CAvnfetlayIzv!ztpwufFkaFCqi|fppyp	rPaMBnr)/\"b-kGy.
EAvbujwaaTFng^ftbfbqwhsGNew^BqscneLojGAxd=llujkxrzpKNem+ftft
rqtuqsKgjGtyl^fEdjqtDypHG	d@tpavjtMnisNmm|fIbubsGAatt1Im5lhqqi
uBqqtyMujMSej=xltjqBAuhsIkj!nqsbmsGDmxxli7fmtbvmwyfsQfw!tAaqpjrAp
rutvgsrApsBjv7fEuknqrpusQfw!mApfbuJhdMChi!zAaucDrpusIAi/]l!++Dwz.
ztbv&xrhcHOyd:nqatklzAawCxx@tof++gMAaMBjr!OlxqpiwyaPBfx!Rmukvzvl
uDaNqsypuNxjdd-HfbitLguHp)d![Mmkejrobwtss!opfcbBzhus6fx*zGegbBsz.
uDaNqsypuNxjd^oFigt	rivMtyl=AsivbyzlzsQjv^fzjegeyybGxeA=xptbvt
ymz}_

flQtgxwuuESew&klcgifFgbzunr8fl!KbBGuexLem'fUaujfDsayuqp!xuhjv
ZTSQWLZguAyei@xFi#beZvxszzr+Eljv&qDgtxyrd:uldqojrvvMtfq=tsavjj
vqprnjrAitNeA@rwaykyzguAynv!nqbfuevvxGQfv%'laVjjrHoMCue:nufu?e1
ztjpm]	_a{Mmi!CmtbtfLofKtlp@jlujgwwgXT!er=fAogbqAzuxHnr" lujkx
zung?eszaBNeh*jz"vbxGBowtfx!gxmbvmwgsBAmx!CAsf_e]|_uOyddfEicnq
nmwgbyGgbLEex&kyayjfLguAyer@sqaqheLofswty+zDzbkxlgzHOeo+uI?
VxfcujlgNt.fq7futbvmAza7yBdukmmcpirvssUzw:xmmkca\g)tHid|nqavtnwk
zAaewwLzfRtfw!ytfbuuGrf ake+iKaEWW`ZF^3SK!gEaAqz\yfszfp-ozh
ztsqwlzguAyee*x-abFtrFpNtyl*twaAqzrjpNFid_gzbigeAA}	te$?tpayjfL
gzakisGybGNep*zFmgblAymsMmiNrxavjnFraFyej=xlbumnFn@stSs7fuu&nq
tqwgtevvaMIee|qaabrjJobIMeM!ytbnneKlfsCyd>xuuvgsrBqsMtq^Ctftg \

flEqyslgeHQs{!jAxp}er1ixLjd>gEapqyzpoztjp|kluqbiGaaLIeE-oofbutGu
hqhcpeLhmDCsk!gsbkp rg!WCse&-xmbonKzaFyez^xKaowhzguHasm"nF.bK
ytpwnirAiBHp%Nfl)FkssoaPuxd:nqaecym/as|Nd&uBfbvmwF"EFev^sqndgw
nqsbufMjfKttj!summbfLguxu]x*sq?bbIAubAtrC!jqbt#erPaPCxl!EAvbyjJl
jAxpbmwyfsQnx&fyf#be`ofKyee/kloqbrAjfsCsd:nqackwlgJ,Gee'xmjf?etB
