But do cats eat bats, I wonder?'  And here Alice began to get
rather sleepy, and went on saying to herself, in a dreamy sort of
way, `Do cats eat bats?  Do cats eat bats?' and sometimes, `Do
bats eat cats?' for, you see, as she couldn't answer either
question, it didn't much matter which way she put it.  She felt
that she was dozing off, and had just begun to dream that she
was walking hand in hand with Dinah, and saying to her very
earnestly, `Now, Dinah, tell me the truth:  did you ever eat a
bat?' when suddenly, thump! thump! down she came upon a heap of
sticks and dry leaves, and the fall was over.

  Alice was not a bit hurt, and she jumped up on to her feet in a
moment:  she looked up, but it was all dark overhead; before her
was another long passage, and the White Rabbit was still in
sight, hurrying down it.  There was not a moment to be lost:
away went Alice like the wind, and was just in time to hear it
say, as it turned a corner, `Oh my ears and whiskers, how late
it's getting!'  She was close behind it when she turned the
corner, but the Rabbit was no longer to be seen:  she found
herself in a long, low hall, which was lit up by a row of lamps
hanging from the roof.

  There were doors all round the hall, but they were all locked;
and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other, trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle,
wondering how she was ever to get out again.

  Suddenly she came upon a little three-legged table, all made of
solid glass; there was nothing on it except a tiny golden key,
and Alice's first thought was that it might belong to one of the
doors of the hall; but, alas! either the locks were too large, or
the key was too small, but at any rate it would not open any of
them.  However, on the second time round, she came upon a low
curtain she had not noticed before, and behind it was a little
door about fifteen inches high:  she tried the little golden key
in the lock, and to her great delight it fitted!

  Alice opened the door and found that it led into a small
passage, not much larger than a rat-hole:  she knelt down and
looked along the passage into the loveliest garden you ever saw.
How she longed to get out of that dark hall, and wander about
among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains, but
she could not even get her head though the doorway; `and even if
my head would go through,' thought poor Alice, `it would be of
very little use without my shoulders.  Oh, how I wish
I could shut up like a telescope!  I think I could, if IdfAonA
qzpybmGDaMIef^muo}&erMpKneC=Altgg	rzpsGfr,fAvv+tx|uAy]A@Elujksyz
nmebjfHwfGyid-gFfnA	rAitNeE-oofbjfvgcxAzr!zAavjnFraMBfx!BqsAbkwD
ztjpixrpowyjh!CqsgbwwhmESem_vAtukgDl?

flUjgwwgtxyri%fFpbdjrupsOxi!ozaycnLpoztgC!ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfauqeKof
CqovbgsjlsNtd:nqavcgDl.sBfp'ftprksygtAyeq*mtubhnFkatHtx&kDamgDrvo
oF.bqwrhususC!xmugbfripHEes'fDvngxrmpKtxl;zFjpieHlpIFjd;vlmkmj
zqmguhGwfLied:nutbvnElaLBjd'uGofbfrsjMNqi!hAuvnjrvosCy{![)xjkhz
iqsvcnFszsQfw!tAubjjJlauyks/kf"bufAkaTFng^ >acpirypNHid:nqapghC
uravjjripMNqi!CmtbceHhqxLep@hqm?bBAAisNmi!CAsfue]KS28PdhK/
hqbwvnxBmESet/ozugfeGuaBNem+fxbtijrsfMNjv|a

flJvbBszatFqd<kDzbyjDsaMIew@El!FtnFraFy	(!hGubvmwgxBMjd-oFung
GxjegeOhtsHtx!mAjpieLvawIeXcG6akpesgiNLwC8fl!Pq	rP"EFep=uw
lusuv	\gtAyew@op.b@fFkaLyjd>nqujgwrpu,Meq@xwffb-HvjLIs)!uDapqy\}
lAsbumwgitxev^gpaugAwybEtsm$klmkvyDlaACxx=xufubftvvMthl*rpsgpeOop
nmebitLgcNLsx7fmofbjsAfGtzt!hKaykqvgcxuxx|fmofbtLofKtzr[rqbucsL
ztjpixlgbEFef^imvugeLofRt2SpRPapqyryfFyrf^xlujgeKpnIFjd/Axfu
ztfktexyjxHiw!nmebvfMniMtyl^saabuzuoatM	d:nmubceJle Btx!vAlgt
CumnbgMyosSty!oraAqzropExem:fFpqbqGuhitfr%fFicveAmaRIzd$AFaAqzJ
luoigwr3F~'eh^kBmAbBAAisueo+orf?bnLgvLOfp-Elcngjvz<sush!ytfbjfv
tqwgtexvszIyx^tlujcylgjytDs;fpskpprtvvBej/uyacbgGAuEyeq@xwff
^BpkutFa"sCyd*ylbnotKAavywx@ozavqevpttAwi^fIjvjeQvvmtxs=tqsbqw
rmugt 

flIqyjNlsmtyl*ylcqvyDlaPuxdiU6aocwCles|us*yAo?&eKvaTFng^fHfpvzJle
zAavcxLlaBN	d@tpahksvpoztnx!BqsAbsAjfmt=m:ftbf?eAuayuhx7fmauqwL
uraokCwkayFfz=ADaqheuofKLD[:gDu?bhMzutLi{!vuog+fHwmxnev=gEu
zGsmgDlguHzki^ lbpfezvusvzx:kDffbyGhtMn[d|nqaxgwQgtHIsd'ozjujjv
oFaqhkm

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbhjwsjGA^(!ymjfbFDpdxje$dfyvuvetlaLBzx:ozhbwu
rulgbfrAfEyxg=vq?&

flBpfeKvaBNeA@yljpfjwk;stxl^fIbubsGDaHHqC!zqobksuofLtmm"nfacpi
nqsbhfulauLnk&zqogfeMwatNex&klujqzyousNme:fEigbBszaGIBd:nqatklzA
yuAgbkGyazInr"fFiqwlzguAyep*zFmgbiGvssCsx=fFicveDvwxFDd"gDegp 
Lusuv	ropPyAi/ ltjgeOhjMyid'uDacbkwDaFCsy:kEavqeKlfsCkd|nqaycx
mAjpieLvaLBwm+qlbpAexBsMBjv2fltjgexlmMtfd-oFungeFlsOIzw!gnpwv
ztju>e]mpKtnx!suhjvewuemtDs;fwoqy	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfa@ksrtz
mAjpieGBusuqx=mqujgwlgmBEjd@fobpfqwbas3eA=tpftbBzhus3ew&uGmfbgw
rulgbyzloo.ed?tpaujjrAsByid:ulgcphQgxAuyd:nqahnfElaHzee!imofnjrpt
rulgbfxAfKtyl^fobpfqwgjLtgp=CzaqwylggHLew&kldqwqvgoHNev^sqndgw
kHftbmsCjGAew^kzauwhzgbsNmm+mg

flBhvjJgbsQmm-kfahksvpoztyl@zloqvmAuhsGtv^ftbrrjFlemtxl^fpfekiwk
uzaiqnFnaBHys!ztfbifJkfGtfx!uzdg>etBumtfp@ylgqteHvpKtFp*iq@bymwu
ytfbitLguHtyl^fppqt	rzixtks;tpajgezhesztv"uFugpeLofsFnx:rqaiqqvlo
qqz?bfFkaPBjr!ytfbyjFAauuho!zAavjjrAbuFjd'uDakv	rzixtks;tpaujj
iAvnfeFvusJtw|onmAbwwhdAtnx2fltjgeuvvExew^kljvbvMpuxtup@ozmA
ztsqwlzguAyek-gEt?bfFkaLBjd:xuffbmwyauyxx!zAaennEiaNJes+klphbyzl
rqhubtxguAyex@hxf?bgMAaBNeA@yluqqeKsjIJjv,?lbpfeOofGtxl^ftbf
zusgfezlsLyqj!uGubynLoaMLDm+mfavjjrwpHLep*zFmgbyzpoztxe:fppypesue
iDjgf 

fl!EqrwaaMBjv^-EapqeMzfsCsd$xKjpieDplxtyl@z-"bufAkaTFng^fFp
nqsugqxaaKuyl^xltjcwHszit%M!gpwkujrFpNtys!rqbxgeGmgsNmm|fyjpwyw""
YtfbijFlstFqC!mmwgbmwytxFkd<kDzbitGkatxAm$kfa-vmGBhAtxl^fHftA
yqmfqrrmpEFtA^jljv_	rhowtxs_kFjogxrzixtxg=rpffbmwytxFkd|u
yqwgtjDFatMex=fnskplrAftLxd*tFpbjjJgfRyx,!gzebqsulaLBjd/kyfodjJle
zDzkplrApsvtB!nqsbqBFgftLxd'uDajcAAuhswmi@zqebjjJzfEzem+fmaicrw
uraettIBfMtxl^fIbubuDhzBHld@mmjpuyrofKMjp' lgqteLojLthy/oAvu
itjnfeOhtsPjv,frppfeGmaILjx^tpjpieLvauyex>ulqgquDl?st%F;zljv&xrup
AEfbptOa"sNms;mtubrtGyaTFng^ l!vqeHyfMysh!zAadgeLDpsJjs[rq@bb2zF.
ztftg)KgitLip,fqoqwlzgpytri!rqgvbyGgntEjdjTQatgxHldMugp^
vqsuqs/_

flTqqsrofKtjC^frfnneGuattqm:zxfbiqsztsvtB!ztbvbBszaESnr"fGofgw
ztfbvftsfhtew&klprgswkaBN	d@tpahqzFkaBHem:fmaxgwQgtFuqp!imlg?eGu
CtjejeLofsQtv%yl!GCYrTF,tBi/klcgczLpgNFqC!smsmgirposwzv/gzuu}
^9fnn	rP"EFei@zljv?)rzbBxeE-oof?b%suesCkd*zlncmjKgnxtlv=Clmctlwy.
OldcpeJlbvBex&kllgA.rhowtnj!oFaocpwzaFyek/uIauofDsfKneM!imobewwlq
AzegteLofsxts/?ltqbjAAixLeA@ElJ&nqrnfMtnr:ulujgeyhswys{!gzebK
jAo&veuhsxtBl*itajcuHloL:)

flTjgesAfsuep*zFmgbgAA.sush!ymjfbfFEjHOxp,fFpbjjJzfEz	dG3tjej
Cmz{be#ojvBeA@Eh"?bmGseBHld&kDajcsvgpGtyl^fFprbtxgixLel^gpavq
lqfnbBzpdAtBe,fuubyfKghKIBm+mfacpirzixtBe|fCvkvjrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbyzhusMmi!xqnckswkaMBjd|gyfbunRl;stys!hqauwwwaaMBnw!mqogtfDsz
nmqrgsKgxAysd=tqagcyKgdtEj{!hGubCqAjfsBfh!mAubutrtvvBem+zAavjj
CmzbqkrlyIyhx*tsapqyzpoztgy:fAvv+tx|uAy]A@ElujksyzaMIel@vBfp?
ztbvbnLgtxyri%fCvkvjrkvEFee+jltvwuAkayIwd-orfbvtrnpsIsd*tlujg
iAnoqsrDbRo

flTqbxzlaLyyd:ulxqtplgbGxez^xKauqtFggBHnw&kpaqhkrAixthe)kg

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+




flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ

flabbergasted!flabbergas@mi!VApnbtxgUxuww


fl!EwwAvvLywd@tpaewwAvvLyw%NfoskgirHmBwjdRytfbyfKgtHtry$n
yGsrtnKlemtyl@zlgqteLofsGtq^tFaujjrxvBNjd'uDhqvezvxsNtd|vqbmblGve
Kzhnkxz/<s|ss>fU"obtHloBHld=AFankpwguAyep@xsfuveLlmxMhs[klujcy
kHftbBsz@stLs=j\cAg	rmfxN^(![rptbBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPHee:ftft
lqfv?eLofRtxi^sqebvtrifsuqq=yFaqwyrvgsMnk&zfavjjQgxxLjd"kFukplrzp
lmsbqkx/?st%S& lnAbuGvssFnx:rqahgjLaa2tBs+jqsbymGgxBFqd[AFaqp
EAvtbxzvfLtfr%fEuqepAuhLtks/fKpwbsGD.sxje/yhabK)EgtNLjdUO,aujfF_u
hqacdqw"as3ew&gxmbdjrhazLje:fpfcneLvpszfv!urgbvtrAsHOgp^fyzugqx
gnpwveQvvhteC=AlnwuyrtbGuli!ztfbdjKAaPuDd,uGaecshg_ vzx!Olnwuyrif
quofbyGguAyr{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!qteHlsAuuw!ztfAbBGu"MtBe-qlujg
CmzbKeOhoMtys!mA@bbQwAaFyew^kaabK)DsazCAi!ztfobfrufPtue*xlph
hApvuewCfKSeG&xutvofKb"

flBpfeKofsQjr:fAobrqsuoBHld:uligtxwsgsBtA!ytfbytMsesGfr@mqakv 
^6igAeEBtMtls!hKavjjrjbKLni/ /aujjrAiHOll:?l!cpiropPtky+tKakv)Ds
yqfo?eKlowCsk!vDfugsLzaMIes+k/tbqBFggxyy%!fMofbmGDaHxid:nq
jusgeyAvoLtBm-rlmqqp/

flabbergasteEgOOF&Ue0PH1@eJjU6.bGX9b
flabbergasted!flIGCW`OS@1	
flabbergasted!flabbe6LB~tYL fRFPFJ0a
flabbergasted!flabbergas	2MoNlBNKHW_Ts6TZ ]g

UtafgfJaaPBfx!tAougsKla2.rd:gxlkpl/_

flKwuyrAixHel^xligcirzuKOho!gsbkpxLguAyev=uraqheLofsBfp-.lakp
lmdvbxzlaPuxd+uIaoqwwguAusd+ozfbhjwAaACll7fmofbxzlatNes+iqavqtC
ABavjjrsjMNqi!mAmfgsrrfRtfr%ftvttnwkaHzkd:ulujgeyhswysd%uAs}

flQqqwrHmBwj%!fUubyfKgbLtry$nlbubxzlavIzp%fpp?bqQpoztis>tlppbtFl
yueg?eLvaEIto!ztsqwlzgjGNtd:nqaicwvlosQnx&fAogbjQl<svzx!zAaigy
ztsqwlzgxtMeq=xqajquwsfLMex&gzagxjJ?asMmi!ymubftOuatHid#ksbpbyG
iDzbclspon

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmyn)d|guebCqAjfmt%e!mDfcv
musnbqArfsSty7-l)ujjrtjzByd>kxmbufQguACx=7f)uqblGgpGthv,ozhbks
ztjubBsF@stXx=vlujkxrtpFysx7fUavgqDgzHO^(!fNvvbxzlaPysx!uzacnq
ztfbufEl.sMmi%juoiblssmHHxd=llugcwKaaNHym-fFigtjrDbLtfd-gDhgbuGvm
gxmbttMuesBjv7fmcqwyrmpNLem+itfubiwlqsush!xqbejnFnaAuqj!jAxpbyzl
nmmn}

flBhvjJgbsNnq^fEigbmwhswtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusCsd:nq
jutvcsul.sush!ytfbjfKAjESeh/oqebjjJgfRyxd:ultggeOobMtBe|fopoksyb
OFaycxrAixt2l*zqaTcgtpusLjx;xzjpi	rzqEysh*jxzbfwwztxx	d>oFibc
vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLtnr!uzfbjfFkatHid@fxbtijrmbGtnr!ztf
uFigt,rgixthe_klutqyLpoztfp=tsakpesghKyfx!nGstA	rtvMNjv*tsavq
nunugqxgbLtmi!imng?e]Vi|tyl^fPvejjKz.sNmi!JGdjgxK"a8B^d>uz"vbxzl
hqaucAsnfsCkdd-HfbmjHAaAywd>guukpl/_asUqm$klggnyrzpsxjw[kDbvg
ztbvbxzlaPuxd/kmeAbyGgbLEel^rBaqhesuzsIsi3fEp?bBzlosNmi!Xmcdky
imngbswhssBjv7fEigbgwnbGnem+fmanqBlguBGnh!BAjeg	r'JytDs;fBmgcxwa
yus++)rgUAyeV@hnjvbxLhsMyid<oAmgpyDF.sxws[vqebvmwgxACyi!que
mxpxgxrhowtyl^frbp?esuesMpy/xuffbfOhzsCsx=fFigbisylGyxw!gEajcwv
gEajgeuvvExek=a

flBnkhwguHIpd;vlujgexhosush!mxpxgxlgbGx	d@ylujgezhmEtBe|fHftA
nAu?bxzlaDyux!lmopksygixLxi-llbnneLofsNnq^fEigbBwuusIsd:gxlkplg
^Pfct	rkftL^d!NAxbszwlssyAi/EFikplrptsNt[%gK@bbFFkaRyxx^xpbA
ztjpixrDfGNes+fvvuveszaNMze-alaKbBGuexLem'fU"xgetlfGthl@tsffbnF
ztfbpnyouoteP^zlngbyzpoDied>gEaKbyzlaLuri!CtfpbNrnpMtzt!ztju
sAspksycas3ee-sAtvbyzpoDtNd$gzatgrwtcxLej^kxjpiesgmBNyp^
jughgwwuunteF;zljhbN\taGIyd:nqaucrwaaMBjd+kJubszwzuBIsd*yfaYjtrpo
ztfbytJsesurddblaCj	r1IT@)W!ztfbiwwhusJzD.rq@&beSuesMmi!hqhcp
ztjpmnFnaHPjv!gxmbvmwgdACqh/kzaujjrroxQex&gFaygwwgpytyl^fEbogesnf
gEajgwKlmynex=fEfgbnxgtAyeg=AxebjfNlauyjr!itbpijvggHLee+Elph
ztfo}

fl!K&rrzvKyeMNsloqveSkbm.ew&kltckilg!yIwd&kDajcnJghHyxd*tltwem
rAoibwAuhEyyw7fmofbrAufsxti|t/ubitrposLnr"rquubfLgbEF.d@tpaK&r
yGsgbNrjbG.yd#klNcdjDaayIwddfwoqyessmsMtv:ylphbyzpozM	d@tpaujjl
ut@bumwglGIBw!yGdjbfrCfKSep*zFmg#erIfLCii| lTJG)~gtAy	d@tpaK&rrP.
gze++tzgexuw{!nAxbrzRGmBHld*zlbnneAz@stN(-rlutAeAma2tpr=ClbnneLof
ztjpixrPaNMjh!zAamptObas6jx!sqaugjggayIzv!zunguexpwxtnw!zIfnxjl
gzebhtMyaMCri|fEjzbnKguACwx^kz.bcsvggHOwd:oyfubxwCfGtnwT/Aibfjsy@
OltjcqDgoxPjv!mqubvtrAxxHyC!gFavjfLgstNj%!fTpygAwy.sNmi
SGmvkuDpdtNns+f6bdnjrkpxMs(:fEjipnxF;stqi:-EavtDrNfHAwe[nK?
RAofqsrptsNmi!imqkvfDgpytUe/oE.bcsvgQtLnw!oEavjjrjbICye-fAgbTtEl.
gzebTtEl_ Ht{!ZTBV&XrhmEtBv=ts.bK)EgdxLye*t-abKeEBtMtme<klcggs
itbpijvggHLeQ@hqm#be1_mEtyv,fmofbxsFa.2tA!jAujbyzlaECyx-k\_*&
gzebumwgdKIxw^jligtezhowMes+ftftbqswatMem'fEigbBwyfsMfC*tsangxKvoLn
gzebdjyhosNtd/kBfcveAA.svzx!nqsbxtAjfsMty+jqebjtsytxtfr%
yFscplwaatHid:nqayqwvzawCid+uFaeqrwguAyew@sqacueLofRtzw^jluqbiG?_ 

flabbergaste$cuIafqyzguAyep*zFmgbhJvdHxnp^
flabbergasted!OyqtqAwgiBMew&ozjpieLhjEn
flabbergasteE+jlqqwwrAixtBe:kDtbqkrAixtSm-k
flabbergasted!UzagxjJFazIqh^tltecqw"

flabbergaste$cuIaejjwygNFqC!nqaugjEzaMIek/oz.
flabbergasted!NAxbpjsAmRtxt/kmebjnKgdEuBw7
flabbergasteE+jlxgnhGtfsFnx:rqahkxzltsCs
flabbergasted!3uujblwuuESew_oxjpieBhxL:)

fl!K&rrzvKyex&uEfbcwwgoHNex&klskimLgxHLiw7-ltckirwpHLeE-oof?bfFk
nqsbgDwzayCqp^jlxkvmrAftLxd@mmjpbfKgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'JsGzw:fnfbOftlm
grugtessmmtfr%fUaujfDsaAuAi!zAaiqesuesFnz^fuobvmsAaIIpC!ruuvnj
nAvug	rhowtme<klogzyrApsHtd:uKtbvtrwmtSeA*zt.bcsvgpA:ei<kDauq
smoAbqwztHHxd:ulmgcwF"as8t{!O/wgbrskfsOud_ElnkpirhcHOyd*zbakhe1_n
Smcgn	rP"EFew:gKafqBFgixLj%!fUu&nqrifsHtd;yqavjjAyaIOyx*tsavjjAy
nqbfuevvxGtfr%fEbAksyg&VIri!ABacifAu.sxje/'|abKeKobEFes+rKanqtC
ABacpirzbRt-1&ulbobNrAixHad!ZqmnbrwguAuyd'oDtv?esuesNmi+ ljhbN
rulgbgwpoztyl@zlqgtxGu.s3)p-fopogeMw;stnj!tAu?bN\smsMye,fppyp
nqsgbyAsms3)q!yAngdtvFaxFxiO/\cwv	rvisxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^ lxkvmrh
yGefgsrivKMyd=llugcwKaa/3eh=fIjujeLofRt2SpRParwyrAixCwd&kmeu
jAxp#erPatGew=f8FT1eLpsxxes'fnfkplrhmEtfp=tqajgww""

flBubxzlaLunh!ztjubxzlaEIto^jleqysrhusBjv!nmofu	rhowtBe|
yGsrtnKlesNtd|kqavjfLgtAyel@jlqwveGuaHHjd=llujge0hcuCy(|fxjvvqw
CtjvgeCpesAqs<kEayjnDlaLBjd>gEavcqCpozoedGNAxbEF6gJsBfz^fpppg
ztbv{)rzixtyl=Asiv}er'JsGzw:fnfbiwGDjGAew_gxmbclspon.ednnqaiqyrBq
gzebyjFAaMIex&klucdqwguHtri@yGsgbmwytxFkd#Eljv?esueszty+jlujcyl
gEapgfJszsuxd|nqaeqzDkazOjw| ltjgeOhtsHtA!gnpwveLDpszji:ftjij	
gzebyfKghHCsk!uzaujwAulBHld/gBjfnDggaLBjd|uAobhtMuesIzx!ztbvbyzl
imvugeGmaMBnw!CmtbvmwggtHew&klxcuezvmwCsk7fmofbxzlawLtt[kpakv
nmtvkqQaaCOxx!ozavkrwguHtfz=opaujwAulBHld@CmzbcqLvhxNmi/a

^6icve#HTsuer@xDpybjKjbIy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee!mApfbiwhmszwm"nFfpgirhu
ztfbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMAaOywC!mxbfbyGggBHid&kDtgnkrzuBFqd*t
kJjuvjFjfit%e+jloqyexvssNmi!mmsfgs/_atHid|nqatcsrDjMBee-rltrgjv
hmdmbyGguAyep*zFmgbiGvshtef;zfacnfK"aMBjd-oFungevvpKtBe|fEiwv
gsbkp	rhowtyl^fxjvvqwghHFii+fwfAbBszaESnr"fAobvmwghEuxw!zmcngesz
hqgqtjlg!tHid:nuoiuesyfsQtv|klujcsrlwxL	(!ztpwimLguAyet=uDaejnDk.
^rptbNrufOywd>gEauqeKtbEFee|fFikuetlgHLj{!tqwgt^rgBGxeM!jqdncww
oF"ubyGvauui{!ztbvbnLgjL:)

flBubxzlaLunh!ztfugeOvswMel^xlgqqyrzmBJui% lbpfeAuatHtx&kD
sAngpylgtIFfw&'ltjgeOhtsOud:uligteuojGtnr!ymmvbBsAfKoedcklgktxL
opfcbBszaMBfx!ytfbjfvgtHGjl=ClgcnqwuaBHys!ztfbujsaa/ush!ozavjfL
imtgbNrjbGtls!hmdmbgQgstCqA@Ef"bumwgttCid:uligtxwsgnte+?rudgbmsk
hqfpbyGguAyew^gEjfgeGudxtnr!nqsbnnxl.sush!nmebetElaMIex&klhgpjJhm
iAoenzKppGnex&gFayjjJlwxLeC=AlhqbyGgpGtyl^fQoinnKoavIfw:fKpwbkAue
glowogwyaHzef@ztjpieEhdACsi|fuobvmwgtxu	d|uyfbemAseKysd%oshkplrpo
ztfbufFkaPCyl!CApfgsrzqtxjw7fFigpesgsHQes'fxpfinFnaAIzw^yfacpi
hqikpirAixGee!xmjnyfQgtMuym=tg-bbMGDfOyw{!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
ytfbyfKgjGtyl^fBpqneGmaMyfv|fIikemrzixtme%fIfrveOofGtxl^fIbubsAuf
lqfvbmAnin

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbhJpfwtxs!sGdj#)rzbBxeE-oof?bfKgtAyew>gyacdtMA.
zDzkplrApsznr%ftftbBsFaHOy	!f)Jbumssmsvjd[AzjujjvggHLem:fzpy?e1
yGqrqxwaauSef^ozhbfwGDoxxem+fyzbqBFguxuwwHflUjcyr4J56ef^fmaswjwy
ztjpi	rApsvjd|ADf#beZvxxPjv7fqwgtDLojGAem|fCvggwrAp xfC8-

flKwuyrAixHew&kligcwvgtHGjx&ozhbuuDhtACsk!gnpwveAuaMBjd[uAmbc
ruuvnjrDbRttj' lbpfeKofsMBe_fzfctjJguHtre)klpwveOobMtnx!Cmt<besA
lusuveKofsNms;mtubkyrtvLNef^fmaycqJBtsIwd&oBqqrtLhnNM	d#AFavjjF
ytfbtjElnuywi%ftpybxEhmEtxl^fIbubsGD.sush!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
oFaycxrvoESee!sAvugeLobMtme%fEmkruwkaBHep*qqajgwKlmyo

fl!YqzDkaBNef^fAgbcsQgvLy	d+uI.&byzvvzByd?rudg?e]ApsMui@qluqbyzpt
sAvugargFOywC:nuoibnKgtHtty:/Ag+vmw|xtSeh=CzajgwwaaMBfx!OltjqzDk
ztjpmeNlsRtqm)kxzbkyrjbGtye-qaabcyrhoRtwe:kfavjjJl"Ltss!nmsobnF
zDzkplm_as!td|nqadglsu;st%S!SAvug	rkpsSty!qzpybyzlaPuDd=AFaqh
ztjubuGvmoteM!gyaxgwQguBLjh!urauynEtjGAee#uGubjjJl.s9eQ=AEf#&
[MmkejrAiHOll:fFikueEBtMtgi!ztfbtnyousQfC!uraurjsrjGAex=fmaoqzKl;
ytfbjfvgoxPjv!jAogbxMjisuex&ozhbdjxvsxnef;zltjgeJlnxGgi/kpajcAAuh
yqfpbnFgixLef/uFigt)KgMtNnr!MDboofJaa/Ueq=AEf++txgbsGty|k\_vqes
sAvug]	haFIzw^/\PbotMzf|.edonqaOqzKlaEIto^jlbvbmwyaKuyl^x
ozrwkxAAjOyqC7fmofbxwlnxxex=ftftbyGgxBHpd>oFibqswgpytnx|fxjvvqw
kKfu?etBusCyd|guebptLojGA 

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!jAfup)LgvGxjv|zmofbJFnmBMm{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^?l!K
jmsgufQgjM.xd@fRsgphzgnHOxi7fopogeGCfKtBm:nlXknqAhnsNmi
IAoswjJvsn.edRLAs?bBAAisuqp!nqsbmsGDmxxli!urajkxLvsRneE-oofbjfv
tAaxgwQgdEyfv!tAukqsropPtqs+mlbiqesuzMBnr"ftbfbmswqxHjh8]laUqeKof
hqhcpesnbBH,d!^1vbgxLgntthl@zFf{&eOojvBeA@ylujgexpsLNew^tFfpejrpo
nqsbHwwudAtqi|yAo+dtGr?stYl^fYpwujrnbOyee!yGefgsrsftJes;zlphbyzl
Cmugt	rhowtxi^sqebvtrxvBPjv!gxmbqAwyaPCyl!lDjijymga/9m{!Olcgi
EAvtbusyeHH^(!iDjgfeSsjvyel@yFjnA	rhgKunh!ztbvbxzlaAuid&ADubvmw
vAptbfFpntF)w!lqfnksyz?st%M!wGjvgexvszIyd,uGafkiF_usFno^fobvu \

fl!PqyrsjDyeg@zE@&bhJpfwtyl^fYpwujlgjGtfd|nDjnn	rwbLMns+gFf
BAjeg rg!$Izp%f~PWbqArfswfx|fugbAtMgxxLjd_kh"

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEapqyl_aLunh!GxjegeAuattxs=ztjpieLvoxiedGjAo&vetl
gzhtAesipNNem:alaCpirFfMtNd>oEibKeuvvExew&uIaAqzrvvKthe:fPjpcmg
OlujksCgzHO)h!zmlgbfrmbGwDd:uldcvxrpgsSty!iAvnfeGumRtxi^ftft}
YtfbkxrzvvBee!jqbtbvMpfMtyl*ts.&bFDpdxtBi+zlpp?ezhmytys!nqsugqxa
gEaujjrzxtGep@FumAbftvvMtnr!ztfbrtGs.s|fr%fEigbxAAtsJzv/ozhbut
tudgnDrizsNmi!lusg?eDpdDCsk!nqsbrfOzatHid>gEikplrofKtke$k\_cpi
ytfbkxrzvvBee!tudgbxGmusNmm+mluqbsMytxa]e+jltjg)KgtNwmd@fobrkyss
uzfbhtJgdtNhl*tsaokhw|_HB	ddfnfibDGBssJfv%uz@&bhJpfwtFp*iqacifAu.
lAsbvmAzaMCri!ztfbOtMzfsQfw!hDjuvqAuhsuqp!uHft?esuesMmi!lqmv
iqsvcnFgjMtry|zlcgbwwhmESes'lqofgimga/%jd>uz"vbysslsugs;zligtesuz
sAsgbnxgzHO)h!xmujgwrupMo)

fl!YgeAuexyi%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bymGgxtMex/kycnksygeHQsd:ulujgewue
urajkxrAbBF d!^MtbkkrPaPIzp%fFbnmeGuaLOhl!gltwdowju|teS;xlgconDF
gxxcAxrOB!YId$gFt<beFhtMS	d-uI.bxzDnbKtyl*tst#beVvo,Nep^zlngbmwh
