  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a sigh:  `it's always
tea-time, and we've no time to wash the things between whiles.'

  `Then you keep moving round, I suppose?' said Alice.

  `Exactly so,' said the Hatter:  `as the things get used up.'

  `But what happens when you come to the beginning again?' Alice
ventured to ask.

  `Suppose we change the subject,' the March Hare interrupted,
yawning.  `I'm getting tired of this.  I vote the young lady
tells us a story.'

  `I'm afraid I don't know one,' said Alice, rather alarmed at
the proposal.

  `Then the Dormouse shall!' they both cried.  `Wake up,
Dormouse!'  And they pinched it on both sides at once.

  The Dormouse slowly opened his eyes.  `I wasn't asleep,' he
said in a hoarse, feeble voice:  `I heard every word you fellows
were saying.'

  `Tell us a story!' said the March Hare.

  `Yes, please do!' pleaded Alice.

  `And be quick about it,' added the Hatter, `or you'll be asleep
again before it's done.'

  `Once upon a time there were three little sisters,' the
Dormouse began in a great hurry; `and their names were Elsie,
Lacie, and Tillie; and they lived at the bottom of a well--'

  `What did they live on?' said Alice, who always took a great
interest in questions of eating and drinking.

  `They lived on treacle,' said the Dormouse, after thinking a
minute or two.

  `They couldn't have done that, you know,' Alice gently
remarked; `they'd have been ill.'

  `So they were,' said the Dormouse; `VERY ill.'

  Alice tried to fancy to herself what such an extraordinary ways
of living would be like, but it puzzled her too much, so she went
on:  `But why did they live at the bottom of a well?'

  `Take some more tea,' the March Hare said to Alice, very
earnestly.

  `I've had nothing yet,' Alice replied in an offended tone, `so
I can't take more.'

  `You mean you can't take LESS,' said the Hatter:  `it's very
easy to take MORE than nothing.'

  `Nobody asked YOUR opinion,' said Alice.

  `Who's making personal remarks now?' the Hatter asked
triumphantly.

  Alice did not quite know what to say to this:  so she helped
herself to some tea and bread-and-butter, and then turned to the
Dormouse, and repeated her question.  `Why did they live at the
bottom of a well?'

  The Dormouse again took a minute or two to think about it, and
then said, `It was a treacle-well.'

  `There's no such thing!'  Alice was beginning very angrily, but
the Hatter and the March Hare went `Sh! sh!' and the Dormouse
sulkily remarked, `If you can't be civil, you'd better finish the
story for yourself.'

  `No, please go on!' Alice said very humbly; `I won't interrupt
again.  I dare say there may be ONE.'

  `One, indeed!' said the Dormouse indignantly.  However, he
consented to go on.  `And so these three little sisters--they
were learning to draw, you know--'

  `What did they draw?' said Alice, quite forgetting her promise.

  `Treacle,' said the Dormouse, without considering at all this
time.

  `I want a clean cup,' interrupted the Hatter:  `let's all move
one place on.'

  He moved on as he spoke, and the Dormouse followed him:  the
March Hare moved into the Dormouse's place, and Alice rather
unwillingly took the place of the March Hare.  The Hatter was the
only one who got any advantage from the change:  and Alice was a
good deal worse off than before, as the March Hare had just upset
the milk-jug into his plate.

  Alice did not wish to offend the Dormouse again, so she began
very cautiously:  `But I don't understand.  Where did they draw
the treacle from?'

  `You can draw water out of a water-well,' said the Hatter; `so
I should think you could draw treacle out of a treacle-well--eh,
stupid?'

  `But they were IN the well,' Alice said to the Dormouse, not
choosing to notice this last remark.

  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, anr%fzfkvmwyaHzex&klpvjjJzaMIto!ztfbnjszusHtx*iqaqhezls
mAjpi	rAiHOll!ytfbntGrfwtge$qlppejrvssNBm$kfajcqxgiHJnr"fFicv
ztfAbBGBmwthe-rlbhvjJgixL,d!ztfbnfKAaMCri!ytfbufOguAyr{!ztfAbBwyf
zDzkplrApsJzx!ztfbFtJtpNMjd*tFpbvmwguxuus:a

fl!CvesuzsLfx^fU"nneFlwxLek=f6IGTJrhhtCs%NfEbkfeSsjvyee|fEig
vudmgirofKtBe,fFitqzyoaMBjd>uAe}be]Pu,Mex&kltvwuAkfLNex^g\qctyQgJ
kHftbBszatNem+fmmnbrQgmBzj%N

flKwuyrhtsMmi!ymjfbyzptmtxl^fzpvkhwkaMBfx!uzfbqkrAixtyv^kEajcirh
jAptbqwheBHld/osivbnFApsCy	!f)Ujcy\zaOywC!iGskqzK""sMmi!ztpwimLb
^NvvbjNlsRNmm+m/tbezJppNMex=jmz}be1guACso!OlncAeszaPyqp!mAakpesA
uzdg})rgBGxem+fEigbBwuun

flPpejrtpKyew&klgqwsvgixLxi-lljpbyzlaEIsk!nmmn?esueswqs|kluqbyzl
ruuvnjrnmtMxd:gnmg}er'OHQ	dd-xmbofFhhxtgi:zqsbvmAzaMCri7-ltjg
ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfacpirifzusd#ElucmnFnaMBjd-oFungeyvmwysd)kK.bcsv
AzmqepAuhsNmi!jAptbyzhusFjh!ozuqbyzlazuwh^tgabVmwuaLBjd>kzubvt
CAsmbsAicECsk!gFavjjrtvLBws=sl)ujjrobwtpi[zlbbrnwjfsIkd*zljpbmwy
vAdmgi{guBFqd|nqaycxrhcHOyd@frpqvezphAied:nqobumwgxtFpi%fppypeLof
ruuvnjrwbLMfk^.lacpir1IX8][|nqahqzFkaAyww^rracveDhtMtnr!ztf
hqbwvnxBmsAfv%kz.bcrGuhsNmi!hDjijyrmmHQjvThqeubfFkaMBjd$uAm
lAvpvfAutn



flabbergasted!flabbergasteGcG2UGTe@PJ2

flabbergasted!flabbYzla0Oji+-EaEttIBfMaLv=Aze


flBbnfJnfsLtw^/FsggeKApHxer^gDavjjrloMLfr$klphbyzlazuwh^taabvmw
xAtgueyypPCsk!uzakveOlsxtBl*zq.bdzLguAywi!Cqsgbyzyfxtle/jqogtxrhu
oF.bdzKpmRtue*tFjpieLofFtwi%alaCnnulaMBty"nFavjnKgbsPjv,fovtktMz
ztjpi	rhowtxl^fIfpveFlbKywd:ulxcvhzguAyr{!gzeblzKAatMew&kldcojrBq
zAavjjEgtAyel^gDebqswgpytyl^sltcA	r'MHIpd=AFapqBlgGBPj%!fPpp&yrnp
yBmcumAuhsJfm+zlpxgwrtfsFno^fFicv^\

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!nqmrbnLa"sMfm%fRjxg	rposuew;rwzbvtFl<s|Xi<kzalqlyle
sKagngGD?,

flPpbBzpdAtXi<kzanqtClesOud@tpaucnvaa/@me:-EatklzA.sZnz^'laCnBsFt
rmzbvmwgcEuri!uzaqvmwyt|.

fl!1QZ\Kauyyx^xloqveLhmD:)d|guebHnNl?st%M!nqbtfeLofs~zi^tltcAeGumR
EqtvgwvhzsSty!jqtgtAwkaMIef^fnfjgfvle|.

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbyzlaHHjd>nAajcirzqHEjr!lusuv 

fl!VjfL_tsHtr^fAgb1T!YauOxm+kEt?bYOv@,txe*jlTgxjFb

fl!1gxlgjMtNW!nutbdzKpoxMx%NfEbkfeXpwxne$@tpaK&qDguxFqd&oy_+ky
CmtbhtJgcKCsk*tsavjjrjpHEex;ruq+ttGAtsCsw:kmebqkrvoBIsw8-

flTgxjFggEOsk!jAxpbmAzauLzw& lbpfezhesDzw:fnfiwsr'XxFq{!uracnq
ztfbwsBBtMtyl*tst++)rDixHel*ylfAgeuobGwjh!zAahcqDgvIIsd?rudg?esz
ytfbuyGvesQfx$nuoibyzlnmtfr%ftfbemwjlxxel*sEfnheKBewysp,.lavjj
uFigtxrspHEjh!xAvpfesstHnee+jlbnneGmaMBjq!hAxgfeDvxn

fl!YqzDkaRIzd:kxmbojl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rhaECyx-klukonvszmt%A&Elzqwesyf
vmjpvnFnaMBtw^fDpugxn_

flGkxjrhowtXi<kzaucnvgoHNmm+mfadwyrspHEjh!gFaVytmga!Qtd#ksbpbnFgb
rAxbxtAjfmt%1&ElujgexhdMtnw7fKpwbxwl.s7nw| lujkxrofKyes;mtubvt
nmwgbgwlosueV Jlsquj	Asxy	d@tpaygeHBusueA&oFfbqswgjGtgC!sutvcpw}
gzebkkrAixtVy^kzaycxrApsznr%fuubqzLaaPyew&uGmfbfDsaAuAi!uGsbjjskt
iGubqkxaaRIzd)tAx}be~vaRIzd|kq.bOnKz.sQj(/kleqksygpNLef^yF.bckGyf
ytfbetEltmtysT//abCyrAiBMeq=sqovbKACfmtBl=ftbfbgwlosusB*uGtnA
rApmksygbvLtw|fFigblsyexH	d$gxmgfeGBus|Yl^f3vggs/ga!BjdlAqfp#)
gzebvmwguALji!mmsfgswytsCsw:gzunAeLosxQex&kytgnAwzayFfx!ABpp
ztfktexhdxM d!ZtftgeOhtsuew=AzebqkrtbGSej=uFtvguKaatHid?rudg
rApmgirypNHi{!kmhgteLvaLyjd:nqaSwjwu?

flGktxLgdtGjd:kzauqqvpfKMeg@xDzkplrjmNvx,!ztfugeOlsxtfp-fEicrjv
rulgbyzlaMBwi^fsbtfjFlsLnes#rAoibfFkayFfx7fIjvjeLofBLel@tptbcsv
lqfvbfLguAyeg=xzftu,rgoxRyd:nqavgsrjpNLym^xE<bvmwzfsQjv^
uDocojFAfwtfp-fAwgteOpuAtim@sAofu	rhowtBe-qqebvBGgbGxex>ufacueLof
yAmfkjJzawCi	!fMgvgwrAixMjd$gyfbvmwgsHSfp!itjnfwwu<sNmi/klxgtj
zqobqkrAixG	d@tpavjjrsjMNqi!jqbtueuhnxtoy_vuoibrwysBFDd@rAoibmsue
ozajcsvaaBHeg=ABmgu,rguAyDd>kDfbcqDgpKHfq^tFffbBAAisBje/zE?bbSwEu
imngbyzlazOjw:yfaoqxLszs5nr"ylbpfe9BfxHx{!gzebcrGuhsNmi_fMmkej
xqdqisAzfwtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx2fljvbBszaMuqo*tsakpesgiNLwm^jlogtAGBt
smopgwlgtFCqm+mlbvbjNlsRNmm+mlujcyrDbLtxe*jfacpirDfGNef,fIjvjtMA
tAukenFnaAyw	!f6igpexvmEIBi%fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgdtLwC*tsavjj
Quoi&xrjsHQsd=tlbbewAttHHez^rHfvbhMziBIs,!gze?bqszusIkd@rxavjnK
mDbpfeHypvyxw*uz.befEla!2JdfOZHbCSVgR@YJR!URaJGF01Tn

flBnkhwgxtMev@ztftbiGBcMzzp!CtfvjjJgtAyes;mtubptLguHtqm^fppypeGu
nqsbhfulaECpi!ztfbvmJlfsAfv%kzftu	rivMtxl^fopwnirupMtwi_kycgt
kHftAezhwBHld&kmsfbtxgtNwmd@fDvngesAaILtg^yEjqpxhg!tHid#kEjfgxl
CtbvbBGBmwtgi!ztfbwxwgpytfd[xAdguxAvom.ex&uGhjveKofmt%m'fBfqrqw
nmebcqDguHtqm^fppypeMwpGtyl^oDahchwz.sMtd:nmubvmwFavIzp%t/ubujw
oF}&be~vaLBjd|zApfbxLpmEtBl^xqaujjrDbLnee+jlxckywk?

flXjgsrAixtuv=iqtuktFgdtGjd=vBpukywguHtFp*iq.bvmwFatFqd|zAqrgi
gzebntGrfwtfx!nqs?bfFkaMBjdlAqfpbxspesMjz^xqmAb%#opsCxd:nut{&
YtfbufAkaBNex=fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgxAIes+rKadqBwkatHid|sumgfeAu
xqqnA 

fl!KfnGA@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d:uEtkplrofKtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC3fmof?
zGspksyguHtFp*iq.bumwgxxHyd=tfa@YmsA"LtDs;xlocojlgdACqh9-

fl!OAeFhnxtnw!Gxjeg	rzpsJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAkaTFng^fHftA
vAmkvjDF<svzx!ytfbcivlemtys!nqsugqxaa/%mC7fFigA)JlaHHqC!glqceprvg
imsfu	rhgMywd@rx?bbNrufxxs(:fnfbckJhjwttj!ztfo#)

fl!CpirDiHtfv^f6IGUJn_aLunh!ztfbSzwlomtus*tFjpieLvaMBjd:nDfg
mmsfgswytsQms!CqsgbqQpoztws;tpavjjrypLyyv^kbahqwlgzHOew^kfacu
ztfAbBwyfsFDm+mlppbyzljKtke$kE.bcsvguAyet@zFftpeGuaMBjm/fnbemx
CmtbvmwgttGjd@ylujgeJltMttj!ztfbrfur.sMmi!iAvnfeFvusNjp-fIigvmwy
ztfAbBwyfsAfv%kzftu	rvssMtp%oqsu?eGyavIzv:oqsu?eGyaMBwi^fAgbjjJ
uIobemAseKys	

fl!JqBrziHOqh!OllpqBn_aLunh!Gxjeg	rzvKJwm|kpacvezlssIBr!iAvtclwb
^Uu&ueFvauOxm+kEtbqkrTJ7Y (

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbhJpnLIsd>oFibhzJF.sush7fmgvgwrnmtLnr"fmubjjJ
lAsbceEvnxHyd-owfbceOpmwtgi@yF.buhJlbFyidGUrgbynLoaAywd&kme#
Urg++)

fl!PqsKloLy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKanqzvszsush!jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFig
WGfgpeOhtsMnp^tF?

flUjge3poztqe*jlikuezhowtzt=tligtesynmtfr%fFjokiDFaLunh
^OppunvlsmtrC!jqbt<erzixtnw!uzmAbfrjiBFi%N

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbfFnsBFDd@CmzbhwGtaACr{!gzebufAkaMIex&klLpcAw
^6vtpeLofFttz^x-"

flUjge3ubOyeh*jltq?eNlsRthe/krvnnDlgxBNmd=tqahqtLb

fl!IgyrBq|.ew@opavjjrXvxys{!ozacbxzyjEF	d-uGebxtAjfmtfr%fFig
ztsggeyhswysi/yljpuysuuESen;sBffbzHaatHid#ksbpbgGDjGAex=fFig
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfavjjrypRuqd$numftjFaatHid^BqsAdtvFaxFxi8

fl!NgfNlaHzkd:nmu#&eKjsxuri%fFigbVMlfGoedG5AvbofClaFyek*jpz}&
Gzebvmwu.sNzv+ozhbvtrAixtws|k\utgjlgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'XAuydcG8FbAtM
hqfpbiGpoztmi/kh"

fl!OcDrpusJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAka!Qt{!ozacbAwyzsBzq#rqavqswa
mAjpievvxGttr!uzfbmswlatMel^fEqqmjlg!PyeA^xqavtDAuh a)

fl!Kbxwl@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d>nAajcirtftHBl*rqadgjFgfQurm+ozhbvmw
xAtgu rg!8zkd>oFibvmwpssBje%y-"bcsvguAyet/uofuunGuaFIAi%fAo?
ztsggeGmaMBjd|uxekgwKgsxGfm+ozhbdjzpowtys!kJfewywguAyey+lAsvwssAf
mmsfgswytmtBl=fDbpbyGgBEChi!lAsbrwGAfvNns+a

fl!1qzrzitH)x!hqadgmwhexx^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee+jltjgeHBusNmi_fuovqes
rmsigexspPyw[[uFavjfLgtMIth!tqbt}er1ixtyl/kqauqqvpfKMeA@tpftgi
gnpwvexvssueq*tGugbtJguPI	d-uAlkplrmpKtyl^sfacpirAixHeu;oqunA
smsejjvgpyzee'zqsbvmwgpMBjv|a

fl!CtjrAixCwd&kmeubtxm},txl=AFffbyzla0Oji+
