  `Their heads are gone, if it please your Majesty!' the soldiers
shouted in reply.

  `That's right!' shouted the Queen.  `Can you play croquet?'

  The soldiers were silent, and looked at Alice, as the question
was evidently meant for her.

  `Yes!' shouted Alice.

  `Come on, then!' roared the Queen, and Alice joined the
procession, wondering very much what would happen next.

  `It's--it's a very fine day!' said a timid voice at her side.
She was walking by the White Rabbit, who was peeping anxiously
into her face.

  `Very,' said Alice:  `--where's the Duchess?'

  `Hush!  Hush!' said the Rabbit in a low, hurried tone.  He
looked anxiously over his shoulder as he spoke, and then raised
himself upon tiptoe, put his mouth close to her ear, and
whispered `She's under sentence of execution.'

  `What for?' said Alice.

  `Did you say "What a pity!"?' the Rabbit asked.

  `No, I didn't,' said Alice:  `I don't think it's at all a pity.
I said "What for?"'

  `She boxed the Queen's ears--' the Rabbit began.  Alice gave a
little scream of laughter.  `Oh, hush!' the Rabbit whispered in a
frightened tone.  `The Queen will hear you!  You see, she came
rather late, and the Queen said--'

  `Get to your places!' shouted the Queen in a voice of thunder,
and people began running about in all directions, tumbling up
against each other; however, they got settled down in a minute or
two, and the game began.  Alice thought she had never seen such a
curious croquet-ground in her life; it was all ridges and
furrows; the balls were live hedgehogs, the mallets live
flamingoes, and the soldiers had to double themselves up and to
stand on their hands and feet, to make the arches.

  The chief difficulty Alice found at first was in managing her
flamingo:  she succeeded in getting its body tucked away,
comfortably enough, under her arm, with its legs hanging down,
but generally, just as she had got its neck nicely straightened
out, and was going to give the hedgehog a blow with its head, it
WOULD twist itself round and look up in her face, with such a
puzzled expression that she could not help bursting out laughing:
and when she had got its head down, and was going to begin again,
it was very provoking to find that the hedgehog had unrolled
itself, and was in the act of crawling away:  besides all this,
there was generally a ridge or furrow in the way wherever she
wanted to send the hedgehog to, and, as the doubled-up soldiers
were always getting up and walking off to other parts of the
ground, Alice soon came to the conclusion that it was a very
difficult game indeed.

  The players all played at once without waiting for turns,
quarrelling all the while, and fighting for the hedgehogs; and in
a very short time the Queen was in a furious passion, and went
stamping about, and shouting `Off with his head!' or `Off with
her head!' about once in a minute.

  Alice began to feel very uneasy:  to be sure, she had not as
yet had any dispute with the Queen, but she knew that it might
happen any minute, `and then,' thought she, `what would become of
me?  They're dreadfully fond of beheading people here; the great
wonder is, that there's any one left alive!'

  She was looking about for some way of escape, and wondering
whether she could get away without being seen, when she noticed a
curious appearance in the air:  it puzzled her very much at
first, but, after watching it a minute or two, she made it out to
be a grin, and she said to herself `It's the Cheshire Cat:  now I
shall have somebody to talk to.'

  `How are you getting on?' said the Cat, as soon as there was
mouth enough for it to speak with.

  Alice waited till the eyes appeared, and then nodded.  `It's no
use speaking to it,' she thought, `till its ears have come, or at
least one of them.'  In another minute the whole head appeared,
and then Alice put down her flamingo, and began an account of the
game, feeling very glad she had someone to listen to her.  The
Cat seemed to think that there was enough of it now in sight, and
no more of it appeared.

  `I don't think they play at all fairly,' Alice began, in rather
a complaining tone, `and they all quarrel so dreadfully one can't
hear oneself speak--and they don't seem to have any rules in
particular; at least, if there are, nobody attends to them--and
you've no idea how confusing it is all the things being alive;
for instance, there's the arch I've got to go through next
walking about at the other end of the ground--and I should have
croqueted the Queen's hedgehog just now, only it ran away when it
saw mine coming!'

  `How do you like the Queen?' said the Cat in a low voice.

  `Not at all,' said Alice:  `she's so extremely--'  Just then
she noticed that the Queen was close behind her, listening:  so
she went on, `--likely to win, that it's hardly worth while
finishing the game.'

  The Queen smiled and passed on.

  `Who ARE you talking to?' said the King, going up to Alice, and
lookmksygbMtyl^fObv&xroftxeA*ztaitjsAavOwm=yuuA}

fl!Kv)Kgbszwm^tpaqheEpoxa]e!ItfujnJlaVuy{NfEbkfeSsjvy,d!^mmnqBrtf
zAakpyJveNwjd*zg"

fl!KbiGu"Mtqm)klujgeDvpDttj!oFacvessmm.ew@opavjjrRjGA,d!^tpygAwy.
oFaocDrrjLMeq,ftbpfeAmaBNep*qqt}&

fl!K&irybMBjv!tAu?&eLofsWfx!xqnctpwk?

fl!Fqs\Aauyem_vqsvkswuum.ew@opavjjrRjGA	dGgzebftF_usFts)fmuboj
rulgbyzhu|.edcklhqvetliBHid?rudgbfKgixtxt=qq?

fl!CbhsAaFuDd-uAlbcyrhaDCsk7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)J&xjryftxex&gFakp
yAngbgGvlmtgy:fUafqs\AaKyri_hqsbymwyfn.

fl!YgqDaaBNeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh7-ltckirAixtPm+mlwgtDrkfvCii%rK.bcsv
nqaecqDlesNmi!WGfgp	rDiHtBe|fBbuunFnatNex&klnqojFA.s|RC!jqbt#erP
CutjbDGBaPIzp%ftbxgeLojLthe:fDfoqAwk@,

flUjge9BfxHel@jlppnDrvoxtBe,fAgbujLAmBHld@rxafkkxpdNFym^yfaitjsA
uDauofDs?st%S'llxkvmrojLtmi@j-"bumwgttCi{!CuujqzLgfOysd-uAlkpl
xAvpf 

fl!K&qDggxNhl!ztfbgCwjvMCtr^xlnAujDm.,txe*jlujge3poztje"kDmA?esue
nqajwwJpfwttj'a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneyvauuho7fmofbxwlaAIBd:nqaicrw
CmtbitAuhsIs{!gEaujjroftLid:nqaSwjwu"LtAs*iqakpeLofsxnw:gzdg?
yosgcrAuhsQnx&fBbuunGu?stXl^ftbfbfDyftxDd&kmsfbmwyaLysx^tofbvmJlf
uravjjrwmtSjv|fFpbdjrlyxwzx^jlgqtezhwBHld_oEtgfeLofBLex;xzt?bfFk
ytfbfnvgoHNep*qqavjjrspHEes'fFikplKgbMtfp- lbubyzlazuri!Cmtbks
yGdjbhGugNMns+fFicveKofsHjz^xllpgBrDixNmi/fuubyfKgixLex;xzaqt
tAu}be~vaLBjd>kzubksrzftLhl!urajgwrofwAjl=mg

flUjgezlezyms"fIbubjFnbzyid*tlbbhnyousQnx&fmoqvmwyaAyik^nAh?
CtjejeKlfFyid:ulBnkhwgbGtjB$kxmgpyrvqIIwx;tuuAbkGyavLtu;kFjpieGuf
uravjjEgxBNmd:nqaqvmwy;styl^fAonAevpgyChy-zKaycxlguAuyd&kD
lxboksyvaPuxd"uzfbchJvtLtys!ztfbqyzlssMnh^fAgbvmwghtLii+ lxjgww
GxjegeuvvExew^kljvbyJFjGAem+fmajgqHsfLMew=xFaqheOhzsNtd'rKawr
ozuqbfrAsxy 

flCAbyzlaMCri!ytfbjfvgdtOll:fFigbkDhnBHls!gzebdwGBhANem:fnbem	
ztfbhnyousQfw!uHft?esuesvtx&fFigbmwkhxBtk|fIftgeGBusIkd|osiv<
^nvvbnLgeHyxrNzlncvywyaFOhl7-lujqzyousUqm$kfa@cxrhmEtyl^fmsejjK
gDfbitFlayLtq!ztjubxAkfsIkd:nqaittMuen.ednultjgeLBdDyid*zlbycD
Azegtezlssuwq7fFicveAAaFCll:fzpvbjKjbIyee"guo?bfFkaPysx!hmdmbkGy
glmkvyDlaFIwi!iAoxgwKhuBIsd>oFibjjJggKCjr%a

flXjgsrzixtls:fnbemeLvaMBjd{nqtjkwwgDtN	d|nqaycxrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbvMpuxtfd-gDhgbhJvxwths-rqdvgirypNHid*zaabvmwyfsQfw!glekuuMAf
mAjpieGuauyyA^kzavjjrlyxwzx*uzft?eLofs5nr" lbpfeLofs~zi^tfayjt
CqsgbfDsaMuqo*tsacveGudxneA&oxfbcqDguAyev^yFaygwwgrNCyi!yumgpyl
gzebntGrfwtAi/ElvpetEmpKNff-kg

flUjgeEvnxHyd?rudgbfHwftLjh7fEigbBszatJui@rqebvtrizsuqp!ztsggeLv
yquvnjrAixtvy^yFjqp	rhowtyl^ElsgrjsAfwtyl^oDactlMtfGNxd:uligt	
ztpwimlgbLtyl^ElbnneKwpDyee:fAoeg	rzixtks;tpakveNlsRtme/jljpfjwk
zAaocpwgpNNei\gounAeOobMtyl^Eltckim

flUjgewEfvOym=tqs&uesyhNGjr:fIbu?eLobMtDs;fopwniF_uswzx!urgbc
nqbfbzFsfLMex&kDfbyfKgbsvth,fFpbezLgjMttj'frsqo,rguAuyd&klicf
tqwgtezhesNtd%ultwemrhaMBnr"fnfhqwwaatHid&klxcus\AazInr"fFpbdjypo
gFaJKXrAjFyes'fxjhg 

flUjge3poz.xd@xsvogsLgxtM	d:nmubcsQAiBHld:nmubjfvgbsBje%fopwnirif
hqigciwk.sush!ztbvbDGBaPywi+-FavqeLhmDtss+yqoug 

flUjge9BfxH)w!gDhwojFAaPux{!ztbvbnxgtHGjx&ozhbyfKu"Mtis+klbdqzL
oFakpeDltLtyl@tloqbyAtfsMmiNjlicxjrlwxLDf=jKagzjuBuxx	d@rxatqzFk?
[UubyfKguACxd-gEubtjEhsDtyl@zlicfeEhextyl^fIiqnjrwbKNDd-uAlbut
mDbxgesuesusB*uGt}_

flBnkhwgdHOqh!ztjpmeGmaGIyl*tsagnxwguHtxe,fnvvb%1Aauyqs+mEavqeLof
JGdjgxK?asStyNjlcgvywyatMpdcK4acdtMAaBN (

fl!Ujj\zaBHet/oEpp?)rAixtVy^kzaucnvguHtyl^fqygezLppGyw\!f)ggvhz
nqsbjjJl?,teE+jlujgewEfvOym=tqsbyjFAaHzkd-owfbcsrhsKIB	

flaVjjrJbM.xd&kmebdjyhoszfh*tsacyfQguAyeq=sqovbmwgxtMek=tq.bcsva
hKavjjrAjFyel^ftbfbhGtfsvfg)fIjvjeLofsXzx$nqtu?eAAaAuid^tFjtgqQ
jutcruwhsxx.d|ulujge3poztfr%fFigbjPldNNns+kDatcsrDjExqC!ABacpi
jAxpbqGvlBHld'uDakv	rDiBFjd:nqatgxLgpytyl^fBbtvDrDfGNef@iwavqeLofsAfq^a



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPY

flabbergasted!flabber1ixtRs$qlUwtyDl"LtXx=xK


fl!1qzrjbG.yd:nuombmGDazFfh!OlbobyGgtxyeC=AlbicnFaaRIzd%kmsbqqv
ztjpi^\gttCid:nqaFwhzltLnee|fEigbyMjlxxel^xlbtoesmgxwym=tmugnD
ozuqbFDpdx.x{!gzebvmwFaPuqo^jlphheLvhxNmi/a

flBnkhwgxtMez^xKainfvguHtkm+jligteAuaLOhl!glqngfKhoMtyi_vqs?bfFk
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmhbyzhusJjv&gBtbkyrDbLttr-ElujgeHlqIywd:nmubjfv
smegbmwyaLIew@BmhgbBzlosNmi,fyfvbnFguAyeo*zoigp 

fl!YjjFgJ,7ee!JGdjgxKa"sMmi!ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfa-ptLgjGtfd<kDz
nAqghzDguHHjd:nAvij[lg!2tBs+-FajcAwgbGSet^vBftbnFgnRtpm:itfpbF`
GXM}be~vvItis^ylwgtDrDfEFeA*ztpwv]	TbRvjd*z/tbcqOhzLtui[vqsbvmsA
smlgueHlpIFjd&uF_vgrHlsxx	(!ytfbyjFAaHH	d<kDzbozuoaIFje|kpacv
nmwkplrmpNHid=AFacbswDaDCsh!uratwqwaa/ush!BuogifJguAuyd_gwfubyzln
yAvt+]sueswfq=sumgbyzhusGfo^ylujgrrijMNjvT/mof+]suesvfv-kK_uwlsy
gzebuzuoaMBnr"ylujcyrtbDyeg&oxetgsrzxxyy[:kyqgtjvbas3es+rKaykxz
vqprnjrroxQex&gF;bbyzlosNmi,fIpwniF_usvjd|ultvksyFatvty:fuu?bDGB
qzpy+]\

flTjgezhesKzm:klgqtlGAuxHex&klEwemwztsvDd:nutbvnEl.sush!Cmtbc
ruuvnjrzutLyp^jlxjgsrzixtmi@xpajgwrCpBwjd$rAtgbyGgixLei@xg
^~pw&wwguACso*tsacdtMAaLIri:nuoi?eEFawyfv7fmofbyzhusGfo^ylzqw
lAsigyrApsNfp)alaKbhsu"Mtyi-rlzqweBBtMtss>fIicveLofsGtv@rlphbyzhu
oE.bdzLgJsMme-rlsgojEifKtnx!ozacbgAA?,

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!nmtp&yrvoxn)d?rudgbAwuuNLjh!zAatgrsyln

fl!VwylguNN	d$numf#)rzbBxex&klEwemwztnte$ BqsAvmAuh,Mek=zlb
sAscn	rpgsIsp,fKpwbhsuayCsh!oF?&beSuesMmi!yCvggEwkaAyww^rrawr
ixpugwrApsUqm$k/tbunvlatMew&kltrqpwb

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlnwemrsjDyeo^kBjpieKvavFtw^fFpbjjJ?asznv|zf
hqdcwxwguAyeH;itfuueOhts$JVtfGhnA.rhowtxi$uzenA	rifvuzw^fEigbBsz
kJbevqQguAyev*mtubjjAniMtys!xqtvbmwyavBnr!ABppbFDpdx.xd|nAvnfjJa
gzebkyrDbLtfr!AzdqokGyutvqC!ytbtreuojGoedcuIfxgwlgtAyeh*jloqv
rulgbyGgcxtwy%kfauqeKofsvtv^fuubcxrDfEFee|fEigbhGBmwo

fl!VjjrnbFy)w!mAjpieGuaKuyl^xlcgvywyaGIB{NfEigbxspemtgC!Cmzbqk
qqfrksygvItyl^foppxjJzbMCtr!glmkvyDl?

fl!&VnKgtHn)d|guebvmwgENwmi|yaab@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtxguAuyd*y\_*Qml
-FjubqGCfmt)x*ylmqxjlguAuyd_gwfubyzlaPIwp%fspbttMue|?)

fl!UqrwipwSew@op.&bFDpdxtBl*yBftgilg!MBfx!oF"ubiGufsvDd^BqsAdtvF
suofksyguAynv!uIobdzKpoxMx%N

fl!Cj	rDfEF^d!OFaogfFzaFOhl!ztfbufElaMBnr" /aucnvguAyeH;itfuu	
juhiksygixLew&gDqbnnLAmxthl*tljpvtrHmBwj(|fEiqwqvlssuxd|nqacfiwk.
^mofbyzlaFIwe-fAgbVMS1aBM][OZmlgbhsyfsIkd:nqaugsKl.sush!ztf
yAvpfxrDjEFex@qqaecwwgpytyl^sEfnxjKb&,

fl!JqBrmpGxew&kljubtxggBHim+mlnqtfDzaBHex&ozhu#)rHmBwjd:nAvijyrAp
nqsugqxb

fl!KbisyfsMfC!EAv&tjrDpGxjv*tsayjDrPawIs(:fBvvbrQgbKGev=AzebAtMy
Cmjuv	\guAyeH;itfuueKhjwtfj:kDacbusBtxiedGztfbtjszpGtnw7fFicve1_n
jAvdvkMsatvty:fFigbywtqxLes'fKpwtexsbFCsk=alaUjfDsa2tyv,fFig
kJqgtnEloMp)

fl!JGeEphANef*zq.&bFDpdxthe;zupwuqQgsxJqm^jfapqyrmfxFnr"fmubcqD
gzykqzKguHtme<klujgewEqxLnq^tFavtnwk?

fl!XgwQguKOj{NfEbkfeLofsXzg&kEt<be]mmtGnr"uqtbcsvgnNMye/jlcqvm
huug}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-TpswMes'fmahgfLofKtkp=iw
zAhgvmwy?..

fl!QpqQgnNMye/jljup)Lgbsvnv% /aCnnulaKyre/qqe}

fl!TklzA.suxd;yGbn?)rzbBxex&klEwemwzthte$>nmubceusftLeA@Elzqw
nmwgbtxgqNNym+mlujksyz@,

fl!Kv)KgbsGnr^xmm?bNr1I28P{NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlju?)rzbBxex&klEwemwztmtBl=fEfgojvgsxuiC!zAaciwwl
zAagxjJFuACsk!ztbvbFDpdxtxe*jba@vmwyf,Mee!rmsigeEBtMuwhTsuogbswhs
nqsg}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-`ofsGtv^fFigtjrptsIkd_ozf?byzl
rqtubyzlsxtnw!uraAqzJz?..

fl!Qj	rPaDHtAH-lfzeqspnxxeE-oof?bBzvaAuid+uFacvywuexxex=fFiku
rmtvbwwtbKE	dGoF"ubfrCfzyye#rq?bbNLgeHyxrNzlmqqprsjDyes+kfadwyrpu
oE?&

fl!KbvMpuxtfk/kqaykyzgzHO	(!ymjfbyzlaWOhl^yE<b@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtx
ztbvbnK|_.Vjd>nmubAtMgxHOqh!yqfobyGgcx?][=xljhbDGB"wtqm)kljvbuMA
sAsgbxAtqES][OTqwgteAtbzCsi!EAvtujDmaGIyd:ulcgbtLofKQnw^fFicp
CtbvbnLgnBAmx!gBqgcwrApsIyl^xEavjfLgxAuyd,uGaygwwgpKtrm"nFajcAw
hqfpbBszaGIyd=ztftynKlaMBfr!CtbvbDGBaAuid#kqobytMsesBfz^fmqrgfJle
zAavjjEguHtgi!uFigtBAzfn?)

fl!KbyzpoDtNd|nAvnfeMuexLxx@tpavjfLgcxNyi/ /aCnnulaLunh!BqsA
vAmkvjDF.s|nj!OlicfeAAaPLnx:kzafqBF?asvzx!Oldcp)LgrNCyi!lAmnqBrpu
gEaAqzrzbRtnx8-

fl!VjfL_tsHtx&ozhbvtrDitNeM!iAvnfeKhzsCkddfoiqujl_aMBjd	Aoigux
xqqnkjvaaBHee!vxfcujvguHHj	

fl!RtfQgeHH)x!zDpwdqwgzHOww^rravqeKhzsCyd@tKanqsylssNme+fFicv	\
ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd:gxlbcgGBusNws;hxf#&eKhjwtyl^fPvejjKz?st%M!smlgbDGB
glqtgxwuusIkd^BqsAvmAuhs3)z^fEbkfeszaRyy	N

fl!CbhzlbItxs/zlphbuJltxHy%NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ala@K)EghEuid:nqzbftF_u
muwgbgAyuAxfC!vDfugsLzaECpi!ztbv#)rgCNNew&klekfeFvusPjr:ADfbvt
ymzbkyrvvMtqs;jg

fl!VjnFrjGAee"guo{&eLofsXzg&kEtbcxClemtBm:nlbpqyzlssxnk!urajgw
ytbtreDpuMFjd$nuo}

fl!K&AwgbsLnk&zluqbyzpoDn)d|guebCqAjfsMme/vxz?bkGyaLBjd>gE
hqhkpsAuhsNtd'kqmbceDpuMFjd>uDskgim

fl!LwxLgbuIzx!gEaowhzgsBAmx7-ltckirAixtIy$nqtu?e]htsJnk|ftbxgeLv
lxz>bfFkaMBjd_/\"

flCwvezlsxnex=fMmkej\zazLje:fEvtrwAzfmtyl^fPvejjKz"LtAs*iqafkjv
gIbA?ewCfGtnr!ztfbonvkmxttj!nqsbhfNvvKCyi!CAsfb%EvstF	(!gzebvmw
gDnbvmsAaPuxd-ozlgfeAuuHtmi/ylcgifFguHtyv^snmg}erHmBwjd-uAlgfeMw.
gzebvmwyfsMys=jlujge9BfxHem+frsqpyrvgsNmi_ lxkvmrofKtfv_ylgqniwk.
lDpypnFnaECpi!glujwsvlsLNtv_a

fl!CbkAufsxfC7fKpwte5hkxMyCH-lujgeVBdAyxw!hqhcpeAuattqs> lxgcp
BAjeg 

fl!PqBlgJsAnz^fKpwbkspssQfv+ozh?&eKopNNjh!ztfbSzwlomtxx@sBjpieGu
ztfbiwGBowtfw!ytfbuuGrfit%i*ztftbDGBaHLeC=ADajgfvgnNMyd#klphh	
gzebvmsAaBHee#uGubjfDmaGIex*sq@bbYsrfsSty/foiqkhw""

flUjgeVBdAyxw!zApmbmwyavBtm$kfacpirDbLtls+kljpbfrtpFysx8

fl!Ngy\zazIes+fIjvjeLofsAfq^ /avjjrXvxysd|guebvtrHmBwj,!gzebCqAjf
CmtbvtGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFlesNtd|gKacbBGyemtgy:fEmqyqQggHFqs>kpajgw
hmdmbyGguAyeg/uCvgv]yypNHi	

flUjgeGAixLek;kEuubmskaMupi+fmexcsLhhxttj!ztfbSzwlo,Mee#yqoeg	
gzebyjJlaKyxx*tsakpeLofsMme%kaabjtOlwxL	d:nqaoqrwuusNmi,fEbybmwy.
ztfAbmMysByid#golbvtrAixtle_kfavjjrXvxysd_kDfnAeJlntLpm+mlujcyrh
sAngpy\zawyqe,fIpwnirjpLNex&kyavjjAyaECAi|a

flBnneLofsNnq^fFigAeOlsxtup@Euoibyzla0Oji+fzfxgwrsfyNes'l
wGbttjDsjGAeA*ztavjjrvuAywd[rmzgtxlgbGxew&uGukplr'PyzeA*ztajkx
nqbf#)rvss|Tj'fIjvjezlssBje%'/abVmGzfsQms_fEigbxwuuxHhi%fIftg
zmlgpeAuuHthy|zAeAbgQguAyew=rpjgtxlgxAIes'fopwtxwgitxex=fxfcxj
urgbdjAuhsuwg&kEavqevvaMBnw7fEpbvmsAauSex&klfpfeGmaAuqj!gzajqzJ
uDauqeLofKyeA^xqapqesydAyxd-kru?bfFkatFqd:nqarnfQlsLnei\iqqvbyzl
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfacpirHmBwj{!CqsgbnFgdNMys%ElbpfeMuexLew^tFfpejrvg
kJfewyAvon

flUjgsrAixtVy^kzangkLgpyz	d]AuugbtMAaHzef/kmuj?esuesMfm%fFp
Gxjeg	r'ItPjd,uGaugjFguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsSjx9-

fl!Pq	\gttCid?rudg}er'JsxtrNzlfxgsrroHQeA&gFacbRGjls@zv:rqaku \

fl!Kv)KguAyex&ozhbOtura!Owx-klTqwurptsGfh^frsqo	\gttCid:nqaSwjwu?

fl!KbswCfKtxe>fAog?eGyaAyfv%fAgbqswa"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz.&bxspesNmi!WGfgp	r'bGxel^fEicnqrAfEFeC=Aliku
nutvqwQa"

flBubyzlzsQfp)kpaqhkrApzyyl^xfaCnnulaAyfv%fFigbPAuhsMfC!ozacbqGD
BAjeg	rApsNmi!iAnrcsQghxHjv@rxz?b%%vvsuwi!gxmbrfJkpGyi	Nfl!Eqrwa
ZTBV&XrhazIth!ztjpi^\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7frptbxzlaAuid'kxubszAAf
AzicruQgbMtyl^fzvodjJgpytjB^iGukqsKguAyeU;kqobjfvgpKxjv^jg

flUjgDrCfKSew=uzaecrwgvIIsd@fSsArmGu.sFDm+mlgcuyrhtEyjt!ozavjj
yGo}be}PGsSty!jAo&veCupPtBl@zlbbIwQwiHHem| lmqqprhusNmi!vudvwwwb-
^7q?bqsGzsNmm+m-"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp?e]howtye)klujkxrFpNHld-gpzbvt
yqfbvmwgNHwpdoADung	rhowtys!nqbtbmAzaACxx=xK?bbNrtvLNek=fnbemesue
yqfbckLlssMtq^fqygezLppGMeM!nmwgbtJkfKyi(3fmofbxzlaPuqo^jlphh	
rqbxksygBEChi!gxppgeOpuAtyl^fSsArmGu?stFp*iqafkirupMtvy*zqankpw
ztfbntGraHzex&kldtgfLBsxnef;zlppbyzlaPBtp^fEigbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqv
hqaswnLlatMew@lqavqeKAbRtBm:nljvbfKguHtls!grugteLobMtxe<gsf
WGfgp,rgtHtxl^fIbkvjvb

flUjgeYyzIBtr!ymubwurhowtwy#hqebkyKgfRyx\!fFigpeAAaPuyg&kpavjj
WGfgpeLpmEtxl^fIbubtMAaHzew*mtu<beLofGtnx!itvemqwk?st%1&gFahws/_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz.bjfDmaMIem:yqmh?ezhmytys!Gxjeg 

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^frvp{)rzbBxeE-oof}

fl!YjDlgT1Y	(!ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?bb%1A"Ltfp-ftftbksudRnex&gF;bbyzlz
tqwgtewEfvOyi|fzpdqiQaaRIzd)tAx}beUvnxttrH-

fl!GxjJFcHxDd|gKtb*hGtfsIs%Oftftg	\guAIzk&zlBnkhwaatMew&klxgpy
yxpynDrhgMywd*zaab@NrufOywd>gEauqeGyexLjh!gnpwveAuatFqd_Elmkhjl
tqwgt^\

flUjgDrobwtss:fsppgexhssvjj=xqavjjQgttQex&klNqepr1vKNqi!ozavjj
jutvcsul.sMnx:ozhbufvgbGxep=tqmAbtFgbsFnx:rqangiylaHzev=iw.bcsva
gEavjjQgdtGjd+kmsgt	rHmBwjd$uGmfbmwhssBnq!yuhjksygbLtnj!nutbjjsyu
CAvnfetyftE d!YtfbrnLpfwtmm_fpfgrqQbas|2l@zljubmAzaLIwv=Ch"bumw
gElgfeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFkaMBjdbxKqjqsrhoLQjv^jfaxgwQgoxuwp,fuobvmw
ymngbBGyeLtfw!hqgqtjlg!2N)w!gxmbjnKggtHhC7fFicv,rgixtme|t/ubitL
tAauqwJvxmtDs;fwoqy rgDHGjd=t-"
