large eyes full of tears, but said nothing.

  `This here young lady,' said the Gryphon, `she wants for to
know your history, she do.'

  `I'll tell it her,' said the Mock Turtle in a deep, hollow
tone:  `sit down, both of you, and don't speak a word till I've
finished.'

  So they sat down, and nobody spoke for some minutes.  Alice
thought to herself, `I don't see how he can EVEN finish, if he
doesn't begin.'  But she waited patiently.

  `Once,' said the Mock Turtle at last, with a deep sigh, `I was
a real Turtle.'

  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `What
is it?'

  The Gryphon lifted up both its paws in surprise.  `What!  Never
heard of uglifying!' it exclaimed.  `You know what to beautify
is, I suppose?'

  `Yes,' said Alice doubtfully:  `it means--to--make--anything--
prettier.'

  `Well, then,' the Gryphon went on, `if you don't know what to
uglify is, you ARE a simpleton.'

  Alice did not feel encouraged to ask any more questions about
it, so she turned to the Mock Turtle, and said `What else had you
to learn?'

  `Well, there was Mystery,' the Mock Turtle replied, counting
off the subjects on his flappers, `--Mystery, ancient and modern,
with Seaography:  then Drawling--the Drawling-master was an old
conger-eel, that used to come once a week:  HE taught us
Drawling, Stretching, and Fainting in Coils.'

  `What was THAT like?' said Alice.

  `Well, I can't show it you myself,' the Mock Turtle said:  `I'm
too stiff.  And the Gryphon never learnt it.'

  `Hadn't time,' said the Gryphon:  `I went to the Classics
master, though.  He was an old crab, HE was.'

  `I never went to him,' the Mock Turtle said with a sigh:  `he
taught Laughing and Grief, they used to say.'

  `So he did, so he did,' said the Gryphon, sighing in his turn;
and both creatures hid their faces in their paws.

  `And how many hours a day did you do lessons?' said Alice, in a
hurry to change the subject.

  `Ten hours the first day,' said the Mock Turtle: `nine the
next, and so on.'

  `What a curious plan!' exclaimed Alice.

  `That's the reason they're called lessons,' the Gryphon
remarked:  `because they lessen from day to day.'

  This was quite a new idea to Alice, and she thought it over a
little before she made her next remark.  `Then the eleventh day
must have been a holiday?'

  `Of course it was,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `And how did you manage on the twelfth?' Alice went on eagerly.

  `That's enough about lessons,' the Gryphon interrupted in a
very decided tone:  `tell her something about the games now.'



                            CHAPTER X

                      The Lobster Quadrille


  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and drew the back of one flapper
across his eyes.  He looked at Alice, and tried to speak, but for
a minute or two sobs choked his voice.  `Same as if he had a bone
in his throat,' said the Gryphon:  and it set to work shaking him
and punching him in the back.  At last the Mock Turtle recovered
his voice, and, with tears running down his cheeks, he went on
again:--

  `You may not have lived much undewyaMBjd|km_+&e}'JsBfz^t/u?&
ymjfbFDpdx ][GgzebrjJobIMeC=AlxgtjrufOywd^BqobksLypwOhi%fFpbceDvcLNjvT//
[Mmkejrifzusd:ultcAe]PaHHhi!zmtvgi	|"svzx!itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszm
gzebufAka/8t{!tqwgt){g! axs!EAvbefFgitPjd+uljfgfrDitNee!jqmkimLmvE
ztjpiesgMHvxx^xlRwciJpmEyem|'/

fl!Pq	rpowyjh7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjcyrzpKNes'fmafcsulaBMem:b/

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbIwQwiHH	dGEAvbhnJzusztv_fuovqesgmBHjd@rAoibyzl
yqb+umGyf a)

fl!VytrsjGyx%NfoskgirAixtRs$qlUwtyDl?st%W^gxt?byMyuEyx{!ymmoqsl
gzebutrvoityl^tfayjjFgzHO)z^fomgcwwkatFqd:nqalgqDF_yCxl!uGubqk
ztfbyfQ|_,

fl!VJF`ghxHjv@rxzbvfCltsMtq^fFjog	\gjGNjv/ABugfeLofs1wC[nAo}

fl!++DGBatxAe+iqavynul_ .

fl!GchzgxBNmd@fxpduywyatMee!vmsvpjJ""swwm^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqaucnv?as|fh<gzdgbyOpdxnew^zluq
vmsvpjJz_ .

fl!++hzhozyep=hEugtxlgbGxev^zusgbnFgttGjd=xpft?)rjpGNnr;kpavjj
MDzrjtFb

fl!VjjFaaRIzd)tAx?&eLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgxxHyd=tfa@AtMguALtA!ztf++)

fl!VjjrspuMyi/y-"bumGBuxxex&klHtAuzvomtBm:nlbbdtMuesCsx=fFigbfAy?

fl!++fKggtLes;zluqbxwhatMeC=Aldcp]	_

fl!UynEgbyNjv!ztfo#)rzdKyfq^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!VwwFgbsMtq^xEbwnyrposNmi!yqb#&euyjxxex&klNqepr1vKNqi7
imqgtnFnaPCqh-ElbdqzLb

fl!DchCguHtqe+jlbicnFaatHid:nmu&uessmsNmi!lusuvexphNLj{NfEbkfeLof
SAdmbYMyuEy	d|ApegpqQgeKIut*tsajkxrCpBwj,!gzebvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKa
Ctpbjfvgcxysd(AyqkplrhcHOyd-owfbofvguACsk|fmmnbyzptsNnq^ ltcv
jAxpbfyhjGtAi/EltcfqQgbGxeu;oqunA	rhowtqs=qqebcyrHmBwj	

fl!KveEBtMtgi!glwgtDrwsxNyC!jmoeg	\gttCid?rudgbyAtjwFD	

fl!YqzDkaRIzd-owfbvtrzfxtfd-oFungeGmaBNa(!ymjfbyzla6Iho!ZGsvnjm

fl!XgwQgnNwmd*tpfgf	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!EqrwaaEyy(|fFsAbyzlayCww:frjiwww""sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqavqeLof
MDzrjtFbas|2i!imobftrDjMBty:fxpduywytmtDs;fwoqy rgXAChl!ytbnn
yuoi{)

fl!Qj	r6P@txm+mf"bufAkaMBjdbxKqjqsmga/3)z^frptitLAfGtyl^fIptfxm_

flTqbyzlzsvjk@tltqnjEumRtie+iuoibwGBowtfr%fDpwpirHmBwj{!kHftAeFvx
gzebvmwuaMLje%ozhbqsrofKtys^ylxjgsrAixSet@yEffbyGvavFtw^ lbpf
CmwkplrAixCwd'uDfrcBKguHtre/qlujgeLpnxneA&oxfbvmwgNHwpdoADung
ymoibyzptmtAi/EltnqBDFatHid|gpmA<]	


^|XknqrFpNtBe-qlbbnnLAmxtke|zqs{*eKhjwtfd>nuukplrApsuew+gum}
_6igtj\zattus/vAjugeuspLyef^nuofbzKaatHid&k/tbvwwheBHld=tlnA
fFbkn 
YqfbjtOgftAjv-ElujgeDvcLNjv|fmofbyzlaMOwx-kEacnqrheOusg^'
ZtfAbfJlaPunx*tsaqpeLofsMmm+mxf++BAsmsSty!iAngbfFkaCInr!ztf
jmoega

3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CumnbDGBaCInr!ztf
jmoega
3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CAo&veQvvsDtm+fFig
jmoega


_~pwbhsuaKyfp-ElicxjrupsHtx*uzajqBrkfECll:lGmbkyrDjEFef^
3tfpbyzlzsNfo^fGtbwurhowtyl/uIawu	rDjMBex&klmqdxLlsLnes;zluq
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergastew^g-&
HGubvmwgtGunp!xqqnkjvg&!Itd'gD.bvtGggtL^)!gzebifNlattqs=q
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted@ywbpej	|
YmjfbmwguAuso^jlujgeOojMCsk!quofnDlgcNNel^fIpwnirupMtos*tlujg
flafcsul?
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?eOvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?euvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}

^|XjcyrtbMNjv|fuubjtOggtLeA^fsp{*ezptsMhe-ElgtkjFkaKyup*kp?
_6igtjrptsuss:nqsbumGyfmtDs;fwoqy	rBqHHex&klpvjjJgtBxj	
ZtfbhzJAixLes'llgtqrrLozFfr%fFigbswhsxLem|fFpbHwsudxa]
ZtfpbyMyosHtx!vmmg?etlmHPjh!yzbkn	rivMths_klbpfeBvjGtyl^fpbpejm

flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bynDsaRIzd(uuobvmw
flabbergawusg^b
flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bytF_usSty!pAjpbyzl
flabbergawusg^b|"



fl!VjfFraRIz{!oF"ubfrCfKSem+zqsguyAuhsxfr$kluqbBsAdAn)d|gue
Gxjeg	rmfxFnr"fHftAeysbwtyl@zljvbBszaHPjv!gFancxL?as|fr%fUafqeKv
rulgbyzhuswzv*uGtbutFnatvty:fFigbBzpuBHl%N

fl!Qj	rhtsNtd:nqayjnLpozn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung	r'uAyD[TEAv&xj
yqfpbyzlnmttj!iAvtujn_

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'J,Pjd=lFfpbxwlosNmi_fmubfnFu_ .ew&k
itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszn

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClxjgwwgEBHsd_gKadg	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ l!dwy
oraAqz\CfsMji+fFigoeKvaHzyi+ lphbhGBsLyeC=AllpqBrDitNex&kK"tg
rulg})

fl!KbgwsjxPjd|uf"bCqAjfsLjt-oqebvmGBhANky-rK?bb%`ofRtme<klujgnJ
zmjnueAuaMBjm/fypwvmK|_tHid:nqz&tjrhmEttz^xldtwrtz?,

fl!1qz\yfsQws+mlbdqzLguAyeg/Aycu?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi2
^oswogKgxHOqh!gxmbyfKoaHzkd*tlujgeKlbnteF;zlujgDrOB#Yex&kusbvfAst
ozavjjAyaFIzx&ybacpirAixtwi@yAobkx	|"sBjv^fFigbRGjls@zv:rq
Emxpgirhowtxl;zlikuewFfLo][GZqmnbmwyatvty:fFigbwwhtHHee+jlbnn
ztbv?)rofsMfm%fFpbvmwgHKSul=tg

fl!VjjryftMtr!oE.&bxspesNmi!MDzrjtFaa/Nme:fFigAe#VV5Xek=fIjvj
ztfbnttzuxLxd:ulujgevhovy d!YAavjjQghHNex&xAxpbtMAaMIew^ggabUt
ztfAbmskaMIej@rxacbqGuhsQfC8flTqbyzlzsAtx!ztfkteLhjEMej@yFakp
ztfkteEvvMBx	!f5pbvmwFavIzp%t/ubijLguAyrd=AFacifAu?stYl@z/tbcqDb"

fl!VjfFraRIz{NfEbkfeSsjvy	dGoF"ubAwyzsCsx^xqtvksybas3er^BqsbmswD
yAaowhzgbuIzx!glxjkyAuhsvjj=xq?&

fl!KbhsuaMyqp!EAvbotJlaMBfr!ztbv?eAmaRIzd-owf?&eKhjwtyl^
MDzrjtFbas|Is!EAvbmsGDaPBDd*z/tbefDsfwtfd>nuukpln_

fl!KbswCfKtyl=AsivbftvvMtnx7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjAa\

fl!KVeVVF`tYL fNPQVXrHOWtXLjK5?&byzlaZLDt&uzatguDpfwtAi/E
yAmgosDF?

flBnkhwgxtMex&uDpwimDFaIOED-kp?bb%VvfLtyl^fnpqvxrhowtxl=kE@&bxzl
xqqgcywkaBHee!CAofgwAuhsNtr^a

fl!YjDlgxAuyd@xqa1QZ0gtAIjw!jAogbBAAio.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ala@K
sqbp?eOobMtre)kEavjjEgtHtxl*tK}&

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fppypesAaMBjq7fmofbhGutBxjv^jlbbnnLAmxtgi'uDfbumw
mmwgbmwyatHxA^xgab@Yzlz,Ljd%uzfbynLoauFfg)ozh?bNrifECjz^a/

fl!DqtLzatHid|nAfubzFkfKtyl^fEfc?)rAixtLv,vtppbBwuusIsd*tlbbfjww
BAjeg	r'bKyeh=tqaykyzgbsQmm:ozh}be6vxsSty!qzpy})

fl!CpirDitNee/klujgDrtbwyes'b/aCnnulatMpi%fuobceLvoxttj!mDfcv
iGskqxAAzn

fl!UqqwzatHid^kxt?btxgdHOww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrnnwkaKuyl^x
oyqcvnwuuES,d!^moAbxzyjFJeg=AxebjfNlaMIqh!EAvbvmsA?,

fl!Khe1_esvji+fFigbBzpuBHl{NfEbkfeSsjvy	d>nAtgbyzvvzByw!Cqsg
yFjnneJBoGCsk!uzavjjrzpGA	dGO/ebjfNlaLunh!zAavjjrwpKJtm|kfa*Mjww
hmdm?eHsftMj\!fIfbftF_usQfr:f~PWbBAAisOx%O-

fl!VjjQgxxLjd=hxjigirApsBfz^ftjobBAAisNmi_ /avjjrTpvEeX;xFmg
ymjf<er'oHtBm|klgkumrDpNFid"ulbpABzlsxtBm:nAvvbfrwpKJtm|kg"

fl!YqzDko,Nem:fDfcnqQc"sMfm%fMmkejrposuex=tqaqheyyftNew;xBskujm

fl!QheuvvKMjd+uF.&bxspesNmi!SAdmbYMyuEy,d!^IiA?eAmattkm|nldcoj
zAaOG	rhowtys-jlngbmwgxtMek=ozhbceBvvKHjC7fUaujtMsesMfC!_9jvj
CtbvbuGyqHCxi9_/

fl!Fqs\AaRIzd_kmob*uMyqHMj)9-ltckirHmBwj	

fl!KbrwhosQme:fUaucDl_aMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtwi[ruffbnFgbGttj'kzegf
zAog}erHowtyl^fSsArmGuatxii%f)DqojlgmxN)w!nqbtbxGtfsIkdtU7S
gpwgpyMyfLo)

fl!KbhGBmwtyi-rlzqweEFatxAi+zGsgu]	ifzCsr*tsahttEguACxd_uDokpll_
ymjfbFDpdxtfd-oFungeLpnBxqC2fl!dwyrpu,Mer=fGtgblGpoztge$qluq
Eqtvgwvhzmtgi$gGtgbNrDbLtfd%orggtjFAaIyww=tlujgsm_

fl!GzuDhjGtfp-fFicv	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!Pq	rup|teX&klbfxjFAvKyxd'oDtv?)rzbBxex&klHtAuzvosCsd@t
oyqcvnwuusNtr^.la@gCHsbGuym=tEavcpwgtNwmd@fpsgcixBmsNnq^a/

flTqbFDpdxtgi"gzavgqDpoztyl^sligteskwxHyy/kEahttEguAyex*sqayjjF
ytfbhnJzusMfA!ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oF?bbXzlaPuxd@fxjvvqwgoxLAs;ylbdqzL
oFalwxLgbMtkm/yF.bvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKghHNew=fomqujrApsBjv7fAogbtF
kmdjbxAkfmtfr%fAqgpjvguAynv!kKfubfFkaFIzx&yltqb1WYZsQnh^ lcwveKof
mmjpgirjpNLfk^fmtbumwgxxHyd=tgabJjJgmBMyi+kDtbyjJlaIywj^iFmA
wGjgveLpmEtxl^fspvbyGguAyet@xFacdtMAaAywd/kBfcvnFna/'TY!G4FbQQVa
LMUJGWr4J56NEh /avqeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJaatHid:nqayqwvzatFqd$uyjpi
jughgwwuumtfr%fFigpeLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgeKyBd@fxppietyftNm{!gzebufAk
^6icv)KgwxLDd$ADjqwxm_

fl!Kv)KgbEFee#uGubcxrjvKCty|fmtbkyrjbGtgi7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp}

fl!Kvessmswfq^fpjhhjJloM:)d:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fDfrgfLle
ztpwimLmvEFD	!f)JbumGBmwtqm)kluqbmwhssBjv!zDzbcsvgsxJje:
yAngvmAuhsHtA8flUgnqrofKtys!hqhkp \ga1yep=uwffbfLguAyeK/EBiqpesz
orajgeLopNAmx!oFajcirzpFyeo*tpaqhesBuAIwm:ElpxgwrHmBwj	

fl!UvfFkaNJee+jlsgrjsAa..YMnf6IGb17PDXtTJ!ZTFbUQ!NHT`I{O-ltcki
ztfbIwQwiHH 

fl!JqBrAixthv^gFvtgxrvswywd=tqacdtMA.sush!smlgbtFlaKyui@z
rqtuqsK""sNms;mtubCqAjfit%M!suhjveszaPyqp!hqacveKjiHIqd@zlppejm_
NAxgxjJaaLBjd"uFawr	rhowtgi"gzavqeJlqxuyd*zfadwyrofKtmi@jlxcueKv
lGmnbtxguAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-kfavjfLgtAyel@xpmAbpFlxsQme:fEigbBsz
ymzkpllgbGxex&klxqtiKgdtGjd<kDzbszwlssCsh^kp;++

flab@)`ptsNmi!BAjegeGmaMBjdguntvgwhgJsBje/jlikoevldEuwi7
flab*4GBaAuAi!hmlgfeElaMItd#xAxp?e1gnNMyd|AsbtbrQgitCw	O
flabCxrhawOho!CuujbnLzaxSjp*jE.butrofsQnx&ftjubsGzf
flabVwAttsBnw!hqmvbfFkaACxd#AFuqpxlgbGxex;xztbqzLgiBMex=kE?&

flabbergasted!<xbvgwrleBNns+yldqpyAuvxxee|frpnntOz
flabYmwuaMBjd|gzeubfJlatFqd%xK.bjjrptsAfC!gEacbqsylm
flabCsvgxBFqd:gxlbksrjpGNjq[zGpwueLvoxMes'fFigbXzhsDn
flabDzLaaPBjr!ztfbvnvlaKCxi|fmofbxzhsDMee/klbtqzFk.
flabJnKgwHChi!nmtbceLpnBxee+jlutgrMspNMew=Aze}|

fl!VjfL_tsxnj'kDfpvexypFtBl@zlJbwxwkaMIew@ElxjgsrPaPuxd@foiknil_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?

fl!YgqDaa2tsi<kDajgfJkaBNef^lAsg?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi3f)cwveAA
yAvpfxrBovIrq=tloqpxwutxo)

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplhgtAyel@jltcvevvxGtBm:nligtexhdxtnr!nqs
nmofu	rDpGxjv*tsakhesuzMBnr"fIpwnirLWX`el@vBfpbnFgbsHfx;xmmbyfQ
gsbkp 

fl!KbxzvvExep*qqavqezhwxtnx!kJqncnFlem.ew@opavjjrTpvEeX;xFmg}

fl!UjjrjbG.yd^DBmcksrpum.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ftbuvnDF?st%K=fAobynLo
ztfbpjPAaOyww^a/

fl!DwyrhcHOyd&oEavqjKc"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyet^xEjuvjvbas|Ms>fOPWNI
nqavwwFguAyrd=AFaykyzgiBMer=yq.bAtMglGIB N

fl!Kv)KguAyej*xEubrtKpuBIsd*tlecphAuhn.eE-oofbufAk<svzx!Cmt
jDfcfkMsmRtuy.FxffbgQguAyeA&uxfbvmAuhmtfr%fxppijvguHthl@tsfbvmw
yGclghLb

fl!IqeGuaPCyl!ztfbpjPAaOyww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrgfLlesCrt@zufpvqQ?
^uubdjypoLt-M!vmtugirizsBnw!mmsfgsm+"

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlectjrApsxnw=hqz?byzvvzBew&klggnyrzvKyem:fIpwni
gxmbetElaPLtr" lbpfeKofsQjr:fAobksrhaMLjq#ruoibAGpdxi][

flab@NrwbLMjh!hKajkxrnbKxjr7fmofbrsylxx	d>oFibqswgfRy	
flabJtOguAyeS>rlbpfeLofs0fr:nqsbyjJlaLBfv*tsacbuAl_ .

flabberg]Euyi/fqekvnGutswtr:ozvgfeszayIqp=CE
flabVmwgQtHyl^xluqqprwjxahv;yF.bcsvghKuAC7fmofbrwhum
flabYmAsfsNmi!UImbjfvguAyeh*ytacueAAtsMme/klphbyzlaMLje:a
flabYmwuaMBjd[oqaycxrhmEtkm+oEigf	rAixtTA- lbubfripHH	
flabYfKglBHip,fBftonLAfwtys!vAdmgyrAixtxt=uz;
flabYmAsfsNmi!VmovjjJgsxwjm<kpampnxlatHid'uDlbynLoattlv=Cx.
flabCsvgdHHhp;jqebvmwgctHvy^z\_|

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^fGtgbtxgsxJje:ozhbcqDguAuyd|zGgh?)rAixtRs$qlUwtyDl
ozugtwMwuxx	dGoraAqzrkpG.yd^DBmcksrpusuxd,uGaiqeGu}stNxNylcAbksy
ztfbotKAavIsj;yuoibyzpoztNd^Bqsbjjsye|.

fl!1gxlgJsNmm+qlzqw)vgcxNyi/fxfcxjrvgyn)d|guebvmwgHKSul=taabcsv
GxjegeOhtsIsp,fFpqblDhesNtd%ultq}

fl!UjfDsaPyex/Elbpqyzlssznk;xqaqheLofs6tf|zqsbSzsksBFqi9-lujg
MDzrjtFgxxHyd=tgab@TJgxHOqh!EAvbnnClaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtys!yuoibDGB
gltqpln_

fl!Qj	rhaLIsk7fBmgcxwaaBzex&klNqepr1vKNqi!CAvnfetlaLIeo*tp.&
GxjegeJlqECjh7fEpbgfylsESex&gFavjjrNsRJms+fEbkf	rposuev@ztft
urggpiwkaMIsi7f)Io#e6vatwhs;tFjpiexvssNfw:kE@bbXAuhsBjv!_6vtvqw
YAvr?-rDjEFeC=AfaqnirmfEFtA9-

flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkauyle+ ljpbfrCpBwjd|uyfvkrwz
itpmgirDjMBew=hE.bvtrzjGAex&oE;++


flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr	rzpsLng&fmofblJlfGn
flabYfAAjGAem+fmajqyrAvKyjrH
flabYmGggHLew;itafcnFAjxMeA=AxebptLgtMItt9
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^

flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr^rgXAIeg@xqtbhtJggBMm{
flabIfEl.sIwd@tKaqvmwyawCxl9
flabYmGgxHOqh!tAubinNlatFqd^rEfbhtJguPIet
flabgsFFxHLyl!uzmAbtxgcxuzx*lGmbUtMw}
flabRjFuzPIwx&fAonAeGmauyfy:orvnbXGBqo
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMC][a1XaUQZ8""

fl!EjtJBtsule*t-"bewAlesNmi!MDzrjtFaatHid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ftbf
pGtvbgwnvGtys!xqqgcyrpumtBl^tlbbewQgpyt%X&klutkfD_tsvjk*tzjpi^\
CmtbjjsyesCsd:nqafkxLhovy 

fl!EqrwgpG:)d$xuffbyzlaZLDt&uz.bcsvaaMupm+mlBnkhwgcRtyl^ftbpf	
oFajwwJpfwttj' lxkvmGBusQfm:ozhbhtJguAyei+jlphbyzlaLIsk8

fl!YjfLguKCfp!oEakva\gBEChi!vmovgirhtsMmi!xmo>bgMAaMBjdbxKqjqs
uzmAbfFzxxLjh!^OpogeGu@,tfr%fDbpbyzlayuxx^xfayjnDlaFIwi!gzebotJl
lmjpvqQgdtGj{!imstkjvgpGtyl^fnsggEwguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyr{!ztf
sqmcphzvmRtBs/jE;++

flab@XGv_ Itt!uravjjrl_ y][^Bqokpll
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^\



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J

flabbergasted!flabbergXAIeW:uxfbvmwgUtLyw9


flUjge3poztfr%f3vggsrvgs2je/zEaygwwgtxuyi%fAobvmwpssNmv=tqayjjF
ztfAbfJyjOyi{!Cuujbfrnsxuyd$xAxfbfKzfFvqi%fmcqwyrAixG][@rxauqwLz
urankyLsfsvnv%ylbpfetlbLNx{!gEaygqDgbLtyl^fIiqnjrwbvEes'fobtfxg
ztfbMssCfsQfw!yFbpfnFnauyks/klujgrlgjGthl@ozt?bBAAisuew=rpjgteGu
kmdjbxAkfsNtd"AmsfbmAt<sush!tqbtbyzla4Csk!CmtbvmwgXACyi!Xmcdkyl
CuujbfrAsNGui:fuobqswgitHi{!gzebceKjsHFqd=llqcthztfGNem+fFig
uFigt rgJGtyl^fHftAeEpewFjd=llujgeuvvKNeA@ylbbvftsfmtBm:nlbbnfJnf
jutjbtxgutLyw!ABppbnL?asNmi,fxpqmjvgtHtls=jfavjfLgjMtre%klBnkhw
wGjvgezBozLDd:ulmqqprhusNmi_/\!KbBAzisNmi,-paigyrAixtyv*gxafqswa"
ytfbvmGBhAN	dGgzebjfFkaKIzr%fFigbwwmsxMmq^tFt#&erIvMtyl^xqaugjEle
zAadgeFvavBfr$klphbyzptmtxs!ytfbdjyhosFts)ozhbcyrlwxLDx&ozhbcgGBu
nqs?byGgqtMxd@CmzbvmwguBGj	

flBnkhwgitxer^BqsbdjwuaBHee!iAvtveGmaCOxx*iqadgkGyfmtgy:fEigbmsk
xqbfbftvvMtyl^sljpbgGvlLnee+jltjgeOhtsKzm:klqngfKlesNtd'ozebvmsA
ytfbmswDaMBjd+gyfbqkruftLqC!kHftAyzpoztyl^xq?bb%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk?

fl!HkkLlfGNm{NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!UkCLlfGNm{NfmefgirAixtIs/sAvug 

fl!YtnLlaMBfx!jAxp?)rAixtPm+mltckirApsNmi!pGsA?esuesNmi!pGsA
kmhgtqQgxKIyi!jAxpbfDsaMBwi^fpbvgxrvosNmi*xltncywz.sush!ztfp
gpegfeLofFtzt7fmofbwwkvvyid:nqacpxOlssNtd|numnksyzatHid[kzdg}

fl!VcpwgpyzeC=ADajcyl_aMBjdfozhbufAkaMIex&klIcvywy?

fl!KveAzo,Neq*tq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwm

fl!UvtDlo|.ex&klLkplrlyvFfm_kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigboMyzmtBl=
oztvcsLszsGfh^fmaogrGybGxzq!uravjjrmbvN 
