`I've none of my own.  I'm a hatter.'

  Here the Queen put on her spectacles, and began staring at the
Hatter, who turned pale and fidgeted.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King; `and don't be nervous, or
I'll have you executed on the spot.'

  This did not seem to encourage the witness at all:  he kept
shifting from one foot to the other, looking uneasily at the
Queen, and in his confusion he bit a large piece out of his
teacup instead of the bread-and-butter.

  Just at this moment Alice felt a very curious sensation, which
puzzled her a good deal until she made out what it was:  she was
beginning to grow larger again, and she thought at first she
would get up and leave the court; but on second thoughts she
decided to remain where she was as long as there was room for
her.

  `I wish you wouldn't squeeze so.' said the Dormouse, who was
sitting next to her.  `I can hardly breathe.'

  `I can't help it,' said Alice very meekly:  `I'm growing.'

  `You've no right to grow here,' said the Dormouse.

  `Don't talk nonsense,' said Alice more boldly:  `you know
you're growing too.'

  `Yes, but I grow at a reasonable pace,' said the Dormouse:
`not in that ridiculous fashion.'  And he got up very sulkily
and crossed over to the other side of the court.

  All this time the Queen had never left off staring at the
Hatter, and, just as the Dormouse crossed the court, she said to
one of the officers of the court, `Bring me the list of the
singers in the last concert!' on which the wretched Hatter
trembled so, that he shook both his shoes off.

  `Give your evidence,' the King repeated angrily, `or I'll have
you executed, whether you're nervous or not.'

  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' the Hatter began, in a
trembling voice, `--and I hadn't begun my tea--not above a week
or so--and what with the bread-and-butter getting so thin--and
the twinkling of the tea--'

  `The twinkling of the what?' said the King.

  `It began with the tea,' the Hatter replied.

  `Of course twinkling begins with a T!' said the King sharply.
`Do you take me for a dunce?  Go on!'

  `I'm a poor man,' the Hatter went on, `and most things
twinkled after that--only the March Hare said--'

  `I didn't!' the March Hare interrupted in a great hurry.

  `You did!' said the Hatter.

  `I deny it!' said the March Hare.

  `He denies it,' said the King:  `leave out that part.'

  `Well, at any rate, the Dormouse said--' the Hatter went on,
looking anxiously round to see if he would deny it too:  but the
Dormouse denied nothing, being fast asleep.

  `After that,' continued the Hatter, `I cut some more bread-
and-butter--'

  `But what did the Dormouse say?' one of the jury asked.

  `That I can't remember,' said the Hatter.

  `You MUST remember,' remarked the King, `or I'll have you
executed.'

  The miserable Hatter dropped his teacup and bread-and-butter,
and went down on one knee.  `I'm a poor man, your Majesty,' he
began.

  `You're a very poor speaker,' said the King.

  Here one of the guinea-pigs cheered, and was immediately
suppressed by the officers of the court.  (As that is rather a
hard word, I will just explain to you how it was done.  They had
a large canvas bag, which tied up at the mouth with strings:
into this they slipped the guinea-pig, head first, and then sat
upon it.)

  `I'm glad I've seen that done,' thought Alice.  `I've so often
read in the newspapers, at the end of trials, "There was some
attempts at applause, which was immediately suppressed by the
officers of the court," and I never understood what it meant
till now.'

  `If that's all you know about it, you may stand down,'
continued the King.

  `I can't go no lower,' said the Hatter:  `I'm on the floor, as
it is.'

  `Then you may SIT down,' the King replied.

  Here the other guinea-pig cheered, and was suppressed.

  `Come, that finished the guinea-pigs!' thought Alice.  `Now we
shall get on better.'

  `I'd rather finish my tea,' said the Hatter, with an anxious
look at the Queen, who was reading the list of singers.

  `You may go,' said the King, and the Hatter hurriedly left the
court, without even waiting to put his shoes on.

  `--and just take his head off outside,' the Queen added to one
of the officers:  but the Hatter was out of sight before the
officer could get to the door.

  `Call the next witness!' said the King.

  The next witness was the Duchess's cook.  She carried the
pepper-box in her hand, and Alice guessed who it was, even before
she got into the court, by the way the people near the door began
sneezing all at once.

  `Give your evidence,' said the King.

  `Shan't,' said the cook.

  The King looked anxiously at the White Rabbit, who said in a
low voice, `Your Majesty must cross-examine THIS witness.'

  `Well, if I must, I must,' the King said, with a melancholy
air, and, after folding his arms and frowning at the cook till
his eyes were nearly out of sight, he said in a deep voice, `What
are tarts made of?'

  `Pepper, mostly,' said the cook.

  `Treacle,' said a sleepy voice behind her.

  `Collar that Dormouse,' the Queen shrieked out.  `Behead that
Dormouse!  Turn that Dormouse out of court!  Suppress him!  Pinch
him!  Off with his whiskers!'

  For some minutes the whole court was in confusion, getting the
Dormouse turned out, and, by the time they had settled down
again, the cook had disappeared.

  `Never mind!' said the King, with an air of great relief.
`Call the next witness.'  And he added in an undertone to the
Queen, `Really, my dear, YOU must cross-examine the next witness.
It quite makes my forehead ache!'

  Alice watched the White Rabbit as he fumbled over the list,
feeling very curious to see what the next witness would be like,
`--for they haven't got much evidence YET,' she said to herself.
Imagine her surprise, when the White Rabbit read out, at the top
of his shrill little voice, the name `Alice!'



                           CHAPTER XII

                    ergasUqm$k/tbGAAkfGwj


fl!Jgww""swwm^jlBnkhwaaJOnx^frptijLAjGAem+fFigbkDBsKSes'fFig
sAngpyropPtqe/mqaujjrobwtlv=CzakpeLofsFfw:frfybrAuvMyx{!gzebumw
pGnrgirBqsCsd|AoibcezBsKSex&gFaujjrAjIJjh!uHftbyzlaCOwCThAybynLo
ztfbgiylaHzel^xltmkwLaaNJxi:zuoibfDsaMBjd(ADzogsrvosNtd:nqajgfvz
uravjjrjsHQid#kxpy?esuesNmi/klujgDrsbRtxt/gImkplrhcHOy{!xqnkpiAuh
nqsbxjJFaFOhl!uracblDvcxttj!mAmfhnKoaLBjd&gpacehAkfGNfp-ElvrujL
ztfbyjwrauyks/kg

fl!Qj	rPaUYLd,uGsbrfJkpG:)d|nqagzhDhjFyid*tlbbvtFlaHzek/kmu
jutocDlgbGxef^mmobrnurjGAex&kyawresnbBHee|fCvkepDFatMew&kldqwqva
lAsbvmwgbvwnh^tFaqheLofsAtp%lutjbpwwusLzr+ozhbksrofKtmi@jfacpi
ytfbjfvgbsPfk;kltqtyrvgsCii@fFicveLofRtry|zlcgbhGsmxwyi%fmubqsul
gzebrzLgctwpd*tFpbvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bqwrAixSeA=Axebfnwb

fl!VjjrAsBuqd$gzoqveHypvyjh7-ltckirAixtPm+mljpbfrCfKSek/gHf
BAjeg	r'vGNnp!gxmbvmwgkNLDq^tlbtgethdDtnr!ztfkteHypIywd[rmdgu]	
GXM?&ezlaKyui@zqebynLoazLje:fqnrjfKptmtqs=quoibmsyesuyd?rudgbfK
nqaucnvgeHo

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fmubvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bcsvgttQex&gF.bksrofKtme|zq.bumw
nmebrzLguAyeP*FmsfbnFgixuid%uIoycwvz.sush!ztfbrtGyaECyx-klujksy
CmtbyfNpoztnx|fFbknesipNNem+fmaogqsudAIqC!Cmz?bgwpoztvy*zqawpftsf
zAaoqAwbas!mi!yAppblGAaBNes;zlbicnFaatHid[AFakveJphAN.dGtAubvmsA
oFauklFpgByxd_Aoi?&eKofsMfm%fFpbjjJzfEz.dGOltjqzDkaMBnr)fuu
CAvnfetla0#NX fmtbozuoaNMjd*tlujgeLyjtFes+klxcAeMwatMex&klpvjjJb"

flBubxGvosuxd:nqalwwQgitxee!ruuvnjryfvIAi/kpahttEguAyew&uolbqk
hqjpieMwtxN	d@tpavjjAyaLFfx^ylbpfeHlovCqw!nmebdjwuayIzr%fmof
nmofgiribvEex=fFigo	rAixSew^zluqbBGylsPjv,fpjnklwuuESex=fIskvj
uGubcezptMIwC!uravjjrhdvCii+zfacnqrlyvyux!ztfbNnRhswneA&ultggrwk
zApbozuoaHPjv$uyfbvtrkpsusC:nuoibgMAaLCyd>oFibkyKgnHOyl!uBfp?
mmAkplrBqsCsx=fFigbwGvgsIkd:nqaeqzJA?

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fwoqyesipNNex&oEadwxAufLMa(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!zA
Gxjeg 

fl!Pqyzpozn)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!Pqyzpozt2L?ZQWGTa\gqxLxm|zqebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PqyzpoztBl@zqwgt	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!VjfL_tsPjv,funrqwLhoMn)d:nqaMksygttCi{!zGspksyguHtyl^fvvtA 
ZtfAbBwyfsDzw:fnfiksFpoztys!CDjvgeLojLtis>tlppbyzljKtxp@zqt?bBzlo
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oFakpywysNJyi%.la@WSAtqHLye+zfaAqzJgNtDjw:ElngcsKa
uraeqzJzfm.el^fEbkfeAuattAi/ElsguuwjuyOqd:uzf?bgMAayLtA+ozhbcsv
smlkplrmbvyxd@zlikoeszaAyew[uwf}

fl!WPnEwpKNfr: lphbhGBsLy	ddfyfcpyl_aMBjdfozhbjfKAjESew@op.bcsv
CqovbtFguHtmm_yqmhbnFgbGtzr%kDuqpjlg!BGus/zmov+]MujFJtv:gzu++
AzjortJAbGN][*sBptvfFA_ .ee|fugbjjrDfKyex/EuoibBzpdAtBs/j
yAvpfjvgcxMy	

flTqojrvgsNmi!pGsAbBJvuxtnx!jAxpb%AtqHLye+zf"bcsvgtHGj
^GokouGyutHy	NflBnkhwgdHOqh!yqfbvmAz.suxd|nqaycxruftLei+uGhjbyG
rApmbtNlssNmi*xltncywz<s|gy:fuubftwzo,Neq@zFftbfrijMn)d|nq
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh}

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrRjGA	d>nAajcirifxHej=xltqojrAjFyef;yumA
CDjvksygjGtmm|fzpvg]tvpDneg@iwmgfeGBus|Xm-kzdg#)rhowtwi@jlpwv
lDpobmAzauIto7f)SwnjrMpKND[:CA?bbF4Sa9YWWjT5aOQWWgU1USd?fYJNG
NUHJbY7gMXU1I!ZTFbET!YUn.

flFxgwQipwSep=uwffbfLgBEChi8

fl!K&RrupMtfd_oxfbjnyo.,txe*jlBnkhwb

fl!1qzrhsxn)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PgfJszsNBs!sumguezphAn)d@jpffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!YgqDaa2txl@t/ubitlgbMtfr,fDbvg	\gttCid?rudg<er'cxMnh^yf
ztbv&xrupMtfd/ksvncwryvEy,d!EAvbksNloMyid*zlkwuyrupPo)

fl!Kv)KguAyes-jqtvbwMsfsCsd:nqadqtCa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!VjjFgjMtty"nFavqetla7Orf^xlPpg	\gttCid?rudg}

flUjge3poztyy/tqebrfDl.sush!ytvvbmAzaGIyiThApmbmszuBFD	
^OppunvlssSty/fHftfnuA.,tmi!ymjfbyGguAyen;xK.bksrhaEIB{!zDfodqAuh
BAjeg 

fl!VjjJl"Ltrs/klfxkiwudxtys!iAngbDwA.sJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAk
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oF.blzEwjGAey[fuobceyyftNel;xDz>b%LojLtue[kDajcx
pGtvbgwlosJng)kpawr \

fl!YjfL_tsCsd*zh"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp}

fl!KbmsCfG.yd=vqogfeAAaRyy{NfEbkfeLofs%mm:klScdgAA.s|gy:fuubujwtt
zAadgesgmxNyi/ lxtkyLlosvDd:nqartnKvoxLex=/\uqbxGtfuIiC8-

fl!KveEBtMtme<klcggsrAitN	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk7f)vpnjKzaBNeA@y
CDjvvjFguHtss#upz?bBzpdAtnw+-Fawuzss.sSty!qzpy})

fl!YjtrptsCyd%oDfevjvguHp)d|guebqswgpytyl^fvvtArwu?

fl!KveAzo,Neh*xqdvgirhusuqp7-ltckirAixt2l*zqaTcgtpuit%m+frbev	
ztftg)KgoHNmm+mlxtkyLlosIsd:nqaQWY~PEXo)d!NqawpkGsexxex&klqcrjJ
gEajgeKwpDy	d@tpacfiwka/3yd*yz"vbfrsfMNjv7fmgvgwrhmEied*z/tbceKlu
uraxgwKltn.

fl!CtjrAixSem+fFigbuJptHHjvNylicpiOyjMCsk9-lbumjvgbGIyl^xlph
ztfAboMyzFys	

fl!Pq	rAixS)v^fzpv?)rzbBxex&klXjkywgStvgm: l!cpirAitN)w!ztf
wGfgtjKAaMBnr"fmcqwyrpun.edRZtfblzJFatFqd-uAlgfeHBASFjh8]

fl!JgeEBtMtme<kljokysAfwtxs_knpfAewstx.xd&gze?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi 
[6igboMyzsuqp!hDjijywufwtzt!gsbkp {

fl!RnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF.,txe*jlujge3ubOy	dGOlekfs\AaPLnx^fuu?bfFk
ztfAbhsu"Mtuv=BqaKbiAk;styl^xq"ubsGgotGjd|osogfesAaMBjd^tp?&

fl!KheQvvsxnh+-FauklFgjMn)d|guebvmwgLBHl{!^FicveGumRtre)kEavjj
smuvgwrDpKMj	!f~pwbR!ZUsBfz^fyfcpyrzpFyeq*yoikgklgpKtjp|klzqw)v
nmwgbxAnoxxeC=ADapcrwgmBEjd@tliqpjKAaFus	N

flUjgwwgxtMee!mqogtfDgdEuut*tsaqhezhowMee:fFiku,rgjMtBe|fFig
lusuveJlbEFDd$rqwgteLojGAex&klLkplrobwtxe*jlujcyrkbRo

fl!VjfLgQ~91InftjublMpmMn)d|guebvmwgRNyjr8

fl!KveHypOyxd+uFikplrvgsNmi!yAsv#)rzbBxeE-oof}be]4iRneC=Aleqp)L
kHfpbpFvxsQme:fFigA)Jlatvty:'/

fl!TgfvguAyr{NfEbkfeLofs5nr"a

flUjge#ojMyeV@hnjvbuMAaHHel*yltrghLhdEyx	!f)XjgwwgtAuqp!OlcginFa
vxfcujrFpNLeQ@pqtvAa\gixtfw)kp?

fl!DglAuatNex&klcginFujGA	(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!mDbxgqQaa/ush!mAaqp
zumnbDGBavIri!zAavjjrlowied:nqobuyGw?,

flUjgxwgxxLjd:nqaxgwKltsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd/kme<+]

flabberg!!BjC!zAmfbrwgzHOel@jlcggsrApsBjv7
flabbergasUsh!sqovktFlesGjd:uliko,
flabbergTAyek@BqaogesghHIid$nmsceywy.
flabbergasVzx!ymjfbNrjpNFid+uFauynEb

flabbergIxtxi+zlujgrrDpKxeM!nmebptLghHHj
flabbergas	2i!qzpybnLguHtgi!zDvg_,
flabbergJytxl^fEiqwqvgqNMmd:nqaocyLlssIs{
flabbergas%me:fIpwnirifvIri!uraAqzn

flabbergJsAfz^ftftbtFl.sNmi,fsbxgezpnsNBs7
flabbergas'ty!mmwgbzKguALji!uDaoqww}
flabbergUAyDd@rxatgyMyoxxej/uyajkrrApsSty7
flabbergas@ms;mtavjjQgxxLjd_ozfbdjxvsxo

flabbergJytNd=xltjgeKopNFid$nmoegeLvauy
flabbergas3sz=rHffbnFguACxd@lrbkt	
flabbergIxtyv;yFtbvtrFpNtys!yqubvmwtayLji7
flabbergasYCe$zxzbcxrDfsQjv^a

flabbergNRtss:oAobyfKguAuyd,uGajcirifxH
flabbergas	Gi'uDfbumwgitxex&oEahky{
flabbergBGttf|zmdngeLobMthe_klcgvBwlo
flabbergas2nq7fmofbtMytxFAi| lbpfeAA?

flabbergEHH)x!rqubjnEglGIBd|nqankpwkaMBjq!hqtv?
flabbergasZtv!ztjubrMzusyAi/fnf
flabbergBsMjg/kF.bmjHAayLtq!gxmbvmwgsxMy{
flabbergasVjx>kqobAtMytxFkd@tpaog \

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!sAtvbnEwpKNfr:fBjgejrvgsyAm%kzdgbBw_wxtmi@xpaAgyl_
ymjfbyzla4Csk7fDvddnFnaACxd&gzeu>e]zpsHtA!rqubvmwgkNLD[T-

fl!KhesuzsIsi!uravjjEgdtHei\vxbkpeAA.,txe*jlBnkhwaa{Mmi!nme
mDpypeKvaEuwk^fuobvmwgmtMyd'kIaoksMAfLtyl@zltjgeOhtG.yd@fnjv
grsckirvgsCsx^xDvrvnFnaACr{Sf)J&nqrnjOyel*sltkzuwudxoedUO,afqs\A
hqmkgAwguAywiNylbpbfLvnsIkd_kmokplrposCy	N

flUjgeBBsRtfp-fIsqvjrkpPHes+fFigkwrzmtNjw7f)TJGevvfLH)x!hqmkgAw
ztftg)KgbGtfx=slphbrwhoBHld*tljv?)rivMtss+klphbyzlnsuyx^sBugfeLv
kJqncnFguAyet@vqs}

fl!KheLofKy)w!tAaogfFpoztnr!oF.&bxspesNmi!Quoi?e]AitNew@Bqtbc
CAsnfeGmaMLty#rq.bAtMglGIB{!gEaygeFlfwH)x!zDzbvtrmjGxee+EgabCsv
EqubKevvo,Neo+uI.&bmwgxxHyd=tfaurwwheBHld=AFavjjrCfKMjw!uzajkx
qzfg?esuesFts)ozhbcyrAixGeA*ztaqpjrlzxje$dfEfgoeLvaLyjd|uyf
sqbpksygjGtyl^sfachywyatFq	!f|_+UF1Ka2tHSpRPaPQYrZX27][OfKpw
imo&veKDjFneg@tlzqwa\gixtfh%kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigbPFhwxo

flUjge3ubOyew&uAlbjnKgixuid|gpmA}er'EHtNd-uAlbnnClaBNa(!nqaucnvb
[9ikemrofswjv:guonAevpes8TX7fnfkplrtbwyei+zusgnDrvgswfv%hAbtf {

fl!CnqryjzBy{!yAahcwl_aLunh!ztfbMnFn.sush!nqaygsLgpGtry:zqskpl
uHftbyzlaOyww^yluqbmAttxFk\!f)&YGe3UP$tNX!Z1aDGe`YVXa])!ztbv&x
ztfblzJF.sIkd$uGsug]	g&2tLEqKlIGTe7UFmtYL 5lHCXJrOJ6tY1j/\&bymQa
ztbvbrMzusvjd>nmubjjrkjwtBm:nlujgeLhsMM	d,uGamptO|_,

fl!DwylgjMtls^ylppb-`OF^tFPgf4FVWW6LEsZWShfTJObY7gZ8#	)NfEbkf
Gxjeg 

fl!YjDlguAywi!ztfAbfJl@,txe*jlujge3poztyv*AyqjcsLszmtus*tFjpieLv
ztfbvfJAtsIsd:nqavcgDl?st%R=ztjpieuhosvjd$rqbtgwrAitHeXcG6?
ZtfpbfyhjGa])}KRPTGe~OFs2FH!ZTJUbK11_ ?ed,uGapgAwyaAuid'oFt?brQ
jqbt?e1guACso9-ligbxspesNtd:nqaSwjwu?

fl!PgAwy@,txe*jlujge9BfxHej;xupwuqQaaMBws>ozhbcsrpoDMye+jlbvbyzl
RuActirhtsMmi!yBpmg rg)!Bjd;trptvzFhuxtqm:zxfbDnDsaAuid-krubqkx
CDjvksygpGtmm|fEmcvjrDjMBes+klgkplwy.suxd&klgqwsvgjMtre%kloq
smsm>etBusBjd+uIajcxLpmRtgi"gzacifAu.sOxm+mlujgeAulmtyl@zlxcu
zDjemqAuhsxtA+ftjubksjfmtfw!rAoibfKgjMtqe|zqe}_

fl!VjjFguAyeA=xptbftF_usZNX!EAv?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi	rspHEnr"fDpwpi
ztfbetMyusQnx&fmauonDl?stYl^xqaycxrhawyfh!yumgphwb

fl!Kv)KgbsJzrH-lujge3poztfh%kpakpesuaHzki+jqebvtFl.sush
kHftAgGkzsFfy"nqe?b%4lusNmi!pGsAbhGutBxjv!ztfkteNlswChx7-lujg
Quoibxspemtks/fmcqwyrAixtyA^tFjgvmrAjFyex&gFafcDm

fl!Pq	rup|.ew@opavjjrXvxys	!f)Tgpywudxtkm/yF_+xjJkjvNee'zqsycwvz?,

fl!UvzxmatHid+uztgpxw""sMfm%fMmkejrspNxqC8fl!Vjjrpexues'ftbxksy
ztfbujFAfGwjd'oDtv#)

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gttCid:nqaSwjwu.sNzv+ozhbrzJwmxo

fl!KbBGu"M:)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!QhkrDjMBel^xligci/_aMBjdlAqfpbxzvvMyid@zlujgeLvqsIkd&kDaxqnul?
TAcqfDrtpOyi	

fl!YjtrjbKyxd'uDaAqzn_aLunh!Gxjeg	r]tAyel@jlhtqBFguHtmi/frvnn
yuAgbgQguACxd:oyf}_er'ZHO)v^fzpvjnFnauOyd@fBbemeGmavuwh|'/

flBvbyzptsNmi!CtpngeHhdDtws|klvrbnFApsNmi!gus?bfFkavuri!lxzkpl
jAxpbzHvosBjv2fltjgeyhwxtfd-oFungeKjsxur{!nmmhbtxggKCll:fmofbmssg
uracplwy.sush!zDjgfeLvauyfx!ztfobtxm.sush!lAvpfezlsLyqj!rKjpieGu
ztfbdfFr.sQnx&ftftbmwhesCsd:nqancurvgsBjv!yutvgwlgxAIeA@ylhgpyDF
hDvujnFnatQfC!yAngbiwhesFje<kEavjfLgitxej-AFugtjvgeHQsd'xAnbvmw
zDfgueMwpGtmi/frbeg 

fl!YcpwgvIneE-oofbfjsy@,txe*jligteKptMyw,!^9iA?eOobMtfd-uz
