CELIA	Herein I see thou lovest me not with the full weight
	that I love thee. If my uncle, thy banished father,
	had banished thy uncle, the duke my father, so thou
	hadst been still with me, I could have taught my
	love to take thy father for mine: so wouldst thou,
	if the truth of thy love to me were so righteously
	tempered as mine is to thee.

ROSALIND	Well, I will forget the condition of my estate, to
	rejoice in yours.

CELIA	You know my father hath no child but I, nor none is
	like to have: and, truly, when he dies, thou shalt
	be his heir, for what he hath taken away from thy
	father perforce, I will render thee again in
	affection; by mine honour, I will; and when I break
	that oath, let me turn monster: therefore, my
	sweet Rose, my dear Rose, be merry.

ROSALIND	From henceforth I will, coz, and devise sports. Let
	me see; what think you of falling in love?

CELIA	Marry, I prithee, do, to make sport withal: but
	love no man in good earnest; nor no further in sport
	neither than with safety of a pure blush thou mayst
	in honour come off again.

ROSALIND	What shall be our sport, then?

CELIA	Let us sit and mock the good housewife Fortune from
	her wheel, that her gifts may henceforth be bestowed equally.

ROSALIND	I would we could do so, for her benefits are
	mightily misplaced, and the bountiful blind woman
	doth most mistake in her gifts to women.

CELIA	'Tis true; for those that she makes fair she scarce
	makes honest, and those that she makes honest she
	makes very ill-favouredly.

ROSALIND	Nay, now thou goest from Fortune's office to
	Nature's: Fortune reigns in gifts of the world,
	not in the lineaments of Nature.

	[Enter TOUCHSTONE]

CELIA	No? when Nature hath made a fair creature, may she
	not by Fortune fall into the fire? Though Nature
	hath given us wit to flout at Fortune, hath not
	Fortune sent in this fool to cut off the argument?

ROSALIND	Indeed, there is Fortune too hard for Nature, when
	Fortune makes Nature's natural the cutter-off of
	Nature's wit.

CELIA	Peradventure this is not Fortune's work neither, but
	Nature's; who perceiveth our natural wits too dull
	to reason of such goddesses and hath sent this
	natural for our whetstone; for always the dulness of
	the fool is the whetstone of the wits. How now,
	wit! whither wander you?

TOUCHSTONE	Mistress, you must come away to your father.

CELIA	Were you made the messenger?

TOUCHSTONE	No, by mine honour, but I was bid to come for you.

ROSALIND	Where learned you that oath, fool?

TOUCHSTONE	Of a certain knight that swore by his honour they
	were good pancakes and swore by his honour the
	mustard was naught: now I'll stand to it, the
	pancakes were naught and the mustard was good, and
	yet was not the knight forsworn.

CELIA	How prove you that, in the great heap of your
	knowledge?

ROSALIND	Ay, marry, now unmuzzle your wisdom.

TOUCHSTONE	Stand you both forth now: stroke your chins, and
	swear by your beards that I am a knave.

CELIA	By our beards, if we had them, thou art.

TOUCHSTONE	By my knavery, if I had it, then I were; but if you
	swear by that that is not, you are not forsworn: no
	more was this knight swearing by his honour, for he
	never had any; or if he had, he had sworn it away
	before ever he saw those pancakes or that mustard.

CELIA	Prithee, who is't that thou meanest?

TOUCHSTONE	One that old Frederick, your father, loves.

CELIA	My father's love is enough to honour him: enough!
	speak no more of him; you'll be whipped for taxation
	one of these days.

TOUCHSTONE	The more pity, that fools may not speak wisely what
	wise men do foolishly.

CELIA	By my troth, thou sayest true; for since the little
	wit that fools have was silenced, the little foolery
	that wise men have makes a great show. Here comes
	Monsieur Le Beau.

ROSALIND	With his mouth full of news.

CELIA	Which he will put on us, as pigeons feed their young.

ROSALIND	Then shall we be news-crammed.

CELIA	All the better; we shall be the more marketable.

	[Enter LE BEAU]

	Bon jour, Monsieur Le Beau: what's the news?

LE BEAU	Fair princess, you have lost much good sport.

CELIA	Sport! of what colour?

LE BEAU	What colour, madam! how shall I answer you?

ROSALIND	As wit and fortune will.

TOUCHSTONE	Or as the Destinies decree.

CELIA	Well said: that was laid on with a trowel.

TOUCHSTONE	Nay, if I keep not my rank,--

ROSALIND	Thou losest thy old smell.

LE BEAU	You amaze me, ladies: I would have told you of good
	wrestling, which bAtMgitPjd-uEubvmwgtBAmx!ur?

X1TCNN6K ^Izd:kxmbwxrAixtre+tqsbqkrAixtBv^yFmkplm

RQaDGF!fJsQnp-fFfnneQvvsNmi!hqhkpsAuhitfr% ljhbnLgqEyfw^
eKpwteDheRMmm[yfaAqzrtbRtxi^fFigbjFk<sztv!ztfbdjKAaBM
eKfvbyGgeHjee+jligtjlgxAywi!EAvbcwwaaMBjC!gDfbetEpoz
eFpbrjJmpKGem:a

IQMKCd#lmEnex&klcginFujGA	d:nmubkxrkftxee+jlcwtnwk?

RQaDGF!fUAywi!iAnguesuaHFid_gzacpirojLtyl/kqauqsKa_ 

IQMKCd1gdHOqh!smuejeLojLtgi"ozokplrDjMBee+fAmfbyssfn

RQaDGF!fUALji!vDprgwrFpNHld_kz.bqkrlyvyqp^tFaittOAisush!vDfugsul?

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!humnueGuaMBjm/fzfemxlg"Uyem:fwoqysrBoMIee-rlngp
enzbvmwzfsJwi|kzuu})

RQaDGF!fUAyei-jqtvbtxguAyex&xqfbywwzuEyid>oFibEmsymxM	d:nq
epvmg)KgxKyxx-kD<bymAjisWme/rqtbksrhaFIri+zlujtjOgiBG
emofbgJvlxtyl/kqaqhezptsLnf| lujcyrAixLjd*ylmkvyDl
etprgeGmaECki!ozajkrggtHtmi!yqsxgirAixtxi$uze?bfFk
eEpbvmwguACwh8f~ppfjJguAyDd-oq<bvmwgqHIwd=rpaocsl
eFigkwrmbMBjv7fybmksygtNwmd[oFjhwqrkpEyes<kDavjjE
eFicvessmsNmi!hqiqniwytsNfo^ftjubusyusQnx&fIfgrnFn?

X1TCNN6K TFfwH

Z1VEJX`VOXsGy:fIicveAzaMBjd|vAsv?eEvoLCjy/ lujcyrAixtqe%oqt
etbxgeDvtMp

RQaDGF!fXAS	d:nutbvmsAa2txt^gwaqh 

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl;ylngpeEhzsAws>fIjugwrlwxLDd%gK;bkyrptsNmi!lusuv
eFjogeLobMtjz^xlJbjjsyesvwi@quoibtxgsBvxd>gEaurtJA
erptbqskjxM 

IQMKCd7ya2neM!vDpokxwguAyj	

X1TCNN6K UOyd*ylujgwwgbGSei-yqanqsyzaMIew^klujkxrisHEjr!sGtke
euobjnKgtBxjw9futbvmwyfsSjx!gzpvjjJgeHNjw!ABpp
eDjd+gJlbDCsk9f5icnqrDfsMji!ztjubBJltMFnr" ldqwxAu}

RQaDGF!fZHOeq;yF.bkkrFpNtxx@EligtjhggHLel^xqakueLofsJqe$k
emqrqnFAfwtks/fFigbBJltMFnr" lbpfeLofRtfv^fDfcfDrAp
eBfthtJtaBN 

IQMKCd%vowyw{!yGsg?eLofRtfv^fopoksy?aEyyd;yloqyeKAbRtfr%fEfgbnLb

e}GnqzJptAoeI+zqsbFZ3LaY`JH XUDM?e4vswM	djXXBPFTl
eOICTQWZ.sush!GFugpisuuLf

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeOpogeGu;sMnr$klujgeQvvMBeA*rxapqyrifsysx/kmugf	rojL
eAxpbuwyjEttr!nutbhtJDbKxsi|yg

X1TCNN6K 2MeC=tpftbyzlaFus 

RQaDGF!fFOysd&kfaocist?

IQMKCdSsbLnel^futbvtGgzHOskHfKfvbmwgmHIpw!yGdegxKmvEFD	

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeTpybsGD.sxfy"nFftbfFkavIzw*t-actjrFpNthv^vFajkyzls
eFpbujwguAyeA/kEunksyc

X1TCNN6K TS	d_ElmkglwaaLIet-kmtgbDGBazCAi!AEangfNl?

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe~pwbBAsmsNfo^fxjvvqwgexFnk&zljpbnLaa2the+fFfnneQvvi
eFigtjrptsMzg&fAefueAuaMBjd_gz?bKsrwjMSes'fFig
eoicnqwuhxL)w!EAvvje1gxHOqh!lmjpbiAztNuii!nun?bgMAaAy
eIjnneFvusvjd^tFsgcywk?s!ui@qluqbmAt.sFfh*kE<bujwgjy
eKpwbhsuaFIAi!nun}

IQMKCdUhmEtmm_ftjvjjJaazIth!SAoukjMya5yeF^gG?

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfePpbutggJ,Fqd+uFadgetF?

RQaDGF!fNHHxm^ADavjjrjitFqi+mqs?byzlaILnr$kEtgueuhmEtks/fKpw}

U4MCPI7fJsuyx^tpavjjEgxBNmd@rxatgxHldMtfr%fpvvA 

X1TCNN6K ^Izr"fybp?ezhwxtDs;foicnqwuhxxeG&gDmgueLofsQwi|zxft{

U4MCPI7fOHnej@oDartnFjfLM.d&kljubyzlazysi/gxaejfDsfGAjv2fU
eopogetBusCs{!gEaqvmwytsxt{!zAavtDrDjMBel*slujg
eEutgsyAisIkd_Elzqwyzb

IQMKCd%vvGAek^tFmgofFaaRIzv!yBjtkyKgbKyex=ulcqnirmpKtDs;x
eKfctxmgZHOel@BqaugjFgdKOjp!vDpqheGmaMBnw!smo&u
eEutgsyAihtnj!EAvbufOgzHOww^rraykyzgzHOwd^Eqtbqw
ewogyeQvvKMjp'fIjvjeQvvKtoy%myfpv	rAixtki@xlphbDGBs
emexgsLBsxtBs;rpaeqzFzfEtDs;fFpbceEvsxtju;gx
eqovgwHyjLy drklqtcDrFpNnej=xlzqwwrvxGtxe)kfavq
eqndtfulaRIzv!uIobufxluRtfr%fsjxgeGCfKtyl*ylbvvjEwun

X1TCNN6K WI	d,uGoibxAy<sSty/fDfrwysAjHHew&gxmbptLguAywi'uDf
enfbonKwsBMjh2fIfbynDsaFupi!oFaqwwrzvBNex=fFigbiMrf
eFicveLofsQwi|zxjpieEphANer=zlhqbkGyxtLi	

U4MCPI7fJsvjw^koibAtMaaIOsm|nlngbsGAaPCyl!EAvtbmsye
eFiqwlzAtitBl^xqjpbNrjpGzjw|fyfbozuoazOnp:EfavqevloR
eEpbhfAyatHid^DofnnjFAaEuim^ylbpAeLojGA d}AFangy
eKpwtexhjKtjC^ylbpfeyloMFjd>oEigueyvaPCyl!sqavqeEF
eFskcqggxAywi*tljhbNrifsztm-kp.bvmwyfsCxd#AFaqpj
eEicojvguAuyd>gEapgAwyazLfg*uGt>bnxglBFqi% lcwveGuf
epfcfeLobMtBe|fIjnnnFnaMIef^fEp<bNrzitFqd%ulnA
erskgsvzaGIeA/uzh?bkGya2tme<kloqpjrApsFfq^tFaog	rAix
eIptnirupsCsn;xK.bhtJgjGtnx!OlicxjrupMBnr"?lppnDrpo
eFigbBGymwtNd'oxmbwurhaIFfg^ lxjkhzgntSef^fnfvvjJ
eEvrrqAlesQmi+fUajcAwgntxjd*zlforyQb

X1TCNN6K !Bjd-oFungeKAsxHlx&fFicve1gitPj{!OlxqwqvgjMtBi/klxkvmrFpNo

IQMKCdSuesGnr^ luqbjClaHOyd&kDt}

X1TCNN6K Yuwi!EAvbyjDs;sJwe,ftfcxjFgJsvjd%kofkxjvgjGtDs;'

IQMKCd%vvKtmi@xF"ubiwzjKyxd#klxkvmrFpN:

ITBTNJ~fDHGj{!CtftgeAzaMBnw!EAvpieyhmEusx!ztbvbnKgtH
epfukwGBtsNtd-oqaykyzgiBMeq=ztftbjsyuAp

U4MCPI7fSxuiC7fEjt>etBusBnw!CumnbmsAisCsd*zlbbotJlaFIii|zlxqtpAuhn

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe~pwbxzhmEtyv,fnvvbtFlayuqp8

ITBTNJ~fOHneM!CmstcsLgzHOwd"xmdg?eQvvsMme-rloqvewuuKyfx!nun
eFpbceKldHHi{!ztbvbmsCfsMtd_osivkqQgqxLxy@jqebjnE
ersqoesggBLxx8

U4MCPI7fBGtDs;fyfcpeLvaFIho!sqachywy.sSty!ytpwnirupMtme<k
eypemjvgnxtgi'uDf<bgMAavIri!EAvtbBsFtn

X1TCNN6K 7IBdckDdwnjKgcxtyl,fEqggilgzHOsk!smo#

IQMKCd1gxHOqh!OlxgtjrpoOCxm#rq.bvtrjbMwmd:nqauvwGuh
erfnntOgcRtyl^fxfi}

e}UjgDrDsxMyp^>

X1TCNN6K 8tjB$kxmgpyrFpNHld_gz@

IQMKCd1ma2tme%fmavjzFkfKvtp:fuobonFlaxSj{!OldcpeLlmEtBl=
eEiqwqvgeHQs	

e}TjqzLbaV2FVgK5akueLosHQs;

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeZpbotJl.sHtd_uDf}

U4MCPI7fZxM	ddfnfugjuoaRIzv!mDbeg,rPatGer=zlzgveOlmEtgv^gFigf 

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeTpybiGzusNms; lDjcwDlto

RQaDGF!fIxthe+tAubuuwhlmtrC!rAsf}

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeNfctezpnsuBe,alXjcyrptsNmC!tmng?eQvvGAeq@th

U4MCPI7fPKFfr%ufaoAeDpfzy.d:nqaAqzFnfLNew=tlphbXAya~IBp@tpafgeTvzLo

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeUayqzDkaMBty!nmeuvetlfGtxs+fFpbutElaFusd^rEf<
e6igbBGymwtjw:kqn&feLozszfx&kDajqsGBstvqi7
eNvvbNrkjwtkm+jlikoeKAjEFeq*tqagpjEF;
e6iqweKopNFiw:ftbxgetluMywd[rqbugirtfsQnx&fFikuevlfwn
eTbfuyrAiHOeh^yofpfjvggKIrd@tAujgwropNMj	
eNvvbksyfsNmi^fIfnn.rAiHOee/zlbbifDsbGNeC=AFi<
eUayqzDkaMBty!nmeuveLvmwtri!uracptLofKtke:nqs}

e}FzgzFAaW#PI!L4FFGW1JLmtyv@oz.bcsvgMXtGI?1{

IQMKCd#lsxtNd_Elgcvmwy.swtD7fIpwnirPawIex&oE}

U4MCPI7fJsurd_uDfbrwGBesNtd#klTkte0vxEushNyltqp	
eTjubDGBozyxx!yAo>bfFkaPIzp%fzpvbhzhozyex&gFaecqDpozn
e6pbdjrheHJyi%ftfkteLvaYLjh^xudm}

X1TCNN6K 6Sej@ztftbqGCfwtXm/f4pynfFkatMel*yltqwql
eMofbfDsaMBjd>uDmfbBszaHzeq,frbvjjJ_tsGnr%.
eTbfbNrifyIwi!qzpypeLojLtDs;tsaocsrojLtxs+ 
eUaujtMsesBfz^fsjxgsrojFtyi@xEawpyGgfGNwi@zufu?
eQsgbmwgtAIzp%fFiwuezhwxtAi+zGsgf 

IQMKCdYloMFjd$uGtkp	
eXfvbzKghHtyl@twajkrrhowtjr$uGscijrojFi
eYzbhfLofK.xd/uGhjbfFkaxHAm=AEafkxHvtBNns+
e5ukepKgnxtfx!nqbtv rZjKneC=AlicxjrDfEFeh^yqsxgig
eUgbAtMgeHtpi^vlzqwwrwsHGnw^yljpbqGCf
eNvvboMzuES	d@ylzqwezhwxtjB$kqegfessmsJws_oEf?
e~pwteEptMLjw|fEicnqrifsBft[Eg

X1TCNN6K Zysx-kybp?

e}HkxnFnaACrd@foicksrmsHGel^xlogepd

e9fcteLojLtks/fyf?btFlaHOyd=lltwkyKgxBNmd'uDuwpjl
e6icveuvvExek*BqaoqwwaauOyd:nmubjjJgitHid-golubrwhoLo
e5icnqrDfsAt{!iAA{

IQMKCdrgasted!flabbergasUD	!LmsgbDGBaPyqp7frbkteyloMFjq@tg

U4MCPI7fDtHeM!tAubufQaa2tyl@twaAqzngNRtgi:zqsbrfJAt
eMsgbfDsaMBws>tleqyslgbGxex&gFayjnuoaAywi!yFbpfxrBq
eUtbdzLgbsKzm+zmjp?esgnxLjd-orfngxKgcEIho8

X1TCNN6K 1yeg@rxtbwxribvE,d_ElqtkiwggxFqd>oFiboDrmpKNzr^yb
eU"nneszlsBnq!CtbvbmwgxHOqh8fPjfbDGBavuqp7fEjt{
e5jt?eQvvsBfz^fIsguyDlesQjp-fmofbtNlsMBws>t
eYptgeLobGtDs;xlfpgrAltn

IQMKCd#pmEtDs;fsp?bhGG}

X1TCNN6K 1uAi!CuujbDGB?sZfv^fKpwbBwsmn

e}FzgzFAa~9XEgOZEbcsvgDX6NEY

U4MCPI7fXAuyd[gEtkqsrobGAxd:nqtgbBwphANxd;vAoboDrApGAzi9
eUaecsFvusMui@qluqbmwy.sSjx!ytfbwwyleswtr'kDfpejm
e1arqtJgPKFfr%ufavjtMgbKNes<kDujttOu@
e1sbEmsymxMes/fEpogyzpoztBi@qqsbofKAfKMex&kq?

e}Sg+jFAfKtQI!HQBW|

RQaDGF!fHHIid|oD.bKevvaBHej/oqofumAwavIzr|kxaAqz
e6pbnjsCfsNmm|fBmcejmgBEvjm:fKpwbmsCfsxjw^xHff
eTjijeuvnFysh@zupp?eLyvxtft[rmvugesuesFtz^ 
e~fvbxMjisCxd+uIavjjrkvDy)w!iAofkyAvo
e6icvezlaFCxg=tEutwjKgbEFex&gFaAqzrobOyeh=tq?
e6igbiMrfsCxd&AyptqzK}aPBfx!nqakueAuexyi{
eYptgeKBjMMeC=AluqbhGudxCAi!ztbpbNrApsMui@qlph}

U4MCPI7fJsNme+qlzqw	rzjKiee+jfartfQgzHO	d:kxmbojrAiBM,
e9ikemrvgsNmi!zIpbyfKgetOll:kDaqheLofsxzo^
e6icvezlsxtBe|fmubvmwgxKyxx-ozh{

RQaDGF!fOxCyl^xlikuevhvzByi/ ljhbBwgkNxli!hKaocsFlsLj
eNvvbDwAaBHii^jlujgeDltLywd*ylikuevhvzByi/
e6igbtLofKtnw!jmvijywyaMIex&klccpnKo"wtiy)kf
eMofbmwyfsxjx@oz"fbgQgixLey|ADqkplrBovFj{
e6pbmjwwaACxd%gGhjvjJgdHGue+EbayjtKlaEIAi|
eMsgbiwhsxLex&gzavjjrubMOwe-fnppfeGmaLCxx^xE?
eNvvbNrjbGtyi-rlzqweLobMttj!rmugbyzptsxzo^
eTbvjeLh"xHeh*yBmgcxMyfs.le*tEubjnKghxHyp^fzjgejl
eSsqwsvlesOus+fzpbqyzlssuwk;sqov
eNvvbyzhusNmi!vqprnjrwstCxi!nqsbhtJgixLez*xFvgu
eMofbuAAzsBjv!lAsbjjJghHIid'gFigt)KgttEj,
eMof?eGuaFSep*lq.bjnKgntFng^f/hcksKAaMBjd-gpz
e9jnneKBewysp,fnsgcprmpKNm	!Yus?bksyfsSty!Cqmn<
eTftgfxAfKnem+fmadgyLlssQtv-jlujcsrAiBM	
eUaujfDsawyxm/klnqtjrspOyee+jllpqBDlezyes'fKpw}

U4MCPI7fJsLjw:fyvejetvvGxjr!zAaAqzgggtLjd,uGaygqDb

e}FzkyrSFsVJEp>

e6iwueEBtMtNd'xAnbvmwgtFIpi!ozuqbyzlaLGtx&kD<
eRsqoeLFstHyd%AwfbwsLvattyC/gzubdwGAixL,
eNvvbmwhwxHqC!XAtcnnFk@

e}Fzkyd




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK



YOFPGe1PJrUev=uyakpeLofsJfp@iq?


e}FpvjJgDX6NE!gzebTT~HM28I;

IQMKCd#ozmths;yuo#bBzF.s`tw@ruof#eUBqBxel@BqaogwuF@sHtx!glxqtin

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd=tqavqeLosHQee:fmafqlm

IQMKCd6v.sNmC!CAsfuesyfsNts!vDfektMzaMIef^fobuvesDbRtzt=t
eovtu.rAiKIBd|uyfbqkrAixGee:fyf>bhGtfmtqe_klngbBAAisLje|uzt}

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!ztftgeOlsxtyA=fopwunFzaEunh!AB<bymwuaMBjd=tq
eEiqwqvgcxtqe_kpaykyzgsxuxs+ylbpfeLofsIyl^xlncf
eIjvjtMAatHD	

IQMKCdTBusCxd@rxavjnKggHLeC=ADahcyzlso

X1TCNN6K 7I	d|uyfbqkrpusCxd'uDaoAeuojEx)w!lmujgwmgPmtms>
ervnneGmauLni/yljubyzptsQtv)ozh+ffQgxHLqhH

IQMKCd`ofRtfv^fnvvbgMytmths;yuo?byzypPHey[uzavjjwgjG
etpnkisFayItp^xK;bkkrDfsQfp)fzpvbnFguAyex/upegp
eBbvjxrvvKtAi/ElqgvyAjptNxd>oxmbefLjisNmi_a

X1TCNN6K 2ths;rpaujfClaMBjq!urgboDrjptN,d:nqtgbgMytsuwi!ozaoAezlbKN 

IQMKCdZlnsNmi_fmxcA 

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpavtDlgjytNd$uGmfbhJFa,BjqNfmofbmsCfsBnq8

IQMKCdUvnxneg=sq.bywwzuEyeA*ztavjDrhgyyhx*uzt}

X1TCNN6K 8nex&kKavcpwguAyet@xFaqhesgcxNyi/fIsguyDlssNme+fyzugqx"

IQMKCd7aattls=jlxkumrBqHHeC=A-aAqzrDjEFex/EljpbyAtfmtnr
epfurnLlaHzee!lmmn}eTBumtyy/tuoibyzltxtoi|zEaqwyrvg
eEftxnul.sFjx!AEavcqCgjGtls=jlfctswzuhtnw!oF
eBpuuntsfmttr!yGdjbfrzvwxjr7fKpwbxzvvExej@rxakpyGgtH
eEutqsygbsFno*tsaykyzgpExeW*xlSqyqsue,MeC=AzhguyrzpGp

X1TCNN6K !Bjd%AwfboDrmbMBjv!rAwgfezptszfx&kDafgfJszn

IQMKCdVvuAtnx!ztftgkGyfsysw;klujcyrFpNtxl=AxebntNlaACxd|uz
epfctqQcaUSex&oEamksvgpythl@yq.bKeKopNFid&gFfbjnEa
erptbrQggtNmi/ftbvgirojLtke:nqsbfjsymRjeC^zlJbjfLl
ezpvbTJsbGxt	

X1TCNN6K 7I	d'guuj?ezhuxtmm_fzpv?exvssGDd|gwf}

IQMKCd#ozsMms;rpaKbsGA}sxtx&ftfbptLgexMjv<klxgnqn

X1TCNN6K 5yyd_klmqxjrojFtks/fFicv	rhowtis!EAvbntNlaACr
enfeczKla2tis8fXpqm	rofKyeg=sqtbvmwgeNEj	

IQMKCd#puAtmm|fqzguexBmEttj!gzhgt 

e}FpvjJgE@5JdaXQEGTNUR.sQnx&fXptfxd

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeYjuvwwztmtim|vmuejeQvvsQnx&fKpwteKhgxMyd&gEug
eMofblwAaRIzd'xAnbqzJgdHOwx8

X1TCNN6K 6y	d;tomg{

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe~pw?euvvLCs
e9jvjnFguAyxi!zqobffQzaBzex&gFavjtMgcx.xx!lAvpf
e5pbpjsyaHOwd[AnmkeeuvvKNee|fFxgpyQgnBFjw7
e6iqwevpfLNej=xljv}

X1TCNN6K sted!flabbergasteddfppbdjKlfvBeC=ADaitful.
eXfvbrwguAyeo+uImgflwgpytrC!lmvnvetlbKtBm:nlng<
eUgbynLoaFSxi-llJbjtDkaBHyi-ruhgphw
e1sbjfNlatwvy@ozucphwgxBNmd_ozfbqBFgexMnv^yf
eUgbvmsAa2tis!tAubfwwhnsIwd#kloqvexybGNng7/\
eMtbKevvaMLzw:fUacoeFvu ayl^tfafgfJgvGwqi7
eZfxgwrzpsGzg&fmtbksrhaMBty"nFawpgGyo
ePjfbNrvgyysh!EAvtbmAniGyxw8

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe6iwuevvatFqd:xmjvqwK?
eUgbvmwpssJzv"gFjqpevpeswtr|oEubksrDpKxx{
e6igAesyfsuxd*tzpegsLgbLtlv@iqakvxwsgh
eXfvbnLgtNzkm$klujgjrAitNeM!zDvuveLofxtss:a

X1TCNN6K ^yyd,uGsbonKAsNMyd$gzoqveEhlxtri!glutcnLvsh
e6fnneElaPBjv^uzavjjrsjDyqm&uAebfjHlowM 

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe6iqwesyusNmC!lmujgw\zawuzk&zqs>byzlsx.xd^tAvij 

X1TCNN6K `IeA@ylJbymwuaRIzv!nuhjpjKzaMIto!nutbfzCleHG.
e5pbyfKgJsQmi+fKpwtezphAHjw|fnbpkxz_esBnq2
e6sgcxGuaBMer=zljpjjJpuxx	d_Elmqtih
e1s?bnxgxxtim%fpftkAwgjMtkv=slpwtexyjxHiw7
e9icv)KguAuyd:ulng{eEFayuyl^xlxcueFvaMLfm:uD;
e6igp	rnpHxeq,fxjgijlgnBMye)klngbsGAaLIeq;it
e6pbvmAulsGDd[uHftvDrptsNwi@itftqzKb

IQMKCdVlbKtxs<kDfkislgixuwd_kltrgfCb

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeMz?bHwsjtjeA^fEucA)vgixLej=xlzqwwrzbDy	
eQmugezhesMmi!Cuujbmwyayuyl^xlscplwkatFtr"a

IQMKCd1geBxer=zlujgsrloMLje:fFpbjfNlaAywd|zmz>
eUubyfKgzHOwd[rqbuwwwgbGxeC=ADaqysryfFIww^.
eUaycxrApHtDs;tsavjfLguBGjd:ulwcnzwgixL.
eNvvbsGDa2tpr=Cligt,rpgsMmi!hqacbyJhjMIw{
e9iAbxGgbFtN,!CqauvnDsaAuAi!yxfrveLvhxNmi/ 
e4pugesAatHem+yFbpv	rsftLs(% lqncD\k.syfx!zAhgvmwy.
eMofbBzlsxMti<kDaygeOloMnep*qqaLwsG_tsMBe+yf
e5uknqrDfsQjr:fopwrqwkatHid*tEfrcwsimxo

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe5igbnKguHIew;hFmgbkGyaMBji3fmofbmwyaLGts:nzfuu	
eTftbAwyzsMnp^tofbcsvgixLet@zufpej
e5qgcprApsNmi!vqprnjlgbGxex&kKarkyQgixL 
e6iqwesyusuej=ux;bumwgsHvxd:nqfbqkrAiRtse_kb
eMofbyzvvsQnp:fEiqyeEvsxtgv*mtubcsvgtxyrd_uDfbxnJAvHOx
e9igpeKofsCxd"uzf}bYzlosIui+fzpvbyzFaECuw2
eRjtoesuesCwv^BAdcdqwgjLtrC!jApo
e9ikemrPaAuAi!vmtu&irBqHHel^xbaujjrptsvfr*yt"f}

IQMKCd8ypGIzr$klujcyrzfGNjr$klujgsrvosGj{!sKankjyl;
eUaecsFvusFnz^fAvvbtxgixLeg=sBbpA 

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfe~pwbfJlattks=rga1qzlgoByhi7fBsqxnvlaRIzv|kxg<
eUgbAtMgpNNxx@ElujgeLpnxney[uzaokswgiHHty/ 
eMofbnFguAyek/kmupgxKgpytrC!CAsf?eQvvsxni8

e}FzgzFAaW#PI!L4FFGW1JLsush!RAsfu<

IQMKCd7gnRtus=xlSqufDpowneA&oFigteOpmMtyl=Alhq{
e9jnveLopNthl@tsfbhfLofKMaddfIjnneypwxtyl^klnkpjm
eUaejfJnfsNmi^ lcgbsGAaMBty!sAsgblJpfOyid:nmobKest?

X1TCNN6K 2tme<klnqtjrjbNMj	

IQMKCdrgasted!flabbergas@ms;ftbuveFvumths;yuo>
e2skvmwlauyeg&kqshwqgglGIB(|zlujqzrupMnex&klewmj
eTbvjethoBMm(%fyf?bmAzawuzk&zqs{

X1TCNN6K !Bfx!nqajcyzgoHN 

IQMKCd6v.sBfx&fzpv{e0vttFnr%fxbemxrAixHex&klmqxj
e9ikemrAftwmi:nlujgjrAitNex&uGacpirPatGes+ka
e5icnqrDfsvjd|Azegt)vcaLBfp-fIfbrfJA.sMBi^zlhktqn
eZp<bqwAaFSej@ztftbxwllsuss:nqsbjjAy?
e6igtjxvsxtii<oEfbynLoaFyel=ClxgbrsFayFD{
e9ikvmwyaMIek=fmofbBzhusNtd#kmsbynLoaNM.
eMofbiGgoHNew^kwavqeLhlxtDs;xldjcsylaNJtr!EAv?
e6pbdjsyaRIzv!mDjghxrFpNLxi-llbpfeDlbOyeq^fAvv>
eRpt?etFaMBnw!nqbxgslgoHQee:fAvtbxGysHQxd[gxf?
e5bAbBzhusNms;fobpuylgJ,Fqd"ulbnqsygxBNmd:nqf}

X1TCNN6K $BD{!CtjvjjJgtAuqp!Cqaiqa

IQMKCd`vaLyjo!sKawphDlaBHex&klgqtjKAaHzeE/jqo}

X1TCNN6K TFfw7fIicvevhozywd>oxmbkyrifsNtd;yf
eYbkfxrhtsQjd@xq.bvtrAstPjp!lAsvjeKvayuw%
eNfcwyQgqKIAs)kFibvmAlwxMew=uzftbyzhosAtp%a

IQMKCd1_mEtuy:fyzugqxgjGtus=xlbpfeElbGtfx:oDf
eMofbBAAisueo*tpaqheMtcxLew_oDdjbrQggtwj,
e6igbqArfsxtd,uG;butrzitFqd>klqcuxrhmHHl
eMofbswCfKtxx*xlbuufAsbGNx	

X1TCNN6K $ywi!oFapqyrifMNjv7
eNfeczKlaMBfx!OlbobrGyfsNme+fopootFgutFq{
e6icve1geBxew;oFaogessmsJtm+zEankpwgbsGfr9
eMaicqDhoMthy/zxf+cCwgvIIsd_Elujklza
eMadqfJ|tIyfv!ozaoAezhowjee+j\_kpeEFaAyfv:
eXjgbyzlsxtBl@zlikfiwuaPIre+-EahgfJguAywi!Cumn+]
e9f&nqrobOyee!yIbujnFnatHid@fybtvnssaHOyw*jq.
eMtbofFFaHNmi/fybppnKoavIBe/jEajcAw
e6icvevvaHOyj@iqakveOpuAtyl^oDaugrtsbGwjw8

IQMKCd#obMtxl@rxaKbhssmsNmi^fIigpeLopNtfv:fmaocsn

X1TCNN6K 2.qp!nmwgbsGgxHLxi!glocojrAitHeN=Bq"ubtOuaIuli3
eMofbyzlsxztv^fxpqmeQvvswfp-fyfbIfFFnxxj	
eNvvbBzhusQnp-fKpwbgwgdtFq(%b

IQMKCd~vnxNmm+mlujcyrobMBee!xqggtjFjfsNtd_Eltvcyw
eZpbntFnfKtHi-om.bdzLgBECjr@a

X1TCNN6K UOy{!iAvukslgxAuyd*llxgbfKzbR.id:ultvgfD
e6igbhDvxGCxl!lApnbtMAaHzeC=ADahcyzls,Meg=ADu{
e9pwnirofsHtx!hqacbhGtgHLyd:ulpwteLybOyq 

IQMKCdZl"EFek=fmmqplrv"xLex&klxkfjrDpKFid>oFibojh
eXfcxjrtfsuqs+kluqbBGvaACr	!Rqu&uesDbRn
eMofblwAaHOwd(kIfnuesuesIzv!CqbnvmrApzyyl^xf
ePfxkxwguAyej*zFfuveLpnxtfr%fEbhgxLgxtS
e6pbjnvlaNMej/uyarwwKBjMtyl@zlxknqrifsGfh^
eMgvgwrtzszqm"nF?bPtOghHtBi!ozaeqsLloM
e6pbnntlsMSee+jloqveLvauusm|nyfpv 

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe1fUAyeJ=xqtvbtxgBKxjr8


e}FpvjJgE@5JdnKZJQT	rHN2YSW7fmofbyOvaHLex&xqfbNtJktm
exjmgexvsxMyi/y{

J7LGbXWUJ8`dR=CfaoAeuv_Fuyi|fmofbgJvuAyww!ozagznDl.
eTbvjeFvusIqh!iGtvqrrtbwyex&oEankkwgnHLjd|Cqfv
e6icpeLobMttj!vmjpvjvgqHGu !GDfbptLguAyxi!CApfu
eYptgexyfxtkv=slqgtnDguAusd:nqagpAAvvLths;xF}
eTftgexlfEtBi!hGubvmwgqxHfp:ElphbFvhnm
e6igbxwhtHHx(!jughgwwudxnee|fFigbnuFayusk
eMofbhzBsECxl!itjfksygpytyl^fIjpvjJ_tsQnr% 
e9ikemlgxAysd*zlckvjKgbGxef-uItbwuGuaFSef=jK.
eQwgpeLpmEtNd|nDjpmeOpuAths-jfaKbxEpmxtfr%fEbA
e/UjkxrptsHtd'rmuvgwQ?aMBjw^fmsgbhGBoLyqp=xE
e6icvexlfECsk-ElqgtxMhextri!CtbvbNrhnn.
e5xggyrhsxtyl^fGtgueGmatxAi/yuuA?
e9ikemlgmBEjd:nqavqfvaaNAqC!gzebxjFvnHOx{
e9fctxrFfMtfd[xqdkqzKgkxQjp!ozajkxroftx.
eMofbyzptsIzv!ruggbjPlnINej/uyarwgDpdsBfy+z
eRjpfxrApGAzi|fuobvwwltmtgs=qEakpeLofsLzr+ozhbdwGvlLn
e5ftotFzaBHew:uzfubfFkazIth!ozagxjJFaMBnr"a
eUayqzDkaGIyd$nmoigeAA?

GYJGPXqObIJDd*ylzqwwrnstwj{
e6icveuhosNwe+yxbvgeLofsMyy#hAsppjKzaHzej=xFvpg
eUovqeKvaJOni:fmofbxGgtPyjx!gltvAqwb

J7LGbXWUJ8`dG=sq.bumssmsQjd"ulbpfeCpmEtzw!BqokutFc
eMofbDwAaBNem/qEaogeLofsJts/fpbrrqwkayItp| 
eNfkplrubMCAi!hGsijjJzaHzex&oEafgxwyuswnx, 
e5iqwqvgjGtyl^oDaqysrjpGznr^ylxkvmrmpKEjh!nqbfu
eTbxgeLofBLev=AzebjfMudAyxd"uDff}

Lusuve4vswsNr%kqe?brQgmHLi{
e6igbrwsbGwms-ElKcszwzazLni<kEacveLobMn
eMof?eAuaMBfx!quof?eKDftLxd,uGafqeEvsxtzw;xB
e6icpevvuAtDs;xlctqyzlssNme:ftbvjethoBMm(%fKpw}
e6p+ffQgnRtQs/jlphbFEpfGMee+jlnAujDm
ePjfbxLlbEtgi&ozebjnEgbLtmi!rmzbcqGuh
e7ofgwrhosIfo!CtpugesuuBKzi!xApvbuwlqLtty:
e7qqpeLofsvws=qlujcyristQqw!gxppieLojLtBs=ja
e6pbvmwgxAChl!vxbegesgqHIwd|kCvguywy"wtxx@mf
e6icvexypFtyl^ftvpvjJ_tsunq!nmebvf\losuel;xF.
ePjfbhGtfsNtd-gzhwkxzaatHid*tpfgf	rtzsFtv% 
e6igbBJluvBjh!gzjocqroftPjh!lAsvjeKBdAtlv=gzt
e6icveLofBLeh*yoictlwgeBxew:xquejezptsFje:nqspbhGhu
eMmoqxLguHtgy/yFjpi	rhowtyl^fnjibwGBowtyi@xE
eOpwtxwkaHHjd@tAujgwrkpPHel*yljpptuloMtss|k
eUobrnLlpNMeg&gEf>bfFkaMBzw!ztfbjfAyzszts-
eYvejeEhsDyid=llujgeElmtHhl=rKaLcvMltm
e5uqqirvosNmi!kJutgrwzusPjv"klphbyzlaLQnj:fnsqqpl
eMviojFAjGAem:fIjvjeLlbKM 

J7LGbXWUJ8`dF;zlxjcyrzbBxeN@wGfu{
ePjfbmwgoHNeq=xmmkBjrAiBMew[kouceqwc

Lusuve4vswsT{!Eqt?bnFApsuex&uGtcpirzjFCqi|a
eRjtuylggHLel*ylxgguAuhsCsx=fFigbswleEyxw!yFsgcrh
e/QqqwrkfxL	(!wGpvjezl.s.yl=AlncmjKAattyi|zmngpy
eMtbytJseECsk|fpp?blACjGAex&EltwoeGmaFIwi
e6pbvmsAaPBng&ftbfbyGvaFOhl2-lujgslgcxCsk!ztftgesspGy	
eXfhvesuesuge+jAo&feGmaACxd<kxwgvexyjxHiw7
e/"VkxryjzBy\NfCvqvmrofit)x&AEaokxwyzsxtx&fBbtv
e6igbkDBysIkd$uyqcpDg_atHtr!gldctjDltLtmi/jf
eRvnneGmaMBjd[gEuwtjlgkNGuw!gxppietFaACr
eMofbswCfKtxx@EEavqeyyfxNel*sba&CD\grNIyl!Pmrwgxl
e/TygjHgpGneC=AlgcvesuesAwi@yKaekyAGfGM.
e/UkueBBtMtyl^frbujnGu;sQmi/krptgevvaRIzd-uAl
e7qqpeLobMtus=xlbpfetypDysd#gzltwuLguAywi9-
e6iwueEvtMtnr<koukxjDFaAyet*kDdgvmrAiKIzk&
e6igbgGkzsIkd:nqaeqzFAsRneg*zK.betMyum
e~fc?esuesIkd:nutbqzJgmBzj{!yIfctnFnaMBfx!Cq
eMsgbrwyfsOxy/vqsu?eLFstHyw!gzebymsA"LtBs/yq.
e6pbhwAniMtyl^fmokofDzatHid:ullknqrAixGey[
eUobvmwpssuxw*mz"fbfFkaGuym<kleygqDpozaup@iq?

J7LGbXWUJ8`dE+jlekfeQvvsFje<klikoeAuaMBnw!iAovgrHsbMCtr9

YqdqpirSpKxd1^fpjf?eEFaEIwh7fIfgrnFnatHid$uyngpyAuh
e7qqpeLofsMtf#ozhbfjwy?

J7LGbXWUJ8`dW&uIaogeLofsJqe$ka
eUanqAwguHths[klikoeAuaMBjw^fEvnnjFggBNx{
eRptbyzlosBj(|frvnneGmaFuyx^xg

Lusuve4vswsN(-rlctksygzHOex=ftjobxLybBAmx8

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN



YOFPGe1P Ttws=sljpbyzlaIuqe$kg


e}FpvjJgE@5JdaXQEGTNUR.sQnx&fXptfx
