	fall in love with my anger. If it be so, as fast as
	she answers thee with frowning looks, I'll sauce her
	with bitter words. Why look you so upon me?

PHEBE	For no ill will I bear you.

ROSALIND	I pray you, do not fall in love with me,
	For I am falser than vows made in wine:
	Besides, I like you not. If you will know my house,
	'Tis at the tuft of olives here hard by.
	Will you go, sister? Shepherd, ply her hard.
	Come, sister. Shepherdess, look on him better,
	And be not proud: though all the world could see,
	None could be so abused in sight as he.
	Come, to our flock.

	[Exeunt ROSALIND, CELIA and CORIN]

PHEBE	Dead Shepherd, now I find thy saw of might,
	'Who ever loved that loved not at first sight?'

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe,--

PHEBE	                  Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?

SILVIUS	Sweet Phebe, pity me.

PHEBE	Why, I am sorry for thee, gentle Silvius.

SILVIUS	Wherever sorrow is, relief would be:
	If you do sorrow at my grief in love,
	By giving love your sorrow and my grief
	Were both extermined.

PHEBE	Thou hast my love: is not that neighbourly?

SILVIUS	I would have you.

PHEBE	                  Why, that were covetousness.
	Silvius, the time was that I hated thee,
	And yet it is not that I bear thee love;
	But since that thou canst talk of love so well,
	Thy company, which erst was irksome to me,
	I will endure, and I'll employ thee too:
	But do not look for further recompense
	Than thine own gladness that thou art employ'd.

SILVIUS	So holy and so perfect is my love,
	And I in such a poverty of grace,
	That I shall think it a most plenteous crop
	To glean the broken ears after the man
	That the main harvest reaps: loose now and then
	A scatter'd smile, and that I'll live upon.

PHEBE	Know'st now the youth that spoke to me erewhile?

SILVIUS	Not very well, but I have met him oft;
	And he hath bought the cottage and the bounds
	That the old carlot once was master of.

PHEBE	Think not I love him, though I ask for him:
	'Tis but a peevish boy; yet he talks well;
	But what care I for words? yet words do well
	When he that speaks them pleases those that hear.
	It is a pretty youth: not very pretty:
	But, sure, he's proud, and yet his pride becomes him:
	He'll make a proper man: the best thing in him
	Is his complexion; and faster than his tongue
	Did make offence his eye did heal it up.
	He is not very tall; yet for his years he's tall:
	His leg is but so so; and yet 'tis well:
	There was a pretty redness in his lip,
	A little riper and more lusty red
	Than that mix'd in his cheek; 'twas just the difference
	Between the constant red and mingled damask.
	There be some women, Silvius, had they mark'd him
	In parcels as I did, would have gone near
	To fall in love with him; but, for my part,
	I love him not nor hate him not; and yet
	I have more cause to hate him than to love him:
	For what had he to do to chide at me?
	He said mine eyes were black and my hair black:
	And, now I am remember'd, scorn'd at me:
	I marvel why I answer'd not again:
	But that's all one; omittance is no quittance.
	I'll write to him a very taunting letter,
	And thou shalt bcgcwrpuhtBm-zlujqzlgTBFAm;yh

YUMXKZ~fQAygi7fIjvjessmsGDd&kmsv}

VTFDGd1_mEtBv*zqakveKAstCll:?
e6igbrsAuxL)w!ozaoAezlbwtfr%fuoboDroftLy\
eUaykqDgcxtgm:zqsbynLoaACrd@tparcxKpoztxl=xF?
eSpbynLoaFy	dnoxwkwxm

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1fUAyej=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bEJ4PBmtfr%fVBSWJ~\

PMRWGXqPaILnx&kq.brwwAuRtDs;zt.bnjLgnxtgi!hquvgwrhdJOfm+zqe
eIjvjeLofxo

X1TCNN6K !BjC!ymzbAtMgbKyee!sqmcphzvmRtki-rAx}

PMRWGXqPatGew=?lJbftrspOyem:fnfvvjJguAusd-gGhjksyb

X1TCNN6K !Btw^fFicvesyfsCsd^DFsgonLFaHzei*ztftbfJlatvtq*tmcng
erfnntOzatHid#kFscAeLofFMjp<kEavqewCfKSeq=jqsp
eofpuzJlaPIww^fFicpevyvGEfv%yg

PMRWGXq4iRne(:oEaiqtvguHtgi!ymebcsvgttSer=ztjpi 

X1TCNN6K $BDd:nqo?b)LptsAts%fFpbdjrhaIIxx8

PMRWGXqPaAuAi!tqjvjjJguAyew$nAmct)KgnxFfr$nAmA?eOojvBem|
eqnwnfLppGner=xlujgeEBtBwne+-E.bymAjisCxd'gzucuyAjbEn
ezptbyzlavIzv:oqs&u	rDiBwmd*ylqtqzvaaGIwd:nq
eEpnfnwy"LneA&ooibkxrhnuCym=AE.bptJguAyep@CKft&xl
eIikemrptsJtp*zud?bsGyaMBjd-gpz&u	rDiBwmd*ylokejlgoHL
eFigbqGCfK.x{!CtjejeAzatFqd:nqtg<etBusCyd*ylb
eyfncsuopESes'fyjpgeGDomths_vAvpfjvgpytre+EltkouDltm
eqyvtfuAfwtkv=slncpDrvcCyhx| lbpfeAuexyid:nqauwsvyz,M
eoppvjEwmtNns+fAgboDrAstPjp| ljpbBzpdAtrC!urugp
eDvokssAjHHeA/gBtbojrtattrs|zliwotJvvLtxe%tqtu}

X1TCNN6K Ttyv@Bqmngw/gCRtrC!lmjvj	rFpNtme<klhtgfLgsxuxs+fFp
enfbufv?a2tki@xlzqwezhwxtxs-jlzqwwrvxGtqe+jEavqeKlf
eAujgwrtfG.x,!ztfp?eLvaAuAi!yqfpbrMjisush!zAajcAw
ezpvjnFn.sCxd:ulicxjryjvBei,kEacpirwpHLel@tpt}

PMRWGXq6fLneM!nmwgblspoxxeq,fqyrgwAlovy 

X1TCNN6K THid,uGsbgCHlsBysg^fybmgxrFpNtxe%.lJbjfvgstNmi/ftbxg
emahqtDguHtre)klngbrwysRtyl@tlfzrjJpfGwjd:ulncmjrtf
eEbf>esuesNtd:xmwgnexvssCyd:uA@

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	U{

U4MCPI7fHHIid%gKacpirobIJnr^yE.bfjsya~Ixe-oze#

PMRWGXqUbRnex&kz.bItvgcxtBmNfKpw?esuaRIzd:gxlbksrimtHpd<kDtg}

e}Fzkyd

X1TCNN6K Yuwi>kxm?bRGutByzv!ZDbxgqDlshtqs=qlzqweDptItfr%
eIfcteKAstHli!yGjvu	rkjLugp^fmmnbyzlauysi'oFtbqkrFpNL
eAxpbhGBoMLD{!hqaqwyrvgsFtz^fIjvjeQvvKtse:oHjvAesue
emmoqxLgdACii!MAebhtJgntEnr"fKpwbyzhuswty+zqocphwgzHO
emsg?eGya2tBm-rltecwulaMBnr)fKpwbmsCfsMBe_fuobc
esppftDh?s%mC7ftpybsGD.s9wp@tpp#bBzlsxtme<klzqwetlfG
emmnbyzptsQmm-kha1qzrhaEIAi/'lBpbDGBaLywz^fyfbuzuo
emoqvmwyaMLng) logxjJgdHGjd*tlnAbxAniMtrs/kg

U4MCPI7fNRtke*xlSqufDpowneM!iAngbBAAiBHee+ftpwteGmaFSet/uyjug 

X1TCNN6K ULje)fmobjtMy"Ltuv=sutgbnFgmHPj%!NqavjfLgxBFq
epjxkiwgbsGnr;zqakpyGgbsNms;ymofbusyuLtfr%fnsgcprivM
emarcwLgpytyl^fFiqwxsueMBet@xFaqhesgnBHzx^fuobvmw
emghcnJzaHzep=Bq.bkyrtbRtgi!ymjfbtxgiBGex&gFaEwuAk
etbvjeusbIJjh!nunbq)rAixtxl=Axegt	rivMtN(-rlxctwsuu
etjobmwhsMaBl=rq?

U4MCPI7fQtLis+fyf?biwhss`tw@ruof}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!gzaAqzrifsMtd:gDeA?euvnxtss!sAsgbnFgnRtxm"nF;bK
etbfbfKgmBykd#klxqqjvgpytfd|tmjn}

U4MCPI7fPytfd|tmjn{

X1TCNN6K TS	d=llbbusspmitks/fFiqwlzgixths_kEauntOszmtmi
eobttnwzaACxd&uGtgbtFgiBMel^gp<bcetluMywd(uuovwwwa
eUavjnFr.sNme+fKpwbrsrfsueA=smo<bgwzjwyxd&klctksyz
etjubiwzuBHDd>oFibjnEb

U4MCPI7fXAuy(|fFicva

X1TCNN6K $BD{!nAspu	rDiBwmd|AoibcxrFpNtfv^frbkpeLvauy
enfjqqvpoztys!EAvtbBACfLtks/.lcwvezlavIri|fmsogirpo
etjubkGyuNHjd@tpartjNloMMex&kltncsvlssIkd&oEaykkwb

U4MCPI7fWBLyy^futbptropKH]q@qqs>bfFkaFSeV=ymmkpirptsPnv:AAvu}

X1TCNN6K THiddfmnbAtMya~Ixe-oze}

IQMKCd1AaIFje|kEajkrrApswfp-fKpwbxG}auOyd&klicvmrh
e4pucqAuesIkd@fnfvvjJgmxywd:nmobAtMb

X1TCNN6K VIri7fIpqbrwaaPItd_kfahqwrupPtNd@sljpbfropECie,
etvoqzJgbGxep*qqagptMnisNtd$uztgpymgXAuyd>uGmfbDGB
eEbAbyGgnxtss> lbpbNrDfKyeC=ADaxgwQgwxLDdmuEbnksvc

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jllkuxrifyIwi!Oltrqpwb

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!EAvbyjJlauyyx^xltrgfCggBLxx7fmofbBzlosSty!Cqsg
esscxjDsfwtks/fxbemeGmaFuyx^xfaAqzrtjzByd:gwf
eAdecxAvosNtd)oEt}b1wyzsAts%fAscvtJz.sQmi+fFigAesyf
eAvv?eLofRtBm-rltrkyhgbGxej=xlmqxjJzaEuho*ts_+Itv
eIbtpeMz@ are:zqs?byzlavFje+rufuveKojyNem|fFpbmnKz?

U4MCPI7fIHQem'fFigbpAztsvjd%kzjgfa

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!ytfbrzLzaRIzd:ulfpvwwhuRnee+jlujgwwgcxAnr|fzfybrsAuxL 

U4MCPI7fXAIeg=AxebdjrvvMnef^ozhbdjxvsxtmm|fnfnqAwkaFCxx/kEt{

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, lujcyrziHOqh!EAv?bnxgJsQjv^fKpwteEptMLjw| lpt
eUaujtMsesNmm+qlnAbmGufLNDd/gzlgteLobGtrC!Cuu}

U4MCPI7fXAuy{!uraoAeKBjMp

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd=AFaqheQvvKtft[gDfn?esuesSjx!uGubqkrFpNLew;oF?
eMnbptLgJsSty/f4pucqAueo

U4MCPI7fJsNfo^fEpogeBvzsNtd|gKaAqzrhsxnef^imvuge1gxHOqh!hq
eFbnmnFnaHzel^xg

X1TCNN6K $yqp!ozajgwrwfKMtr!OltcAe1gxBFqd+uFajcAwgzHO 

U4MCPI7fUAysd*tlnkpjrvxGtui/yAobKevpfn

X1TCNN6K 7I	d'guuj?evpfsvDd@zFptpjQba!Bjd[uAsbytJsesCx
emmoqxLgtBRex&uGtcpirFftLxd=rp.bcsvgjGtfp-fFikueLpnx
eFigtjrDbLtss:fmoAbrsuawCjh!ozajkxrvxGtui/yAo?
eHjfgqAjjMnem+fmanqAw|dtOxi8f6sqkqMzaAuid&oEadtfAut
epbujjvgpNNeA*ztacbLJldBusd$rGc>bDwAaAyeh*jlxjcyrof
eopwnirApsxni!hqgqtjlgbGxel^futbqswgpytyl^fBbvvjJut
eAgbntNl?s6je+jqs?bmwgxHOqh!nmwgbqACfwtre+ElbbhfAy
eKfct	rAiHOll!NqsqbmskaMOwr^jlowp	rpgsCyd&gpapqyrifxH
erptbfropMtrm%yGnogwrujzBy,!lAs?blGvesSty:nfajgeOloM
envvbkGyuAtys!CmtjbmAtaBHex&klIgnqwzqHHyd@tpadgnFn
eFbmgsrDjMBex&kldtcrHgxtMeh/uIogfesuesNmi!lApnkxz
eoptqswytsIkd:nmubclwggHOsh!oFaycxr_IxLtd=llTguyGz?,
eNvvbyzltxtfv^fmmnbqAlthtri+ftbxgevpfwtkv=slukojrAp
eFjogesuesQtv_ylicxjrlbMysd:nqn?bgMAaGIyd'uDanqAwb

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvezhwxtrC!xuhjve0vttFnr%fAgbvmAzaFCsh7
erpt?e1gqKIyi|zfajgwrmsHQsd_osivbpAsmsGj	

X1TCNN6K USex&oEajcsvaaBNeA*rxapqyrrjEFee!lxz}bGMAavIri7fzpy
eUaykqDgcxtDs;xlSqufDpowtnr!glnqtjrjpFCskTuz
epjurtKpuBIs{!gzebcxCgnxtBl@zlzqweOpmEoeM!CumnblJhoM
euu}

U4MCPI7fUAysd-uHfbojlgSHMfp*tp?

X1TCNN6K ^yx{!lmjvj	rDjEFeM7fRskffQzatHidngFvtffQzatHid@rx?

U4MCPI7fBGxeA*rFavjtMgitPjd_kh

X1TCNN6K TS	d@tpavyjFAzsMzg&a

U4MCPI7fXAuyd|gKfuveLopNp

X1TCNN6K TLjd,uGapqyrnpHxa

U4MCPI7fJsBtt^fEp}

X1TCNN6K $BDd:nqo?bhsuaHHjd%kEjtgeLvpsGzg&fAgbceyvpwtyl*ts}
eOpog	rzjLNjv7fKpwbxzhmEtgi!ztfbrwAltMtfr%fybttDrBtn
eSjxgeElaRIzv!nmof?e7ymtHis8f9icvevvaRIzd|gK.bunKAfKp

U4MCPI7fQKuDd:nqf?brsysRtzw8

IQMKCd1gdtHss:fEbAbyzlaPIwh|a

X1TCNN6K ^Izd_AEubdjypomt)1*rxaAqzlgPKFfr%u\_&

IQMKCdYvaMI droxmbAtMaa8Lqe+jA.bjfNlaMIeA*lqavjnKgSHMfp*tp}

U4MCPI7fJsQnp-a

X1TCNN6K TS	d#AFayjjFc

U4MCPI7fXASer=CbacuexhtMtfw!ytfbefFgntLwC!AE?

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!EAvbozKAaLuDdNOlucmjrAixy	dmuEbnksvaayIwd>orf}&

U4MCPI7fJsNfo^fFigg	rYpLuqm+jfahqwrDjyy 

X1TCNN6K 2trm"nFacuprFpNtks/fKpwteuvnFCxw*uz<bdzLgJsxtd:gwf
eFigg	rVsEush= lgqteEFaAOxf@tp;bvmwyf,Mee!musnblGlt
enfhqwwguAyet/oqtv>esueswjv:guonAesgxHGfrNylujqzyou
eDvpuetlgHLjd&kDaceyAvoLo

U4MCPI7fTHtis!gxmbvmGBhANx,!ztfAbfJlaPCsk^jg

X1TCNN6K 7IBd:kxmbojropPtqs+mlzqweOvvExel@BqajgwrhgMywd,uG
etbxgeHvtLyxw^jligt 

U4MCPI7fGHLei<kDacpirhawuD	

X1TCNN6K `uDdNglecA	\gxBNms;zlujge\lwxL (!TA.bptlgPKFfr%ub
eyfpbfJlaTJwm-fIigpeLofRtBs= lEgejEifKtBl^tlujgDrDfwi
eybkfxrhsxtRe,fIigpeLofRtfv^fybkfxlgcNNex&kltmA
eoicplwzaPBjr!ztfAbfJlaPCAi|alJbynDsauyeq=xqalgfDvvL
eAgbvmwlaMBfr!glCctgsyzswtg)/BjigtFgpOywd&oEajgsl
eyptgeusbFIws;ylujcsrhaIuwv=zlbicnFzusLfm+ lnqtj
ezfy+ksuhEyid:nmobcsrhqxneq=xqaikivFaBHeq,fpfukwwz
eFicpesgnHHpi,.lJbynDsaPyjt!lAsbptLojGA	d-owfbFnsub
euobvmwggHOsx@oz.bcsvgJsQnp-fppbvmsAaPBjr!EAvbcww
epjurtKlesNtd#klngtwQ}a2tBm-rlmcwlzgmBEjd@ftzgp	rhow
eFicveOofGtyl=AlbtveAudECsi%fFpbuqwlqn

U4MCPI7fCNNeA*rxaoAe0vttFnr%fppbutn

X1TCNN6K USeq,fxjhg	rzixtBm-rleqbfKgJsxt	

U4MCPI7fPmtgy:fEigbnKgxBMj	

X1TCNN6K 8Lei-yqaujjrjpNFid+uFajcAwguAyeA*zluqbiGguACx\!ztf
eIjugwlguAyeA@EIbtfjJ?aFupi!ztfbftGytsOus+fmayqrsu"L
eIjvbfFkaBNeA*rxaqwyrhusNmi!imtgojFA<sMmy:fFicvesue
e/uykqDgpNNee:fFigbpwF_AIqi3fEuqreLobMne(:CumnbkDF
eIjvjeLofsMrs)klpwvesAaMBjd$nunpgDm

U4MCPI7fBsGfr!ztbvbmskattBm'klxkvmrzvvBee!Cuu?bmwgnBAmx!ymz
e/Xkv	rDiBNmi/fIjnva\

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!EAvbonyousEji[fFicveuofJOjd'uDakveLpmEtDs;fyfv
eKpwteOpgx.xd>oFaiqnFnaMIeC=ADapgnyocHOw(|fnff}

U4MCPI7fBGxeA&gFaykyrjpNFid>oFajcAwguHtjB$AEfbvmsA}

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, luqbxsFaLBjd$gyfbvtrzfxEeC=Alujgwwba^Izd|nmmn
ezfxgwrAbDyel^xlxkvmGBusBjv!gztygwlgvGFjw|fKpwbysrf
etftbBAAiHOyd&kDavqsyBfntT{!ztbvbBGtbGtyl@zldcpsGA
eybmgezlsszfy-zligtezBtuushNylpeefKppGnep^zligt
ezfxgwruvKMjd&kDaejnDkaAyww^rr.bhtJgtAyeA*rxadtjwk
euubnnClattks=r-

U4MCPI7fGHLex&kEfbvBGgiHOww7f4pucqAuemtNd>oxmbnjsCfsNmi^a

X1TCNN6K TFfwHfpfcteDvwxneM!imopqyrsbvEex&kqavytropNLx	

U4MCPI7fJsGzw:fmuvgsvguAyeh;qqacvevpoGyw\!hKavytrv"vFtg)fU
eIjnnetlaPCyl!ztfgbfyhjGo

X1TCNN6K TS	d"ulzqwwrDbRM	d"ulzqwwrDbRM.ddfwogyeOobMtDs;
eIpwnirwsHPj\!sKahtnwueLtys-jlngbfKgnNwm{!gzebK
eFiqwlzAaGIep^yE;bvmsAayFfx:kDjpieLvozOjd=llzqwwK
eIppbrw?a,Nnw!hGubqswgdtMyd@Cmz?bfFkaLI	d$uyf?
epfcvm/gUPIesNixpemeAzaRIzv!nAvt{

U4MCPI7fBRnew>kqubTtKhmBHi	

X1TCNN6K USeq,fFsqvmlgbGxem+fspqfewhsGyxx7fmofbxGgHHxeq^tp
eyf?bfFkauSee-rlqtgyLFaHuyl|fFicvesyfsHtx!jmoigwGBtm
eugbAtMgcKyfo!uzfbltLgpytDs;xlqtqrAzfsIwd$uyfbqsw
eyjpwywgcxBnr%fKpwtezvvKneM!CumnbyzpoDtDs;fFigbrGzu
eBbvjjLpdtFef/kml+rwGtjLyee+jlujgeEvtMtms-rAxbntNls
emofbyzlaFIxx!AzxqtyzFaHzel^xlzqweuhmEtWs|gxjpfeLobM
eybAbgwgdAIxi+fAvvbtxguAyek/uEtbdfFkaHzex&k
eGohcnLogNF,d:nqsghtJlauyBe/klnAbhwutNLjd@tpamgjH
eKpwteHypFCxi8

U4MCPI7fXBNmd+ulmguxryfEClm=tlujcsrpgsNms;fIftveAuexyid_E
e4pucqAuehtxs!gpjgw 

X1TCNN6K $yqp7f6jogeAzaMBjd=rpalwxLpdxtyl@zlfzcrAufLtfp-fEvej
eAghgsvlsLnee+jlmgve`pnxtyv,.lbfkjMb

e}FzkyrVS5USHj>

IQMKCd%vvsBfz^fEjorqQgnBMzw^jlpwteKlysCsd,uGsbntNl_ILfx^.
eIfbozKAaAuAi!EAvtbiGBcEyyd@tpajqxwgqEOho^jlpxgwrFpNL
etfcf	rhowtxl=ClujgeOvsExeA&gFavjjrijKxel@ztafqswguH
etftbtOuaGyxx8

X1TCNN6K 8ths. ldqB	rjpSneq,fBsgvyQgmBNyp^fopB?eLobMtyl=A
epjfuyrroHQel=ClncpDrmbMBtq!jqfrbNrhnsCsd-uHf#bGMA
euubefFupMtgi!yAvpfjv?aFSee'lqdvktFgitNmd@tlvpmsGDo
enpvvtEaaECpi!ztfbdfQgpytUs/zGhcn 

IQMKCd7yaKuyl^xfadqyLvnEyxw7fFicveszayuxx!gEaAqzrwpNL
emghghLppGtnr7fuubtzFzaHOy	

X1TCNN6K 7I	d:nmubufElaPCho^jlccuysyesIkdqkzvubyzhusQfw!hqhqv
eAgbvmGBhAN	d$uzdgkAwkaHzew[rqfpbfFkauIwr!uraociFltLn
eFicvetsjGxev@yobnnDripRtyl@zlbdwxwzaxPjv,fAog&xrlzxM
enfeczKlaACxd=CzactjrvvMnep^zlikoetlaCOik^ftpybiwlqs3
emnbksrspOy dd-xmbvjDsaMBji7fMmkgssaa2the+tAubdjrvvM
eAgbvmwgtBAmx!uraQtqsueHieMNrxaiqexpowtfd|nmeqyesue
eEjijeLpmEtmi!iAng}

IQMKCdSues3)p-fEmggum

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgKT~ZIn lMqtiKaatHidauDfuvjJz/

PMRWGXq4iBwmd*yligbyzhusEnp-kpavjjrkfxLa

GlMqtiqZjKnem:fIbubNm

PMRWGXqSfM.xd[xqtgpyrojFtys!ztfbfzCl.sFno^fmaTqrsu
eoppszwypKjee+jljvbBGBmwtis!CqmnbyGgtxNex&kleggw\z
etptpxrBqHHel*yligcilggHLee!hDbpemrvgsPng:uDz}bMsCf
eKpwbsGgtHHl{!lAsguywy.sztv!ztjubuMyqHMj 

LAsguywy ^yx{!yus}

PMRWGXqZjGAem:.l"vkxrupsGfx:kDajqBrpusvjd*tluwpjlgtHtnx
eybmgeFvjLyei+uGhj}

e5PPI 
LAsguywy $Bfx!ytbnnezlaAuAi!ztbvbpAsm,xex&kleggwn
eTjubqwhuAywd|quobcsvgiHLsw!zAaygfJb
e6igpeKpoztmm_ftpog.

e}UjgeJltMtxl@rxadgfJguACxd#ADegp<

e6bmgeLopNtss!yoptpeLvaPyfv!ztfbjtJu<
eUubyfKgbswwi|zlftgeLopNtBe|zlcqtsg
e6iAbksAixL)w!lmujgwrDpKyem: 
eMofbyzFayuyl^xlcqtjrpuh
e6igbmGyomtyl^ftptp	rAixtqy|zKajqwF
eUtbptLgbsNmm+mluqbqsBhAtys!yoptp 

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 1IBd|gKaAqzrupPpeM|fuubptLgqtMyd:CAaq&hDvdDpee+j
etftgeEBdAtTv-gzeq#

IQMKCd1gxtLwe+zlzqw	rDjMBet;xqanqAwgbGxex/uGcngiristCs{!nq
etbvjeLh"xHel*ylcqyesuesuwv=CEacpirptsAtr^frptvmrAp
eEmggumgMHIp{!CtpbetEltsBjv^a

e}FpvjJgT261MpY{

YUMXKZ~fNRtjv/gzebkxrApsSty7frbkteQvvMB.
eYzbijFAmxtUl^hqadkirtfsAnz^fKpwbyzpth
eUamptOgoHNex&kldqpywuuLjef;zfacue1ghNyxw
eNzbvmwgtMywr!hDpybfFkaPuxt*ytaceyAvo
e9ikemrzixtim%fGtgbfKgtAyeA@ylxtkyAuhsIkd*zf
eUubdjsytsusd@tssAbywupKiet@xpppbrw?
eUacoetBusuxd@fsvknyDltLtri|yqoigwm

X1TCNN6K 9uym^tofbjjJzfEzeA=AxebuysyuEyee:fFikueDluMyw
eMofbuDhzsNmi!yIbiijJlsitgi@xlujkxlgcxuwd@rx;
e5igbxsFts3ee_fzpvbkspsmtyl@zlJbnfuraFusr^xE<
e5igbhssmLtri!vDpwf	rhowtyl@zltjgeuvvExer=zlmqxjrtfm
e9ftgeEhosuxd/gDfbcxrwiHysm\al"Qf)KgnRtBm-r-
eTftbqGCfsCxd+uFavjjrobKyex&gFaKbiGgiNHy\
e9iAbBJpuxMew&kltqbyGgnxpe1^rx.bumwwixLi{!Cqmn?
e6ikueAzattqi:zqsbqkrFpNLes>tlegxnul?

YUMXKZ~fOHneM!vDpvgxLaa2tpr=CloqveLofswtr:kzuu<
e2igdjrkjwtBv*zqakv 

X1TCNN6K VIri7fopog	rFpNtfv^fmahqtD
eMofbyMyo,xem+zAavjjrlyMLjq*zKaqheDvwxo
eUaucBrofKtme+jaaujjrobLtfd-kmujgwFgitHi	
eMahtjwzuHHj[$uxpwt)vgitHi,!OlwgtnDFawCid:nuom
e6icvezlssIqh!mxpxgxrDfKyes+ lcwve\AxtMel^xlicpiK?
e5igbmszattmy|Cugg&xrobGx.d#AFavjfL_tsHtd_gFugt,
eUaucDrzixtsi<kDafkirpoOysx!ztjubqwAuxL.
e6ikueAzattre+-EakpAwuuBIsd@tpajkxrobGx 

YUMXKZ~fTNLj{!oFakuezlsLo

X1TCNN6K $BD{!-FjubfripBMyi/uGtbcsvgbswwy^rltvAqwb
eMauvDDlayIw[$nmmngsylsLjeA&EfaujjrkfyCjw!sq.
eXjmge`BsDtys!ItskuyAhohtBs_kz"ublwuuEyef/guo
eOpwnirupMtiv=vlgqtyzgtNwmd"omov+wMkfsCsz^tFjqp
e5vejeWAiBIui!CAsfu	rimtwpi/fuobvmwpssykj^iF
e6icpeAuaMBjm/fopwpywubGwj	!3umnbDGBaAyfv!ztfbnjLAfKp

YUMXKZ~fTHtup^gEfbAtMaayIwddfzfxgwroftLid*zlzgv.
e~fvbmwhswtys=fyvejeGma9Bjf^-EaetzwsuRo

X1TCNN6K `BjdknqcgueEl;sGfv)ftpybyzlaMSwe+zlxtkywz?

e}SgciK\

eMsvbyzvvsAth!zAaujjHofKxex;xz"f?
e6icvesgntCii+-EajgfJAaAuyl!hGsp&in
eObpbfrDpFusd/gumbvmMz}

YUMXKZ~fDtFqd,uGavjnKgstCqm+mh

X1TCNN6K d`je%y{

e9iA?eLozsAth&kmebnfAkatJfv: 
e9btt)KAaMBty!CuujbfrDpFus(|ftfctyn
ePjfbDGBaxPjv!nqbtbxMjisLfm-ozh{
e9iknjKguAyei,klphbrsuawCid>uAaog	
e6icveuvvExeh=fzpbxjFnftHhi!zAaog 
eYfcpnFnaFyee!hqbuv 
eUgbvmwgtvIwr!uraAqzJgcKCll:fqzpg
eTbxgeHvxxLex=fDbkujrzvvBep=BqakpeEpoxn
eMmceplgjGtri!CtbvbxLybGAjd^lrfev
e9pwnirAixSeA=xwakpeEpmwtfw[kou#
e9iknjKgzHOeg&opaog	rPawCid-uHf>
eTpybyzlosGnk&zlzqwwrwstSjv|fypxg^
eTfbvmsAauLnr"ylujkxrspOyex=fFigg
eXjvvqwglGIBw!ztjubqGCfsCsd_ka
eMofbgQgiBGew^gxawreLozsGnr%?
e9igvmwyaMBfx!ztzbAtMAisush!quof
e9jnneLofszfm:nrvnbtxmfKtye)k
e1gbojrhowtfp-fFicve1gdtHeq@qq<
e1sbgqKlauSel*slnAbqGCfsxjr, 
eMofbyzlos3)p-fEuwfDropPtys!juf}

YUMXKZ~fDtFqd,uGavjnKgdACim+mh

IQMKCdSsbLnet=uDaujjHofKx^

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AlqkvDrojFper= ligbiwzfKPjw!tAarkyQba$Cqx
eFiqweDvwxtxy$nlbbytEhoot2l@zfavqeEhlxtyl^klbp
euouvwMtfGNee+jlqncDrmbEMjd|zDbkpxrBqHHex&kq@bptLguH
enfbgsvBsxx^drkxm?blGgzHOwd>gKavqezlsmtks/fUaugj
expxgezhuAtre%klujgjrhaMuri!yzbmg	rhowtxe,fFikueLv
etft<eLobMtnj!ytfbntNlaFy	ddfoictlwgixLex=fxpxg
eFigg.rpgsMmi!CumnbsGA.s3eA*rxapgAwyaAuAi!nqsbwsDltL
eFiqwewuuKyfx!lAsbjjJba2zeC=AlcgbfrAsNyep=Bqs?
etfpejlgbGxer=zlbbytJk<sztv!nqsgbhGtfLtrs/kldqousuzn

e}FzkyrZJ5$NYn>

e}FpvjJgP531Im>

UXJXGWqNpHxeq=xDpy?exhjKttr^yaartfQgzHO	d*llzqweCupPn
e9igtjrposNmi!vGsnkjMzaHzex&oEahqwwzusMye+jE
eMaujjww_vIyi!lqoegirhcHOyd>oFibqqACfsNwi^yh

IQMKCd#ltMttj!ztjubuDhdxneh=CzakpeLofsHjm"nnpwtetvuMIr\
e6igbwsulsIkd=yuftuetFaMBjd_ADnwtnFnaLNwi@s
eXfhveGuaRIzv!xuhjvezhowtgv*tstbAtMguHtyl^fBmcejm
eNvvbfLguACxd&uGsbvmwgiHOxi!jAujbpwlqsCyw^rr<
e6igtj\zaGIsi!Cuujksm

UXJXGWqPgsNme:fmobgDwgntSet/urjvbgQgbsNtr"Aq.
e6igpeKopNFiddfwoqyeQvvsvDd%kEdtkuLppGj
e5vejeyhsFysx|fmofbxMjisSje/yaa&VmwgcHSem|frbkt	
e1gbhjEhmxtke<uGs?bfFkauyxx=CEajkrKlmy
eXjmgesgsBJjd|oEugt,rAixtBs_gzanqB
eMofbgJvxGywd:nmobjjJgcKIyl^xg"bCwwgoHNeC=A
e6igbtOufKttj!ztfbjtMzfs3eh*jljpszAyfsztv9

IQMKCd1AaBMer=fnpcuylgcxCsk!gEl&f	rApsMfC!Cqactjm

UXJXGWqVsEush=fppvjeuvnFysh!nunbvtrFpNtgs:nf
eMofbyGguAuyd,uGujbmwgdtFqw!nutbTtKhmBHi
eTfbujFktsNmm|fnmqqiQgotJpm+alBtgeQvvsBj 

X1TCNN6K 2tfq2fIicveEBtMtBi!AzegtxLhowtgC!ztju{

UXJXGWqZpFyes'fyzbumstfitnj!EAvbynDsaDHtA!uraog
e9icveEhos3ee_ lbpfezvxmtfr%fIiA?esuesQmi/k
e6ikuezhowEjv$nqsbyfKgtMunrNjg

IQMKCd1gqKuDd,uG.bvjDsaBN 

UXJXGWq4ixHep@yFavjjrFpNHldjxxbpftrwbKNjh!lDpobDGB
eTfbnjxAattuv=sutgbyGgsxNzv+fmhcks
e9jvjnFgbGtms;xfacpirwbvCsk!ztsqwlzguAyej=xqtv?
eOigynFnaMBjd'uAebqkrzxxyyd@tpadkyLlsszfr$Ef
eXp?bBzhusvjj^rx@bjjrAiKyBd&oEagAjrhtBxj{
eMofbrsylsQme:fAclghLgeBxet/kEfpveAAtxFk\
e7ofgwrhosIfo7fIiqujripNAmw!CqsgbrGzt,xeA*ztacij
eMofbmAnisNtt!hmmfbBAAisxwC!gzukszAAzm
eMaytjLjixxev@msffbrsu.sI)i/mDpypeOpuAtme*xf
eXbAbxDlfICsk!uzajkxribvE,d@hAvvbmAzaGyho
eMaitjwuatHid"oxegfeKubDyel@jlxtgfLofwtnx|kxg?
e9iqbBAAisBjv!nqbfbsAtcEyem+fFitgfLzatJuv=goi&f
e6igbtHloBHld=llikueEvvMB.d#AFauwivloES	
e5fgksygPKFfr%ufakveMumBHp(%fuuugqxa
eMofbBAAisCsh^tFffblDpexMeh*jltnkurhxtS
eUovqesgcNMm\!AzegteOojvBef;yt"ubxzhex
eManktFltLneA*ztawfiwytsuqp!jDbypevyzm
eXbAbhGBdACsk7ftfcfeGuazLty+jfaykyzgdtNqm)klxcvhza
e9igpeLobMtyl^fEmgguAuhsGfr!ytpwnirzuBL.d'uDa&vnK
e6igbwGFbEtim|vAtkvnGuaHzex&gFadgfKA
e6pbrwwFaHHer=ztjpieLobMtis:nltggrrhtsxje%.
e6ikueKlfGneS/rmofqevpesuut/umdjbyzlaFus
eMofbkGBowtnx!CmtbjnKgcKIyl^xfajkxrlmwywd#xAujgwm

IQMKCd7aa2tme<kligcwvgiBGew[kmlbqkrAitNew@sqadttLofKj
eMofbmwgeBxev^tpftbmAtaMBjd_uEubwsFhuNLfp
e6icveDpwxxee_uzhuveElon

UXJXGWqHowtBi-rligbrAniMtxs!jA.
eRptbBwsms3eo+uIajgeOhtsOsr@zGscn 

X1TCNN6K UOy{!zAaQtqsueHieh*jligbqwhwxtmm_fFigtjl
eRpqfeLvaMBjd|Aol&fesuesBzr"xKanktFltLp

UXJXGWq1xBwjd%opajgeLBsGtmm|fnbemesuesJzv[uEffbxG}
eNvvbpAueGyxw7fzpdnjJgfOywd:nmobtjNlozy	
eMofbssAvKy	d|zDppijJguAusd&oEalwxLgpvwfw*uz.
eYbfgezpnsAnz^fnbvvqwguHtyl^fxjqpjKz.
e9iqbvMpdDFDd'kxmbdjxvsxtmm_.ljpbBzpdAtmy/zxjpi
eRsqoeEptxLff-kltnwrtlss3ee>gwff}

IQMKCdSyfsSty!nutbdwGAixLa

X1TCNN6K $uxx!EAvbjjryfLwzi%b

IQMKCd#ht,NeC=Alujcyrkjwtxs!urubetFAsBPjd:ullknqrojFp

UXJXGWq_UPuxdd?lcwve\AjLtss:fU KbiGgoHNew&gyf
e6pbvjDsaRIzd>nmubKeOhtmtxm+iqaoAeuvoOyww*uz
e5pbuBwluESex@yFfu?etljGAex&klujksygJsur	

X1TCNN6K UOy{!lAsbvmwgcEIth,fzbrmnFc

UXJXGWqIzsush!hK?
e9igpexypFtyl^frjtuyrApsFfw:fnfvynPAaNMex>u
e6fctxrvvKtwi$uGovojFAtsBfh!sAtvbpAueESef@ztff?
eMtbjtOgJswfq^fuovqeLobMtii|kDubrqsjfha]
eUobdwAlgmtmi!rqebojrApsNmi!mqovnjrkvDy	
e9iqblsCfsGjd'xqtjbfJybRtfr%fqovgwLhjGGjr: 
eOpoonLAjGAeq^fGovqeEFauLtx&kD"ubqGCfi
e9iqbqwkaFyem+yFbpvqQgvGNtd&oEaecAwa
e6igtjrzuKCutNjlikoxwsgmtfr%ftftgeMwpGtmm|fmso
e6igbqAvoxMxd&gpavqwFgtHGjd'rqtjbfOhzm
e9ikemrhmEtyl*ylxjkqwgitxef-kp<bcsvgoHQel^frbkpywk
eMofbhJpfwnem+frbkpyAuhmtzt=tlSqufDpowo
eNskgklgJsLjg=Bqs&fezpnmtgs;tpawrezptsQty+jb
eMof?esmuxLew=sqauofDsaLJfg^ lcgksygtMLtr"fmubjjsyum
eTfbujFAaFyel*ztft?eKAstHli/fmtbKest.
e6pbvjDsaMBnw!yFptA	rAitNeC=AlnkimLgfQwzw^
eTjubgJvlxHet/uyjug	rhowtys!muwgbyzptsHft)oz
ePzgfeAuaACxd#rApfbzFApsNmi!ytfrjjJkaRIzx&
e6icvezlaBHew[uDubftLoavuqp!nutbTtKhmBHi	

e}SQUF4POWtxA=uzt|

IQMKCd#ozmtms>fzpy?eYhoRGjh^'ltygjLgHtHDq^jq@

UXJXGWqTbGSeA*rxauytGuaPBjr!ztfAbiGgmHIpd=tlcnqtvb

IQMKCd`ofKyem|fyptgeAuaBN d{uGtkpeYhoRGjh^'

UXJXGWqSpHE	d&klsgetNlsLo

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaKbBwyfsuyd&uyf}
