materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, what might those be?  They would return to these questions the
following afternoon.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * Core of Workshop concerns preparation and production of
materials * Special challenge in conversion of textual materials *
Quality versus quantity * Do the several groups represented share common
interests? *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
emphasized that he would attempt to represent the people who perform some
of the work of converting or preparing  materials and that the core of
the Workshop had to do with preparation and production.  FLEISCHHAUER
then drew a distinction between the long term, when many things would be
available and connected in the ways that GIFFORD described, and the short
term, in which AM not only has wrestled with the issue of what is the
best course to pursue but also has faced a variety of technical
challenges.

FLEISCHHAUER remarked AM's endeavors to deal with a wide range of library
formats, such as motion picture collections, sound-recording collections,
and pictorial collections of various sorts, especially collections of
photographs.  In the course of these efforts, AM kept coming back to
textual materials--manuscripts or rare printed matter, bound materials,
etc.  Text posed the greatest conversion challenge of all.  Thus, the
genesis of the Workshop, which reflects the problems faced by AM.  These
problems include physical problems.  For example, those in the library
and archive business deal with collections made up of fragile and rare
manuscript items, bound materials, especially the notoriously brittle
bound materials of the late nineteenth century.  These are precious
cultural artifacts, however, as well as interesting sources of
information, and LC desires to retain and conserve them.  AM needs to
handle things without damaging them.  Guillotining a book to run it
through a sheet feeder must be avoided at all costs.

Beyond physical problems, issues pertaining to quality arose.  For
example, the desire to provide users with a searchable text is affected
by the question of acceptable level of accuracy.  One hundred percent
accuracy is tremendously expensive.  On the other hand, the output of
optical character recognition (OCR) can be tremendously inaccurate.
Although AM has attempted to find a middle ground, uncertainty persists
as to whether or not it has discovered the right solution.

Questions of quality arose concerning images as well.  FLEISCHHAUER
contrasted the extremely high level of quality of the digital images in
the Cornell Xerox Project with AM's efforts to provide a browse-quality
or access-quality image, as opposed to an archival or preservation image.
FLEISCHHAUER therefore welcomed the opportunity to compare notes.

FLEISCHHAUER observed in passing that conversations he had had about
networks have begun to signal that for various forms of media a
determination may be made that there is a browse-quality item, or a
distribution-and-access-quality item that may coexist in some systems
with a higher quality archival item that would be inconvenient to send
through the network because of its size.  FLEISCHHAUER referred, of
course, to images more than to searchable text.

As AM considered those questions, several conceptual issues arose:  ought
AM occasionally to reproduce materials entirely through an image set, at
other times, entirely through a text set, and in some cases, a mix?
There probably would be times when the historical authenticity of an
artifact would require that its image be used.  An image might be
desirable as a recourse for users if one could not provide 100-percent
accurate text.  Again, AM wondered, as a practical matter, if a
distinction could be drawn between rare printed matter that might exist
in multiple collections--that is, in ten or fifteen libraries.  In such
cases, the need for perfect reproduction would be less than for unique
items.  Implicit in his remarks, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, was the admission
that AM has been tilting strongly towards quantity and drawing back a
little from perfect quality.  That is, it seemed to AM that society would
be better served if more things were distributed by LC--even if they were
not quite perfect--than if fewer things, perfectly represented, were
distributed.  This was stated as a proposition to be tested, with
responses to be gathered from users.

In thinking about issues related to reproduction of materials and seeing
other people engaged in parallel activities, AM deemed it useful to
convene a conference.  Hence, the Workshop.  FLEISCHHAUER thereupon
surveyed the several groups represented:  1) the world of images (image
users and image makers); 2) the world of text and scholarship and, within
this group, those concerned with language--FLEISCHHAUER confessed to finding
delightful irony in the fact that some of the most advanced thinkers on
computerized texts are those dealing with ancient Greek and Roman materials;
3) the network world; and 4) the general world of library science, which
includes people interested in preservation and cataloging.

FLEISCHHAUER concluded his remarks with special thanks to the David and
Lucile Packard Foundation for its support of the meeting, the American
Memory group, the Office for Scholarly Programs, the National
Demonstration Lab, and the Office of Special Events.  He expressed the
hope that David Woodley Packard might be able to attend, noting that
Packard's work and the work of the foundation had sponsored a number of
projects in the text area.

                                 ******

SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electrotr*i
zqyvueOpuACsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!hDpcfjJguKysh|fIjvjnFgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mK
gzebuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!=lFxcqMhuBIsd=llujgeHypLJjg:ylgqteLofsOxi!ur
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWwsbMCtr|nuqbqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsNtd[xAdguxwzaHz
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosCsd&AybpkyAltsLjw^gDdjb+rUfPtjB$nmoigexvsFuyw
iDfcvjvgcRtxg&uxbtue?gQKIoi$zEakpnLpbMyid:uljpewwhtxtxg&uxbtnDrhdvyxw!zA
iAoxgwLlesNjB:f;aVtjFkaMIBe/jlncmnFnaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEy
ztsqwlzgsxMje/itacpirleNwfx*uzapgyOvsDMe_!ItbpijKgutEnr"fBmcejrpo
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosurs+mliwofFpuByxd|itpncwKg(s8jx>uDl+ojvpbMyi
yoiqnfJziBJex/gzthqwEpoztyv@juukqsssaLwms-gDmAbuJhdMChi|f;aMgD
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaMLjr%ylbhhjuAjGAex&kldqpiMjusIkd|itpncwDF
iAnowsAjbMCtr!uHftbyzlaGyCx!jqdcfjr[a!Bjd:xqofbyGDbKxei+j\vugwrjpFJzx*ts
=lUjgeLyfGxex=CmsfblJlbMywd$uzogeyACjMSe_!KrggeyKgpytyl^yqavtjFkts{eO^E
zDbpukGyntNns+ylucmnFnaIFfg^f;aUwrEhsRttj!vDjpenHhmsuwk;sqovue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.

GHscbR1JIX6XSi lBtemACbEtWi|kmsejesuesYAe-AmukqsrZutzk{!TmukqsssaTLhl*Bqt
gzebTjuvswMeE%suokuyJhuBIsdRTMSC_	rhszOjh!ztbvbjKAbuFnw&ozhbymGgxBFqd;yq
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEacpirDitNex&kKaykqDgvLyex&kyahqwrpoOIqz^ylbbetFzjwywe:oAo
uradqyzgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mKacpirzdAIqe/ytjrbyJlowM d!Ztju
iAoukiwybMCtr!ozdnwiwzaLyAi/gxagnjEloMMev^rmugfeLvaLwms-gDtjkurhow
zqdjptDvhRiedv]lujgeClzsNwi+jEakpeAugHLre:oAobvjuooHFtk,fFicvesyfsGtw:
xqmgxfFAaMIew$nAmctxzpqit7=!ztfbmjQguKysh|fuobvmwgvLyes'fovttjFAmR
gHbknftsfsNjg&tAmqiDrizsMhl=rmsubnFguAyer=tEdkgsLpgBweg=syvpkyQ}atHidx]
ztfbtjDhuBIsw&oBadgyOlfGtyl^yqavytrCfKSeh*yFjpeyrivMtnr:kDsgnfLlesNwi+jE?
ZtfbksNltMGjr:fuobwsvlsLNfr%ozhbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgcxCsk!smegbgQ
ozgqtrsAjHHet/uHjfgwKaaMyhl+uxpikxLz.sush!vGcnkhrwpEChC!jqwgntHlsLnee|
CqmnbfKgcRtxg&uxbtueLofFMjp<kE.bujwttsNtd#klqgtAszjOyee+jlhtqBAuhm
SUDJGQ~VOswtr:kzegf rgTAyeh/kIaqpeuvmEugs/gFjxgeOvsDtBm:nlKghkrYpMBjr#kDh
uzavjjrzdAIqe/rKawujrvgsNjg&tAmqiDm

SUDJGQ~VOsMty"nFavqeHsbvyex&klqjgsGtfGIsd=llfnghLypGChd:kJuubBAAiBHex&k
iAovgCLgpytgv=gpftbyJlowMeA*ztjpbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!gzebuhzvmtLqC
iAnowsAjbMCtr8flTjgesyhNyid:nmubgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrhsxttj!sAtvbzKlaMI
xqtgcwuofKMex=fFigbjPAfGNex&gFavjjryfLyfv$nqsu&eOvsDCsk!iAovgCLg)Boj	7
ztfkteJlmxPfr:fnjdnnGnstJmm$fEpwthwz.swtp-ksjcnexlfwvfg) lbpcqQAjvtys=rE.
tAugu	rkstzyw7fque}[lgbEIsk!CuujbyzljKtkm^rp"ubuJpntLDd@tpaughGuetLD
yAvtejKaatFxs!oEacehwztBvqi!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAsobfFkavusd#kljpvjyybMyid*t
Cmzubyzhusuwi!AzjswjrApsNmi!uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpv 

KHbnwfLppGttj!ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbvmwgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbksusvwyxd:CA
kxfogsLz;st6=!gzagzfEpotNns+fAgbvmwgxtSxd*tlxjkhzgsxMje/itftueuBsKysx-E
gDfbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNxd@rAoibBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.sush!8>
gzacpfDFtBMes'fwfAbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!zDfpfxrAitNee/klbhhjuAjGAex&k
rAoi+ywynswtr%AoubqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uz?bbR1JIX6XSifxjokywkaAyw
jutewxKppGttj!ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnuguxRyw!zAavjjrwstwym$kEaqhezBntHnw:y
gzebptLlesNme:fFigbxupfGNnj*ildqorMujMSeA@ylpwvxAkfsNmi!vmogn)KgpOywz*kI?

SUDJGQ~VOsyCe_ozffbyzlaGuyy/klphbyzlavOwv^tFatgqsAjHHxl*vlphbjDldMLtr*i
zqyvueAuaIuwx*iGmct	rhowtjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbksrnfGywe- luqbBzhusMmi
smjpvfAufwtBi/kfaguxwuuBuqp, lgkxjrwsHwjw|kEaqheKjiHFfv-EldqorMujvuym=t
ozajwrsujMCjw!xqtgcwuo?stWi|kmsejjJza" em%kzukhDrzpNLhi| l3_bhGtnNHng@zq
CuujbyzljKths-rqbiwjKaa* em+zqsrtjLgbGxee+gxzBgevhutne8SfpjuujEpotNj
ztfkteJltxuwg&frjpfnFntmtfr%f%-brwwwbKyeg;xDjewqsguHtnr|zDveveLofsHjB:
mqogtfLppGttj!yoiqnfJzatHid|zGegpyKbas@mm|fqyconFhuBIsd>uGmfbuJveNwjd@
ixfctjJgvGxjv|zmofksygpytyl^fEzpgwyFatGtr"fFigujrmjOyet/uofuujKguAuy
lGfnueLofsNjr%kzdAbtxguAyey|klphbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMej=xlppgeHypvyxw!zA
yFjowqsAfsCyw!AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?

LAsbvmwggBLxx!vDpegxKgpytxg&uxbtnDrjpFGzr*imukqslguAyem%kzukhnuhuBIsd=l
yAvtejKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbquHvsMOsm:EltejtDhsLtss>fqolqDrAp
yGqrnjEloMtyv@juukqsssaPIwhTur_oqzLoaLyfv$nqtbhtJgtHOwg^ylboqsyguAynv
iAmngfyBfLtBm:nlogyexvsFMes'fqmgeyJvoBwew^gDdjksybas!t{!lAsbgCstqEy	
oztvgfvgpytme<ozhbvtrCjLCyd:nqankgJhsRnev^yqbtemwytsuwi!gnmgbyGgfQJqs/k
jqtetnHAjHHxd=lliqniAuhLtnr!ztfkteGmgBwjw8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fugbvmwpssIBr
oztvkyMAjHHx(!nAmfksyzaILtz^fuouwkxpdBysx7fEdjqqsytswfr!godguxrtpKyex&gz
8*~bofBvssUri/oobpbqAistLDd$gFbnqlMltsIAi/fUovgwFlumtnr$rGekplrAix
AzjxgwKpuByxd=llDcnnxvsGCf{!Sudjklsu.s0jr+yKmxcsAh.sush!3uteqsKpon
Jusgeyrhdvyxw!zAavjjrijuFns"xmqjkhrkbMuge|kEaqhkwytsCsx^rxfevzss
kyqqyjJtfGNex=fEdjqqsytsvDd[xqtgpyAuhsueg=sBsgjjFzjOyeq^gztbqkrisHQxm+m
ztsqwlzgmBvwe/oqtbhwGtaMBjm/ftpogxrhowttj'oofubfLguAynv!iAoxgsAlovy 

Ztfbujuvowtuv=iqtubtxgdHGry+oobvktFgjGPtp<kEaeqrEBoBwfx*uzacotFn
yoiqnfJz?stGi,uzebvmwgnHMyd$uynqpeEluAIiw!uraeqrEBoBwfx*uz.buhzvmtLxd@xq
AEjpieW|ntCqd@tpacbAsyjxNDd=llogyewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uztbhtJtbMM
jqskxjvggKIrd*zlgqtexBsMBjv!gobfgrAjaBHyi/itbpijmgaXare*rlfzemsuhxMee/k
mDpyksygbMtfr!gEuqpnKojGAev@zq.btjHvsMyip,f!6brjJjfGNee!sAovj rgUAyD
iGstgsLszswtr|zuuwvjrhqILtB*smugnDrobEzex&klutckxpdsIsd/kEfcthzgbGx
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlu}erTpKytz^xfavjjrnmHvfp!yBsgcirvgsY]q@oxajcxrifxHew=
xmqkfeLobMtnx!oEapqBrwpLMnf-klgqteStfKChe+fEdjqqsytsNtd;yqakveLv
iAnowsAjbMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw!ozaentKlaMIe5y$lpvjjJgdHOsx/oqt}

UFigteFlxsyCg&gzhgbkGyntNxd$xqbvgirizsMhl=rmsubfFkaHJjv@zuoibtFgJGNjv+kF
ozdnwiwgnHLjd:nmob9#=gdHHki/kzdgu	rDjMBee#uGub0#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmwzfsxjz=zq
