
9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
commowsAjbMCtr!xqqtgxwuuLtfd<omcngeAueBwfx=xlphbyzlaILtw[kouubkGy
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE?

ZtfbfnKjvLMns+fAgbezJyfGNet/goukejrptsvfp@toffbgQgbGtfr@rKtkueGmaDyD
zDfpfxrposNmi!yoiqnfJszsOxi!urakpkGyntNns+fFfejsGspzS d!ZtfugeAudEOii!ztf
zDfpfxrApPuwh!kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibfFkavIsr^iFjxkyQaaPBng&fBsqxnvlat
lDbogBGylsztv!lAsgefKAjGAex&klvugeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLlyMMex&xAvijeLojL
sumngsFpvFoedonqartjKloMuym=tldqphDBexMeA*ztacbxMtntLDd=llujgeOhzLtnr
CtjejeLofsHtr|iufpvnxpdsMhl=rmsnAeuvnFOsm:EldcpetlaxRui$zqebvtrBtx
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE.bcsvguAyem_vxjecyAvoLttj!ztbvbzKlayIwd*trptofLppG
vDpxkiwytn

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObberLmxwyv=tudbCwuojOyxd'uDavjjrWvuFng2
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabber2txttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EljpbUMimBwee+j
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberZdAItp!RuctcwAlt

ZtjuboGpoMtim|iGtuktFggHwzw^ylppbsGutvBtp@xxzbcuHsjvuym=tEaqhewsfvNws+oo
ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bxHldBzng@rxzbcivyfLMnr"fGtgbtxguAyeP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[rwsHAwe_fuobceKtbEFer;snftbtxgqNvqm$fmofbxuopHF
ructcwAltsNmv=AsiqwyrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLoed?SldqpxAzuLttj!yqmgeywka5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLMet/oybtAesydACAe-fybvgwAhmLnew:uDffbtFgpINng@rlngfns
[OE+TT5,wBxjs%oEd_?esuesJwi|kzugfeOpuAtqm:zxfbqwrupsyim:ozh}be5hoR
iAmnghLppGMee/klbeetEwbGCjh!hKagnjuAsHHng!ozutqiMjuBIsw!gzebwxwy"Ltly*jqt
urggtnFnauuho"xAvpfeAugHLre:oAobcsvgiBMys/oobnbhGuuxRy	!fOpnnjuAjHHx
xqqtgxwuusuez@xufvAeGmayIwq@zEakphDBeBHld[nAuqiwswiLnek/gBikeesyuLn
sAukqsrwjvNzv^yfatghGyexxew=Aze?brMzjvnef/umeukiwzatHid_gzvuewAwuLn
hApmu	rhowtue_vtmgvxm

Oza3~@'aaMBjdgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtubgwnbGtfd+gFjqpBAkfsyAe-AmukqsrvgsURd*t
jughgwwuusNDt^ylphbnFzuBNzx*uzt}be`ltMtxm:kEakphDBextuy#rudbnntybKCjw7
kxfogsLhsRtfr%fEfeqsvhsRtxg&uAmbnntybKCjw7fopnnjylatHid;tuwgtxAAz
ructcwAltmtxx@zqankgJhsByx{!gzebuuwjjtFep*hDbtkjKbas!zw@tlWGEH1HatHi
PAbppjrMSXYREifIjnnevptvOxw!ztfkteGitxLAe:oAoubtFguAyey|klphbF5gcRtyl^
tAouemGsbKFDd$uynwpnLF.sOxm+mlfxkiwudxtlp^gzffbkJvnsNmm|fAoiqnFn
kHbnwfLppGtjj'uDu}

2QDEKFrDjEFeg=syfpveGuaMBjd=BqscnqrnptFxd=llujgewCbEOfx*uzarttBldMnee+j
ztfbvDHltsIkd[AnmkeesuesMhl=uxankgJhsByxd*tomwfjvgjGtyl*yltvwiQbas2jv
iAnogsLzaHHer=tEdjqqsymRtzw^fAgbCRrDjEFej=iGtbqsrAixtuy#rudbnntybKSee|fm
iGmvwwssatHid$uynwpnLFaBHxx*zGukqslgpyNjr!hDjfinFnaMBjd"gBadgyOlfGtks/smm
gzebksxvsFuqd^jGdcvnGu?stKV KYBPbBAsmsxnw$AEtbvmwgvLyes'fMNbksrzdAItp
ructcwAltnteY|klcAbxLBexHyw!gzebvjsjixLxd&gEatgAwhmxxew=sqadttsk
wGfuvnGutsugs;zlujgeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpdsLjw=ADdgu	rhtsQjp-fmtbfjxpoBNj
hqoghnLzazunr^jlcAbyzla.Htr|itpncwm+as@tt*iEaykqDgjGwqy%klujgeHypuFjq!ur
mDburnFnavIsx^tFacpirjpGNjB:fuobcsrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zfavjjrzuNGgp*ts
hxpemxrjsxuyi%fnzb*swD&sNjg&tAmqinwz.sush!ztfbwsAxvxtxo*rxtbcsvgjGNjv^yFt
gIbmgswkaMBws;mtawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhryfLIzv$kE?

YQTUKT6gJ2

KxmkbR%SP7UXd!flabbergastYl^f2ftujMza9Ltn^iF;bbNFAfKuhx*BqaUqzJjfLtfr%
flabbergasted!flabbergastXx;jufubnFgDEuxw*immbIwwldx

ZtfbRjJzfNMeT/uvfeve}`-sBfw!pGtvbwwsftMjh!VqsugzKg2n]	d:nqahkwKAaIOgp*ixz
gHbknftsfsPjv|oAobqkrpuLtmC[kDugzyMhmsxfx@hmtgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbrsAfKCfp|fAo
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq?bbUwytxOxd*ylegunyufwtys!hqawujvgcRtfd>opfbczvpfGwj{
iAnrtnKlesIkd/kmegtxrhusNmi!yFvfgsLgbGxew$nAmcteDlwxFx	!fMtbuzuo.sCyd_AEu
hqacdqwguHtqs$gFfbksxvsFuym=tlvuksygeBzki/kzubuyJhuxAni| lbpfeAAaFOxx
iAovcnFgfGIzk&fpfvcnDguHtxi/Bqavjjrkjyzjv^tFapgjvzaHzem:ylvugwKbas3s
gpekvnGu.sCyd_AEubdjrkfECAi/kpauqeLobMtnx!oEachkGyetvqi!zAakvxrAbKAjx
gGekgsul?st;X&kEfbrwGimxGxd@tpavjjrzpEOym=tEaygeuopLyee/kleguhJpcxxem+
SKmqpfKaa.UsddtFfthfulaMIeG-gEtkefDgHKyjo!IuwknnRhuBIs{OfVBUKXr~4h*	
Smseje'$0&o<

OzaqtiwyaMIee$nufxgeAAtsIgn^iFjxg	rAixtuv=pqdvbxLhgytii$opffbyGgntEjd@
iAouenGBtsMjt@xmukqsrifMQji+fEfnghLpoztfr%foppxjJAjGAex^DFvcn	rkbMuge|kf
gzebkrsnfsxfx@fAobvmwgpGyel@tp.bcsvgqNNym+mljvbnFApsueh^ruwgtDrzzLNjq!uz
ztfbqyzlsnteX&gFaycDlgjMtnw!vAtukgDlaMIeg/kmugbyzlaxFjg:xAokeevhut
CuujqzLguACso*tsacdtMAaMBjd/kEutkhLppGMes'fFigbiwsjOywC!yKtvgrmga$yel@Bq
smegbfrnsxuyd^lrptveLvavBts|kltAuywt_BHii[kzegpyrmpKGfx|frptbtMyawuye7
gzebvtrwvMtfw!sGdjbyzvvzByd@tpayqwCgbLtus|yucngeAuuHtxx/AouwtnFnaBNew=
ztbvbyzlaMLfr|rmukqsrmsHGet@vqsbvtrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtaPCqp!kzicphwguAyez@rGf
uravjjrkbMu dXGlekuhMztBIsd=llujgxwgtHFzx*uztbcxrvgsNBs!EqbtuesnpsCxd*t
KxmkbRQspGux{!MDfiqwQgDKusi7fWfppjLoa6Iwv^rx.bcsvgEntSi^rlTokyzaa.@mi
VqsugzKgQKIoi$zaabFfLhaBHex&klFnghLypGChd?mq.*bnFgBvwjw|ozhbCsLprNCyC2
ZtfbEtEwvMywm.gFjqpeGmaVFfw|oobnbIsAbuuxi| lK}bXGspFIsd@tpaV}e#vsMBjr
[qeu}[lga@Hnz^xEjvAeGmaTLnD=tmaRtjKz.sCsd[xqtu}<

SGdjbtxguAyeA=xwaqpe8lsLyzw!oEahqhMzfwttr!iAmnghLpoztfr%foppxjJAjGAex&k
jmucbtFgxAChl!ztfbrwGqfvNem|fnbugimgaTNex&kltcojrAjFy	d*zljubswjfLMfv,fFp
vDpxkiwgnxusw!uracehwztsNtd:nqakpkGyntNns+ ljpbtJkfKtys!smlgbnLgvLugp^ 
gzebvmwtaMIem+BqtvklsAfsBtA!oFakueMzfwoed?ylxgbqwhsGtrs/klbdqzLgxAuy
yFvfgsLzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd%orggtjFAauuho"xAvpfxrkpsQnx&f2ftujMz.sQjd$gz
gpkwuyrvvKtie:gldqnqwjuBIs{!gzebcqKvaFIim'ElujgeKFtMyrd:ulbeetEtpwuyi
ztfo}erPoswwi@zuoibfrkfECAi/EltAuywtayIwd"kzftcqrBtxneA^ftbxgeLyjxxex=
gHpkfexhwHLnr"fmoAbtFlaMSui!urawujrizsuqp=CuoibrMsuBJqi!lAsoueGmatwhi|y
zAacpirubOCle:oAobvmJvvzBex&kltAuywt?

ZtfbyfQguxRyd*ylicpiDlesyCi_vxjhkjKgtHGjd=llujgxwgqKCsg*vxfu}erHmEtyi\z
ozaRgwKlvLtnw!zmhigirBtBHldnMYM?bkGsmHQnr"fFigblMpexFnr^ylphbyzla!yCx
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2  d!ZtjubrsylNJem|fGtgfeLvaBHii\fFigbywEumtfr%
vDpegxKgjMtxs!ztbvbnLgdtHef^funrqwLlesCsx=fTzrgwUhswoediulTIOQrtbKEzt
xqncksKgjGtyl^fFfzveLobMtwi@itfubyzlaNMjv7fnfeczKlavOwv^tFmAbnLgxHOqh!hq
zApbgCHloLCAi!zAaetjsAfsuew,yFfobyzhusuhx|fAobUL5SaBHev^gxavkrwb
NAxgxjJaaMBjd/ksvncwAAzsJws<opffbgQgTZ7Qd*ylfuujFAjtFej=xlwgtnxFjGAex&k
iAovgsLgpytyl^fFfzvxlgbGxek/kmunAeKwfxxxd@rxavjjrwsHwjw|ozhbrjJmpKGjh!uz
ztfo}er1ixtke$zlujcyrAixtyi\zEagznKAaBHeWbSXagpxMyfLtyl@zlujgDrDjEFef^
xqmcvnNlmRtje|EluqbuGyusNtd%orggtjFAaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xq.bcsvgtHtBm-r
uGuncxLguAyeg;xDfpvevlmBPjv,fBmcvkGynnteJ*tmmnA	rAixtXKhRlnctpMw
ozdqtuGybMyxd^DutvksygdtHtr*immbtjxlsxHhi!yKtvgrKg)vBft:kD.bxjJzfmtqm+kf
kFd}_.rpowyCm+mlbpfeFhwBAfx*uzactjribLyid=tlujgxwggxuyy/kE?bbYzptsysw;xqt
ztbvbyzlaLuri!imoqpnuhmsLjj^xqoegeOpmEtfp>gKtbtjKvmOyex=fFigbxstfsJtm+z
CuujksrhaMyCx7fmofbyzhusuqp!BqsuktFzaHzes;xlugzyKaaKyle/jxfuueGmawyqm<kDz
vxbvhtJta{yAi+fBbrgwrwsBHys;zE-bynDsayOsg:oAobvmwgttGjd>gK?

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeLvpEMej=xlvugwKaaMBjd:kJubkxrwsHwjw|kpadAes
sAsrjtDvhBwfp!gzbnAEwy.sush!ztfbtjKBmMMee/kltvqwwkaBHee!jmucdfKl?
ZAhgvmwyaPCyl!ztfbksvlymtyl^fSsggp	LozFnw&fXfzkhGu.sush!ztfbksvlysIkd@rx
ztfbGsysjLBeA=xptbksrAixtii'ozjvktFzaHzex&klmgznuvomtyl^fyptrmGspzChe-
gzbnAxwzavIrt/oEfbceKlusIkd-ozhwkxLpdsNts-ylujcyrhmEIBd;yqsubtxgbEF
rqwgnxrApsQtv)fIjvjeLofsNjB:AmmbksxvsFuym=tfacpirApsuhg=sBmkumrkjyzjv^tF
zmtmu rgGHLei\gyqng	rzuNxjr:ylxjqeJlbwtss!MDfgmeEhzsyCt-uDfbceuvovyux!gE
oFacruwhsLtnr!MDfgmeLlyMMef,fGtkplrAixtJr"rutj+LJlfDtnr%kJ.bcsvguAys
rApmksygvItBs/qEakpeLofsNjB:ylbpfeLybGMqe:oAou?eGyaLwms-gDtbofQgeH
jquckqwkaFIwt&uxpikhssaLNzh*kEaqheOvswtzw^fnzbwxAuhsNmi!sAsrjtDvhBwfp
gzbnAxwzaHzex&klugzyKbasVjg@AEfbvmwzfsNts-ylxgtjrupMtii|osogfexvssusC!uzf
AEf?byzlaLuri!zApnuesuesNmi!ymngbisAbswfr!hqawujvgcRtgs:nltvwiwuuLtfr%
yoiqnfJz?

T1UGU,
flabb=(/as0jv|kGtbkxribLyid@zlIctAsyes#sm<kDtkvDlgxBNmd$uxmcdtJhuHLxd@z
flabbxwCfKuqd=ztftbzFpwxLxm:oqt}be`ofsJws(koubjfKgcxysd'AzegfeHyjFuwm-E
flabbgQguAyeE+tqodgwy,D9VeT/uvfev	rhtsQjp-fmtbdDrObKPfv%f7okxjJzjMS	
flabbFHwmxtHs_vGugt	rhowttx&kDt}be1AaBMet;hxjujjvgcRt4e-klVpkAwytBND
flabbUJltLoedkkDtgwxryvGMes+fYbeksLvtAths_vGugtxlgvGxjv!ztfbJDHlsVuwh
flabbuJvhKur	

KDjebHSSB5#HE

ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElfodfJrfwtqe|zlzgcwrvosNBs!jutvksuAaRyyd/kxbvgirmvEF]x^DF
nGncpnLpfLtie:gnbugeHypCyhx|a

ZtfbGsysjLBeT=kFsAbKMsm @jB:fPbvcgszfsush!ztfbRfLypEIlm@fXbvkssgEtNff@yq
xqqtgxwuusHjA!gBqtqfuofLtys!ruoiwnKAjvtwi|kmsejeJltHOwg^ygabVmwgtBTjd@tp
iAnrnjPpuRttj!ztfbrwGqfvNxd[xqtgpyrwsHvqi_ylgqtewsfvNws+ooarwgDptAyww7
hGubuzJtpNHye#rqaqpjKgjytyl^ElsgofAuatvwi@yFaqheLofsFfx^yFarqxKpcBFnx*kE
ozafcysgdtJyy/klbpfeJluKCjz@rltqhyOhsxtyi$nzjswjKb

ZtfbkxKBfLtBl*itatgvMpsxxee%jDfuueHyjHLex=fFigbhGtnxHhi_kzubqkrAix
vDplghLzaPywi!rqhkqsg

flabb6mgasYim:uDjcneKlmxwym=tl)qtewEdEOxm=t>aqheEhuxLne-yljpbjsji
flabbergasxfx@hmtg

flabb7mgasXjg*juoibBzluAywd=xloqveLvaBHhs/vAscvjrhaGIwq@zuwgbjFjpwCsk
flabbergasMyv;iFvtgeAuuHtyl^fpbvcgszfLp
flabbergasted!fM?bbNxgpGyem|fEfnghLlemtxl=Axebkyrifs!LQgb
flabbergasted!fN?bbNxgTZ7Q{!ztfpbyzla!YN 

flabb8mgasXjp*BqsbcxrJE `TQ7fybipjLpdsNft^ lptbgGAio

flabb9mgasWfr!uzfbrwGkvvyev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqacfAsudxxei+uGhjbkGyaMBj
flabbergasJtw:jAdvqwssaECsk;oEu?bDwAatwhi|yucngewupNAmd'uDawpfLAfGxjh
flabbergasAjr^xmmbwxwcas!ms;rpaqpjrAsRp

flabb0mgas`jd'gusbcsvgmBvjv@rlogvBGylBHld[uxjekjKaaPBfx!gDfbvmwgsBMpw!zA
flabbergasusd^rqdvttFpdsJzf-oEigta

flabb~mgas2tA!jAfubyzlaxGjv"kzdgbtxgotNns+gxacpirpoMywr@zuppcqrleNwfx*uz
flabbergasHjx>uDlubfxmfvNex&klvugesuesPne#oxjvAeGmaKyxi@xoibrwGqfvNx
flabbergasLju;oDjpiezphAtnr<kEuogsLcasXtd:nqapgBrLvKIui@tlDqorMujMS
flabbergasxnv^iFjxgxrjpGwjv+ozhbffLhctMjd[xAugeyAvosHjg^yEjvcywguPI
flabbergasxnw:ozdvbuMimBMmm+mlqtqowjuLnes+klgqte6vsMBeE_kDjecesuesIsi!lAs
flabbergasIAi/yqbu{

LDpobswDaGIym=tEaqhe,zdAIqe/rKahcnJgvLy-d:ulujgexBuNLjd=llprvnuhmsGjh*gf
BusvwfDszsyAi/EljuuzwgsxFfx^jluqbjDldMLtr*ilqwdqAziBHld>gEackwwk?stYl^
xqtwnyrptsNBs!vDplghLzaPBng&ftbxgetlfGths+yFsweywkaMIet/uHjfgeLofsKze-oFz
xqtgcwuoaKyxs;xofubBAAisNmi!lqxguyrlovOrf/gzdgueLvaNMjd#ElugchzlsLtfr%
vDjxcywgtvBtp@xE?

JAsqvmQgU$9MMb

OzaurwAuhs&@`CfFigbjvpuHLxd=llujgeHhqxLxd=llHgqwyla$uxl*tsuqp	rQpAH
Gpbou	r1iHGfw!PqghgwKvomtOe_kEaOciAzpGnee+jlCgpostjGtKv@twmkpeOlsx
gBqtqfuofwtgC!ixbuunuzaLwms-gDaFcAAka9uho@xpaqpetlitFkd=llujge8hdDuwh
NGncpnLpfLtKs;tpbvktFgxBNmd@fBsqrtKhmsNtd[xAewejrhaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkd:nq
iAnrnjLlaIuui/ylphbjsjisIkd:nqaHqzFkjGAeJ@ztftu rgUACxd^rqdvttFpdsyim:oAo
CumnbxMwqEyri+zlujgeHBcECxl^jlwqnzEltmtre)ozhbvmwgeHwzq^tFtbynvlmR
gHbknftsfsNtd|zGegpyKgbGxev^yqbtemwytsuyd/kmtqpftsfswtw:alaYgewzuBGfx^
ztbvbtMyaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkdrgEikplLvo,MeT@vqsubBAsmsvjd|AntvcsLpbEFD
iAnrnjLlesQnx&ozavjjrufQNex>ulzgcwKgbGxev^gpzbhtJgqNvqm$gFjqp rgXBNmm+
ztfbpjPAaMysd,kmsubtJgtHnew*sumcteUK_~9Rd^juukqsKgpytyl^fRscppDpomtFh@sE.
PqghgwKvomtfr%fYbfkxGuaIuui/ylbnutrDjEFef^fmwckqsimxoed?zlujge4pcKuwC!ur
IAoitjKz"Ltxi|yuppbtFguxwmr=rAhA?e1gxHOqh!rulgbyGgeBMhy|yloqveGumRtyl^
kJqgtnwudxttj!ztfbYfKojGAys+f2brgwKgjGtuv=jGdkplrAixtHHTX1NbgiAAjHH	d#AF
ztfbkrHhdMtyi$nzpnqlQgitMel@jlppbyzltxtre(uDagfnLvsBuqd[xAkgeyKb
GxsgciQaaPyee/klffkyAuhsIzv!BAmwojKgxBNmd@tlfAgeLvaMBjd_gFftkfDguAuyd>oxm
hqatgfvpmRtfz@oxbdnjrposNmi!IP_TQRrleBNns+alaVjjrjpFJqi:kpagnjuAsHHng
kpjvktFgxBFqd[xAwkfjrpnFysw^fBpuuntpmBNni|frptbyzlaLyfv$nuoibtxgeHwzq^tFt
lAsbksxvsFuym=tljpbfrDbRtsi<kDarqxKpcEyef^lAsg}er1ixtpm+jlphbywjiGChe-
ozoqxfLppGMex&gFactjrjvKLjr:rKacxfAsbuFjd@tpaqpeLofsxwe>ozhbdtsyesQnp-
yAppbwwCpEOym=tuAgbmAzuHLng@rlsgujsydAtfr%fFigbuJveNwym=tlphbmAzuHLng@r
jAdwojFAtnteY+lAsvwssAfES	d_AoibqkrAiBMer^ClugemFvmHADd*yloqvetljGAey|kp
ozavjjrwmtHsm+mltvclwzaHzel*yFptkhssaILtn^iFt?bxAtqESef^imvugeEhoR
nutvqwAhoLtfv^fmxctjrvoESem+fFigbAsnvxMyd>gKaqheAAtsyCm|zqoeg rgBMtqi@yF
zIpbofBvssHjA!nutvqwAjbEtjh*zuoibuJvkxwyw!gDfbetFzjwywm+mlnkewGmjEG
kpjvktFz.sMnq[rKadghsBtxtyl^ElbtgeFvusuBe/klphbyzlaIIxw*humkvnwzaHz
kxfevwGujvtfp:kDocvnNltsush!ztfbciNhoMuli|fAgbvmwgoxQex^itoqntyFaBHex^xyt
urahnjPpcBFnx,fmofbwwzftLhl!vAugpyAhmswtq[gDffbyGgnBwws'oxn}be1uayuhx7
zApbofFFaHzey|fuobjnKApKSee+jlmkvjJhuNLjd@xqauvnDsatNex&kltvclwgpy
yFswilDpoztBm:nlpwte8JtnteX&kDfbcwwgntHDd&oEuqtnuhmsyim:uDjcneHypCyhx|fuo
vDpitjKzaILjw^tFmA?esuesusd^wGbnbsMtcxLes'fxjvgwsyzsJws(kouu}er4iBFjd:nq
zIpbhnwseLtme<kltqojOobMtim'lqsgpyrhqILte$nqtbvtrAfQNze-fqekvnFn.sNmi/k
gDfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibgqwjuKIsm$fFfejsGspzSeg@tlcgbtxgtxLAm$kluqbgGAin

YuoegexlxsIkd:nqagfnLvsLtnr<uxwgfeAuaMBjdauGofksygGtNmi/ylDF+W7Taxxnx*uzt
gDfbvjuooBwfp!kJqgtyKgjGtfr,fEfpujlgJsBtt^fFpbrtAuusIzx!ozaoAevptvOxw*uz
uraqwwrlyIywm^tofbjtOgntHDd=llujgxwgfEyhx/uzjebnFupOuym=tEaecsrifsOxi%
yGdegxKmvEFDd#EltejtDhsLtBl=fmsgbsGCjvyxd*tlujgeOvsExes'fzfybywjiGIqs"Eg
UzfbqkrAixtre(uDaeqsulsGMes'fFigbxHvoLIww!uravjjrtvENnx;jqaqheFlx
yoiqnfJszsyim:oAoubnKguAyep*suugfesBeBysg^fDfcemwkauSex&klqwdqAzixx
BAmwojKbas7tw:fAgbvmwzfsyim:oAoubfJlauynr"fBvdnnKofwtnr!yybnneIBbGNnx*kE
gzebvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&eHyjvyej=xlujgrrwvMMex&kyaqwyrvgsNmi!xqbejeFvusIsp,fAg
ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtuetBusIkd_uEubrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrhowtfp-fnvvbyzlaEuwk^yF
kpvecyAvotFem+yFjvwyAvoLoedcuIfxgwlgmBNyp^fmuvgsLppGtnw!hqjpieypwxHex=
CmzubnFgxAChl!zqdjptDvhRthe+fnzrcxKgdHHAi+zuppcqrwvuFng@zuppbyGgntEj
nutvqwAjbEtfr%fxjvgwsyzsxtg;sqovueEvsxtBm%kxzbcAspmtvqi8

3tbvbfLAstwyi%fGtbotKAaMIex&klDF+W7Taxxnx*uzaqhe`ofs0ft^xEaqheYlpKAj
3mtjksyApGtBe|fFigbksjusNme:fPbxkirWbvEfv%-EackrrDbLtys!smlgbfrjpFJqi:k
kpjvktFgpytfp-fAgbvmwg2*-	@E$leqezEloMMeA^ftbxgeuvmEyhx^jlbxcnDhcEyem+fmo
ozfzrjFzjOyej=xybvbyzhusQty-jlcgbuDhdxxem+fBvdnnugmBvwe/oqt?bxEhmE
iAmnglwz.sush!kHfpbmAnisMhl=uxt}be`ojLtBs;rparttNpextfr!gGekgsulayuw
hqzqpirvvKtuv^yqovb6l%~[ahs[Efa^60rwvuFnw&kpagfnLppGoednozdgbyzlaVX]VjS
kpjvktFgxBFqd$gDsAbsGufsIkd:nqagzuDhotNtv,fmopqysAjHHex&gFacruwhsLtnr!ztf
vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt?bBwgbEMtd'kqmbvmsAaMBjd;yqaqheLofsWI[mUYaykqDgmxuid_gzz
xqtgcwuofKMex=fEfgmeGBusNmi!vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt}

OzacfiAAjHHex=fuhpqwsudxttj!tqxbvjuooBwfp!gpwcphwz.s3el@BqahqzFkaMBfx!zAp
smoAbjvpuHLx[TgzebjnKApKCfr|fmofbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJz_ uwi!xqtkuysuusush
kHfpbmGzuBFjd:ultwilwzuBIsw!ztbvbjDldMLtr*ilugemFvmHADd_gKagpmsudxtyl^oD
CAsm}erPaBHyi+jluqbiAzdNMxd|uyfbqkrAixtfv"AyfpvxrAstxnx*uzbnkxLzatLj
gpwcphAuhsNtd/kEjuveLldAHtp=mK.btfFnjGAej/uyafkxLyvLNes'fFigbxHlfwtBm:n
CtjejeAAavBfr"kEa-yjrhsxtfp/kmeAbBGuexLnr"fIicveAzaHOyd:nqsgbyzhusCx
hquvgwrAitHeG	/4PO_eLvaLOxt*iuppbtxguAyex^itokefDgmtHly@mqawujvguH
jqtetntlaxFjg:xAokeevlwxFtt_kzuu}

Smskce4LC~9S

ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+zlDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bfrqpBHyd<kzuwtjrvgsNmi
GyftkhsuaTMxs$omukqsrmpKtyl^fMexcsulnxHyd=llTekjFjfs	FE?Y>acpirAixtTr-ozf
IAnrwywya5Cgv@xKaEgsLlsmtNr$al)QEQU/.sCxd:nqahkwKAaIyjvTxqwkgBwkaCIzv+gx
zAarttNpextky-rlugzylgutvzp@xlncvjJpbEnee+jlmkpjrpmEOxx/gFjqpxrvosFnr^a
ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobynDsawCxg;yEavjjrnfGyxm|fmofbxLhsMazt!vqskqirvgsNmi
pAvtpfDbas@tt*iEaqhevptvOxw*uzaykqDgjGwqy%klikuyGyjvuqd=BqsxkjOa
jmz+vt	kbRtre+gsfogsLgpytyl^fqekvtJpbEtui^xlsgxnwD.sush!smowuhJpqM
zmhiksygbGxet;hxjecyAvonteE!jqnqpxLybMCtr!uravjjrqpNLse-fmofbnLzayyfx;xqt
CumnbfujpFJfr,fFigbuJltxHye:oAo}

RKopge8LS`9SMpY

IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuAbQAistLD{!IAspgqDgJGztv_gFjqpe`ldAHtp=mufu?esues^jv=D
IAsrqwsAjHH	d>oFibvmwgtNJus/zlphbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbGx
GodguxlgbGxeW;tlNkewGzzLNjq| lJpe lgitPjd#kqobetDsbuIwe:ozhbksrhaILtn^iF
zAavgxLgbsJws:uFzrgeKFtMyrd'uDatghGyeBHld#xuuvnjripHExd@ylekinLhmsCre"kE
gzebrwGkvvCsk7fAobfjEhownel*mt_swfDpuRtfv$nuwcneHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLoedonq
vDplghLghHyxd#kKppfeLobMnel=Cqwgt	rApsCsz^yFjicywgtHGjd=llujgeAztNyx
yGstqzFkjGAew$gzokpllgtMIwm+mfatgyJpfOCsk7fmofbuJvwBxnr"fmdegxKguH
juhkvfDgjFuli|fuobceFluPIwo!kzwkttFtfGN 

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHef^mmobksrQbGOfv,f!0~` rgYxLtB
vDpxkiwkaMBjd{uxmgijrSjuLfv,fMdegxKgbGxeW:uDbige~FtMyrdRIXBUU[rzpyNBe/kf
glqtqyGAzIye0E$\eqvx	wfKanr$nl)frn{gtvusr^xfacpirAixtme/jIbtgeFldxMxe/E
zAauwuHvsMtsi:CAsmbuJpoMCsk!uzavjjrKpvOYi$nlqtksLlssBty|kpakpeUvsGyqpNy
IAnrwyAuhsush!IAnowsAjbMCtr|fOfpvjJg)VWH=8

ZtfbEtJufEFew:grgbwxAuhsNmi!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgcxwfq^fmobksLlhKuqd[gDu
uravjjrkfOyqs[sqovbfFkaMyxx*tsarttultLtks/fqojcsulnxHyw!zAavjjrJMT!X
yAgvyfJlaLSxx^sgabVmwgdHFqe#uDbvkAwgotNzv^fAgbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgjL
xqtwnyAuhsCsd@fEzuvjEguAuyd*yltrghAmjvuqp,fFbkntJlesNtd:nqartjKlsOuym=t
gBqnkhsAjHH 

GlekinLhmsFnf/gDzbqkr8.[]#d<uxvogxr]pKtft[xAykofLlmRt8@E *~`bnEhhxM[d&gE
hqfpbhJlbMyid@tpakueKApKyid=tlbpbtHAjvuqd(AwfdqCrAitNev^yuegueAuaVWH	
ZtfbnntybKSem+ixvfgxrhavIqp^iFjqpeGmaLyqi$zlncvmwtbMChw!sAoqiwswiLtyl@z
vDpxkiwzaFuyl^smukexrmbvOqx,fIjvjesuaHJus/zGokvDrApsOxi!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQbas@mi!xqncksAuhsPtp;sqtbyjJlavBtw^tlgqteLofsFnf/gDzbvtrAfLNex&k
BmskqzKgdtJff*ruukgxrvgsNmi!yobppnFnaLSxx^sg

UzfbrwGqfvNes#pqdvkAwgjLtys!vDpxkiwgvLyww!uravjjrJpKHjp-fxjdtfJFatHid:nq
ructcwQgtMukj!Cuujbyzlatvnp*zKavqeJlrNyxx!lmdukrAsfLttj!juhkvnRlesCre"kE
uDavqeJluKCjz^fFigbfuAvtFei-koutqsAjaBGfk^frptbgJvxLCsk8flBbrwGApMSui
BufyksygxHLpw:gFjqpezhtsvji+fosgcywkauSe2^xAy?bBAAisCst;zljpvtrAixtii|oso
hKacbhGtnBNyi^fAgbEtJufEFep*hDbtkfFzatHid$uyqwvjJgqKIki|yuppcqKbas@mm|
CumnbfDspPtzw!zAagzuwyjFysx!CuujbusAsHHee$iqtubyGguAyem_gsfubyzhusGfo^fGq
ztfbfnyputFep*hDbtA rgUAyez*kIjpieKAbMCtr!vDpxkiwzaLyfv$nfatgyJpfOuq{!gze
[GmvkrsAfES[d[xuovksyggNHhx*uztbynLoaxHme+iqngpyKguHtke$oxjvcyw
tmwkifLppGtyl/uGhjbrMsuBJqi!jAdwojFAtn

IAspgqDgdNLwi+zxzbkxrDpKEnr"fFpbgCLlowtfg$kEtbvtrAixtim"oFbnbqAistLDd:u
xqbfgwKgvLCsk!CAsmuysAjHHxd'xAnbvmwpssIkj*iqt}be`ojLtDi@xljubiwCpMyid:u
ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufMQtv)fDfukiwuusCre"kldqpAwytBIsd@tpafgqACfKS
yqsxgwlgbGxeg-oqovbxGmuPuwi!ztbvbBAsmsMzt[uDubtjskfKMeA&ulvugeSwqEy
SmdkpyGziswtq[AFftu	rPC6tBm+jAxubuDhuyIwq| lbpfe~BosQtv)yFbvktFz?
KCvkrrwuusztv!ztjubiwCfEIuq^tFaycxrwsHPnh^jlcAbXMua6Chv=yKtvgrKgxBNm
yGqrqwLggKIrd:nqaEqrEptLCtr!uzaRtjKlsOuym=tlbpfeSjdxMx	

JGskplrAixtxl=C\bpf]LlmEtxi|yuppbtxguAye1=xwtjqurvosYqi$zDppkhr1fQNx{!g
vDpvqyQwfsPni>fEucvnGuaPCqp!hqafgrGutMLfx^jgabKsrhewCym=tfacbiAzqEuDd=l
uDjiksssaECgv@xKadqtCzaMBfx!nmwgbgwlosxnk*zuAgfeOpmEtgi!gHbknftsfsztv
xqwkgBrDjMBee|yAdkcywkaILnr:kpaequAltsztv!iAnrcwAzpGoedonqahkkLlfGarm+AFf
uHftxnwDaHzex&klqtqowjusQnp-fuoenzvlattxp*jqartjKloMuym=tlujcy
iAouvnLBuxMee!_Fpwt-rvgsNmi!vDfugwNhuBIsd%osjvkEAuhsJws$kEt}

ZtfbhnFhmsHjx>uDl+etFufvNjh!BqsuktFgpytyl^fHjgynFnaLNfx*uzaykqDgqKIAm%k
ructcwQgvLyww!CuujbfFvuAywd_koicpnKtayIwd@iofuunFnaMBjd%osjvcqrsjuLfv, 
gzebynDsatFxs!vDpxkiwguAyeg@vmcknnLFaHzez*kIjpieAtbzyxd%oDfevqQbas@mm|
CumnbsGAaKyvy*xqaurjupbEtxs'zIbtg	rhmMBty"nlbbrtOlsyOqd$uyqwvjJgxBNmd"uAe
mDbrjnuzaPCqp!hqapgjvlen

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHel@ylhgpjJhuxxee!mDfcvevlbEttj
ozugtjKAaBHex&klmkdwsyzswtq_AzjvA rgVGztv:AzbvgqQaaHLet^xtbru
lAsvwssAfES	d:nutbrwGqfvNew^xHfubyGgstCxi!glwcuyruvFvjv!uraqvmwyaBMxy^y
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmawClm:gxavghzupEIlC!lAsbvmwgqKyxi/Bmukqsrhowtzw^fAg
jqugtnGybMCsk!ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bBzpdAtxy#yqrwgsLgqKIoi$zEaykqDgoxyid:u
kJbokswbas7zg&fIptmeJlntCsw8

YQTUKT6gJ23

NAxctirIF`!JV!flabbergasted!flabberUfMQtv)ozhbOzDAjFyim@fPbvcgszfL

3tbvbiGgxxtme<kluqbhGutBxjv!ozadwnDkjGAee+jlekuyJpcNNnr"fpbvcgszfLttj
ButwcqrtbMywm@rEakpesgnNFymTAEftbjFCjKIsq^tF}bbYzptsJwi|kzucvnGuaxRfq*tqt
glwctnwAzsIkd$uzdgtsKguAuyd+kqebvtrifsuih/kEtgfetlgHLjd@fyvnvnEleBu
jmucdfKlavusd#kltgveMwaBHee!tquyqwClesysz*xAoogsLb

OzavjjrwbLNem:ftbubsGAauyjr!lqbukgDlaMIem_vxfogsLgetNff@yqtbqkrCjLOfp
smugtnsstsCsd|nmsgf]MzfKtjr<oDppojFAtsvjg@AEfbqkrAfvBss-usjecqribKLni/yg
KmdjbtxguAyex>ulccunugnHxjp|frptbrMsuBazw^xlnwnyAtfwCfd%gFbdcxwzaAux
vAtgfeAAtsIBr!vDpdnjEbas@mi!gzbnqlrtvENnq^jubbuyGybzyeq=jqmb-wwwsxMjr:kp
hKaRttBldMtFx&kzb&ueHhstFqi-fmocntygbGxeh*muucneFluPIwo|]licueJlrNCwi%fmo
ozdtgiAimRths_vxfzb=suesyCt^tEjxg[rpoyLfw:xGdvwwwbas@mi!koppqrAltsIk
yobngeLobMtre)klnwnyA|vLywd|kFvrueuoftJjv!vqsbwxwyaLywz^jleqbsGAaHJjv@zq
ozacpewuwBLtr_kzubvmsAaKyvy*xqtbceuvnIOyi/fIptmxLhuBIs{!BuegqiAzdsJqe,kD.
gzebvBGgeBMup@Elegxnultsztv!kmdjbzKlsn

ZtfbfnyputFeq;rFjogiAhaLNtv@mqaoqiwsaAuxd/kCvktjvgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsMys/gsf
yBbege}htsGzg&fmtbqswghBAff,zqargwrAiBLyC!yFjnneAtbzyx=8flJpbyzlaIuxx!ztf
iAtvbtxgtNwmd@fxbtijrhnHOsx!urauvtJhhxtxt@iqaociwguACxd_upfnbf
vDpjkgAAjOyeg&uudgbfKgxxFq	!fNvvbuDBozCsk!yFptclwgdHMyw!gDfbhnFhmES
smlkplrAiBMew^iAofbfDAfKHfx*Bqaxkftsfn

OrauvtJhhxtss!rAoigwrwpLyxd|AoibcsrpnIyim_kzu?bBzhusxtd>kloggirAp
iAoukiwyaBHef;oxekplrkjzCye-rKauvtJlesGzp:o\vugwrkbMuge|kEaqheNptNuq
smugtnsstoteX&oEartjKloMuym=tlxknqrlytGnr^fFigbswAxHLpm+mlbpf
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAobetFzuKunr:ylujcyrtvLNef^fAwgthGtfsvjj=xqauwhzgetNff@yqt
imobdjuvnxths_sAornfulatHid;yqgwneLvattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[kAqng 

ZtfbmjQgqKIgp^sljubyzlaOuxx!yuAgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbiGjvFysx| lbpfezvxsNmm|
grggeyKgoHNes+rKauvtJhhxtgy:fFfnghGtnNHng@zuppueLybGMrm|yuppbyAtfn
GzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsr1_"txt^kpakueAtqKuhx*immbhtJggBFjw!ura3brwnbuSyi!uD
rmsigwr]xAChl!oEankpwszsNtd#kltocqDggHLee!sGmvkrwkjttis$Ayfpv[mgaYIw
oztvcsul.syAi+fAobce(!a4vep*tqakveOvvExex@qqavjwwlaFCsy:kEavqeLybGMki/fm
7\ngiftFuxtkm-kgabCsvguAyxi!luhwtjKgbLMzq^fuegcqrjjKwzq|zmoegxlgbGxeh=
tAubvfClaBHys!iAoukiwybMCtr!uFigteMzfKMeg=tFfpfnFnayIwd+kFxqtpribGxBm%zt.
jutmbfujfLMex*sq.bqwrAixtym_kloggiwkayIwd/kypvgevptIFfC8flDwtwwuuswtq_uz
zqmgrmGufsNwe+yyjuunGuaKuyi|fIpwnirifswtq[rqugnDrpnILfg:oobn>exlxsOxi/y
CAvnfetlaPCqp*tsavqeOhjMtyl^ftpwteFldxMxe/EluqbyJhoLGnx!gltkplDlaBGfk^fmu
8$~`bgsBen

ZtjubswjfLMnx@zqtbetEwsxMxm=tfayjnuoaBNxi-llsckxwzattsy_hqsbqkrvuAyw
oEtwgxmga2Hes/jqsbvtrkfvLje|klgknjrzjSyxd|osokhnuhoMFD{!CqaowxLgfFJqs,
rAtuAeuvnILjw|oAobcqyvsBNmq|alaDwyropPtry$nlrwcqAAzswfr!CqachkGyesNt
rAtg{er1psxfx^fFigtjrobLtgi^tlppnDrvoxtxm"tugkefFAaLNzh,fpppgeGm
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffuexvssuet@xFjewqsyaNMjv!mDpwr	rhowtyl*yltvwiQgeBxer=z
rApmbfLgmHMxd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!iAnrtjKzjHH d!UzmAbfxAfKtnh^tFjhAnFn
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffueuhosQjd#ksjpbyGgbwxwi|yltvqwsnfsush!tquyqwCgctHiA*jFi
tqffu 

KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlY+YnFkpPM]f@yqebcuHsjvuym=tEa-uzuoatMeM_gsfswjJF.sNmi
1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujttfx!HqsmgqwFaBGfk^fpbvcgszf	tii_uztvtfLltsNmi
AFjnkyQgpytfd$rufpv]KlsOywd:uBpnqlQaauOyd@rEpbrtAuuLtys!ztfbnnEputNns+fAg
iGstgsLgtHzyA@xqahqwrhawCxx/onvvgirloOCws+sqov}erMpKtjB@sBmg?
gBqnkhsAjHHxd-owfbKrsnfJOjv,fobpbnFjpKJtv@zqaeqrHyfLMns+ lcwveuBsKysx!4
oyqngrwuutNns+yleqbsGAaIywq*zlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaxHid;yqs&u
CAsmuysAjHH d!YGdjbiwjpFJwi|yuppbfLguAyel=yFaeqrHBuxLee-rqwkcywzaLNtv@mq
imqcenLFaILtf-kytbymAsfsxtm+mloqvmAuhsNtd@jpsguxrwsHvqi_ylph
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubgsuePCix&a

3qapgjvguHtjB@suogbyzlaxzki$zEaqpeFluPIwo!ztsqwlz|qNNes'fypxksy
sGmvkrwkjttis$AyfpvxrhsHOsh!uzacbswAxHLp	!f9fbpjwkaMIei\gyjpgeNhsBIzw
zAqqntypfLtyl@zlxknqrofEJey|fmwqkiripMNqi+kolubfJvvGxew^xHftuesue
mmugyfQz?stJB[kDjgphwgxBNmd@vBmkefLppGMew;itacueLofLyev@oEfbuyAsmsvws@jqs
wGfuvnGutntMs>fomqujDFaBMex&klnwnyAtfwCfd%uovogsLguByid:ulujgeKvgMQfv^
lAsbxnwDjGAem:blaEcsrpusvjd@iofuujvgbGxez*kIffbkJvnsIyl^xlbrrqAjbMCtr|b
KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlujge5HSVtks/smub-fFkaFIwi!xqdgpyDFaPCyl!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGst	txl=CEajqBrBtxzzp!oFaecsrifsNtd|zAsgbiGjvFysx|fuobcexvsFtnr
CtjejeLofRthe+fnfbchultLyid#ElbbxfJpfMSes'fmqrnnuhuBIsd|uruycwwb

LuocnqQaayLtq!gzakpywsmxwyy@r\beejKzaLNfr%vAjpv	rDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLMex&k
oEtwgeGmaILtz*juoibfujfLMex=fFigujrtvENnq^jubbftuBnxHyw!oz
ozugtiAzdBJqm+gDzbgsNpsHHri+zE?bb2wgoxyid:ulfzcrAufsNjv_ozpnqlQgbGx
ozegznFnaLNwe:ksjgueLobMtBm-rlbnntOgvLtys!vDpxkiwgbvwjw|fFpbvmAzaFuyi/omm
ozacbhJvtLaim|iuqnkssyzsQfC8

XAocnirSB~!JR!flabbergastIm/koukqsKgjGtMm"n\QgtkGyntHhi!TquyqwCpoztks/
flabbergasted!flabbergastQm#xmskgx

ZtfbrfulatNeA&ooibetEwvMCsk!zqdjptDvhRtme|fmexcsulesIAi/fFigbuszusztv:E
EqbtueKopPMer=fEjipeGmatvfx*ts?bbWGBhAFDd|vqbmksyaaxuhl!luwg+DwhssJjv*up
nmtbAnwsexxee+fAsfgw	vg Gfk+oFvfgeAtqKIAi_kzubksrwsBwjd@tpargwxvsFusg^fAg
iAnrwyAuhsyvy*vyfpv rgOHtky+jmngpyssaAOwh-kEactjrsjDyqC!zAartjNloMtyl*y
vmdgbkJvnswtr:ozvkplrmpKtfx!rqbuveLofsHjB:fpfeciwbas3yd*ylppnDrposNmi
vmtvbkACfsSje/yfavjtMnimtyl@zldqouMAjGAel@ylcgetElaNvnu;oFpwueAu
ructcwAltmtfj'koukplrhmEtxx@lracpirwbMLtr| lektjuAmRttv!ozektjuAmRo

JGskplrAixMjd|gyfbhnNlaRyfv| ldqorMujvuym=tEatcywzaHHex&klJpvjJufMnex&k
vDjpenHhmsuhe%kyjebhGtqNNnr"fzfvytJr.sBfz^fssqysrmsHGe9AfwcrueLva"o0
Snqu?esuesNmi!T5GPgyribvEgs+kljubsGDaKOsr*tsa67e5iqLoedjBqsbvmwgoxRyd'oHf
Eqbtu	rjpFGzr*imukqsrybMyxd=tlujgethdDvtr^fmsgbjPwfvNjh!zAagzhwles&eK#vE?
MDpyvmrposvtx&fFigbuGwvEuym=tlphbswAxHLpd;yqsubfFkaMBjd<uxvogeGmaGyyA=xw
zDbhhnugaAuxd$uzukpzwkaMIek/uIaigtEluKChe-rK.bcyrybMyxd@vBsqchzpozt69
vqsegsLgqxLeq=tFi}be`ojLtkp=upaqheuhqtwnx,fmofbzKl.sFno^tqebdDrzpFyex=
_pskppAuhszws_fmahkwwopLy	)!fosgcywzaBGri+yqaqruGyuNHnx*kEacpirjitFqi+mqt
lAsbnntybKCjw8flMkdwsyjxMeq;yFacpyAjjIuyi!ztfbhzLBsxtnq[rudcvnGutsIkd:nut
zqdjptDvhRnet@xFjekusAfsCsd*zEafgAwspIGjr: lbpfevlqEIDd*zluqbjFzvKy
godguxrApsNmi!CAsnf)KgjGztv_gFjqpeJltHOwg^yg

ZtfbksxybLNwy$zGsgbkGyaMBjd*trptofLppGtfk^futbdjAuhsJzx!ozarnful?
RuctcwAltszfg^fEutcywnjvtii$oEjqpxrhcHOyd:nqjtbwGsfsCsd:nqafgAwspIGjr: 
jqqnqDEloMnee+jlvugeGmaMBnw!ozgtcxLyvvNzv^alaVjjrlnxLlm+mljphwszuKOhx;xq
oEaowhzgnHLjd:nmobetEwvMyww!gzebetEtvGChe:oAobnnFltnteM:futbotJlaMBfr!ztf
gnjnkyQguHths_vGugbfLgbsLjq=zqaukywaaLysh!kxfevwGujvtre*rluqbfrwfxL
gosquxrAixths;tFsA?eGyaFIAi!glgknjrmsHGes+klmkdwsyzsNtd@tAujgwmga!Bjd+kJu
luwgbDwhsLtBm-rlxkvswztsMzf|zmovkfDgexPjp=vyfpveGmaMBjd*trptofLppG
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbvmwgoxNBs/qg

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeswqKIuv*gFfbnjskfKMmm[ lmkdwsyzsJws'kEtkqssstsGzw:
nmwgbfrmvGxfq^tFbnbzFkfKMye+juoibtxgbGxee[vDfekfLppGtks/foporzLls
tquyqwCpoznej/uyanqhssatLje!tquyqwCzaMIex&klOcvnGubEtWi|kmsejesue
KpvecyAvos8jx>uDlb-S0LO	oedonutbrwwzfGNfx*uzacfiJltLyxd:nqtg
lGofcrwuutFx{!gzebjtOguAyDd/kxbvgeLvaECgv@xufubyGkbRtfr%fuobvmwgoxuw
lGuwtjm

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMlabbergasted!flFnghLypGChdgonsctDr3jLCtr|fmofbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$zE
hmtgfeGua6yrVd-EatghGtnxHii%fpjtghLppGM 

ZtfbG]DpcKuwC!yFscvjyFaILtn^iFffbnFguACxd[rmobkxrhaOCxm=tmsAbtFlaMBfx!imo
kzbdnjrtbCIwd$nmoigxrhowtnq[xAwgojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaIOgp*ifacpirzqxwne-
ructcwQgtxLAm$kgabVmAzaOCxm=tlju?eLopNAm{!uzfbvmsAavusd#klsgcqAGfwtBm:n
zAecA)Kguxwmr=rAhA}erHusNmi!ymngbyAtfmtnx!CumnbhzhmEysk^fFigbuGsjMChe-
gzebutupbEtxx/AouwtjrDjMBnr!CtjejeDpcKuwm^ylprgwsAfhtem+fmdcfjEpd
ructcwAltmtyl^fFscfnLppGuqd^sBicunKgpGtqs$gxaeqqDldMCtr| lfzvjFkjGAex=
godtgiAAbMCtr!oEtwgxhgjGtuy#rudbnntybKCjw7fFigbuGAfGNne-fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
hDbpemrhowthi+zDbnbqAistLni|frvnnDrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofsJzf-oo<bcsvggHL
yBfekfDgmBvwe/oqt?bswDaHJus/zGokvnwzayIwd|nmsgfeuvmEyhx*uztbcsvgoxNBs/qE?

ZtfbgsNpsHHri+zljpbBzpdAtyl*yltvtfLlhBwet-gzajcxrifxHeh^BqmqrjvgjLnee:
ztfbotEloMneh=suocvjvgcRtfd|kztgbtxgmBvwe/ElmkonLz?stYl^foppvnFBfw
kJqcpxAvosush!xmqkfeyypPNmd=llmqefDgbvuii_ooankgJhsRths-rqdvktFzaBMer=C
ixfctqQgbMtfr!kze}beUvsIIwe:klmkdwsyjxM	d@tpagxjFgmtQep*hDbtkjKaatL
