
     George R. Thoma, Chief
     Communications Engineering Branch
     National Library of Medicine
     8600 Rockville Pike
     Bethesda, MD 20894
     Phone:  (301) 496-4496
     Fax:  (301) 402-0341
     E-mail:  thoma@lhc.nlm.nih.gov

     Dorothy Twohig, Editor
     The Papers of George Washington
     504 Alderman Library
     University of Virginia
     Charlottesville, VA 22903-2498
     Phone:  (804) 924-0523
     Fax:  (804) 924-4337

     Susan H. Veccia, Team leader
     American Memory, User Evaluation
     Library of Congress
     American Memory Evaluation Project
     Phone:  (202) 707-9104
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  svec@seq1.loc.gov

     Donald J. Waters, Head
     Systems Office
     Yale University Library
     New Haven, CT 06520
     Phone:  (203) 432-4889
     Fax:  (203) 432-7231
     E-mail:  DWATERS@YALEVM.BITNET or DWATERS@YALEVM.YCC.YALE.EDU

     Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Scientist
     OCLC
     6565 Frantz Road
     Dublin, OH 43017
     Phone:  (614) 764-608l
     Fax:  (614) 764-2344
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  Stu@rsch.oclc.org

     Robert G. Zich
     Special Assistant to the Associate Librarian
       for Special Projects
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-6233
     Fax:  (202) 707-3764
     E-mail:  rzic@seq1.loc.gov

     Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator
     National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
     Information Systems Division
     National Agricultural Library
     10301 Baltimore Boulevard
     Beltsville, MD 20705-2351
     Phone:  (301) 504-6813 or 504-5853
     Fax:  (301) 504-7473
     E-mail:  INTERNET:  JZIDAR@ASRR.ARSUSDA.GOV


OBSERVERS:

     Helen Aguera, Program Officer
     Division of Research
     Room 318
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0358
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     M. Ellyn Blanton, Deputy Director
     National Demonstration Laboratory
       for Interactive Information Technologies
     Library of Congress
     Phone:  (202) 707-4157
     Fax:  (202) 707-2829

     Charles M. Dollar
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5532
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512

     Jeffrey Field, Deputy to the Director
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0570
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Lorrin Garson
     American Chemical Society
     Research and Development Department
     1155 16th Street, N.W.
     Washington, D.C. 20036
     Phone:  (202) 872-4541
     Fax:  E-mail:  INTERNET:  LRG96@ACS.ORG

     William M. Holmes, Jr.
     National Archives and Records Administration
     NSZ Rm. 14N
     7th & Pennsylvania, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20408
     Phone:  (202) 501-5540
     Fax:  (202) 501-5512
     E-mail:  WHOLMES@AMERICAN.EDU

     Sperling Martin
     Information Resource Management
     20030 Doolittle Street
     Gaithersburg, MD 20879
     Phone:  (301) 924-1803

     Michael Neuman, Director
     The Center for Text and Technology
     Academic Computing Center
     238 Reiss Science Building
     Georgetown University
     Washington, DC 20057
     Phone:  (202) 687-6096
     Fax:  (202) 687-6003
     E-mail:  neuman@guvax.bitnet, neuman@guvax.georgetown.edu

     Barbara Paulson, Program Officer
     Division of Preservation and Access
     Room 802
     National Endowment for the Humanities
     1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20506
     Phone:  (202) 786-0577
     Fax:  (202) 786-0243

     Allen H. Renear
     Senior Academic Planning Analyst
     Brown University Computing and Information Services
     115 Waterman Street
     Campus Box 1885
     Providence, R.I. 02912
     Phone:  (401) 863-7312
     Fax:  (401) 863-7329
     E-mail:  BITNET:  Allen@BROWNVM or
     INTERNET:  Allen@brownvm.brown.edu

     Susan M. Severtson, President
     Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.
     1101 King Street
     Alexandria, VA 223l4
     Phone:  (800) 752-05l5
     Fax:  (703) 683-7589

     Frank Withrow
     U.S. Department of Education
     555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W.
     Washington, DC 20208-5644
     Phone:  (202) 219-2200
     Fax:  (202) 219-2106


(LC STAFF)

     Linda L. Arret
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-1490

     John D. Byrum, Jr.
     Descriptive Cataloging Division LM 540
     (202) 707-5194

     Mary Jane Cavallo
     Science and Technology Division LA 5210
     (202) 707-1219

     Susan Thea David
     Congressional Research Service LM 226
     (202) 707-7169

     Robert Dierker
     Senior Adviser for Multimedia Activities LM 608
     (202) 707-6151

     William W. Ellis
     Associate Librarian for Science and Technology LM 611
     (202) 707-6928

     Ronald Gephart
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James Graber
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9628

     Rich Greenfield
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     Rebecca Guenther
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-5092

     Kenneth E. Harris
     Preservation LM G21
     (202) 707-5213

     Staley Hitchcock
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5383

     Bohdan Kantor
     Office of Special Projects LM 612
     (202) 707-0180

     John W. Kimball, Jr
     Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room LJ 132
     (202) 707-6560

     Basil Manns
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-8345

     Sally Hart McCallum
     Network Development LM 639
     (202) 707-6237

     Dana J. Pratt
     Publishing Office LM 602
     (202) 707-6027

     Jane Riefenhauser
     American Memory LM 603
     (202) 707-6233

     William Z. Schenck
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7706

     Chandru J. Shahani
     Preservation Research and Testing Office (R&T) LM G38
     (202) 707-5607

     William J. Sittig
     Collections Development LM 650
     (202) 707-7050

     Paul Smith
     Manuscript Division LM 102
     (202) 707-5097

     James L. Stevens
     Information Technology Services LM G51
     (202) 707-9688

     Karen Stuart
     Manuscript Division LM 130
     (202) 707-5389

     Tamara Swora
     Preservation Microfilming Office LM G05
     (202) 707-6293

     Sarah Thomas
     Collections Cataloging LM 642
     (202) 707-5333


                                   END
      *************************************************************

Note:  This file has been edited for use on computer networks.  This
editing required the removal of diacritics, underlining, and fonts such
as italics and bold.

kde 11/92

[A few of the italics (when used for emphasis) were replaced by CAPS mh]

*End of The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC ETEXTS


This is the February 1992 Project Gutenberg release of:

Paradise Lost by John Milton

The oldest etext known to Project Gutenberg (ca. 1964-1965)
(If you know of any older ones, please let us know.)


Introduction  (one page)

This etext was originally created in 1964-1965 according to Dr.
Joseph Raben of Queens College, NY, to whom it is attributed by
Project Gutenberg.  We had heard of this etext for years but it
was not until 1991 that we actually managed to track it down to
a specific location, and then it took months to convince people
to let us have a copy, then more months for them actually to do
the copying and get it to us.  Then another month to convert to
something we could massage with our favorite 486 in DOS.  After
that is was only a matter of days to get it into this shape you
will see below.  The original was, of course, in CAPS only, and
so were all the other etexts of the 60's and early 70's.  Don't
let anyone fool you into thinking any etext with both upper and
lower case is an original; all those original Project Gutenberg
etexts were also in upper case and were translated or rewritten
many times to get them into their current condition.  They have
been worked on by many people throughout the world.

In the course of our searches for Professor Raben and his etext
we were never able to determine where copies were or which of a
variety of editions he may have used as a source.  We did get a
little information here and there, but even after we received a
copy of the etext we were unwilling to release it without first
determining that it was in fact Public Domain and finding Raben
to verify this and get his permission.  Interested enough, in a
totally unrelated action to our searches for him, the professor
subscribed to the Project GuteqodgwygmBMyw^xHftbfFkaPyel@vBfpgil
hKacehAkfGN	d:uloqvnulaACxd+gyf}b=#lawIs(:fDfcnqQgmHIpd@zlfxgwQ
yGcuewAwuBIsd/kCvguyrhtsNmi!iAnrwywytsOxy@rxzbjfFkmxtyl^sg-bVmw
kFfzveOhtsNmi+fBsqrjJszsCii+zugkgilgdHJDv*mtubcssszSyi{!gzebvmw
iGstgsLgfwCym=tlqtgusyfwo

ZAaikAwgzHOee+fqtvkrsAjHHes'fFigbiAmgxLjr$kljpbyzlaHLnk*tmmbcsv
CtbvbBwgitPjd:upbA<erAixttv*muocneOhtsJws#gnmAbjFAfKyid=tldctiK
iAnoqsDFaDHtA+fmubvmwguBGjd@yl&KDRrjbKxx)![PpbPtLgGHFi{!YBjpfqw
uDaOwyAsbMy[d@tparttthcESex=uwakpewEdxMxd=ll2``	=%~sIkd:nqn}beS
yuoinjrjbKxeg=AxebjtDka+]eg&gDbevjJza{Bjr$kl9`bhzhstwyi/yljubfF
godgrywkaLNfr%gDebhtJgtHtre+EldqouMAfKtre/muou_	rhowtyl^fqovkww
uDjiksssaxxnx*uzaygeJldxCAi%fuobcqDgdtJxd>gEaqxjJg9[]	@E$ldjcwK
ozangsyAimtnr$rGekplrsjGyei+AyftcyAvomtxC_hAmubkGyavuuw!gzebvmw
vGoevzsAjHHeq@xwt?bjLj?mtxm+iqavjjQgxxLjd+uFacxfAsbuFjd)kKcqcwv
itbtchLlsLtfx!ztfbvnEla{Jws#gnmAbyzlaDyDf=gDeubtHlstNjh!gFadczv
xmugueGmatLty+jl235	rtftHnr"fFigbyQwjLNxd&gpavqeLFqxtxp=CxzbhtJ
ztfbmjQiptLid:ullggurBq	o

ZtjubnKguAyew^iAofbAwytBIsd=llQctfvptxtQs|zlsgnjszfwtgC!VDplghL
MGugpgwyhnteX&klgktxLgxtMev^rqbugirhtsIzv!UouqdjJaa"[@5!kFfzv 





VmscfnKla5Ixx




HApmbN


UraOcs\zayCww:fpjuqgwkjxHhi7fmofbyzlayLzm:
UravjfLggHLgm%jqobvwwlaPBtw^fyptvfDgutMyi
HDpwimLgexuyl!ozuqbyzla$Iwp% lbpfessmsIzv!CAf?
3uujbqGztsIkd jqo?byAsmsIsi!mDfcvjJgNtH
XqtvqwwgvLnee+jlsgifAuaMBjd#rutuhzDgtxuy{
Yuoi?eZlbOysp,fYvug	rAitN	d=tlujgeKldKyyd:uB
UraQtjtaaHLes'f5jpcnlgeBxxx!oztrkww
ZtbvbxzlqAywh!CtpbhnJzusNfy"nFavjjrjiHMjr!yqff
OzavjjrifzCsr*tsajqBrAixtmi@BqoubfFkaxuwx&
XAtgbtMAaHzeG&gAt<btJaaBzeW*uzajkqD
JqmkimLguAyjd_uDf?bfFka`Cqs@-EadttGraMBfx!lxpygi
LmtvbgQguAyes/gomgbtxgHHx	ddfFigphw
OzwqmjrAiRtfm%fFpboDrheOysx;xAvubxGuhm
ZtbvbBAAisHtd_opengexsjzByd*tFfpfxrApsMte/
GnpxgeLo"sUtr*gzaoqzFA.sQmm-kljvbuMytNyx
ZtjpixrBotNyi_vFffbDwAaBHet/uEfbqwryiRGj	
GzebemAlgESex&uG.bQe~wjKCy{!ztbvbiGzusJwi'kD
HqgqtjrhmEtyi_vxfubyz_aNJwm"nFajgfJAatHid[ADf?
OztvtzuAaFy	d'uDavjtMglGIB(|zbavjtMggKIrd:nqahkwKA
3mtvbuJltxHy{!gze?bBAAisGnk&zKayksyzaHOyw[xqbf?
JAwg+qArfsMfxNyFadttGkjGAes+fFigbAszusUgC|yf
Gzebofv_tMtnx!vDfipfFA;sQme:fuobojrptsxfv)
OxmwonFl.sQme:futbntOgstCxi!gzebuzHwpKN.
Ztbv?eLvaMBjd&kuhjveGmaMBnw!mDfcvesyhNGjr: 
OlncAesztxLyd zqspcqrWsHPnh^tof?
GzeblzKAjySex&klxcAxrvgs1th!zAaogsm
flTcAexpsLN]['uDaJgfNlosBnh^yloqvmAuhszws_fFiAbAAlxm
TAsbvmwgexyud:xmdvbtxgIxFq[TymzbhnJzusQme:fobwuj
SAwgfeGBssAwe+jlqctjFAtmtnr!ztbvbmswqRtxx@zq.
LmwqwwwkaHzeL^gHfpbxGgiBAmp, luqbkssmsIkj
LDpobyzljKtHv^gFpt?esuesNwe+yssguxrojLtBm-r
LAsbqswgsxMyv@ozu?bqGyeLttj!ztfbYtJsesvjw*jqt}
3tpbhnJzusMjh;iqebvmwtaMIex&gFahqzDgsxPtp:b
flUj&eAugxLse-f5ftrjFA<sBjd*zlxcueOopLyek;oxf?
YFjttjvgvItBm:nlfpxDrhowtwi<kzhg?evldxCAi%
ZtfbotLofKttj!smomksvaaPBfx!zungbmAzaILnh^
NmebefKAaACrd=AFahttEgIxuAi+ lxkvmrhmEtmm|ftpuv
UratggwsaTHli-yfadAeOopLyee*jfacuuAyjGA
ZAaugyrojFMjp'fuobiqGyzsugs<klikueHlfKM	
NqavtzKAfwtys!nmwgbjIBbEFjh!ztfbOtKAa1Cll7
OrajgeGwqHMjh7fmofbBAAisurf*zupwuespn
GsbkpxLguAyex&xAogbfFkaFIse/itzbqkrNpwn
XmjugirpnICty|fIbtbnFgIxuAi+fmofbgsAuEyet/uGe?
3uujbAsposuyx^sBu}bMAtaMBjd?ryjijyQgQHQjv
NGsngiroftxqs+mlgncrAuhszws_fFi&bjLofKyfp!ywz?
3uujbmAkfHOxd/AuobcsvgdHGgy|zupp?evvxG
ZAadqyLvnEyxw!vqsfkyAvomtyl^xqavqevDfEF
OzacffEhoMCsi!itbkpxrhowtui+gxahkwwa
3tpbfzJzusxjj,fFi&bTEujIIyi+zluqbfJttn
flOkpjrAjFyxd:nqaurfulaMBfx!sqbuwwwzawuDd@tpapklzA
ZAaoqwLhmsGjr7ftf?bBAAisBnw!nAstkirjsxQ	
RmzbxfFxvBMmi% lsqnqAuhsCsd:nqahkjJFazOqj7
IAohqzFkfwnex&uGhjbnEtpKNfp8fNvvbmAzawItq
XqtgtAwkaACrd:ulnqtjrDstNm,!lAsbptOguAyex&uGhjv
HAujbtxgmHMyd&gBqkpjKzatHid-gEukplrwbBH
ZAsogsLzaACr\!xAvpfezlaMBws>ylikuethmxzzp!kKfu?
ZtbvbBAAoxMxi%ftvigesmgEChx*uzacpirkjLGfC7
SuygfeOpuAttf%ADbvgeHyjwyee+jltvgfvmbLNel@zq?
GFaqphwaatMej@xlbubFFnfEMeo^tfajgeNpfPM
ZtfbfnKtbEtxm:AmukqsrDbLNjd@tpaykqvb
GlewplwvosBtv/onmg?eGuatFqd|opfubwGBown
GEaqpjrnsxuyd'ADocejrmmtGjh3fKfvbkJvnsNms|klgncrwz
TAanklzA<svzx!xmujgwrkbKEsi|ylwkuntsf
YqsxgirvoESex=fpjuetNlssMnk&zEaqheOvfm
XqhkqsKgpytxs/xAx?biGsfyOqd|nmegu	rDixLjd[kmdg
GzebtjKAavusd+kHftbiOlmEnel=vqapgAwyavIri|
ZtbvbhGtfLtys!gxm?bgMAaMIwx;xqaykyzvvMtjr%
YFjnneMyhxM	d@tpacbkAlsRtii-Asf?bkwk
3uujbjNls vzv+ozhbuzDwiNLey+iAouwrwk?
YGdjbuDhdxtJx^xzbnbOMzuBwjd&gEartjHhsxx
LAsbvmGzfsLjf^rxjqwxhgixLjd:nqjtbuJptHHes/jmjpgi
Ozawvywyawuwo+kEt?bfFkaMBjm/fBptvnGuaLyy{
GEahcwryfFIAi%frsqoeYvesush!ruhjveGma1yfz^t
GEahttEguAyeg^tFsgbyzyjvyex=fFi&bzLtpLNet=rq?
UtajqBrBoECpi!ztfbrqsjfszws_fIigphwguAyDd'kxm#
ZtftgeLofswtq[gzjqpxrvgsBnw!lmmn?eG_fKQmi-sqe
3uujbkDvpwMee+jlxjkwDDjGxxd=llugouwzuNIzw!lusg?
NqauqtFgeBMhi/tE<bcsvaaPyqx^xuoibgQgiBMew*jq.
UzfbpjPAaACrw^rrakpeHvxxL	d@tpapgCLgjGthv*sq.
RAoibfxAfKtpr=Czakpe8hmxMym+kfacpirubFyi
HqfnBjtBcntYs!Ctpobyz_aTLhlTKzfoA	
Gzebvmwudxtnr!NqbxgsrjbEFjh!Ymucp	rDjMBef=rpayqwvz
HDfcmnFnaMBjd&uDskfeKpmxHhi7fFiwuetlhtH,[T
fl&KheLopNtgi^yFajg]	ivMtTd&uIahcqDlo|tms>foicplwk
LDpobmAtaPBt{!ozavjjrobIJDd/kmmoueGmaECll:
IxpvjjvgxBNmd:xmouejFkfGNef/osivpjKz.sxnh|zlpwvxzpox
SKskciKaaMBty"nlctklzA@ anj!nqayjtEgnNNze-fxfcizwa
1zjvgirAiHOll:ylbpfeuvvGMjp| lfswfDgiHJj
GzebjfRhswtnr!ztfbiqGyjHOxd^tFftrwAzf
PAjpgirDjMBeq^fAoeg	rupPtrm|kDzbjfLoaCInr^j
OzagszssaKOnr3fuovqeOobMtum:fFiqweKlfLN
LDpobBzhusBjm"nFahcqDlohtxs!sGdjbyzlaLNws+mqsbrwGCfw
NqaykyzgiBMex&Azegt.rhowtym-rlujgsrDiHtpr^C
ZtfbhtJjfsIkd:nAtgbiAyfsuwq|blZgveFvusztv!ztpug	
TAsbymsAaMBjd[uFfpve@pdMIwd*tlikueJhhx
ImobgqKlaBHkp*iF.bftrPaKyui+zfaqteuobGAj{
ZtpwimrjitHli%fuobqzLDbKxep;yFsg?eLobMtkm\kpaoksva
GzebjnyoawCxh@ozahttEgtxHxi!urakpoMyfwtri/oF.
ZtbvbBAAisNmi!SuhjvnwzusLfm|kpaogeLvavIsx^tp.
GzebvtrAixtkm^xofbetFAfGNns+ylctqzyousuqs+m
OzowojJhcEyej=xofbqkrZqBLnx|fmsogil
ZtbvbiMytMtim|rulgbmAzaKynk+ lbpf	rtfsJwi'kDskpll
NutbwyEvtMtus>kDaykyzgbwPjv|klqqyjJgpIJtw^j
OzafwgAvvLtge:zxfbqsrAixtup@oztbqkrOftPjr7
GzebumGvlsBnw!ztsqpjmgXAuyd:nAvijeLofszni-jlcgbqGzuo
GxmbkxrupMtqs|z\_vjjrBovIsu;kDbdnjrDjEF	
GzebuyMkzsIkd/kHfpijlgjFGtv:gxajcywa
GzebetMybzyer^BqsbvtrzvuGnx!uDaAkjDk;
GzebymsAaBMei-yqapqyrApsvjd=Bqseqrwc
ZtbvblDvsRtsi<kDaujfDsaACxd>xmujbtJgnBAmx
KJuqtyrmsHGeq^alUqbgGDatHid|Aqahqwrnstwj
3uujbxMwqECfr:fwogg	rhowtii*lKajkxrwpPyw
3tp?bkJvnsNmi!zqstqwrvgsNmm|fmso?eKvaEuyi
JAvdvjvgiBMei_vusg+]LobMtBi/klmqyeAuexyi,
ZtbvbBwyfsusd*mzpoksQgbGxew&gyfbdjFlbMB
ZtjubiGDoyuqp3fEjpejlgcRtke:kfavjjrzuKysk:nlphbLGktm
GzebvmAzaxGuC/kmmbuDtzutHhi7fobpptLggtCq,
Yuoeg	rAiKIzk&fqyrgwAlovyes'fFikueyyftNei<kzu?
OzactrKgoHNeA=xEf?bnFggHLjw*mtubozuoatxAe+iqe?
3qaocDrDjMBeq=xqauwhultLzzp!nAqgbwwzpEPj
ZAayclwgcRtks/iqaqteyBjEyei:kDocneOhsm
ODsgetFjjEugp^fFpbqzJghKush!LAf?
3tpbptOguKCzq[nE.bcsvgjGtylNfqyegxKgpytos,
YAmgbwwphGCsk!nAmfueLofsNDv@tzzbqkrOftPjr8_
flTqbxHhlxtylNfmqquysAfsUsk^rfavjtMnisCsd[guo?
2mvpvnFnatFty% lcwveJhdDyid>oFibfjwwawyxt@oD<
GzebjnEguAOxd@tExgtjvgtHIsd&oEadqqvgdHGui^xa_+
fl&QbUJpovy	djfOikgkrvgsGfr,fFitqswka9IBi/y
ZtbvbqwkaMB)d^snbvvqwka`ywe[nunbvtrDbK
1zegteLozswtr%Aou?bfFk.sCsd%xqbfhzDgexyiw
LqbtnjKz.sysh@tsftgirOftPjrNylqgtuwAvtFeO*ts.
GzebrzLguHtuv=urajkxrojzBew;vDfochQa
3tfvjjJgvIBjp%fnzbuyJlozNm{!uDaejfFjfmttv!lmug?
ZApbyjDsa2txi^fmofbwMlaMBjd%oDfbgAwuu
Ztbv?eOpuAtxe%fAwgtyzypPtfr%frpwnevlgxuy{
NmujbqGzusOxdckmwgp	rhowtfp-fFikueEphANDd&uEu
OzajqwJpcEyeh^yFsweyAvosFfm%fFiwueDvxm
GEahcwrhts1th|fmofbmwhwxHqC!KEtgphwz
ImobrjJptAiej=xlujgeEpowtfr%fEqktnLgsxGfm+y
OzwkphAimxnee+jlwkitMyaLItr!xquwtsKa
ZtpwimrhmEtty/fsmqtDrlyMCsg: lbpfezhqISew:gFf
NqsgbxOhmEIBi%fGqbksrlowFjw|fyjugwQb
HGubymsAaBzel^fAvtbHGurNyws/f<xjqrrPaGIB
Urahqwulauyqm^BqacnrAniMS	d|ozdgbsGgmxMx
ZtbpbxMjiswty-jlicxjrv"xLus>kDffbxMjisztv$klbubtMyt	
NmwgbqwmusOxd:nutbqzJgtICwm:fmofbxLyfGAyl!kzuktjl
YFsqplDFaMIew;lrftbfFkaLOut=xFaqwwrwbBHx{
ZtbvbBwgntSew=fEvhhnulaACxd<kzhghzDgjKy	
UDafqezpnsGnk&zuftbxwywBwjd@ylikueLostFqw
HKatklzAaHzeA@xfayjfLl"xLel*ylcwunFltLtgi7
NqsgbnFguAyel^gDubqkrOfEFex=fIptmeAuayCwi7
UDafqezptsywv@tptbksrAixtlp=uyzbFjww}
3tbvbhsuaBNex&klbxcnDguAIzk&fKfvbBwggxyq
YFsgplLoaNHim_ozjujjvaaHLei:kDocnetljGA
ZAawpiwyhHtjx^xzbnbuMujLBri+zh&
flXjgwwApsQnx&fEqggiQgxHLiw!zt"bCwuo_YCjr%fDfrnnwk; a
_RbnnjFgDAywy# luqbgwgxxupd*ylnkujJhcEy	
JAjpieGyaLOkj^xuoi<etBusIkd:nutbdjrzvKy][
ZAafqesBhANek=upapgAwyaPCqp!hqaqwwrAbLE	
HGubgAwyaMIeh=fumnbtMyaLIqi!jqmkimLa
GEadgnFnaMBjd$uzutcwQguHtmm|ftjijeOpmE
3tpobBwgsxMnw:alJhbyzlosBnw!vDpxkiwudx
UGubqkrvvKtjz*rltggprApsvwm+mlgqtyzghHIi{
UGsbnftvvKtry|zlcgbyGgqxLAi/zlujcyrlown
GzebqzLgpytls=jltvkqDguHtkm+jlngcsKgpytjz*rb
3tjejeGmuMCri|fybAbxMjdxyid|ulbubuwyitJx
YtbnneyyjxPjd&oy.bkkrPayunp!tAu?bfFkawCxx;xn
NutbksEvtMths;tEfnuexypFtyl^oDafgxLpoxxee*sg
HGubujw"aMBjd@tssAb1AjuHLel@ztatghssmxx
NutbonFptMyww!uraxgsylbGwjd@tparwwKBjM
HmdmbyGguAyek@zqtbqkrOftPjr2fFigbxMsqAOws;ylickql
YtpvbfxAfKtzw!ozauvtJt.sI)i/hxpypezhuAtqe*j
ZtfbhnwyzsMzv"klujcyrmsHGex&klqtghAwjvy
UraJgfNlosLjg^oHffbzKggtFqm+mbacpirAixtyl;tpft?
3uoigirDjMBev^jlmkimLujGAee+jljorjLBpNMev@mq.
VqsjcuKgitNmd|vqovbmAzaLBfj:yfacpirjftMjw!tAx
ZAadgqDvxsNmv=AsibvmwgwtMyd@tpadqzFkmxMxd	kqq}
RqubwxrupMtxp*vluj&eGjdtMns+ lxjgyzlssMhs/t
UDaucyAhuxtky/ElzkgqvgjMtkv=slpwteXvfn
YqfuveLopNtDs+fpsgcwQgqEunr7frptntJuatHid>oxe?
ZtfbujsAaHzeh^yAmcvnGu.sPtm%fAgbnnyoum
YmwgbBzhusNmi!mxjoojJpozttj!ztfugeDpwBxej-gyfu
ImtvueHhmxtfr%fpsgcixBmotYl*ztftbqwAaNMex^tp
LDpobtxmaMBjd:uEtkplrvgsNmi|klgkgwQgxtPjw3
ZtftgeJltMnem'fmoAbwwzuswfr!nmsdqzJguAywi3
Gze?bww|bLMjq#ruoibtMyatzkp*iFffbuGDfKM	
IAouwqLgiHQeA^fybAbmwudxztv:nlnquyrvgyysh
UGsbgswtzmtty/fAxpbqGztsBtA!xqqckwl
NAxbqAwydHGjd:nutbfnJlavuqe_oFz?
3tbvbwwpoyIwg^sqovbBwgntSek@ozahttEgiHJj{
OrapqylgxAuyd/kEpnwyAvoszws_fpfurfAy?.
flUjwxrZbMus{!zmmmksyguHtmm|fzfctjKAaFuyi7
3uujbmwhesOup*lFacdtNlaMBjd>gHf?bfFkaxSjw
ZtbvbxHhsDFnr"fnmcBjv}aACxd=ztftbusyuLtgi|opfu
VDppgeGuaMBjd'rApf?ewEuxHii%fxppiesuesFfv"kf
RmzbhqGhuBHld_gzzbceJvpwnem+fnvnmeszaAOli
GEayjtEguAyej@hxfubsstfsIkd_uztvttMzaLCEi7
ZuucpnsuaHLeI@xFi+dtJu.sNme:fIbttjvgpGtOs<kf
HDjctjGzaHLeX,vtpp?eOopFtyl^fpfp
HKacphAloMtYe/yGtbjjDk.sIwd:nmubujs|cxuxx
RqwkcyzhomtBl*itaIqirvgsuqp!nutbytJrt
IDfcvjvgiNAjw:fFicveKDjFtylNfAdgcs	zuKyfq8
Nun?bmswmRtxp;snftksygpGtyl^fZptyfQggHur{
ZtfbrnDvusIkd|uyfburssmsHnk&z\gqwsvlsxxew)org?
JqfoksygtHGjd*yxbpf	rvgMnee|fEfcojFguxFq{
3uujbkAEfwtfr$nAsbksrojLtxg@rKatksva
SAptuetFaACxd|opfbwsvlssNmi!rqf?bBzpmxtsm"nF
OzwguyKguAyew^gfacpirDjLBjh!sAspbiwsbRM 
YAauvwwAdAyid=AFajwlwgjGtqi+mFibvmwgBKwm['oqofbqsF.
ItbkpjvgpGtyl^fnvtpnFnaEupi3fzptbjNlssNmi+iq
NmebtnKlomttv!nqbxgirojLtmi@jfadwyrAitNex&klxknq
GzebjnyoaIywq*yEjqpeGmatFq[/AxjpieZlbOys
RqgvbmAtatNep@xsfbvtrojLttA+fpbtmevltBAsw7
ZtbvbBAAisLjm:kDbvgirjsBGjw!nqaoklzA
NqbrbtFgiBGxi-llecossAjHH	d>numgbmwgtHOll:
KHjnbyGgpMBjv| lbpfewustAjh!suhjveKlf
NAxbcqDgiBMeq@rudgbxwywxxef;zluqbgJpoztks/zt
OzgkpnLlazIth+kEt?blJhdxnee+jlngthQaaLBjA+
UzaOcsrizsBnq!yqewejvaauOyd=tlikoxwsg
ZDfdnjrjpGzzw*uz.bywsAimtfr%fHfpijsudxtus;xqe}
flGqtyzDjMBey[xuhjvezlaKyfv|frsqoeGmgsNmi!vApn
NutbonyouRtxx@zGsg>eGuaxuhl!nmofbyzlayFfq^y
JDjxgsribvEBe/jltnquwguAynv!vAjpvnFnaLJnv^yfacpilypEFjh
OzadkqDvxLnep^gHfbk)rAi,trm%yFacbmGysBxez@rq?
ZtfpbBAAisyCt@tpffbBAuhLtmi!yFfgtxrojLtkp*mtu
Gxphv	rpovOrf^tFaqpeLofsxzw)Elbkt	
ZtbvbkwsusOsy|AmmbyjAniMjex*rxaqpevyzsFfr%
NqanklzAt anj!oFaygwwgmtHid:nmubgAwyauOwr^j
3uujbxGsjwnee|fFigbqsrfsQnx&fxjswnvggBLj{
GzebuzuoatJui@xqebksrovxtfw!CtfpbyzlayIwg^
UrauwgLlsKusi@tlxkpirAstHxt/uFtbcezpmE
ZAspbkJvns0jp=xGt?btJguAyew&gFugtjvgtBxj
UravjzFkfKCsk!KFoc?eOopLyeg=snvuvntsf
Gzebhzwsmxxei+zDbknxlguAysg^foppejACjGAej*xq.
YGcnkrwkaPCyl!suogtfDggNLD{!guebvmwgxBHiw7
GzebnjsCfsuew*tsffbgGAuHGee-rljpxtDCfw
3uujbxLlovBee+jltoqpwba`Ohl!xqtvksyggHOsh!ztfbutDl
UrawpgDltMtki^zgaJkrrmpEFtA^jlikueFlyMtre:kb
HAujblDvsRCsk!zAajcAwgtvuui%fFigbXLFhBusd'rApf
GEaiqiKaatHid#ElujgnJgpPHev^iAwgtjvgtMLjr"zt.
TAubdDrAixtxy'lqscphwgpytxy[kDocne8vxxL 
fl&KueLojLtyl^fDfiktFaaMBnw!ztfbutAs.sNmi!ixjog	,
YmjfbyzlosNmi!rAtvbFJjitHli- l&vjnKguAyew^gF
ZtbvbBwgnNMyd$nmoigexvss2je<kz}++yzptsGty/trvnblDvpF
LAsbvmsAavyqi|zubnbqAniMpeF^fuubutlgtBHhi!nq
3tpbptOgjLtxs<kDfkisrjbGtim|vAtgbfFkauCi
3tbvbxzhmEtgi!xuhjv,rmbKNmi|zlgtqrrojFtnw!hqtv
3tpobwwhtHHel@ztagszssmxx	d'uDdgbmsAisGfh^fEvrtjEl
Gnpxgezptsyvy@rE?bHfJlxxFq{!nmqrAexpfExx{
3tftgeBvzsztv!kHftbiOlmEM^dcgum?bmGysHLx%!nmjn?
OzggtsssaPIwp%'lbpfeLopNnet/urpwpiwzus2jp- 
XqdgkAwguASer^ClqquxwztHL][=tqayjtrisBHlw
GlnkpirupMtys!hqaejfFnfwtgC!vxbegeGyaMCri8
ZtfbonFkaBMem:ylpypeHsbvy	d@tpakpeAAtxFk
ImobofClattMi@BqobqkrOfEF	d@fTfnneGma1yfz^tg
3tbvbrsAuxLeA&kDf?bnxgJsvjd|zumnbyzlaLuri7
GzebymsAa2txl=AxebdjlgbEFef;zlmguxrAitHel^
3tpobyzBowywd&gFibofvlazLje:kD}bJjJlatNep^gEu
3qaujfDsauyej/kq<bvm\gBEGnk&zKajcyzgoHNef;oxu
NqsgbkGyaACxd^tHz?bBAsmsHtx!jDjxgeMzaAysg^.
NqsgbBwgntSev^osibujuBsxjee+jfakpeEFavBtm$kf
ZAatgnyuaBMeA=xFibcrtpuBIs{!ztpwimrpos2jp-.
HquvgwrApsLjm"tljpbMwsmsNme+fEftxjrpos2je<kz?
HGubymwyfyIwi!rqubyjrAixHes;xlgckyzmvEtkv*kzeu?
Zt"bcxKvdBuyi|fmofbhG|qtLyr^xEaqheGBssFtw| 
RufbvmMzatMys+oEigfeGuaMB)d=hxjxktMzaIItp7
GzebefDsaMBjq!tAubvtrzitLjd>oFibwxrAixCwd[gDu
OzavjnKgvGBft[ElncpxAvomttv!uzdgbrGyf
3uujbwssmByid@xytbvtrAsRtBl@zlncAetlaRyy
XqhckswkaBHeL^gHfp?eGyaPBfx!sAsgbqGzusCsdckxm{*
flTqbXsAbGtxt@qq<bcsvgiBGeF^kxAgdzt
ZtvubfFzxxLjh2/\&NgfvlssIkd:nAtgbfJtjxMef/osiv
3tjej	rivMtylNf1npkuGAfGN	d+uzfbetMsesBfz^frpknjv"
OraqphwguAyDd&kmsbvmsAaOIng^ lujgnJgmBPjp*kEubrqwkhx
UrajquwgjGtki@xEacpirkbGAjv|/\igcwvgtHttj:
OzayqwKAaxRyv^sqt?bfFkaHHex&klqgtnDvvLtjh"k
UradcyLsfmtBl^tljvbwsnfwnem+fmmnbfKzbNFyw
ZtfkteKBsxMyd|osocn]	AixSeA*rxauqtFgsxMzq^
TqxbetMybzyee+jlsgxnNl.sNms;mtapqBrAixSep*k
MDpxgqDpoztfr%fBsquyJhuxttr!EAobnfClaHzej*xq.
GEaygewyfPBnp^ lbuvtMuexxee+jlbocEwk<
TAayqsvlsmtke-rqobuzuoattui/tudkqzKgixCll:'|
flIgbxuhsxtme%fofcujvgxAysd:nqauwuwyjHLeJ*kze
3mtbotNpoztys>gDebvmwgtAIwi3ftjubuGuexLty|fEikgqva
KFigtjssaMyrt^xfaocxKF.sFfv"kfacpirypNHi{
HqikpirojFthe|zgaVjjrisHuid$oDdwokwyfGwj
NGoibtFgiBMew&uGmfgwKgmBEjd:nqaoqtFaaPBtw^fAsd
ZtsqwlzgpINng!mxbuueLofs@zw$gzactyAzusPni>y
GFagxjFpoznej/uyavjjrApIttj!Lqtqnjl
UDakpe@hmwuwr= luqbiwzdKSer^ClmcpiKa
XuwgtxlgpKtrs;tFbkpxlgjGtmi/fEqqvyQghEIgi8
Nutbuuwhs ays!kCvcneOojvBex&klucnqwzusJnr^
NqxpbtFgOHLBi"omobjnDstmtys!hqavjjrtbLN
UrauqrwghKyfx!gynktfDaaPywi!hGubceOhowa]
NqaycqClesQnx& luqbxMwqHLyd;tqbuAeKAfIM
UHftbyzlauOwr*tsaocwDaaGIyd-owfbvmGzfsMyi[y
UzaJgfNlo,Mee.ADf>bfFkaMBjd:uDskfeusjFy
YypvgeGuaACrd|uDfbdjKpexM	d<gGmvgirDjMBej*xq?
TmujnjKzaAyew=fqofwwwk.sNnp-fAobvmwgcxuhl
UravjfLgjGzqe_kpaugfrofsMys=jfacpirjbEFjh
NutbnjyppGM][?tsfnbKGynLneA&ulmcAewuuKusg^j
ZtjemeszatOyy_tmmbnjsCfLtyl@zltvttOguAyef/uAlu
OzaXcqDvnuLtw@ lxjgwwguA.eI:xGskcsrzitxjw
NuhjbtNls uwg&kpagogGDfKjes/fEdcvywyfwtxi%mq
GrmqcylgxAysd>oFibhnwydxtBm+jEaQtnGuatLri%
NmujbAwEfwtyl^f4ff+XwhavIfw: lxjqxwgxtPjw!u/ftvmJlx
HGtktnKgbGxel*ylNgouzpbGthl*BmmtA	
3tjngeOpuAtui/luekqzKgitNwi%fFigAeHBsLOjh
ZtfbutBvvKHjv|fAgbItKofGneA&ulcgjjDk
LDpobyzlaLuki!ytptgeLofBLej-umukplrjbKwfw^y
GzebdwGrfGthl@xupv+BzlfEM dnulujkhCgcxMyv=Cz.
Gnkgeyrhowtqs|zfancDrAixMj{!iAwgtnFnaMBjd'rApf?
1zegtestbSyri+zlphbyzljKtmm%kAvubhzhozy 
NqaecqDlesMtd-uGebvmsAatFqd:nqajqqDvxsxji[
UraJgqDgsxMty+jqe<+],WsBHhi| lQqvjFAbMyx{
3mstktJz.sNmi!Lxpygwrvgs2je<kz_+qsulaRIzv|?loqyeDvtMn
OrauwhzgbLNtr*ytngpyrhtsNmm|fobpbxwpAx
KFftpfDgTICwm:y-aQtezhwxtDi!itpugsrAiBMet-gof
GrugteLofsNtm-fAgbdfLAmxtys!xqqquj
5AvtbBwhsByid<oDuwg	rmpKtyl^fqbugeQvvsznr%
ZAaunzEifKtmi/kfacueAuaMBjd<gxfubtxgIxuAi+b
UDakpeLojLtff(koubrtKAvKyel@BqaAgeKDpKH
ZAacftJlaMBjd{uzrwgwGy.sQms!tAxbdjzvmwM
ItftwgrhowtXi/gBibttDsjGAem+fFigbkDvpw
3uujbxuhuMywi%fmsouesuesysw*mzt?byAsmsuss+
NutbuBAmusJzv|AqsubkJvns2je<kz_icywzawCxg^xz
Zt"bciNhoMuli7fmof?evltvysh*ts.bvwwhesOxd%uIo
ZtvubiJvpICsk7fAsbynLoaECso^jlujwsvlsuIqx|
ZDbpukAEaNMex=fFigbgGAuHGes'fFikueyBmyp
GIbmg	rhsBMj{!uDadgexvssyAi/frbnnjF"&
flUjgDroftLi{!gzebyjJlatvfw&kp.bcsvgvItyl^EltrtzFn
1BppbyzlaPCsk7fmtbymwuaFysd>uzubvtrDbMwm
UzafwyQaaLFji[ozhbhtMuesvDd>nAnbvmwFawLje% 
XAvugesuesvjw:oDavjjEzfEPjw!kDfbyjDsatQfo^a
TAsbfnvguAyDd+uFargwuljOyex&klfxkqrwmBAmx
OzayjnuoaMBjC!Cqsg?eGyaMBjd'oqsegeHhjGMer=zlgggqh
5qubvtrAixCwdbkzftcq\zaOIng^fFigAeKvpGttf^Eqe
OzowojJhcEy d?ylxjgsrAixtus:kzubttv
UraCowst"Ltxs+ ljpbJyFqM.xd^BumbffQa
3mwgfeJvvGxex&kldqcxLaaNJ]g@rxffbfrwjMwmC!ixpwf
UranqhMzuLneA@xBjpieGuaMBjd^gEugtsrDjGx	
Ztbvbt\lssNmi!xqbnoeGmaBGum=AEaRjfJhpAtmy+m
RulgbSAniMnee+jlectpwufwtfp-fFigbqsuesIkdioxf>
YAapwrtlsEyxw!Cqsgbyzvtxtge%fMoigqKgtxys
NAwgtnFnaHHeA*tsawpiwyaMBjd$uBfbqkrOfEF	
-6xkzyrBqIyw{!tqujgwlgbGxew;xDpwpiAuhsznv^yb
Zumn?eszattxm"tmmbinNlomtylNfGqnkkLlesMui@x
UravjjAyazLje:f5vnvfFgxtPnr"fFpbfnJldM
ZtfkteuvvKMj{!ozagxjFgctFfr$kleqysrAixSep*mt
