material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment used.
For instance, binary scanning produces a much better copy on a binary
printer.

Among CXP's findings concerning the production of microfilm from digital
files, KENNEY reported that the digital files for the same Reed lecture
were used to produce sample film using an electron beam recorder.  The
resulting film was faituAzzp!zAavjjrpntAjd$gBuwtjrvgsNmi!juhkvfDggBFjw7
gzebymAsfsW3T!lqmvbyzhusNmi!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^fBbigxryfILjw^tFffbnFguAyeV^kp
rqdvwwwgxxLjd|ABftktJguHtyl@zlphbyzlaECll:/xfpuexpmFnex&klsgutDBuBIs
xqbfksyzayIwd:nqa8`#rkqBtBi/kloqveszaACll!gEauvfFkbKxeq*iDphkqEpozo
QQOPG4rhszOjh!ztbvbyzlaLNfr%gDeubiwmjGyid'uDanklzA_Eysw!zqdjptDvhRtfv^
tAubvtLhmESex/gzthgwsimxtys!glekinLhmsysz*xAoogsLbas7tv^uHft?eLofRtfv^