
  Just then she heard something splashing about in the pool a
little way off, and she swam nearer to make out what it was:  at
first she thought it must be a walrus or hippopotamus, but then
she remembered how small she was now, and she soon made out that
it was only a mouse that had slipped in like herself.

  `Would it be of any use, now,' thought Alice, `to speak to this
mouse?  Everything is so out-of-the-way down here, that I should
think very likely it can talk:  at any rate, there's no harm in
trying.'  So she began:  `O Mouse, do you know the way out of
this pool?  I am very tired of swimming about here, O Mouse!'
(Alice thought this must be the right way of speaking to a mouse:
she had never done such a thing before, but she remembered having
seen in her brother's Latin Grammar, `A mouse--of a mouse--to a
mouse--a mouse--O mouse!'  The Mouse looked at her rather
inquisitively, and seemed to her to wink with one of its little
eyes, but it said nothing.

  `Perhaps it doesn't understand English,' thought Alice; `I
daresay it's a French mouse, come over with William the
Conqueror.'  (For, with all her knowledge of history, Alice had
no very clear notion how long ago anything had happened.)  So she
began again:  `Ou est ma chatte?' which was the first sentence in
her French lesson-book.  The Mouse gave a sudden leap out of the
water, and seemed to quiver all over with fright.  `Oh, I beg
your pardon!' cried Alice hastily, afraid that she had hurt the
poor animal's feelings.  `I quite forgot you didn't like cats.'

  `Not like cats!' cried the Mouse, in a shrill, passionate
voice.  `Would YOU like cats if you were me?'

  `Well, perhaps not,' said Alice in a soothing tovoxiedGjAo&vetl
gzhtAesipNNem:alaCpirFfMtNd>oEibKeuvvExew&uIaAqzrvvKthe:fPjpcmg
OlujksCgzHO)h!zmlgbfrmbGwDd:uldcvxrpgsSty!iAvnfeGumRtxi^ftft}
YtfbkxrzvvBee!jqbtbvMpfMtyl*ts.&bFDpdxtBi+zlpp?ezhmytys!nqsugqxa
gEaujjrzxtGep@FumAbftvvMtnr!ztfbrtGs.s|fr%fEigbxAAtsJzv/ozhbut
tudgnDrizsNmi!lusg?eDpdDCsk!nqsbrfOzatHid>gEikplrofKtke$k\_cpi
ytfbkxrzvvBee!tudgbxGmusNmm+mluqbsMytxa]e+jltjg)KgtNwmd@fobrkyss
uzfbhtJgdtNhl*tsaokhw|_HB	ddfnfibDGBssJfv%uz@&bhJpfwtFp*iqacifAu.
lAsbvmAzaMCri!ztfbOtMzfsQfw!hDjuvqAuhsuqp!uHft?esuesMmi!lqmv
iqsvcnFgjMtry|zlcgbwwhmESes'lqofgimga/%jd>uz"vbysslsugs;zligtesuz
sAsgbnxgzHO)h!xmujgwrupMo)

fl!YgeAuexyi%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bymGgxtMex/kycnksygeHQsd:ulujgewue
urajkxrAbBF d!^MtbkkrPaPIzp%fFbnmeGuaLOhl!gltwdowju|teS;xlgconDF
gxxcAxrOB!YId$gFt<beFhtMS	d-uI.bxzDnbKtyl*tst#beVvo,Nep^zlngbmwhs
ztfbpfElatAfm+'/

fl!KbBGu"Mtnr%kqe#&eKhjwtFp*iq.bksrhazLje:ftvttDrApswme+mqavjj
yGclghLgpyths+BqsucyAvonte$?xqaAqz	|bKyeC=Algqpi	|pya]s'fppiua\
ZtfbOtMzfsxnh!tAubcsKDfKnew=fMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF;st%X&kDfbkx
yGdjbfrujvyep*zFmgbiGnaGyfv!uGsbjtMzfs3ew&uGmfbqArfsNtd|nAxbAtM"
GlmkvyDlauLnk&z\fAgirAfKLni/ lzqweCupPneA*ztaqj	rzvvBep=tsaewwDF
hDpypezhjK:ed?tpakv)Dsayyyg&fFikplKgxAysd,uGavjwGDaMBjq7fmof
oF"nneKpusOud@tpadglrmpKtnx|fpjppjJaatHid@rxauqwLzaHzex&ozhu+]1
imo&veJlnxGgi/ftbnheGmaMBjqT/mofbnLgcxFtr"yluqbfrmbKGjv7fKpw
qzpy?esuesBjd|gKtbky\zaLIey|krvn?eAA"LtBs/ztacbmMueKyid[uGofu^
NqaucDKgjMtpm-rEacnqrAixtwe:ylbpf]	visxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^fuobc
yAstqBxBmsNtr^ l!K&rrhgKunh!O/wgbtxmfGxjh!oFacifAu@,teJ=xlujg
SAvugeOhtsMBm_suoibfOhzszws_ftftbfKgitLid@yljvbhGBmwtls7fmof
smlkplrxvBNjd@fopootLppGtnr!ztfbrtGsatMem:fIfpv 

flTqbxzlavuqp^jltqhyDFatzyi/fuu?b%5vvLyeh^gD@bbIGgdHGjd#gol
gsbkp	rhowtBi!CAo&veLhmDtff=AFaecyKgpKtis"ylfkvmwy.sCkd,uGafqs\A
rulgbyzln|.edrnqobvmwgNHOxi!nqbtfeLojLnem:fFvtpjvgsHOsh!gzebuBst
yxpynDribvEex=ftft<erpuLtke$klxcueIBjMyet@rqa-ynLoaIuxw*uz.bCqAjf
ztpwimL/.sush!oFaucnvgjGtfd-uIavtjEimBHld<uudg?e]SfMtzw!mqubvt
ztfbumGyfmtfr%fFigpe1_mEtyi-rlzqweEFaACxx=xK.bcsvgzHO)p-
AzegtxLhowtBl,fuubkxrPaAuyi!imuubfFkawIlw8-

flJvbBszaACll!zungbyGghHnej=xlujgeHvpEtBe|fsfvvnFnaJOnx^fosqyiwk
CuujbyzlauCwh|fmofbfFpntFxd:nmubjfvggtFqi+fuovqeAA;styl^xqaygwwgb
JGdmbfFkattIs%ufacbQGyzsush!gzaGclDlumtfr%fEfxgwssaHNmi/fovtktMz
iDfcvzJltnteE-oofbnjvguAyeA@EfacpirAixtBl=rqarcwLFaLQfq!zAavjj
ytptg 



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ2

flabbergasted!flabCeUhvvOx[mgofbcsvgbs6tr"f6bng


flUjgDrDfKyem+jqffbfrxvxyw[-uAlkplrwbKNDd:nmubcxKlnuFjh!uzavjj
hmom+]Lofsvnv%ylxkvmrkstAlp^jlggcyzlsLnex&klbpkrsstsQnx&fFigkw
lGsbeqAuhBHld$rAtgbyGguAyr{!gzebcqDgeKCut*tsaygylgdKIxw7fmof
AzdqokGyutvqi8

flUjgexpsLNeu;kEukqsrvgswty/yqaycxlgiHQex=fsfvbiJFatAfm+.lavjjQ
nmebceuvoLOqx@zuppbftvvMtyl*yfacpirhgMywd@frfybrAuvMyxd*zltggrwk
wGjvgeFhuNLfp!zAaCnnulaMIej*tpajgwKlmytye-quoibkstjECfv-Elxkvm
ztfo?eszaBzew&klicfeCupPHex&kyacnqrofKtqm'kgabKsvlfwnew&klicf
wGjvgesgmHHld@xsvogsLgxBNmd:nqaNqwQaaPBtd@zlmcuyrAvKHjh!yGmmA	
gzebytMsesIsp,fEbA?e]PatGes-jqsbvmsuaRIz{!gzebozKAaDHtA!hquvgw\}
gzebvmAzaTFng^fIpwnirupMtfp-uIaykyzvvMtpr=CuoibmGDaHFid*zlxcu	
gze?bfKguAyeP=xKarqxAAjOyqC!xqgwujvguHtyi-rljvuesnfmtyl^xqaycxrup
sAsgbyGgcxtxe*jg

flBvbqszusNmi!SAvug	rDiHtxi^sqebvtrifsuet^xEppbtxgbNNms/oFzbcrGuh
ztfo?euhmEyid=AF.b@XAAawIBr7fmmnbtxgzHO	d@tpankxLlosNtd_k-abK)4S
yAppbrsrfsSty!jDzbgsGBhA:)d!ZtfAbfDsaLuyd%uIobcyrvovy	d*tlbbnfJnf
xuoi?eOpuAtyl^fYpwujrposNmi!suefnjmgaTFng^fwfrvezlssyDi|
gzykqzKszsznB^jlppbnLaayIwd|nqahgqLgtNLjd|nqayqzDkavuyg&fmadci
iAmfbnxgtAyeh*jloqveylusxwC!BqsAbxGvon

fl!CjjE""sMfm%fFigbRGBtxtBm:nlbpbnEwpKNfr:fmjt?e]hsxtDs;fmmnbwwheRp
ZtjubnKguAyeh/oqtvbyzpoztNd)tAx}be~pmxHhi!gxmbttMuemtnj!EAvbrqwhtx:
_9jnnnstaMBjd{uzrwgwGy.sQms|kldcwxwgxtMej@BAvtgirizsNmi!vAqg?eOht
yAppbxMinBNyi%fFpbdDrAixtJr"rutj?eOopsQfr:kpangfvlsLnee+jlicfetlfG
urancywgnNwmd@iovuvtElesNtd;yGsrcyAvosush!iAoswjKA?stJh>ozacpi
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*g\_*&

fl!Wim/_aLunh!ztfbNtJF.sQnx&fmaujnNlsn

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqs/_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfmtkv=Czjpi	rivMtAi/E
vAmkvjDF;st%H*jlzqweKwftEa(

fl!PqyrP@,txe*jlujge4vsRtme|zumA}

fl!KbyzvvzByd,uGafkil_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfnte$T/UarttulfwoedOKpxkpesue
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*gfafghDhsxxej=xliko,
gzebgAwua`Nnk@tp.bvmwgqtNwm=zudbcwuocBMms[fAgbEfFAfKvzv, lgqwsv
oFacfAAzbuFj[T_/

fl!HqzFka$2FX9-ltckirAixtIy$qg

fl!HqzFka2@	(!ztfbOtMzfsLjt-oqebtfLofKthv=yEmA<er'pyths;xEfbAtM
qzpybBzhus?nxOfyfcpxm_

fl!KbpFvxsQme:f|jv*eElbGMeA^rxagptMnimtBl^tlJbhnFkattyl*ts.&bxspe
ztfbFzur;st%m:-EaigswybEFDd@frsqieGyattBs/sgabVmwgrNyxx*uzaku	
CtbvbiAkaMBjd@xoidkxzvqsznr%b/

flUjge5vvLyeh*jloqveFvuBwjd:nutbszwzuBIs{!hGubjzJyjxxqC!CqovbtFa
^|_+htMuesCyd@jHjucgDlaMIek=fIjvjeWkhtLeE:nqmkplrApsGji:f9jnnnst
gzebqkxlssBnq!ztfbewGDonte1*rxjco)KgdHHiy$zlbvbkAytMtBe|
sAegtfLl?stGy:fFigbnFzpEysg^fAgbjnKgOHLre+y\_*beZvxsuwi!EAv
mquvksygpGtss> lnAbiwhso.em:foppvnFBfwnex;xzjpieLvaTFng^fmtbky
yBpmg 

fl!CueOlusuxd^Bqs?&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesgnxFfr$nAmAbyGufhte$*zleqgxF_u
yqfobyGgeKSeq^fmubcqDb"

fl!KpeLobMthe|kf"bufAkaMBjd	uppbutDlnGFD{!xutkplrApsCyw!lqfv?e]P
sAwgbyzhusNmi!sqfvksygbwDty/tfahqwrAixtnq_kpjcvjrheHJym=tlphbrGyf
kzftijLpdsLjq^jufu+]\

fl!UrjsraXHlp*yt@&bxspesNmi!Kmhngymga/3eh=t/ubmsGDaMBjd_kmokplrvg
nmmhbyzvtxtqs+mlxqtiKaatHi{!Ctbv&xrtpKy	ddfppp&yrifECjz^fKpwbiG
kuujgw/_asUsh!ztfbGfysfMtgi+zleqysrpuLtmi@jluqbmAkfsuew_oxf<
yAngbtxguAyes:nqsbdnJktsNnx:kDffbfMkjuFD	

fl!YjfLgJsQfw!mAjpieLvaLuD{NfEbkfeLofsXth=fuobcsrvgyysh^jluqpjl
^Ibu?eLobMtyl^fnfuveLojGAex=fsfvbzKgeKSeA=AxebdjrhaVuzg;y\scejm_

fl!YjfLgJ`tfd{gGdwu]Jhdxp)d|guebCqAjfitss:fFicveKofsQfr:kpaowhz
zAamptOaauOyd:nqaFqiGgitxet@AEffbfKgjytnx!ztpwimLguAuydnUYFDQI%
uGhjveLvaLJje) lbpfeFvaHHjd^rEfbujwtfwtnr$ruogfeLvaLuDd@tKujksyb

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv.s|yl^fnfuveOhzsNtd^DBmcksrpusCxd:uleqbnLb"
[Mof?eszaRIzd_osivbqArfsNtd:xKavjjrAiBHld,uGsugqxaaLIri!Cuovgw
jmz?bNrDjEFex^rxaAqzropPtyl^fPpfqeEhotAjh!oF?_

flGktxLgjMtre/qqebqzLgbsLfg^/opwtxwaaBHee!yAsvbtxgdBLhp^ l)@vmw
kJbeveKobIyeh=kEo&veEhuMyw{NfuubufAk.	tfr%fFigpessmsNmi!vmsvA
CqsgbuDhdxxee-uzhbvmwgdHOww^ ligtjrhowtyl^xq?bbYzlsxtBe|fzpb@TFl.
zIp?byzyfxnee+jlbycDl_auOyd:nqzbdjyhosLzr+ozhbymwuaMBjC!rulgf	
gzebnjxAaHzkd>nqobvmwFaECpi% ltqbyzhusCyd>gEapqyrlbLSex=fwoqy
CtfpbyzlaKuhi!CmtbqAwy?stMs>kHft?eOofGtyl^ElicfetlfGtwy+tuoibmssg
gzajqzJgpKtxs7fmofbBwyfsKzm:kletAesnbBH	d:nqaFqiGgtNxii+rKaecqDle
uGub@YzlaKuhi!oEaqxjJ""sush!ztfAbfDsavLtA%kpatqzFkaBN	d[gzukpll
gzebcxCpozne$}AFayjtrobLtBs+b/

flUjkxrxvxMym=tlujgeVveHths;rpapqyrhoLQjv!CuujqzLgbsAwi@zlegcqrvg
ztpwimLaatHid*zltcvexvssuep=tsavkrwgxBNmd=tqahksylssJwi|yqebwuGu
oFtbhtJlixuidRztfbrtKpuBIsd*tlxjkhzgzHOey|AmmnAeKlfs!me)kEqgcwwa
ozavjjrwjvNzv^ylphbmAt-mtBl*rqavjjryfLNeA@oFffbnFgtBFjr$kgabCy
rmtvbyzlaWIis!ymjf?e]LWX`4FjJ~ajcxrDpGnee+jlbnneEBtMtme<k
vDjBgxm_

fl!DwyrDiHtnw!zAaikAwguAyet/oLfu{)rxvBNjd@foiqtzKgpytAs*iqt
gElgf 

fl!YjDlgT1Y	d=lldqwwKl.,txe*jlujgeVveHnet=ozukplrApsUqm$klxkvm
uzfbhnFnfKjee+jlujgeOopEyet@xFzbcyrvovyeg/uIegfeJvvGxel^xf
immnksygpNNem+fmaeqsxBtxxeA@Efa@RwAGfL:eT/oLfu#)

flBnkhwgitxer=fuegceOobMtys!jA.bcsvgjGtii|vmjtbxzlaIOyd&kDajcsv
ozajgwrwpvEjx7fmofbuMsmxxes;zlbbdtPgpyths_luuu?e}svvEnp,fFigbxssu
CmugtezhesHtx!mAubksLvaBN[{!gzebjfFkfwtyl^slsqwsvgbLtuv*Fqt}
ZtftgeOhtsyCe$zxzbqswgb Jni$klbnneJvvGx 

fl!Dwyrzixtry|zlicxjrhaILnD^ftftujDm.sSty!qzpy?)rzbBxex&klNqwxwb

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbIGkpsLjt-oqebxjJFazLfz^rK?bb%#obMtjp|klicxj
EAvbitLgjGtDs;xlqqepwA},tmi!CqovbtFaaMOwr*tsavqeSsjvy 

fl!QpqQgbsNmm_hxf?&eKhjwtFp*iqauciDF?

fl!JcsvgjMttz^xligtjl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv?

flUjgsrAixSee-rldtqBvlesLty+jligteGudxtrs/kfayjnDlaMBjd	upp
yAmgosDFaILjw^tFffbyzlaMBnq#rq.bufQpozt%1^fnfibDGBssuhg^vFbpejrvg
ztjubjDlhtHyd:nundnj\}atHi{!CtfpbnLgitxej*tutjgirAiBMew&uDu
yBfgemlguAyDd@rxaejjwyfwo

flBnkhwguAIzk&zlujgeOopEyex&ozhbxjJFatvxy/jfadwyrAixSee-rlmqqpwk
yAaitfNlaMBfx!ytfbfnvgoHNeh@xqavqeDhvzB.d@tp.bcxrzixths;rpapqy
ztjpmeGmatHDx&ozhbvtrzbRnew&kltkouDFauIBi% lbpfeLvpDtyl^fFikogDl.
rApmksygbLtxs-kyobcxrzixths;rp?

flUjgeFlyMtyl*tsaycxrApsyfx!ztfbetEmjMM,d!ztjubhsBtxxew=sqapqnKl
gzebetFmvLCtr7fmtbvmwgmtLli!husfueuvnIFfm+kpavjfLguAyDd$uGmfbsGA
zmtvgeLofBLx{!gzebvmwgtFuqp!uzfubhzvlxxee+jlicfeLvauyet@zFffbtF
ztfbdfur?stMs>kHft?eAAaPuxd=BqsbcyrsbLN	d@tpavjjQgttNeh=CzacifAu
ozacbwAuhmtfr%fnfiijvguAyeQ=AEfbvtrAfEFex&kyauqrwAiBHld_uDf}

fl!1qzrwsHGnw^jluqbywsmsGjd,uGsbjnKApKS	d,uGamptOa"sMfm%fMmkejl
^mofbBzFaBNem|fKpwbmsAf aHd@tpaF?)rzixtfh%kpakpesgxACxt^xfajcqx
grsckirAitNem:fIpwnirifsIkj^tpffbfyhjGo

fl!OkswgjLtfd-uzhbcsvgbsMfh!zmmg#)rzbBxex&klNqwxwaaMOwr*tsavq
Gxjeg	rhowtxm"nuoi}

fl!Kve1Zattqs+mluckqlgdxLye*txz?&eKhjwtFp*iq.bntGrjGAeh=Czaykyz
CAofgwrhusNmi!SAvug)KgutCq,!^nvvbBzFawIeC=AldcnqrpusMfh9-laCpi
ytfbmjHAaHHet;FLmkplrhcHOyd*zlxjkqwguAyeQ=AEfbyfKgtIyfo*ts.but
ztbvbmwyaBxje!uravjjrAbEyeA@yltqojLojGAep*qqavjnK?_ 

flabbergasted!flabbe]MvKSew@opavqes
flabbergasted!flabbrGBtxneX&gFajg
flabbergasted!flaogyrposNmi
flabbergasted!ftpwujl
flabbergaste)gkFawu
flabbergasted!hAujblGguH
flabbergasted!flmcy,rgJsQnp-
flabbergasted!flabrwGzfvOyi
flabbergasted!flabbe%VVnte[TIAng?
flabbergasted!flabberga2.qp!zmlgbsG
flabbergasted!flabbergasxjr*gx<bYj
flabbergasted!flabbertvLNel@Bqac
flabbergasted!flavtnss;stKs/
flabbergasted!xqbnnDrAiBM
flabbergastrs/tuoibN\Cf
flabbergasHtx&ozh
flabbergaMIeh=a|
flabbergastXe*jlujg
flabbergasted_uGtgbyGguAy
flabbergasted!fovt?e,ZvvB
flabbergasted!flacbyJpbEn
flabbergasted!flabbiwhss!nv7
flabbergasted!flabbergast2m:n
flabbergasted!flabberupsDzv,
flabbergasted!flabqwrqvwAj{
flabbergasted!flxqwqvgcx
flabbergasted!Cmtvksy
flabbergasted=AD
flabbergasted!hDfcvmm+
flabbergasted!f|J&nqrif
flabbergasted!flalwiyl.s3)p-
flabbergasted!flabbgwgkNLD{O
flabbergasted!flabbergastXe*j
flabbergasted!flabbeuBoGCsk
flabbergasted!flabbergpExeJ;xK;
flabbergasted!flabber+J,Fq
flabbergasted!flabberguKSex&k
flabbergasted!flabbergastBl=rq
flabbergasted!flabbergasteg@AEf?
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!fmof
flabbergasted!flabbergaswtr%kyo
flabbergasted!flabbergaRIz
flabbergasted!flabberguH
flabbergasted!flabbergawyfx&a|"


fl!1qzrhsxtss:fmuvgsvpoz:)d|guebvmwgNHOxi!zAaCnnulaLyAi/kxz}
^9icvesyfsSty!ztjpmnFnaHza(

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqsl_aLunh!GxjegeNlsRtmy_hxz<be]FpNtme%fspvbyG
ztfbhnxAisvjr% lJbvmAulo.

fl!Kbmska79Y%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bumsyqESee+jlwgtDrhozLnp,a

fl!CbpFvu|.ew@opaCnnul.suqA@EEatgfvFaMIeq@qqajgwKlmytzw^lGm?bfFk
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusBjv8fl!Qj	rkpsFjx!sqajgqHguHtzr%uljv#)

fl!KbxzhmEtis!tAujksygpytyl^fEptv	\gttCid:nqaOqzKl.sAjx:ozhbwu
gzebyfDrjGAee>gK?bb%%vvsCsw;rFaogetFaMuqo*tsauwhzgoHHxi+yq@&

fl!KbiAko,Neq^gzakv^\gqEyfh^jlqqqwrHmBwj	!f)CwveQvv,Ljd|ulfcunDF
urggpiwk.sSty!qzpy#)

flUjge5vvLyes+rKaittOsfwtnr!xqqnA 

fl!Rnjszfswtq^fnbemesuesznr*ytaAqzJgtMIwCH-lBnkhwgdtFqi%fmgvgw
oF<bcsvguAyes:nqsubfDsaCInr^jljpbhzvsNM	dG5qt?buDlbLyeh='/adwy
ztfbOtMzfsIsp,fEiqqprpuLtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC7fmofbBsslxxee!ruuvnj
wGjemjJb

fl!YjfLgbsJnx,fuubytMseG.yd|zmz#&eKphAyid:nqaNqwQaatMew=uzacueAA
CmtbszAAfsIzx!urauklzA<sush!gzaqnirJstvex=uwavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbtx
ymzkplrApsBjv!jmvijywya/Um{!sKafgfJ"as6jx!ztjubgwgbsFjw|uzavqeQvv
tqwgteLvaEIxi!51VTbywtqxL^(!f)IqnirFpNLex=tsvg?e5h@,txe*jlujg
EAvpieUybunee!ruuvnjrzotJum|nxz}be]6pN.wi!kzpwimrApsNwC!ztf
vmukgsulaHzee+fAzuvjJ""

fl!KbBAzis3el@jlpwteVpotBel^xq.bKeCupPtNd%u-"bufAkaTFng^fmmqwil
gpetgxKpoztss#upzbksrwbKNng;rms}be]Zix.id|uAobhjLjisCyd#gol#&

fl!CpirDiHtnw!Juocj	rpgs3eq*mtubxjFAvKyex=fmtmbyzlaJOjw:oAo{&
ymjfbyzla5IwC8

flBnkhwgsxJqm^jlfcijJszmtks/fEigbBszatFBe,ylsgciQguHtye-qlbdqzL
nqsbrjL?as|Im+gt"ubtMyavuy	!fMofbxzl"Ltxy$nlbbefHputFes+klgqt
imuejnFnaFChi!EAvbefF_usNmm+q-abCsvgpAneM!CutjbDGBavIzp%fEfgbmwy
grugteLofsvnv%y-abYmQaaLBj(-rlfcvesgmBNyp^fnjtfeszaLItr!gEanqtC
gFakv^\

flUjkxrzqxyhl!imvugirhaKyre/qmcngeKloLuym=tlboqsyguAyet@xFz}
YAngbtxguAyef*xptbjzJyjxxes'llbvbtFjfhtes+klujgeGses7fk[oqadglsu
CDbrrnFnaBNxi-llvrbAwyzswfv^lGmnA	ryfFuwo*ts.b@NryftFqC!sGtvbgw
mquvksygiHGj,!ztfbpnyou unv!jAfup)LgtNCyd_ElujttsA@,tfr%fmaEcssyz
immngirvvMtnr!glutgrtsjGAez=oofbvtrpuLthl*rpsgp	r'DHGjd@Cmz?brQ
jqbtu^rgJM.xd&osibvnElaRIzd>kDfbcqDgjGtgi%'/abQsrCbKCty|fBsgvjPAt
ztfAbfDsaFIAi%fAgh?esuesUqm$klxcueKvpGtqi'zlbnqswb

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbrwuuBIsi%fPjpcm/_aLBjd|guebvtrofKMjp'fuobc
sqmcphzvmRtys+kgab@SGipwSew^kytbvtrsjDyel^xfafqBFgixLj{!gzebK)E
yGsgbxzl"Ltyl^fnfuveuhusCsd:nqayqwDk@stTl7fyzbfjsyaWCse&'laK
CAofgwrpgs3ew&gxmbgAwyaLyjd,uGacpDrtpKy^(!fMofbmwyfsJts/fMmkej
hqhcpeLvavLDd@mmjp?exvssMmi!lqmvbAwyzsFtr^rKacpirspPaxt*xuugf 
OzacbqAAuEyeA&oxf?bmGDfOyw{!ytfbclsposBje/jlbbnnLAmxtue:zqskplrvg
lApvuywwtsCsd:nqafkxLhovy	d@tpaujjrspHEjh!ABagclwymRnel@rrajquAuh
ztbvbyzla6Izw^ftbfbhzhozyid&oEaoksvaatHid>gEaeqrAuhsvfg)fFp
luokumrojLtxx=xK?



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPW

flabbergasted!flUjge0hcuCydnkzeubnFgbs6nx:rqaDkqD


flJvbBszaMBjdrnuugbWsicBN	d:xAuvksygtEIBp,fnbemesnbBH	d@tp
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusuxd*zlxgpylgbLtnj!oFajcirspLNew=squjksy}
gzebumwgixuwh!oFaowyLlsBHld:uljvujDma/@mi!JGdjgxK"as@mi!JGdjgxK"
UtaoAevlbKtue>y-abQmrtzszzv!gzebymAzlxLx%!f5ig&qDghxNeq^
kJfewywk.suxd|ADfbcxrmfKLjx|fmsgbkwysxNx%!f9igtjrJB7tNd&gHf
jDprrjvguAyr{!Olxqpiwy},teE-oofbizwztxxem+fmaoqrwuusNme:fuubyfK
rApmksyggHLex&klgcpesuesNmi!vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLnee+jltjg
BqsAblGve Hfx;xqenAetlhtHel;tFjpiesipNNej=xlujgrlgcNNex&kKaygww
tAxjgwwguHtgi!yqfp+]wCfKSyl*tsaugjElesNtd&gHfbemsuhxxew*tofbjjJ
yIjobnFguAyet=ux.bcsvguAyek/kmubjfDs.sQnx&fFigblDhtLtye#rqacpi
ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfajcirCbGCxl^jldqouDluxFD	

flWgtDrzpHHex&klScdgAAaGIym$kpaCnnul.suxd|nqaygsLgiNHym+mlbdqzLa
gzebefDsfwtty:fFpbjjJgjGtfr!gzhtAeLvoxne$rnK.bOfJFaTHs{!CtbvbF0L
EAvbftAuhsIzx!nqsg{erYvGtms_klujkxrtpFysx7fmofbkwAdAtri!glqckwrvg
mxpxgxrhowtfd'gz@bbVMpdDner=C-"bbFFkaTFng^fIbubxGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFle
ztbvbxzlaKusd=lracveGudxtnr!ztfbfnJldMCtr!oFarqnFAfwtys7fIjvjtMA
zDzkplrApsyCt-guobvmwgnBMye)kljvbmskaFuii8

fl!JgeLvpDtri!lAsbjnKgiHOxi_gue?&eKofsMfm%fFpbjjJzfEzee|fEigbwsu?
^TpybxMyqKCxi%ftf&nqrifsQmi+ftfbhnFktsIzx!CtpbKest@stGy:fU"f
hquvgwrAbDyel*slikuexhosush!mxpxgx	|uAuyd*yfakhe1gdtHej*tpavjjEb"
GEaujjrzbBxex&oE.bumwgdtGjd;vAobceFlbMtqm:zxfbjtMzfmttr!ztfbftGy
urayjnuoaPuxd@fnskimLgcKuxw!vxbvgeOpuAtyl^fzboge]4?s`FF}O6"
kzhtcAwkaNJtr!oF?bbXzlaPysx!ozaykyzvvMtpr=iwjpi	rhowtmy/xuff
ABtvcnJz.sCsd"xqbvbkwhssFjw:fEigbxzvvExeq^kFavjjryftFeQ@xKaCpsl
gzebdjrAvKHjh!uGubqkrAixtms;yqadgkGyfsMmi!nmebhtMuesNmi!lmobcsv
mxpxgxm

fl!JqBrxvxywd*zltggrKa"sUqm$kltckirApsBjv|kxg?b%Lvauyek=ozh
sqtuclwzayIwd@fDbddnL"as3ew;vBpugeVpotB)p-fnfbujFkjGAeq^fAo
sqtuclwzaGyCxH-laCpirzixtgi"gzahcsuFjGAex&kltqtyrvgsNmm+mlujcy
CAvnfezhqIys\!f)&OkxKgBEChiHflDqojrofKyeh*xqdvnDlgbGxek^zlsgciQ
lAsbAtMyaPuqoH_l&EqrAuhsCsd@fyjpwywaaGOww^'laDwyrP"Oyek=zluqbxwl
ztbvbyzlaFIzw^fppgus\Aazyyd=AF?*be7umRtNd%uz"vbyzpoDn)d?rudgbBwuu
uz.b@yzhusNmi,-pangyrKjGumd|zAqbksrAixtms;yqakheAAauyle+fAsfgwAuh
vqprnjrhcHOyd-owfbvmsA@,

flCAbyzptsNnq^fEigbmskayIzr%ftftbBsFaBHys!glukfDrsjMNqi!xApobBAAi
glucdqwgjGtyl^fIjpftOaatHid=tljvb=szaLBjd&gpajquwk-suej@tlbpfeLDp
uDavjwwlaIunv|fAgbvnFFaPBnx^fwjfblDvwxM,d!ytfbvtGraNJex&klgcpesue
glqckwrvgsNmi!mxpxgxlgbGxeA@ylkwuyrnpBHld:ulmgcAwguAyev=uy.bymwu
nqsbgDwggxFqd;vAobceDpuMFjd#uFungeLobMtxx=upapgfJguAyep=uwjpi]
mxbuu rgUAywi!Cmtbptrsbuyqd:nutbvnElaPCyl!ztfbytJkts|IVdTWaOG	\
hGubpjNlsMBjp^yEaujjrBovIwo^jljvbfFkaIOyd*zluqbmwyaECuw8fl!KbpFvx
Y1NGVM1UHsCsx^xqtvksygjLtxy/kluqbmswqxH	(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	
^IigpjNlss3ei@zlptbiJpoDtfr,ztjpi.rzps3)p-fvvuveKlfsQme:fFiku
hAuvnjrkpxM d!OleqbmGwfsCy(-rlncmjrtfsAws>fxbtijrhhtCs{!lAs
xqbnnDrP"Ftvy*zqavkwwkaHzef^ozhbuzuoattym+ElmkvyDlaMBnr"'
