such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had caught the flamingo and brought it back,
the fight was over, and both the hedgehogs were out of sight:
`but it doesn't matter much,' thought Alice, `as all the arches
are gone from this side of the ground.'  So she tucked it away
under her arm, that it might not escape again, and went back for
a little more conversation with her friend.

  When she got back to the Cheshire Cat, she was surprised to
find quite a large crowd collected round it:  there was a dispute
going on between the executioner, the King, and the Queen, who
were all talking at once, while all the rest were quite silent,
and looked very uncomfortable.

  The moment Alice appeared, she was appealed to by all three to
settle the question, and they repeated their arguments to her,
though, as they all spoke at once, she found it very hard indeed
to make out exactly what they said.

  The executioner's argument was, that you couldn't cut off a
head unless there was a body to cut it off from:  that he had
never had to do such a thing before, and he wasn't going to bejypo
gFaJKXrAjFyes'fxjhg 

flUjge3poz.xd@xsvogsLgxtM	d:nmubcsQAiBHld:nmubjfvgbsBje%fopwnirif
hqigciwk.sush!ztbvbDGBaPywi+-FavqeLhmDtss+yqoug 

flUjge9BfxH)w!gDhwojFAaPux{!ztbvbnxgtHGjx&ozhbyfKu"Mtis+klbdqzL
oFakpeDltLtyl@tloqbyAtfsMmiNjlicxjrlwxLDf=jKagzjuBuxx	d@rxatqzFk?
[UubyfKguACxd-gEubtjEhsDtyl@zlicfeEhextyl^fIiqnjrwbKNDd-uAlbut
mDbxgesuesusB*uGt}_

flBnkhwgdHOqh!ztjpmeGmaGIyl*tsagnxwguHtxe,fnvvb%1Aauyqs+mEavqeLof
JGdjgxK?asStyNjlcgvywyatMpdcK4acdtMAaBN (

fl!Ujj\zaBHet/oEpp?)rAixtVy^kzaucnvguHtyl^fqygezLppGyw\!f)ggvhz
nqsbjjJl?,teE+jlujgewEfvOym=tqsbyjFAaHzkd-owfbcsrhsKIB	

flaVjjrJbM.xd&kmebdjyhoszfh*tsacyfQguAyeq=sqovbmwgxtMek=tq.bcsva
hKavjjrAjFyel^ftbfbhGtfsvfg)fIjvjeLofsXzx$nqtu?eAAaAuid^tFjtgqQ
jutcruwhsxx.d|ulujge3poztfr%fFigbjPldNNns+kDatcsrDjExqC!ABacpi
jAxpbqGvlBHld'uDakv	rDiBFjd:nqatgxLgpytyl^fBbtvDrDfGNef@iwavqeLofsAfq^a



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPY

flabbergasted!flabber1ixtRs$qlUwtyDl"LtXx=xK


fl!1qzrjbG.yd:nuombmGDazFfh!OlbobyGgtxyeC=AlbicnFaaRIzd%kmsbqqv
ztjpi^\gttCid:nqaFwhzltLnee|fEigbyMjlxxel^xlbtoesmgxwym=tmugnD
ozuqbFDpdx.x{!gzebvmwFaPuqo^jlphheLvhxNmi/a

flBnkhwgxtMez^xKainfvguHtkm+jligteAuaLOhl!glqngfKhoMtyi_vqs?bfFk
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmhbyzhusJjv&gBtbkyrDbLttr-ElujgeHlqIywd:nmubjfv
smegbmwyaLIew@BmhgbBzlosNmi,fyfvbnFguAyeo*zoigp 

fl!YjjFgJ,7ee!JGdjgxKa"sMmi!ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfa-ptLgjGtfd<kDz
nAqghzDguHHjd:nAvij[lg!2tBs+-FajcAwgbGSet^vBftbnFgnRtpm:itfpbF`
GXM}be~vvItis^ylwgtDrDfEFeA*ztpwv]	TbRvjd*z/tbcqOhzLtui[vqsbvmsA
smlgueHlpIFjd&uF_vgrHlsxx	(!ytfbyjFAaHH	d<kDzbozuoaIFje|kpacv
nmwkplrmpNHid=AFacbswDaDCsh!uratwqwaa/ush!BuogifJguAuyd_gwfubyzln
yAvt+]sueswfq=sumgbyzhusGfo^ylujgrrijMNjvT/mof+]suesvfv-kK_uwlsy
gzebuzuoaMBnr"ylujcyrtbDyeg&oxetgsrzxxyy[:kyqgtjvbas3es+rKaykxz
vqprnjrroxQex&gF;bbyzlosNmi,fIpwniF_usvjd|ultvksyFatvty:fuu?bDGB
qzpy+]\

flTjgezhesKzm:klgqtlGAuxHex&klEwemwztsvDd:nutbvnEl.sush!Cmtbc
ruuvnjrzutLyp^jlxjgsrzixtmi@xpajgwrCpBwjd$rAtgbyGgixLei@xg
^~pw&wwguACso*tsacdtMAaLIri:nuoi?eEFawyfv7fmofbyzhusGfo^ylzqw
lAsigyrApsNfp)alaKbhsu"Mtyi-rlzqweBBtMtss>fIicveLofsGtv@rlphbyzhu
oE.bdzLgJsMme-rlsgojEifKtnx!ozacbgAA?,

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!nmtp&yrvoxn)d?rudgbAwuuNLjh!zAatgrsyln

fl!VwylguNN	d$numf#)rzbBxex&klEwemwztnte$ BqsAvmAuh,Mek=zlb
sAscn	rpgsIsp,fKpwbhsuayCsh!oF?&beSuesMmi!yCvggEwkaAyww^rrawr
ixpugwrApsUqm$k/tbunvlatMew&kltrqpwb

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlnwemrsjDyeo^kBjpieKvavFtw^fFpbjjJ?asznv|zf
hqdcwxwguAyeH;itfuueOhts$JVtfGhnA.rhowtxi$uzenA	rifvuzw^fEigbBsz
kJbevqQguAyev*mtubjjAniMtys!xqtvbmwyavBnr!ABppbFDpdx.xd|nAvnfjJa
gzebkyrDbLtfr!AzdqokGyutvqC!ytbtreuojGoedcuIfxgwlgtAyeh*jloqv
rulgbyGgcxtwy%kfauqeKofsvtv^fuubcxrDfEFee|fEigbhGBmwo

fl!VjjrnbFy)w!mAjpieGuaKuyl^xlcgvywyaGIB{NfEigbxspemtgC!Cmzbqk
qqfrksygvItyl^foppxjJzbMCtr!glmkvyDl?

fl!&VnKgtHn)d|guebvmwgENwmi|yaab@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtxguAuyd*y\_*Qm
