
  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who hAuid+uFacvywuexxex=fFiku
rmtvbwwtbKE	dGoF"ubfrCfzyye#rq?bbNLgeHyxrNzlmqqprsjDyes+kfadwyrpu
oE?&

fl!KbvMpuxtfk/kqaykyzgzHO	(!ymjfbyzlaWOhl^yE<b@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtx
ztbvbnK|_.Vjd>nmubAtMgxHOqh!yqfobyGgcx?][=xljhbDGB"wtqm)kljvbuMA
sAsgbxAtqES][OTqwgteAtbzCsi!EAvtujDmaGIyd:ulcgbtLofKQnw^fFicp
CtbvbnLgnBAmx!gBqgcwrApsIyl^xEavjfLgxAuyd,uGaygwwgpKtrm"nFajcAw
hqfpbBszaGIyd=ztftynKlaMBfr!CtbvbDGBaAuid#kqobytMsesBfz^fmqrgfJle
zAavjjEguHtgi!uFigtBAzfn?)

fl!KbyzpoDtNd|nAvnfeMuexLxx@tpavjfLgcxNyi/ /aCnnulaLunh!BqsA
vAmkvjDF.s|nj!OlicfeAAaPLnx:kzafqBF?asvzx!Oldcp)LgrNCyi!lAmnqBrpu
gEaAqzrzbRtnx8-

fl!VjfL_tsHtx&ozhbvtrDitNeM!iAvnfeKhzsCkddfoiqujl_aMBjd	Aoigux
xqqnkjvaaBHee!vxfcujvguHHj	

fl!RtfQgeHH)x!zDpwdqwgzHOww^rravqeKhzsCyd@tKanqsylssNme+fFicv	\
ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd:gxlbcgGBusNws;hxf#&eKhjwtyl^fPvejjKz?st%M!smlgbDGB
glqtgxwuusIkd^BqsAvmAuhs3)z^fEbkfeszaRyy	N

fl!CbhzlbItxs/zlphbuJltxHy%NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ala@K)EghEuid:nqzbftF_u
muwgbgAyuAxfC!vDfugsLzaECpi!ztbv#)rgCNNew&klekfeFvusPjr:ADfbvt
ymzbkyrvvMtqs;jg

fl!VjnFrjGAee"guo{&eLofsXzg&kEtbcxClemtBm:nlbpqyzlssxnk!urajgw
ytbtreDpuMFjd$nuo}

fl!K&AwgbsLnk&zluqbyzpoDn)d|guebCqAjfsMme/vxz?bkGyaLBjd>gE
hqhkpsAuhsNtd'kqmbceDpuMFjd>uDskgim

fl!LwxLgbuIzx!gEaowhzgsBAmx7-ltckirAixtIy$nqtu?e]htsJnk|ftbxgeLv
lxz>bfFkaMBjd_/\"

flCwvezlsxnex=fMmkej\zazLje:fEvtrwAzfmtyl^fPvejjKz"LtAs*iqafkjv
gIbA?ewCfGtnr!ztfbonvkmxttj!nqsbhfNvvKCyi!CAsfb%EvstF	(!gzebvmw
gDnbvmsAaPuxd-ozlgfeAuuHtmi/ylcgifFguHtyv^snmg}erHmBwjd-uAlgfeMw.
gzebvmwyfsMys=jlujge9BfxHem+frsqpyrvgsNmi_ lxkvmrofKtfv_ylgqniwk.
lDpypnFnaECpi!glujwsvlsLNtv_a

fl!CbkAufsxfC7fKpwte5hkxMyCH-lujgeVBdAyxw!hqhcpeAuattqs> lxgcp
BAjeg 

fl!PqBlgJsAnz^fKpwbkspssQfv+ozh?&eKopNNjh!ztfbSzwlomtxx@sBjpieGu
ztfbiwGBowtfw!ytfbuuGrfit%i*ztftbDGBaHLeC=ADajgfvgnNMyd#klphh	
gzebvmsAaBHee#uGubjfDmaGIex*sq@bbYsrfsSty/foiqkhw""

flUjgeVBdAyxw!zApmbmwyavBtm$kfacpirDbLtls+kljpbfrtpFysx8

fl!Ngy\zazIes+fIjvjeLofsAfq^ /avjjrXvxysd|guebvtrHmBwj,!gzebCqAjf
CmtbvtGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFlesNtd|gKacbBGyemtgy:fEmqyqQggHFqs>kpajgw
hmdmbyGguAyeg/uCvgv]yypNHi	

flUjgeGAixLek;kEuubmskaMupi+fmexcsLhhxttj!ztfbSzwlo,Mee#yqoeg	
gzebyjJlaKyxx*tsakpeLofsMme%kaabjtOlwxL	d:nqaoqrwuusNmi,fEbybmwy.
ztfAbmMysByid#golbvtrAixtle_kfavjjrXvxysd_kDfnAeJlntLpm+mlujcyrh
sAngpy\zawyqe,fIpwnirjpLNex&kyavjjAyaECAi|a

flBnneLofsNnq^fFigAeOlsxtup@Euoibyzla0Oji+fzfxgwrsfyNes'l
wGbttjDsjGAeA*ztavjjrvuAywd[rmzgtxlgbGxew&uGukplr'PyzeA*ztajkx
nqbf#)rvss|Tj'fIjvjezlssBje%'/abVmGzfsQms_fEigbxwuuxHhi%fIftg
zmlgpeAuuHthy|zAeAbgQguAyew=rpjgtxlgxAIes'fopwtxwgitxex=fxfcxj
urgbdjAuhsuwg&kEavqevvaMBnw7fEpbvmsAauSex&klfpfeGmaAuqj!gzajqzJ
uDauqeLofKyeA^xqapqesydAyxd-kru?bfFkatFqd:nqarnfQlsLnei\iqqvbyzl
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfacpirHmBwj{!CqsgbnFgdNMys%ElbpfeMuexLew^tFfpejrvg
kJfewyAvon

flUjgsrAixtVy^kzangkLgpyz	d]AuugbtMAaHzef/kmuj?esuesMfm%fFp
Gxjeg	r'ItPjd,uGaugjFguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsSjx9-

fl!Pq	\gttCid?rudg}er'JsxtrNzlfxgsrroHQeA&gFacbRGjls@zv:rqaku \

fl!Kv)KguAyex&ozhbOtura!Owx-klTqwurptsGfh^frsqo	\gttCid:nqaSwjwu?

fl!KbswCfKtxe>fAog?eGyaAyfv%fAgbqswa"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz.&bxspesNmi!WGfgp	r'bGxel^fEicnqrAfEFeC=Aliku
nutvqwQa"

flBubyzlzsQfp)kpaqhkrApzyyl^xfaCnnulaAyfv%fFigbPAuhsMfC!ozacbqGD
BAjeg	rApsNmi!iAnrcsQghxHjv@rxz?b%%vvsuwi!gxmbrfJkpGyi	Nfl!Eqrwa
ZTBV&XrhazIth!ztjpi^\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7frptbxzlaAuid'kxubszAAf
AzicruQgbMtyl^fzvodjJgpytjB^iGukqsKguAyeU;kqobjfvgpKxjv^jg

flUjgDrCfKSew=uzaecrwgvIIsd@fSsArmGu.sFDm+mlgcuyrhtEyjt!ozavjj
yGo}be}PGsSty!jAo&veCupPtBl@zlbbIwQwiHHem| lmqqprhusNmi!vudvwwwb-
^7q?bqsGzsNmm+m-"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp?e]howtye)klujkxrFpNHld-gpzbvt
yqfbvmwgNHwpdoADung	rhowtys!nqbtbmAzaACxx=xK?bbNrtvLNek=fnbemesue
yqfbckLlssMtq^fqygezLppGMeM!nmwgbtJkfKyi(3fmofbxzlaPuqo^jlphh	
rqbxksygBEChi!gxppgeOpuAtyl^fSsArmGu?stFp*iqafkirupMtvy*zqankpw
ztfbntGraHzex&kldtgfLBsxnef;zlppbyzlaPBtp^fEigbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqv
hqaswnLlatMew@lqavqeKAbRtBm:nljvbfKguHtls!grugteLobMtxe<gsf
WGfgp,rgtHtxl^fIbkvjvb

flUjgeYyzIBtr!ymubwurhowtwy#hqebkyKgfRyx\!fFigpeAAaPuyg&kpavjj
WGfgpeLpmEtxl^fIbubtMAaHzew*mtu<beLofGtnx!itvemqwk?st%1&gFahws/_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz.bjfDmaMIem:yqmh?ezhmytys!Gxjeg 

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^frvp{)rzbBxeE-oof}

fl!YjDlgT1Y	(!ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?bb%1A"Ltfp-ftftbksudRnex&gF;bbyzlz
tqwgtewEfvOyi|fzpdqiQaaRIzd)tAx}beUvnxttrH-

fl!GxjJFcHxDd|gKtb*hGtfsIs%Oftftg	\guAIzk&zlBnkhwaatMew&klxgpy
yxpynDrhgMywd*zaab@NrufOywd>gEauqeGyexLjh!gnpwveAuatFqd_Elmkhjl
tqwgt^\

flUjgDrobwtss:fsppgexhssvjj=xqavjjQgttQex&klNqepr1vKNqi!ozavjj
jutvcsul.sMnx:ozhbufvgbGxep=tqmAbtFgbsFnx:rqangiylaHzev=iw.bcsva
gEavjjQgdtGjd+kmsgt	rHmBwjd$uGmfbmwhssBnq!yuhjksygbLtnj!nutbjjsyu
CAvnfetyftE d!YtfbrnLpfwtmm_fpfgrqQbas|2l@zljubmAzaLIwv=Ch"bumw
gElgfeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFkaMBjdbxKqjqsrhoLQjv^jfaxgwQgoxuwp,fuobvmw
ymngbBGyeLtfw!hqgqtjlg!2N)w!gxmbjnKggtHhC7fFicv,rgixtme|t/ubitL
tAauqwJvxmtDs;fwoqy rgDHGjd=t-"

flTqbyzlzsQjr:fGqbvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sQms!rApmgirhusNmi_fIjvj
rmsigewFfLtky-rlphbywhsLnef;zltckirupMBnr"a

fl!VjnKgixLjd,uGoibqskzm.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ l!ujjrDbGNxd'uDavq
qzpybDGBssBnw:uDz?bxzlawI (

fl!K&qDguxFqd*zligt	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fuobcevlfInel=rxpy
zAog<er'tBNeh=Cz.bdtLoaHzeC=AfacpirkpG.yd|vqbmbfrDpKxex*rxaK&Aw
luokumwk?,

flTqbyzlzsMfx!jAxp?esuesHtf=jKaurtClayIwd|uyfbonFBuxM d!Gxjeg
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh?e]PawIs(:fEfgbmGDaAyeg@tlFXGSrmjGCxl7fugbjj
jAfup)LgcxAnr8-laDwyrzixtBe*zqebrfLpfGNqC8

fl!Qphwa"sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqacveDhtMneA*ztacbiwlqsMnk& l!KbBsz
glsgcqr1vKNqi8-

flUjgxwgxHLiw!CqsgbkGsmHQjh!hKacbAwyzsFtr"fEjngsul.svws)kzaqpqQ
hKacpeGjdtMns+gxagzhDhntNns+fAgb@MBjlKLm%NfrsqoeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFk
ztfbetFzutHyd&kmwAbxGicBHld=llujge5vdDtYy/zxf}beSsjvyeA@ylwgtD
tqbtnDrnfMNnr"fGqbcsvgttSnr" l!VjfFraRIz{!yus?bkGyaRIzv
ozugtjKAjGAew:uDz?&etBusMmi!iAvnfeFvusBjp[fFikppAuhsNmi/klNWUYrif
sAsgbyGgdHGj{!yAaujjrzbMtxx*rxacpirzbBxer=ztjpi 

fl!YjjFgxxtBi/klmkvyDl.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd>kzubqsrhusFfw: lnqtj
immonDlguAIzk&fEuknqrzpuvnr"fmankyLsfsHtA!gzebvmwu.s|Bi!CqovbyG
yoiqqqrposNmi!yqb}be`ofsGfw:kDaycxrhosIqh!ZGsvnj	|xxtzw^jluqbhssm
nunbVtJApBMj[T-

fl!YjDrkjwtDs;fobnnezpns@tv:uutg?eAmaAyeA@yz"vbtFl},tFp*iqacupwk?

fl!YgeuhmEyid&oyaVqwLvjLyef^imvugezlaMuzk&zlvu?)rzbBxex&klNqep
ZGsvnjrhozLnp,.la@tjssmRtDs;fmsgbAwyzsxzp-'/

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmytks/fmtmksygtNwmd@fEjorqw
wGfuvnGu.,tfh%kpavjjrNsRJms+?lbpfeLofGtyl^ElcqvmrzbMtxm-kzubcsv
rApmgirhusJts/fMmkejlgxAIej^rFatgfvFaMIew*twakpyGguAyei@xFi}beSA
rmtvbyzlaZLDt&uzaucnvguHtyl^fYpeme`BsMFj{!^Pskxjrvomttp%frfnntO"
JAo&vetlatFqd%gKacdtMAaBN^(!gzebjjrDfGNes+fuobvmwzfsQtv%ya

fl!1gxlgxxtBi+zluqbxuopHFem+fFigbxwh.sNms;mtaAqzrtbRH)x!hqmkgAw
oF_+&

fl!KbswCfKtxe*jlJbfnvu"M:)d*tFfttzHAfwtFp*iq?

fl!1qzrkjwn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung 

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gbwxjh!ztfbIwQwiHH	d#krptgeSsjvyeg=Axebuuwhl
gsbkp rgUAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsQjr:fAo}

fl!YgezhesNmi!hqtvbtxgfwOhe:oAou+]Auayuhx7fIfbyjFAaMIew$nApn
kHftAevhz a)

fl!K&1Wgcxysd:ulbbffQ|tvBts- luqq	\gttCid?rudg>e]FpNtsi^jz"vbgw
yAarttMkatMee-rlujcym_

fl!YkyzgfQNwe|b/acupwkaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtfd-oFungesuyBIzw-Eg

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'xxtqi@xzffbKJlovBee+jlnwunub"

fl!CpirDbLBnr"b/aucnvguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfn

fl!EgwLhjGFDd+uF@&bxspesUqm$kljpfnyubGNqC8

fl!Cj^rAixHeC=ADtbyfKu"Mtfd/kmmnAeyvpwtxg&uAm?&eKhjwtyl^fYpem
ZGsvnjrposuex=tqaqheyyftNev^rufh}er'OHQee:f1VTUeLofRtme%fmubvmw
kzebqkrAixtgm-rfa*HwwudAneq;yud?bF6Ka$UXLdTS_+gCLybn?)

fl!1qzrjpNFirNzlicxjrDbGNjh!oFaowhza"sMfm%fMmkejhg!ECAm+mlbvbyzl
hAuvqrrvgsNmi!yqb}&

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!grgqtirApsFje/tljv})rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi!Cuujbf
yuhj}er'JsIsp,fFpqmeLofsLjk;rmsbetMytxo)

fl!YjfLgxtMex&gF}&bnFxvBLjh!Gxjeg 

fl!TgjDpoztfr%f9skvmAuhmttj!iAvtujlguHtgi"ozaykyza"sNmi!SAdm
ZGsvnjryfIFni%?l!cpirAixHex&klekhkwyfGNef/gzdjgxrvgsUwm:nyfvkh	|
GyckvnGu.sXnw:xmdvktFaa@Aqm'oobvktFaatHid	kDjuktFb"

fl!KbswCfKtmi@xpaqhe,2hECkm$gFjqp	,_aTFng^fHfpvzJlesNtd|gK?bb%#obM
oEakva\

flUjgeYyzIBtr!rugvgirBqsvtx&fuuubusDtsCsd|ADqtkxwbas|2l@z-abPjNls
nqbtfeGmaNAqm'Euoi#)rpusyCg-gungf rg!^Izd)tAxbymsAaMIef^gGukhD
oE.bKeKBqIIxi9-

fl!1gxl_aLunh!GxjegevvvuNky-rK;bb%AAaFyfr|/\uq+]Ehlxa]e+EFikpl	|
vDfvvnwy?,

fl!YgqDaaMBjr7-lujgeYyzIBtr!CqovbtFaa/Ckd,uGafqs\AaDHtA!CtbvbyG
AsmkhDrptmtDs;fMSGbfrzjFJqi:uz?&

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlgggqrlovIzv@mqebvtrhtDtfr,fyptgeIBfLNns+ylbdqzL
oF.butrzixtyy/tqebvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sush!ymjfb%#obMtjp|klicfeQvv
zAangfJu},

fl!YgqDaaMBjv^fIbubRQzuxLD{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqatguDpfwneg=Azukpl
urgbvmwgtNvoi$zEaqpezptszqe[vqsu?e]|_6Sxx^xK.bcsupfGNee+jlnqfjJu.
CuujbXwhpzLft&EaabvmwuaWLfA-ozh++yzlaWLfA-ozh+ofKAfKtBe|fmobqqv
iAoigw	lfEnex&gFawujvguHths_klppejrhaPyjo2flIGbysBhANey|
JDbynnFn.s!yv^zoikpllgbGxeJ@ozukplrposWtm-yg"

fl!YjfLgxtMeXcG6ankpwc"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!YgqDaa2the+-FaujtOgjMtDs;fyzugqxa"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyew@op;bb%1_n
zApbuyAmgnteE+jlujgeYyzIBtr!tqwgteDlbKHyd*zg"

fl!JciF_usNnq^ /aucnvguAyeK/EBiqp,rg!2tBi+zluqbyzlaVFfw|oot
smtvgwlguAIzk&alaJgeOhtsusd=rpaetftaa1YeA@yg"

fl!KbswCfKtBi+zluqbmAt.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd|guebynLoattxm"naab@mw
zmvijyrSbNAmm+mlbpfeYyjxz	d:nqzbwxwkaMIew@Eg"

fl!UqezlawCi{!yAajgevpem.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ ltkimAuhsCsd&oEavwwF}
gzebdtLoavLje:ADfubmAkaMBjm/frbegxrposNmi*xlqcyxm

fl!CpiropPtre+EliqwwKgbsxfC!juebAtMgeHtqi|yAou{)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgb
nGstAeLvavBfr"klujgeKBcCyhx8

fl!VgsropNLxd:nqahkwKAawuD{NfEbkfeLofs7tg)f6vtvqw?a/Hnr^fFig
tqyv?esuesMtd=tg"

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbrqsu@,tjB$rmjogirHmBwj	

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!xqbuqsrAixS)v^fobnnjvgmxMxs+yf"bvmwgHKSul=t
xqnctpwk;st%f^imvugeLofRtqi|yqobhwGtawuDd:ulecA \

flUjkxrDbLtvy*zqacbswDaBxje!zAaCnnul.sush!ytfbvmGBhANem:fAwgtes
ruuvnjrifyIwi!ytfbofvlaAywd+kJubtjEhsDoedGZtfpbyzlaxFjz^tFibffQ
sGtvbmsCfsvji+fmajqqAkbRp)

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlxcu	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!CpiropPtim%fKpwbrsubzyes+fFigbyOlmyNm NfMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF?

fl!VjfL_tsyss;mtacdtMAaEyxw=tE.&byzlaZLDt&uzakpywysNJyi%fuobc
BqsAbiwjjwyid:uzf<be]AfEFel^xltqojLojGAee#uGubvmwghtGjw!tAx}&



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gY

flabbergasted!flabbergUAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-k


flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkawLjA!ztfbdfuraHzes+klgncuHls
gosquxrojLtjC^ygabJjrspHEjh!gFaCnnul.sush!zDjgfeLvaLJje) lcwvexvs
glnkpzLlaHLex>ultqdxrjiHEjh!nutbxtAjfnte$ngyfbcxrpgsBjd&gpacbgGuf
ozajkxrAiKIfx7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp<erhowtnx!yqubvtrDpKEew&gwjpiezpn
gzebrzFjiBHld&oyakpeLofsvfg)alaCveDhtMtyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd/kopxgwwk
nutbxtAjfmtfr% lxkvmrAftLxd/AzokplrkpPHel*yldjgjCz.sBjd>kzubqs
gsbkp,	|

fl!1qzrtbRtss:ftbxgeDpwxxeq;itawpiwyaMBjd|km_+&e}'JsBfz^t/u?&
ymjfbFDpdx ][GgzebrjJobIMeC=AlxgtjrufOywd^BqobksLypwOhi%fFpbceDvcLNjvT//
[Mmkejrifzusd:ultcAe]PaHHhi!zmtvgi	|"svzx!itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszm
gzebufAka/8t{!tqwgt){g! axs!EAvbefFgitPjd+uljfgfrDitNee!jqmkimLmvE
ztjpiesgMHvxx^xlRwciJpmEyem|'/

fl!Pq	rpowyjh7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjcyrzpKNes'fmafcsulaBMem:b/

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbIwQwiHH	dGEAvbhnJzusztv_fuovqesgmBHjd@rAoibyzl
yqb+umGyf a)

fl!VytrsjGyx%NfoskgirAixtRs$qlUwtyDl?st%W^gxt?byMyuEyx{!ymmoqsl
gzebutrvoityl^tfayjjFgzHO)z^fomgcwwkatFqd:nqalgqDF_yCxl!uGubqk
ztfbyfQ|_,

fl!VJF`ghxHjv@rxzbvfCltsMtq^fFjog	\gjGNjv/ABugfeLofs1wC[nAo}

fl!++DGBatxAe+iqavynul_ .

fl!GchzgxBNmd@fxpduywyatMee!vmsvpjJ""swwm^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqaucnv?as|fh<gzdgbyOpdxnew^zluq
vmsvpjJz_ .

fl!++hzhozyep=hEugtxlgbGxev^zusgbnFgttGjd=xpft?)rjpGNnr;kpavjj
MDzrjtFb

fl!VjjFaaRIzd)tAx?&eLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgxxHyd=tfa@AtMguALtA!ztf++)

fl!VjjrspuMyi/y-"bumGBuxxex&klHtAuzvomtBm:nlbbdtMuesCsx=fFigbfAy?

fl!++fKggtLes;zluqbxwhatMeC=Aldcp]	_

fl!UynEgbyNjv!ztfo#)rzdKyfq^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!VwwFgbsMtq^xEbwnyrposNmi!yqb#&euyjxxex&klNqepr1vKNqi7
imqgtnFnaPCqh-ElbdqzLb

fl!DchCguHtqe+jlbicnFaatHid:nmu&uessmsNmi!lusuvexphNLj{NfEbkfeLof
SAdmbYMyuEy	d|ApegpqQgeKIut*tsajkxrCpBwj,!gzebvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKa
Ctpbjfvgcxysd(AyqkplrhcHOyd-owfbofvguACsk|fmmnbyzptsNnq^ ltcv
jAxpbfyhjGtAi/EltcfqQgbGxeu;oqunA	rhowtqs=qqebcyrHmBwj	
