JAQUES	You have a nimble wit: I think 'twas made of
	Atalanta's heels. Will you sit down with me? and
	we two will rail against our mistress the world and
	all our misery.

ORLANDO	I will chide no breather in the world but myself,
	against whom I know most faults.

JAQUES	The worst fault you have is to be in love.

ORLANDO	'Tis a fault I will not change for your best virtue.
	I am weary of you.

JAQUES	By my troth, I was seeking for a fool when I found
	you.

ORLANDO	He is drowned in the brook: look but in, and you
	shall see him.

JAQUES	There I shall see mine own figure.

ORLANDO	Which I take to be either a fool or a cipher.

JAQUES	I'll tarry no longer with you: farewell, good
	Signior Love.

ORLANDO	I am glad of your departure: adieu, good Monsieur
	Melancholy.

	[Exit JAQUES]

ROSALIND	[Aside to CELIA]  I will speak to him, like a saucy
	lackey and under that habit play the knave with him.
	Do you hear, forester?

ORLANDO	Very well: what would you?

ROSALIND	I pray you, what is't o'clock?

ORLANDO	You should ask me what time o' day: there's no clock
	in the forest.

ROSALIND	Then there is no true lover in the forest; else
	sighing every minute and groaning every hour would
	detect the lazy foot of Time as well as a clock.

ORLANDO	And why not the swift foot of Time? had not that
	been as proper?

ROSALIND	By no means, sir: Time travels in divers paces with
	divers persons. I'll tell you who Time ambles
	withal, who Time trots withal, who Time gallops
	withal and who he stands still withal.

ORLANDO	I prithee, who doth he trot withal?

ROSALIND	Marry, he trots hard with a young maid between the
	contract of her marriage and the day it is
	solemnized: if the interim be but a se'nnight,
	Time's pace is so hard that it seems the length of
	seven year.

ORLANDO	Who ambles Time withal?

ROSALIND	With a priest that lacks Latin and a rich man that
	hath not the gout, for the one sleeps easily because
	he cannot study, and the other lives merrily because
	he feels no pain, the one lacking the burden of lean
	and wasteful learning, the other knowing no burden
	of heavy tedious penury; these Time ambles withal.

ORLANDO	Who doth he gallop withal?

ROSALIND	With a thief to the gallows, for though he go as
	softly as foot can fall, he thinks himself too soon there.

ORLANDO	Who stays it still withal?

ROSALIND	With lawyers in the vacation, for they sleep between
	term and term and then they perceive not how Time moves.

ORLANDO	Where dwell you, pretty youth?

ROSALIND	With this shepherdess, my sister; here in the
	skirts of the forest, like fringe upon a petticoat.

ORLANDO	Are you native of this place?

ROSALIND	As the cony that you see dwell where she is kindled.

ORLANDO	Your accent is something finer than you could
	purchase in so removed a dwelling.

ROSALIND	I have been told so of many: but indeed an old
	religious uncle of mine taught me to speak, who was
	in his youth an inland man; one that knew courtship
	too well, for there he fell in love. I have heard
	him read many lectures against it, and I thank God
	I am not a woman, to be touched with so many
	giddy offences as he hath generally taxed their
	whole sex withal.

ORLANDO	Can you remember any of the principal evils that he
	laid to the charge of women?

ROSALIND	There were none principal; they were all like one
	another as half-pence are, every one fault seeming
	monstrous till his fellow fault came to match it.

ORLANDO	I prithee, recount some of them.

ROSALIND	No, I will not cast away my physic but on those that
	are sick. There is a man haunts the forest, that
	abuses our young plants with carving 'Rosalind' on
	their barks; hangs odes upon hawthorns and elegies
	on brambles, all, forsooth, deifying the name of
	Rosalind: if I could meet that fancy-monger I would
	give him some good counsel, for he seems to have the
	quotidian of love upon him.

ORLANDO	I am he that is so love-shaked: I pray you tell me
	your remedy.

ROSALIND	There is none of my uncle's marks upon you: he
	taught me how to know a man in love; in which cage
	of rushes I am sure you are not prisoner.

ORLANDO	What were his marks?

ROSALIND	A lean cheek, which you have not, a blue eye and
	sunken, which you have not, an unquestionable
	spirit, which you have not, a beard neglected,
	which you have not; but I pardon you for that, for
	simply your having in beard is a younger brother's
	revenue: then your hose should be ungartered, your
	bonnet unbanded, your sleeve unbuttoned, your shoe
	untied and every thing about you demonstrating a
	careless desolation; but you are no such man; you
	are rather point-device in your accoutrements as
	loving yourself than seeming the lover of any other.

ORLANDO	Fair youth, I would I could make thee believe I love.

ROSALIND	Me believe it! you may as soon make her that you
	love believe it; which, I warrant, she is apter to
	do than to confess she does: that is one of the
	points in the which women still give the lie to
	their consciences. But, in good sooth, are you he
	that hangs the verses on the trees, wherein Rosalind
	is so admired?

ORLANDO	I swear to thee, youth, by the white hand of
	Rosalind, I am that he, that unfortunate he.

ROSALIND	But are you so much in love as your rhymes speak?

ORLANDO	Neither rhyme nor reason can express how much.

ROSALIND	Love is merely a madness, and, I tell you, deserves
	as well a dark house and a whip as madmen do: and
	the reason why they are not so punished and cured
	is, that the lunacy is so ordinary that the whippers
	are in love too. Yet I profess curing it by counsel.

ORLANDO	Did you ever cure any so?

ROSALIND	Yes, one, and in this manner. He was to imagine me
	his love, his mistress; and I set him every day to
	woo me: at which time would I, being but a moonish
	youth, grieve, be effeminate, changeable, longing
	and liking, proud, fantastical, apish, shallow,
	inconstant, full of tears, full of smiles, for every
	passion something and for no passion truly any
	thing, as boys and women are for the most part
	cattle of this colour; would now like him, now loathe
	him; then entertain him, then forswear him; now weep
	for him, then spit at him; that I drave my suitor
	from his mad humour of love to a living humour of
	madness; whmm$nlxcu	rApsztv|CqbtbyzlayOqp!yFsgcrrvg
eFigbBGymwnee+jluqbqACfsCsd@fzpqmeElsxFDd_uzbuvnub
eMofbyzBts3eg;xqebjnE}atHid:nutbyfQgxBFqddfFbmgeMwpG
eyfbvtrDbLBeC=ADankAwyatMeg-kmobcxrhaLIzr%fEiggu\z
etfctylguAuyd:nqsgbxzhmEtss:fnfbqswgtIIyd=llmqxjrpo,N 

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvetlavOwi% lzqwyzb

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaewwwgzHO	d*llzqweOvvExef;zldcnqrtfs`tw@ruof
emofbhGtfsyAi/ElecAeLvaFSeg=zqacpirDpHtri8

U4MCPI7fOHQ	d#ElujgexhjMBes'fyzbntNl.s3eA*rx;bvjDsaFy
eIigtjrpusCx	

X1TCNN6K ZIeA*ztaogeLvaBNee+jlJ&nqrziHQem:fKpwbfFkauSex&klxcA
eKpwbxzhmEtyi-rlngbBzlsxtnr!ztfbhtJltMtDs;fxjxg 
e9jnneQvvsAt 

U4MCPI7fXBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN	d"uAebAtMAin

X1TCNN6K 7uDd,uGaowxLgdtFqd_klSqufDpowoeG=sq.bunKAfKneA*rxaAqzrnpo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5baLCV!LTsvjl*tp/

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_klbrchwaazIth!GGetgDggJsQnp-frfvemrBqsSty/
espcvxlgBNxwi,alBpfezvxmtFy%xqz{bfEgJsNmi!smobAjLc
eppvjeEFaLCrt-klggcyMyfswtr:kzubAtMc

G7ETG4q6pNLej^gFvtgx/gMHLid>gDscpyrBt|tBl@zlggcyMyfL:

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd@sligtjrDjMBex&kqacpirAiRtls@zE.bcxrAixtrs|z
eobrtnuppNMet=kF.bjtFltMtTz*jfaycxrhnHHld:nqaIqyzz?

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflPbmsGDmxxli!oxm+kszhcBNjh7fIptujrAitHeN=Bq
euobceLobMwmi%ftpwuj/

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l^tlbbofF_tsPjv|kEaecsFvusvjd;tpftuyGvemtss/fm
eybp&xrnpHxeA*zltgetFkfwtBm:nlujgexvsPuwh!itjnf
e7ofgwKAbGxnr" ljvbxLyjDyxd@fybpbrGyfsxje%fFicpes
essgcyryfvEtr*tsakpesgmBNyp^fDpqo r1sNFD{!Olxqwqv
eFigblGktsBfh!smegbyzlfsJti:oobn}

G7ETG4qPawIer=zllpqBrDitNe([uqukefD_aBM,d*yljvbmGufLNem+
epfgfesuesQtv%bljubnLgbsNwy^fFikpln

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDhggHLex&klutwjKAaIIjx/EljubyzlaFIxx
erfkisAuhitfr%fxpxgwKgbKyek*BqobvtrwpxNwC7fmofbBzhu
eFigAeKDftLem+fBpgvwQgntSef^fEbkfeszaEIAi/ylujgDrkpszjm"tg

G7ETG4qKpsSty!CutjbyzlosNme:fFigblGktsBfh!smegbrwgqHyym$gx}

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd%ufavtzDF<sztv!ztpwbxOlbKyxx!zAaogeLopNtfv:
etppgxL?aGIB{!oravjtMgxxLyd@fBpgv	rPaFCll:ftbxgeKvnx
etprgeLopNtim%yFahgnyu?

G7ETG4q4pNFid,uGapqyrobOyeq^ftppgxLc

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDlgvGFjw|fFiqweOlsMtme/j\gcxtMyfwjej=x
etppgxLFavIzt-kpavqetlbNNDd*yluqbmsCfsBtr^ElbbufMjfsNtd|Asbt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflBbofLlsBuqd'uAm#

G7ETG4qgXxFq{!OlbobsGAayunv3fmofbyzlsxztv^fUartfQguAyek=jE
eybmgeElaAIsi|zg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bcsvguHthe|zlbycDropGyxx,fGqqpesggHOqd|rGu
eIftgeLvaIOyd"uAebojsAaBHys!gzawphDlbGtim|ng

G7ETG4qPatGer=zlbbuqMA.sNms;mtaKbyzhoDtyl^fspfue1gbFtks;rg

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i-rfartfAzfwtgi!ztfbitvzayIwd:nKahqzDufLM^
eEmwvyAziGyxw!smzbetElaAywi@lFft}eTBusvjd*zlbubnLgntS
enf?bNrDjEFeq@xDzbvmwl.sush!zAavjfLgfGxeM!nmwgbgwlo
eIjvje~pss9qm<kDaOcwLlyMnex&klwkefJgpytyl^fzfzv
eHjnnfyl.sQms!nmujbuJvnBMjh!zAaogjLgnxtnr!ztjubuDhdx
eAgbvmwggHLjw:fmofbyGgdHOup^fGt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflJbytMseszfm+fEfgbyzptsGji:ozh}

G7ETG4q4fEF	d:nqaiqiKghBPjd;ylkqA^

Z1VEJX`VOXsFq^tgaCbrsuaFuD{!orajgeOlsxttj!glggcwxBmsBje/zf
eEucilwyaBHex&oEacvywtqMjej=xligtjrDfsBfz^fzpbvjEwmx
envvbyzlaPIth7fzpbcxKlnuFDd#AFajqwF|cxuxx|alCwveOobM
eFiqwlzcaVIzv@mq@bCxropKHxd@xqaqfnGBtmtyl^Elbtg
ezfegxKhsRoeM:futbufAk.s.re+ElbbofFglGIBw!tAagpirvg
etjublGveLi)d/osiv>eEhoRtfd_gzajcxrnpHxel=xzt?bfFk
ewoqyxrupsysh!uravjjEba$yqp7fFicveAzaMBjd%uIsAbtx
etjubBAmfit)x*yloqpjrvgsBnw!uIobijLAjGA dcuDou{
eQwgpeKv?s0ts/fyfpbfDvoxpeR= loq>eLofsHtf-kEubfjwy
etbvjeLofFtfw!nGhgbfKguAyev@yobn}e1zaMBjd|ozhngeEho
eFigtjxvsxtgp^yEff{e6v;suxd@fIbnnjvguHQsd*ylnqtj
eIptvmAlssNme+fmaxkqDhhxnew=futbvmwggHLjl^gpaqhes
eybttnwkaFusd_uDfbjtFvvKugp^fFicpeLofsvfv^fnsqyeGmat
enbejjDvsitfr%fnzbjtOgnNwmd%krfpejrptsvjx:kDavjfFgoH
eElknqlgcRtxs!sGdjbnKgbsBtv+fyptgeHyfvCty|fFicpeLv
eIbpv rOfKyeg=sqtbUnJgPECAi/a

e}FpvjJgT2`eSgO8FTbRSYUX^Y;

e5jtbTDpwxLeQ@xFfzv	rFpNtfv^fIfnneEluhtBm-rlzqw
epjurfLjisOxd&kDfbwsvlssNmm|fFsgg	rvssMme-rlxgblG
eIjvjeQvvsNtd,uGsbemswfEp

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaNKguAywi!tAogbmwyfsNtd"oHfbvmwgxHGfr9

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd>oxmbptLgutEjd&kDaqpeypgMttj!gzzbofFb

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVaYJBmRnew&klnwuyrifsAnz^tfaqteLofsGfv/omhgbnKgoHNep@Crvn}

PMRWGXq>BwPfr$ozh|

e2sqejwk.sJws$kqeaK)DsazCAi!nqs}

Z1VEJX`VOXsLs=jlfxgslghHIidhgEugte#obMaDiTimmn&yggiHQeh=fKpw?
eEjt{e%vvsuwi!BqsAbBwsmsGjx2fSpfb)AsesSty!lAsbAtMy
exbuveuvnIusC2fUacoeNlsRtlp@jluqbxwlaRIz\!kHfpbf
eFpAbnFgitHid&kDf?bxAy;sHfC7fBscAetlavIAi/kp?

PMRWGXq4jEFeC=AlcgbrsysByi{!sAungDn

Z1VEJX`VOXsFw!ztfbqCrobMBel*ylcqy	rzjKnex&kliqtxwgiBMeg;xnacpi
eFigbkssdHHel^xlcgnqKaaLIeq@tlicvmrojLtii|oDfu>esue
emtbrnylpGMef*rx.butrDfwFtg)fIpwnirifsHnf#ruoi}

PMRWGXqHowtBm-rlzqw	rifBHld@fybpbtxgzHOwd#xqffksyaauy
eybttnwkaNHii/fmadwxzgmBEjd@fnfiifJcaZyyd,uGavq
eoiwthzaatHid&gHfbceyvpwtuv*kEubvmsAavusd:kxmbAtM
eIicveEhsKCfk^fut<byzptszjp-uIaykqDgcNNen=ozaAqz
eFpigyzlssuxd:nqzbltAuaPunr|iAu>byzlosIsi!uraAqzrDjEF
eBsqxjrhaLBwy+qlqcpjDgbGx	d-owfbiwwlosNnq#kD.byfJw.sQfv[a

Z1VEJX`VOXs;E|opf|be1gbFtss:fuobvmwgnBHid#AFaKbBwyfsvjx:kDavqetl
eybttnwkaHzel*slujcsrvgsuss:nqs<bkGyaAyem|fzpvbqArf
eFpbofJyzsGjd>kxm>bfFkaGIyd#kuoibBwsmsGfv/oqe?bnL
eIjnnetlattls=jlfzezKlayIwd_kligtjsmuxLex=fxfcxjrtzsQnj^a

PMRWGXqNpsNms;fIjvjeEl.sush!rqubojrjpNHxi-fFigg 

Z1VEJX`VOXs)G=sq.buBwlusUzh/kK;
e9fbozKAauyeq@xDjgf	rvssQjd_AEubnnNlaBHef@CpsA}
eRbtgBwsmmtls=jlNcuywya8Fnz^xaapqyl|_
e1auyjwAa8Fnz^xf
e1adtfNla8Fnz^xf
eXfcxjrtfsHtx!hqikpirAixy,d#AF.++
e9jpfesDbRn
eNfiqswaa2txe, 
eUaykqDgoHNex=fIfffnFnaPCyl!ztfg}

e}FzgzFAa3UVY YfaVQZUOT!9SI!gzebCZVYF^f

YUSbQQ13F~tREmZQYVa)`ptsHtd_gFugt,ruf,ywd@frbpvfKAjvuqd)tmwgbtxguAyr
emmnbxzhmEtkp=AFaogeGBusIkd_EldcnqAuhn

e}Fzkyd




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe13 !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 7yAi/fFbnmeLvaFy.ddfIjnneOlfIo

IQMKCdVv.s3et/oFigg.rivMtDi:ftbxgeLofsAwe$kluqbhGutBxjv
eFicveLlbKMeh=fzpvbgwjpFyee!smo}

X1TCNN6K UOyd&gHfbKeFvuswfy|kluqbBwlqo

IQMKCdSzazIth!imvugeszaHHjd>uGmfbiwzjKy.d:nqsghtJlaPyjt8

X1TCNN6K 1Cxd<kDzbjfAyaBMes'fFigbiAztxGgp*tsaeqqGBsn

IQMKCd~vnxNmm+mlctqBFlssNme+fVvfcx\zaFuwv, likueCptLyxd@xq
eVvfcx\zaHQsd$numftjFb

X1TCNN6K 2.ej@oFi?bmAzaAunv!oEaqhesghHIid$uxpwt 

IQMKCdSuaxRhi-rqovbhGspNL,d,uGsbemwzuGOyd>gEagxjJguAyes+rKaeqqGBsn

X1TCNN6K THid&oEamkxKpoztnw!gEahwqDgpytxe+iFjvAeszaMBjd:uGdj
eAgbjtDFauLje%a

IQMKCdZlaAuyl!hAvijyrhaIunv!uraecxLgmBJxd=llEkcss?attsy+
eAgbynFAfK.xd|oEugtmGvesEnw|kEapqyrtpKyev^ruhkqzKszi
eFigbAwyzsChi!uraejfKAjMSem|fuobvmwt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd>nKafkirofsMBi@xligbBGBmwths_klujkxrtpKHnr" lbpf
eopogxrupMp

IQMKCd6hzmthi/zmjpnDlguAywi!oEapqeLyvMBem+ftjo}

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AlujksCgtHp

IQMKCd%ltitNd:nuombmwgjLtss:fmarkhC|qNLxi!tAsbc
etptuj	zuxuqi/ lcwvexvssBnw!BqskvDrposFtz^ lJbft
eFikpprojFtfw!iAoecAwgbLtfd$uHftgirnpuFjx!uDac
eIpto]whuxHer;zg

X1TCNN6K 7Iyd:xGfbksrspOya

IQMKCd%ltmtBl^tligbnKgjGjef;zlJbvmAulsBjd*yloqveAu?

X1TCNN6K ^Izd&gHfbjjsyesBnq!yIfctevvxGLnk&zligbBsz?

IQMKCd\4bL.em|fzpvb)Az;,tgi|opfu?eLofsIfx&fAgbceDvwxLem|
ezpbuyJvozywd:nmobvmwgxHLid=llbbvfHzuxL.d:nqzbcww
enpvjeLofswtr'oDngteGmayuqw^fDfemtFpozM dcklbvvjFkt
etftgeAuaMBjd'uDfuveGuaMBjd%AwfbAtMyayuyl^xg

X1TCNN6K 2tri:fFigbiMrfsSjw:kDecAesuesBfh!sGdjbvMltMCtr!Cuuj
etjo<ezlatMpi%fyfbqkrDitNet@xqovclwgJsQfw3fUavqqv
etjo?eGmatMek=upacuezl<sMtd&klmcwlzlesush!rqubojrnpn
eNvvbBzhusNfp)fIfbqkrmbMBjv| lxjgsrAixLjd*yltwemrh
eybpbfKgPKFfr%uh

IQMKCd7aaMBfxNylbbdwsCfsGfrHftfbywAAfLtgv@BqaxgwKltm
eEqgcpKgcKuAi!CAsfu	rzxxuww!hDbxgeGhuAMee+jlctgfCz
eFigoetybOyqC7fCvkvjrAstPjv|kfacvmOhsMtyl^ftfctyrvg
etjubqGCfKjee|fmarwnKuzsNnp:kD.bvmsAaLJzv|ftjubmGytx
envvbtFgpGyew*jq.bdwwhlLtmm|fEuchkrsjDyee!tAcng
espqujggcNNee-r/tbdwsCfsNme:fKpwvmrtpNHyw!gzebhtDsz
esvkfjKba$Btd$uyfubmwyfo

e}FpvjJgD8`NRY

I1SKPd5ptMLjw|fmofbrszuxL	d,uGajcAwgpyNem+wGjtgi
eMgvgwrAixtxl^vtftfeLobMths_vxbkp)vgpytqs<kf
e9iqbDGBaLuBd|oFukplrizsGjd=tlujgeLBsyn
e2sckxAuhsNmi!vDpwfevptwunr'AxaujjHofKxjw|
e6icveOhtsBnw!sutvtjKz?

IQMKCd#lmEnee+jlxjcyrvgsBnq9

I1SKPd1maRIzd>oxmbujwgbsJfk^gzubvwMszsJqe,-p.
eNfvyjwuaMBjd[gxfbetEwmxRns+fAgbvwMlaEIAi
eMofbyzlaKyid"rAxbqkrzdHLsd@tparttMkawCxh@oz.
eSpbjjFjfsuep*zFmgbfFka2txl@rxaeqsvBdMtDs; 
eUgbAtMgxBFqd_gDlbkym

X1TCNN6K 8neg=sq.bnjLgvLtwi_uHf<
e6igbxAniMttj!rAwgtxrmfxxjx&fFiqujrposFtz^a
eNskplrBtsNtd:nutbunyoumtfr%fKpwbxzhmEtxe,
eU"nneHypOyee!hGtAbfuApKtnr!ztfkteHsbRo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe@fBGIyl^xlqctyrvgsNmi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgT261MpYlbpfe8OFUY<

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg	rkpsHtx!yoptpeEl<sxtd+uF.bRmwifi
e5bAbyzhusSty!rAwgbrwgoHN	d#AFaucDrupMtxs
eUobdnLAfKHjw|alUjgeuvnFIsd^DqdwvnGufKn
e9iqujroftLyd:nqacehMzuHG)h!yuhjveGmawyfx&fybmgxrobKx	
eRbnnxrupMtyl^fmygbzHvosNmi!nGndnjvgoxwp
eNvvbkAytMtgi"ylqctiGu;sQnp-fKpwbxLlsGywd#k
e6icpezlaMBfx!jufubfFkaECAi|fnzbdqGveRtiv=vE}

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bEJ4PBmtfr%fOPTKSlgcxBnr%>

VTFDGd1gxHOqh!tAubdjrAiRtjB^iGukqswy;
eUahnDrAixy	d'uDaKbBGBmwtss:fuolwwwguAyj	
e6iqweLlmE.xx!sqavjjJlaBMeq;xpftbnFgnBHjd^Eq;
e/UkueHyfMND{!yGsg?esuesPjv,fBsqdftsfm
e6icvewFfLnex&gFactjrAixtkv@ox"uvesuesMtj:kEubvmAuhLn
e9iqbxzBusNmi*xldqyfJkazuyi|fAobcyGtjxM	
e5iqwqvgcxthe-r/ebvDJhoMM	d#AFdjgwKaaFOwh^xqsu#
eZpybNrkpszws>tlppbyzlfsQnx&fmmnbrQgixuwx3
eMofbnxgnBHjd^EqtbefFgxHOsh7fzpybqwAaMBjq!qumnbyzlfh
eZpybhGBoMywj^oFavqeKDpHH.d>nKapqBrmbEFeh=Cz<
e1sbkkrAiHOeg@tEubptLaa8nej=xltjcrwaayIwd|nmng?
eXjgbsGA.sNtd|gKaokswgfRyxd@xqaowwvlsxLx%
eZpybxzvxsNmi!CAvpfeEpoxtjC^ftbvjeEhextnr!ztfg<
e5dtcyuoaMBji!hGubynLoattum+ lbpfeLofKyev^smjpu
e5pogeKjbKttj!oF<bnjsuauOyd;vAobceJBtAn
e6igbhAjbMLng^fmofbhswbuFjd*sBsguxMyf
e6iAbussnsMtq^fypogsLglxyuw3fnvvbsGDaFCsi!kKfu?
e9ikemrPaAuAi!jmsvgirhusNmi^ liwtyrAixyer=zf
eZpt?e1gbFtxy/kfavjjJlaBMer=frptejrposyDi|
e6icveuhosxtd&ADu}

YUMXKZ~fasted!flabbergasteS!jqbtbUzlcxn
eUgbgAwy. afw!ztbvbjNlssGfC!hqapgfJa_ 
e~pwbrwlusCsd|uyfbhwwziswmi^qlujgeHvxxLes'frbpeDl
e6igpeKobEFeC=AllpqBrAixtBs;tptbksNptBvqi
e6icveDvwx.xd)kqobcwJvxLtre)kg

VTFDGdTBusNnp-fFicveLpnx
eOpogeFvusNms;fzfcteEl;sush!CtfpbyzhusNnq^fopogxl
eMghnnuAaFyeA*ztavjDrtpvEx{!vuuAbrwgoHN.
eMtbvnDsaMBfx!zungbNrzitFqd+uFarkyQguAyj	

X1TCNN6K THid>nK.bKeHybRtDs;blXjqeEphANef^fKpwteEvuAyw{
e6icveQvvsCsw;rF.bgCMsumtfr%fmmnbfLgpGwj{
e1wgteLofsQwi:itff{e#obMtyl=AsibAtMgitPjd+ulcgczLF. a
eMt?bgQgnRtke*zt.bKeKlfsHtd_uDfbksrFpN
e6icpeOpuAIzx!imofnjrtbRtls!jmsmbyGgcxx][
eYvuveQvvsvjd:nqsghtJlaILty%fmofbuAAjEyxw9
e9iA?eOobMtri@tEavjnKca$BDd%ulzqweDvpDttr!sq}
eUaugjrupsGtv^fuobAtMguAusd*tlujgeGyeBHfv,
e1gbpfLBsx.xd|gxf+ytJr?s.ThNylnAbqAAuEyep*lq.
eUavjnFraLBjd_kmoubyGgutHlp^fyzbgDwzaMIt%
eZp?bkspuAnet/uGebonKAsxMx{!nAqgbsGAatzyi/fuu<
e/UkueFvusSty/fuomAetypPM	d,uGsbdqsjlsMnp)ftbkt	
e~pwtetBhEyei,knbnnxlgoHLeC=ADaejjwraHzeg/kmn?
e6icveuhosysx@sqaoAeKwjKCyw!zAaAqzJgxHLxl*vg
e~pwbkGvmBMmd|nqqjgwvaaPBjv^lAsgbiGgzHOej=rxpybmwy.
eXjmgexvhzSew=AFibrzxmjGAeA*ztayksvgbGxev@oz}
e~pwbfJlattyl=AEbpfeLpnxMee!vDprgwwyaFus
e6icpeKofsueA=smo<b)LptsMzg&frpqnxrhtsSty
e6icveEhlxMex&klxqtqvggNFqd=lljnn]xhwHOw(%foikniJloh
e/UkueFvusBjv!mxbuu	rivMtDs; lujcyrmmtNyi/yligt.
eMofbtMAaHzeC=AltjgeKlfLtmi/yqmhbrGyfsJws[kD
e6icpesuzsIkd&kDankswhnxHyw!imobumGDaAyw	
eNvv?eEptMLjw| llpqBrFpNLxi-laafqBFgpGtDs;xllpgjKa
eMofbyzhoDtmi@Bqo?bkszuBHl{!lAsbceyvpwtre+-EanqAw?
eRptbNrtvLNex^rxaAqzrmsBysh-EljpbDGBssyfv7
e5fnneOofGtDs;fobp<eQvvsuwi!tAubhtJgbEFeq@xwfvu,
eOsAbyzlaFusd_kDdA>eDvwxtmm_?lucmjrojLttj'kD;
eRpwneAzaFIxx!lAvn?etljGAej=Axavqetlattxg=lrft}
e5pbvfClaAywd:ulujgjlgtAyul^xp;bhfJlaRIzd>kxm}

VTFDGd~DfxNeC=AFi?bNrwstSeC=AfaejnvlattDi@xluqijLofKi
eUajcirybMBjv!nqbtbDGBavBnh^fFicpeLojLtre+fIpq}

X1TCNN6K 1y)w!lmmngsrposFtz^fIjvjeQvvKtks;rzfuuesuesMmiNrx
erbnneAuaEIAi!CuujbrQgbGAjv8fUgbkyrifsMt{!gEahcxLgbL
eEigbfFzxxLxd:nqfbynLoayLtA+ozhbntGrtmtN(-rltcwhwgixL
eIjvjetpuMywd>uDeu}e#ozsFts)fKpwbxGgvIIsd_kh

VTFDGdXvssHtd*rxaykqDgJsvje/fKpw}

X1TCNN6K 2tuv@Elzqw	rkpsHtx!lmmnbnFgmHPjd>oFibojl
eRptbNrhnszfp|kDavjfFgwHQxd_gpfbksrDjGy,
eNfukiwz.s3ep*qqaAqzrupMoeM'fKpwbBAsmsEss>fyzbjtMzfm
e/UkuesAaMBjd:ArubqkrvmBPjw!nqsgbmsyesvD	
e9jnneQvvsAt{!yutvgwngTAyul^xp.brqQgixLel@xp?
eOpog	rzjLNjv8f5igrmwyexMx{!rApmbtFgiBGef^zFft?
eMofbgwgoHNet/uGe<byzvvzBee-rlujgeOvsExeg=Axebujwa
eZppgeuvvExef^fEpbcgMzfwtnr!yuhjveszaAy 
eOpog	rApsIzv!lxpem 

e}FzgzFAa~9XEgOZE?bHWSJTtfr%fOPTKSd

VTFDGdVlbwtXl^vtftf	rupPtNd'ozebvmQgttQes'fyjijyl
e/XjqewCfKtqs<kpavjfLgmHPjh!tAubcyrmjKMyd|osiv{)

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg		|

VTFDGdrgasted!flabbergas2f{!CtbvbxsF"LNex&uG.bUnDCjNMa

YUMXKZ~fTPyjx!Vtfdg	rwjMSeq^a

VTFDGd#ozmtNd@sltqtwQggHLex&kq.bijFAmxtXm-Buvu}

YUMXKZ~fXAywi<kDauqwJvxsCx{!xqmkgkrDpNFid#ka
eUgbAtMgeHtxs/xAxbcyrtzsAwm^lljpbqGCfm
eNzbinNpoztqs<klzqwwrzpKLtA!gzeboDrnsByk
e9ftgetvuAtjB:kDnkpjvb

VTFDGd`opNtme|zlnAbqGCfhtnw!tAubvmsAaGynk&hAvtnDn

YUMXKZ~fJsQty-jlicxjrFpNo

VTFDGdrgasted!flabbergas%mC7fFicveOlsxths<kFpwuswztn
e5jnxnMz.sNmi!zungbBszaMBfx!OlicvjvguAyj{
eMofbDwAaBNem|fzpvbyzhus3ef^gDavjjwgmHPj,
eNvvbxAudxtyl@zlujqzrjbGMyd:gxlbqkrspOyew=fIfnn	
e6iAbhGtqtHD{!CtjejewytMtBe|fusmutElaMIeq^ 
eUaykqDgfGxzv^ lbpfe1_mEtjq[rAzbvmwlaMIt\
eNvvbiGgoHNep=uwahqwrmvKNmi/fDfeqrHloLy
e6icpeLojGyes>tlhnciFltLtyl@zlujqzrhsMtjq[rAz&f 

YUMXKZ~fTHtms-ElbpfeKvaIywj^iFakueEFaEIAi7
eMofbNrposMzg&fmarqAwyuRttj!mDbeg	
e6icve1gtAuqp!ztjpmeAAattrs|zlqngsLlpNMeg/uB
e6pbiqwhosNmi!hDpmgsrlbKMee'zqsbvmwgntH
e6icveLofsGfm+ftbtxjKAaKyft|.lmqqxwgoHQee+jlujgs
eMauefLAfK.id|sumg?esuesNme:fU"nneDpwxtzt=tg

VTFDGd3upP.xx!tAxbvmwgzHOyl!ztbvbxHvlxtys!sqagtjOojEya

YUMXKZ~fOHNez^xKaygqDaauOyddftbxgeElusBnq!uru>
eMofbmwgitNmd#uGhjveLofswtx:gsfbcsvguAyef=Azeu
e6icveLofsIqh!imsnqyrvovyeA@ylncuywyaHz 

VTFDGd`ojGEer=zlJbntNlaACr{!ztpwimrPatMpd'uDajkrg
e/UkuetBusuet^kHjujetvzitDi:ftfbvfDrtsQjp-?
eNvvbBzhuswfv^fUahqwrDpKxx !EqubytJktsxtd>kxm
e9igpezlaMBfx!yBfcmxrAixGet-kmtgueLopLyex&gFajgfJb
eUubkxrhaILjx:Elzqwyz?aGIyd<kDzbrwwAuRi
eNvv?eKBsxnel^-EarttMk.sush!EqubjnKgqKCii!hqdqojKgiBG,
eTf&nqrtbDyee!vDprgwrtbGiex&klcguyrAiBHld*tliko
eUtbjnKgdHGup^Dupp>esueszfw:kDavjfFgiBMex=tsvg
ePjfbrsrfsIkj^tofbjnKgfRyeh*jligcqrpusOu	
eTfbkxrupMtAi/ElucnqhgzxNej=xlikueQlbKMel^-EavcqD?
eTjubqwnaBMef;zltqbxG}atHid,kFa&vnKgxxFq\
e6igtjrDbLtfd[xquvAeJleGyxw!ozajkxrsjIn
eMankyLsfsLnt^xlbpfeEvsxtqy|zKatgi
e6icpeLobMtrm\-pakpezptswmi^qba&vBszaCOxx!ztfbfnxmfKysg^
eNfvyjwuaMBjd$uztvcsLgsxxee+jlnkplDlesxfq@yw?
e6igtjrifsMtq^fIpogslgTBFAm;yfajcirAixSeq@xw"fbmAt
eUobrfJjfEMee|fUafkilgxHOqh!nmwgblGufsHje/
e6pbhfDsaBHep=BqaykyzgiBG.d#AF.bhtJgnRtue/zf
eUanqAwgiBGer=zloqtezhuxtmm_fzpv>esuesSjx
eUajcAwgnHLjd$gGtgbyGgitNjd&oyavjfFguHtqs<kliko,
eRptbBzhusBfh!nqavqevvaMIeg&opfbcyrtfo
eTfbufAkaFCsi!kKfubBwyfsvqe$qlbpfeEFaAunv!hxbem,
eMof?eFvxs3ee_fDfogrtls,x	d|iAsp&irhusGj\
eUaocwNlmsQmC!OlbpuBwy"wtss:fmhcksg
eNvvbyzhu,Mee-rlppg.rvnBNye+iqakueFvaJOnx:gzdg}
eU"nneOyjMyex=ftjobfrCfKSex@AzukplrsfMNjv7
eMofbyzvvsMme-zlcgcwrpuhtBm-zlujqzlgTBFAm;yh

YUMXKZ~fQAygi7fIjvjessmsGDd&kmsv}

VTFDGd1_mEtBv*zqakveKAstCll:?
e6igbrsAuxL)w!ozaoAezlbwtfr%fuoboDroftLy\
eUaykqDgcxtgm:zqsbynLoaACrd@tparcxKpoztxl=xF?
eSpbynLoaFy	dnoxwkwxm

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1fUAyej=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bEJ4PBmtfr%fVBSWJ~
