
	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the e#vsDMms[
tqwgteDvtMtxm"nFaqheLofsJzv[uEfubfFkaNMjw!uragnjuAsHHng!BqsuktFzaHz
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt}beSzaGIyi%fmcqxjlguAIxi!ozugtjKAfwtnr!oybiksygeBMhy|yqe
ztfbrwGimxGfx*immbofLAfKttj!juhkvfDgqKyxi/BmukqslgxACqi!ztfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuu
jqtetntlesBtA!smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLzavusd#klvugirposLjw^gDdj}er1iBMep@zFft
zAqkeeJldxCAi%fFiqttMnisNwi@zyfpveAuaMBjd[gBftbwwhesvDd?BDbbONUOF5!TR8
Ytfbrqsjfwtyl^fBigptEloHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbynLojGtyl^foppvjPAaHz
hDpcfjJguKysh|fuobksxvsFuym=tlugemFvmHADd@tpauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIs	

GyppieGAixLex&ozhu?e5PD1YQWjTleguhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%
ztfbqwAnjGttj!ztfbYtJrtAIud=tlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFgbswtr<kDtcvnGuaAyel@j
nmebetFzjwywe#rKaoqwwguAusd@fKfctesnpsQnx&fObtneXSF2!HLcG7FTbhGudxLsm+m
yAngbtxguAyem|yGfubksjfwtgC!GY?bbTFguAyee|yGnrvnGuaMBfx!tGngttMzaHNmi/
vqprnjrDfKyee|quoibyzlaLuri!wGfuvnGutmtyl^fpfekxAvosQfw!smegbyGgcKCsk
zAhgvmwyatMeq@tKaqheLofLyet^uBmgbfKgqHMxm#rqavqeszlsNmi!ymngbvMltMCtr|
zAhgvmwy?stNr!glegguwyaLysw^ lHKHK7YEsMfm% lujgeGyjzCsd=llujge#vsDMms[
rmzbksrAixtii|oDfbqkrAixthy/xqovbQAistLne+fAgbEtFnsxMx{!PmngueZb
HumnksyApGnex=fybmgeLofswtp-koukqsKgpytyl^fXjdtfJF.syxt^iubnnDrAiHMj
urggtnFnaNHnu;klptbzFBtNuqd:kEukotFFaHHee|vqdvueGmaMBjd?sqskefF
kJqgtnwudxnee<gumcdqwguHtfd_Aoibynvlsswnv$rqaqheMzfKMex&gzavjtKlayyB
vqprnjrDiHthe+fopogeLva$uxl*tsuqpeLvaNMjd:nqn}be`ojLtri@tFavjfLguAy
kyqjcxAzaHzeEh lgtqrrAixtty:yqu?bmszauyjr!uzacthzpwtFeg=rxfevnGutsIkd:nq
hmtkeeEhuxLne- lbpfeGuaFupm+mlujgxwgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kEacxfAsbuFj{
xmujgwrAitHew^rqdvgirvssBje<oxzbgiAAfwtuv=jGdvu 

LDpobF5_tsyrt&gEjubkGsmHQjh!ztfbszwzuBIsw!CuujbBzpdAtyl^f9ptmxzvqsvjk@ta
CtpbynDsaNMjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp| lbpfeAuaPBfx!lAsobBAsmsNmi,fIjujeLvaNMj
ztfo}erIvMtfr!kHfpbqsyhxLem|yGfbfjKlsOCsk!sqovktFaaBHeKdLRPTF)KgwByB{!Cmt
ztfbrmwupFyse-fssqyyzgjGtNr:kDogveuvoGyhx*BuuA}erOfsyCt/kEtgfeLofsBtt^
ztbvbyzlaILtw[koubqkrnsxuyi/fuovgwuvoGyhx^jzfuueLobGtjz^xlcghtJlaPIzp%
rqbfbyG?as&[d_AoibotJlavItt^xmukxjrhowtry:AmmnAeKBqIIwx*BqagpiwhwHLx,!8>
jqwgntHtfGNes'fEzuvjEzaHzew&gDffbfFkawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyAltsNt
gHpkfevBqEChe:oAobcsvguHtjr|ADfbchuBstwDd@tpartjKlsOuym=tlphbzFprNy
smugtnsstitfr%f#-bclJlfFysx!uzavjjrufvyxw@xKauvfFkbKxxd@tpafgAwspIGjr:fAg
ztfbcuHypILne:klektjuApKCjw!gzebksvpdxMex=fybmgeFhwBAfx*uz
yFscklzAgHLBe/jlboqsyguAyez@xuffbwwzpNLhi|fFicvesyfmtfr%fuoetjszjGAqC
CumnbgwaatPfm-gnmg}erPosNmm|fopppjuAjHH	dbORGQTIryfJOjw:kpavjfL
vmsvkhAwbGNxd/krmgeyrmsHGex&klpwvxwAaNJtr!ztfbutJAtsIkd=AFdqojKguAyD
ztpwimLguAye1=xwtjqurtjzByd&gHf}beVpesNms|klqtgxwuuswtr|zuuwvjrhazLty[
CuujbxMmgBwni+zldqorGuaBHyi/kEuubyGgqKIus|klbbpjPAaLNjt!uDapgCLgtMyuw7
gzebkkrzpmtBl@zlnkimLguAIxi!hq}bbYzlzsQty-jlsgvzJuaMIex&kEfbszwzuBIsw!ztf
lAmnqBAuhsukx^xzpqp 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfOptgeGma$Iwo|nAqbetFjfKHxd[xqqctfLppGtfr%fBsqfzuAjHHes'
smugtnssts{eW[kojcneuobEFjr"kljpbhGuwxLxm=tlphbywEuNuqd_gFftkfDza}
WGbnkyQgwxLxy|fCvcpyAAzs{eH=fFigbxwCfKuqd"xAvrueJlqKyxi+zqebumsyfswtq_uz
ozugtjKAtot+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
kyqjcxAGfwtyl@zligbBGBmwtfx:kyqvbyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgqxIup^fIiqbuwygHLrd|uyf
uravjjrDpKEes'foppxjJAjGAes/fBsgrfJpozteq@zqskcqKgbGxex&gFavjjrjpKyes'
ztfbYtJrtAIud&gpavqevvaPCyl!vDfrcwsAjHHee+jlqtqiMjuBIs	!fRMGKXUOIT#JV
ztfpbiJlxsueh*yFjpeyAvosvjx>kqobvmwgmHHld:kDn?bBzlosGfr,fFikplKgxHOqh!hq
gHbknftsfsush!iAopghLlesCsd:nqaycDKguAuydbORGQTIrkfLwwm#kp.bcsvguAyew&uDu
zqso?eAuaPBng&fMNbptLgpGFDd&gEaytjKAmxxeA*ztavjjrptLOjd=llxjcyrptsNmi
hqtvbhGBsLyex=fBvtuzwgcNNee-yAajcxrmbvyid@fHbtkjLFaHzex^itokefD
itbnnjFnfLo

LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kybtmjvgB6.xd^tpfcxtJzaMIeh^gxaykyzgbsQnh^fDbpijrvgsFnf/gDz
lAsocyKaaLOhl!gEaoqyAvosJng:ADfbetDsfvNns+yfauqzFk_Kyhs/juoibhGsmxwym=tE.
gzebrnuApKCfp!iAmnghLppGMes'fHbtktMzaLIwx| lfurjupbEFDd$uxmgeyAvoLttj
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzavjjrjpNLxi!uravjjKlaxzks/zE.bCRrrfINeg=suoibgsjlsNt
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt++rsuvLwwm[zEaqteJhsxtuv*tFffbrsAuxL	d#uGofbrsAfKCfp| 
kFd}be`lyMtus|kpavjjrnsxuyi|zldqpAwytBIsd$nmmngsylaHzee-rgabVmMz.sNmi
mqogunKgpytyl^f9ptmxzvqmtBl*itatgkDldMMex&klqtqgDlnLtke$kpadAeST?stYl^yq
vDpdnjEzaBHhp;jqarjDKpdtFet/unmgoxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlguAIxi!ozavjjrsjuLfv,
gzebcwuojOyef;yuoguxrkftFeA*ztaeqqDldMCtr|fybfgeMwaHzej/gsjngesuesLfv^
smowuhJpqMtnx^sE.bdtMuesGfx^xubnu	rltIyhm@rxzbvmwgoHNtv*uGtnAetyjMNqi
hAvpfeEhuxLne-ylphbyzlaEuyi!tuogvjwuuAthi+zGsA}er1ixMjd@xqartjuppNM
iGmvwwssatLym'gouu?ezvxxPjv7fmtbyjDsatMem+zqsguyAuhsMty/iqtbqk
ozgqtrsAjHH	d@tpaNEevltBLjw!zAatgysposush!iAougwNlaMBjq8flBObswleLtys
nmofnjrAiBHlw!CuujqzLgetGfk*tsavjjEbas1zm-rAukpnFnattgs=qluqbwMuaBN
ztsqwlzgbsMmi^zlgggiwyaFOxx!hqacxtAkfwtfx!gxmbetKAtn

HqzqpirwiRMng@rlqtqgDlnLnem|yGfubuwyutCsm+mluqbvMhmBNDd@xAtg}erMpK
kJborqwaaMBjd%kEjtgeLvaILtz*jqawujJzaPCyl!gltgcwuobuFjd:kJubkxrhgyyhx^j
hKavjjrxvxMym=tlphbfujfINff-klmgxjDgpytfg$ADbeA rgPGyel;tpsgfeHlsvysx
godwtfuFaBMex/kyfpftMzmRtjB[kztkxjmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbqzLwvMttj
uBukefDgdAuwe$zqsbtjuvhGCym=tl)QEW{gdtHef^fFsgojFkpNMqC!ozbeezJhuxo
GxujqzyoaT7el@ylbvvjEwuxxex=frjpfesgnBxip^fssqwsvaaNHhi/zmjpvDrwfKMnw:y
gEavqeOofMBjv!uDapqyrpusBfw!juteqAwyfwtyl^fDjijyrzpEOym=tg

WGfuvnGutsIkd]AmmkvDrhsHMjd$uzdgtsAuhsCre"kEacueOlmEoedaRQJUEMZHVX`
iAovtfKAfwtyl^fqyvtjElmRtmm"nlmgxjDgpytvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyxd*t
ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybRwGqfvNeA*ztaCO)Kgfyztv:yluqbuJvwBxjd@fnsqyxw|rNuqm:E
uDacehwzt Kze-oFzbkrsnfmtfw!uBqqujvguHtfr!gDdjkAssaHLet/kEftxfLppGtnq@mq?
LXFKUHZOB@YWd:nqsghtJlaPyqg=sqebvmwgpIJtv:AzjvAeLvavIrt@xqapqywz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd=hEftxjvgjGtue|yuoibyzhuswtr<kDtcvnGutsBjd&gpajcirhcHOy
tquyqwCzaAuAi!hqhwpeLvaLClr@rlujcyrmpKtAe/oAvubkGynLttj!sqekces
jqugtrAubMCtr!smzbdjrtbwyex&gFavjjJlaBMee!hDpyuj	xvtFnx,fuugo	rvssu
jutvtntBuBIs[@tp_cehwzt Kze-oFzbkywtaMBfx!smzbetwEjLNem+fEpogeKFtMyrw
CuujbfrojzBjv!wGbnkyQgbKwmm<gxakvjEguAuyd>uGmfbgwgjGwtr<kzjgpyrApsMjr%
ztsqwlzguAyer^zIptmetldtOxi!urakvxrzjSy d!LXFKUHZOB@YWd/krfttjvaaHz
iAvtujlguHtnq@mqtbotJlaMBfr!zAaugfJjitvqi!zqyv}

GEaCOeuvoLCii/kpavjtKlaJOjw:oAou?eKlwxLfp!iAoeguLBbEtnw|AqtbcwGzfhtes;mtu
GYaqehszjHHfp-EluqbwwwsHxzg^fybvgwAhmLtjr:oDfnAeLosHOll!gzakofylaLyy{!gF
uFigteLpnxM	d^tFjtgqQguALty"nlbbvjPAaLyy{!gzebksrzpFyeg@yqt?bfrtjQp
ZtftgeHypuugp,fIpwnirifsNnq^ylxjgsrAixtmm|zAskefDgbNNmi+zudkvDrvgsus
gDukhfuAaPIzp%fDfswnJlaMBfx!oFtbkrsnfsvjd;yqe}beSuaBGfk^fyjijyrif
jqtktftsfsuxd@fDfeqzJzfsztv!AEftueAmaHHjd$uGmfbsGAaILtz*jqa3`#	wfKwjr:
godwtfLlaMyCx8flBicnFaaT7eA=tpftgilgbLtfd[xmdvkhssaFuyx^xfakhes
jutvksuAjHHeg=AxebdjrkstQsd#kFxggsrybKyet/ozugfeEhuMywd:nmubonyousyCm|z
ozaowqLpqEyeg=rxfevnGut ayl@zlju?eAuaMysd=xlgkhywlosFnf/gDjgu rgJGtxy$n
imtgu	rAixtsi^jlgqteHlsyyhx!xqqtqiMjuBIsd>uGmfbgwgmxMxd:nmobhtJgvGCvy^
oFfou rgJFJqm$oFakpezptsLjq@xwt?bK4LJ`WML?1QSbetFjfwyi{!CmtbvmwgbwGnw|oAo
ztbvbF5gitMef^kzavkqLpoztxx/uzhnAeLvxtLiw!wGbpvnLFatHid%xmxkplribvEee
ruuvnjrmsHGet^xrfeveIBbECyC8flUjcyrptmtnx!yqfogirApsURd:nmubutupfMSeA=Axe
hqadgyLlssMjv<kpakheEvsxtyl*tstbyjJlawCxx/onvvgirizs6H[TkHfpbnxguAyDd>kDf
tAubszAAfsJjv'kou++yzhosCkd'kIftbyzpozM	d[kDggeyDFaKyuv^yqovgilgxxLj
jutvtntBuxx d!ZtjubBszaLNfx^jlbubfrwsHJtw*zuppbyGgcxtyi|zqe?bBAAi
xqtrqsKltsNtd#klhcvmwyfwtkv=slvugwKb

OzavjnFrjGAee#uGubkxKBfLtwi-gFffbyGgsxJws%AoukqsrvgsGfx^xubnuesuesMji*ts
uFigteHlpIFjd^tsbigirposJfv@rxfnbfuAjOCym^yfaCOevlfFyid*zlvugkMsaMI
iAoxgswgbswtr'kDfpejmga1ysg^ lujge#vsDMms[alaHNJ1ZD12FY XlujgwwBqHH
yGsxgDwkaMBjd|kHftcqrnsHOuw!xqqtgxwuuxx,d!7>avjjrDpKFid=lljoclwza{Cre"k
AEftuesuesCre"klncmjJz-it7=!ztfbytJsesIkd:kJubcsvgtvBtp@xEikresuemtBm:nuo
ztjublJvvInex&uEfbetFjfKHjh!CuujbqsuhNuliT/RMGKXUOIT#JV!iAohgxKlesNtd'ozekpl
jqmkimLmvEtnv=tKakpeLofszfg:fFicveKvnxttj!ztfbotKAatxAe+iqebvmAulxLxd=t
iAnrwywyjSyid:kJuubfJlaMBtw^fpfcnnFnaPCyl!gzdkgsLgHKyjo!gzebTtEhosGfx^xubnu.
9>avjjrufMQtv)fIptnihgbGxe8SfFigblwufKuqd>uDmfbtxgmBvwe/EltekjFjfmtBl*it
ozdnwiwzaIytt-kljpvjJltMyid*tlqtgxwywtNns+fmofbhsAbEIlm+mg

LXFKUHZOB@YWd$uzdnwiwkaACxd/kybtmxrDjMBew[kojcneLobGExd:ulujgeVhwBxee+j
RGdknjrWbvEfv%fRpwpisAjHHej=xljvueKBqIIwx!uravjjrtfxNnr" lujgeStfKChe+
SqnqtDrnsHOu{!ztfbQkxpdxtks/f5djqqsymRtUv=mDbou	rAixtSe:oAocn
JqnqpxLybMCtr!Rmc?bfFkaMBjdjlrjegeGma`Jjg*gxaGxjFAtnteL^fqyrtjKzfwtyl^
nAqgbyzhusXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDebonyousvjd@hxfbvtrhuMysh7fzpvksyguAuy
Vmdmcwv_tsQtv)fmofbyzlaPIwo!uravjjrmpNHie:oAobjfvgtIIsw=xqebceFBnuywd=l
vDplghLzaBHex&klugzyrhsxu 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJnteGjT6FPVe1UaTtSIrfRPTO,rga$2TdrOXMbWXWgJ!tFR	f9ICVe#PM5tYL 5lEQ{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JMM1b+rHdDHtA-kphgojFAts{eE!tqxbNfLposuzx&uDtbfnKra}teI'lqdvueGmaMBjd+kI
zqdjptDvhRttr!vDfxktMzaFyyl=jEaqheJltxuwg&f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqsxksygbLtrs%kDbvqwlgKtGjw!JMM1bfuroHQqi%mqebvmwghxHjv=yuuAbtxgbEFex&k
vDfugsLlsLtks/fsjxksygpytyl^oDavkrwaavIzr|kx.bcsvgqtNni+iqakpeHsbGHnr"
ztfbYtJrtAIu{!gEaygqDgbLttj!sqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKarttBldMtfr%
uFigte4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMew:grg?bfFkaMBjd	gHjfbfFka5Ohm-klQcepsye
LAvpffLppGtfr%fuuubjPldNNnz^fpjtghLvsmtHs-hGspbXmgXBFgy/a

JMM1byzlosLjg=AzugfezptsPnw*zljpbRsydAtys!ztfbEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
ozavjjrOvFusm:oqtb-HW1I	tfr%fFigbIwwbKNri+zlphbHDhtLChw!gFaTwyylsL
1zjxgwKpuRneA&kDfbcsrvmwtkv*kze?bQGDfEFeI%sGofu	rpoMLth;iqebjnEguHtyl^
jqqctyEloM.xddH~DWUeKjiHFfv-ElqgtxGubEths_vGugt	rhownem+fBbtvnuBmtL	d:nq
tqxbNfLposWI[mUY.betFAbBHnr" lboqsygpMBjv!ztjpixlgbEGtw:fmmnbhDhtLChe-
RmukpeDpuxLfv,fFfzvxrAiKIzk&fM?F}e"%~nteT@iwbtfeZBntHnx*kEaKpxLpuNNj
[2IK_	rSpLtFp:uE.bEfDpgHLsm@ lsgnjszfwtyl*ylekuprsbMyem+f!0~3	rDjMBee
tAnkpfDguKCjr+ommbnnuloLCsk!lqf}

VxbAksygxBNmd:nqafkxCggHLee+ftpwteGyaLIee:f4vvijJzauLty"nFajqrwguHtIEg5
gFaqphwguAyev^BAmwvnGujSCsk!oyqceyrvgsNmi!tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AE
squjqiKgpytwi|kmsej rgItxex&oEafkxCgcxysd@BmjncgDlaMQtd=xlujtjwgzxuww
kmsnkjJaaWUQ3!iAovgsvlemtBl^tligbBszaxHle"kpakpeHyfIuwm+mlbbetEtfGNfv,fAo
HApmb6=gpyt1m/mum&ueSloxCid'uDaEcrtyjwAjdptuwgtxAAzs0wi|yfajgeOvvExer=z
nmwgbwwxvBLjh!glgqtyQ|fBAmxTyCvctj	mpHNex@hxfbqsrDiBwmd:ultrtjskaMBj
tGngttMz.sGtw:frsgszwuuESeg=tEvnvjvgjMyrw7fuoenzvpoztxs_klugpeGyaMQjp<k
iAoeqwvhovyxd:ullgAe4huBHee;ztptu	rhosuqq=yFagszssaGOrf^xlphbqwEjvuex=
gGujqwKgxAIep@iwffbhGudHLie+iqt?bfFkaPBjv^fqjvjjJgmxRng@fAsbetFjpKxfr$kE
CqsgbqsjlBHl{!tGngttMzaxxnx*uztbqkrhvMBtv|fmovgisAjGAee+jlqquyvhuBHldqoDhkn 

TAs?bBzloswmi$quoibjsjisIkd:nqacxjJhhxtxm\fFpbujNlosQtv%yldqpyspoxxem+
ztfbXnJnjECfr!nqycojLlssztv!oFtbwxsnfsyqw^CtftgeAua#Cwk*r/tbytJrtsIw
uFigte4huBHee;ztptu	rDpNFid	GXZbjfNlaAuid:ulncksLhjGtyl^fxbdqwAvvL
sqdjcsAjbEtuv=iqtubtxggECut*tsavjwGBhAtyl^yqaeqsuvswusg^yfangCAjbmtfr%
kpjvktFzaxuhl!zung}erUpKtBs;rpajgezhwxtme%fFpbhwwxvxHyd@ylphvjFguAy
SumvqsrZ?sYnw^ttpygwrSjuLfv,fmubvmwgKHBsw!NAqmksKgVGCAi/yuuAbyGgdHHxy-z
ztfbVmwzbNLzw!RuoiwfwgMtNnr@kgabKsKAftxes'fpfxqyAuhswty+zxfuuezvvKM	d=x
ztfbdzDraHzel*ylsgujsydAtym_kfavqeyhuAywm+mlecvfrjpGwjv+ozhbXnJnjE.xd;yq
urayqwvz.sXFPt/\oqyexyfxxef,f2IK&xrSbMCsd@AFiqtxrkjLEej/uyavjj
zKscpsAjbEneC^zljpbxGtfsQfC|fBbtciGEjvuqp,ftbrrDrzdAIqe/rKaftzvnfKS][
CAvnfezhwxtgi^tlbdnjrApsxjz=zqavjfLgttGjd#AxlbqkrAjFyex=fmocnDRpoztfr%
ozugtuJluBHldqoDhknnsuaOywf@rlvuclwb

Iuukplr1ixIis/klCtwsFlsmtLv^mAsAbHJhoxneI-ruaO1Q7UB`nee+jlBxtfrTJV2JPnUZ.
JMM1bfJnvxxex&gFavjnKgsxPjv|gxakpezptsMyC-klphbBGylmtre%klqquxAimxtgC!ztf
tqxbvjuooHFtk, lxqwqvgqxLme[ylicxjryfLOqx^jljpbgwAuxL	d_uDfbrwGkvvNnz^
xqtgcwuo?stNr%kqe?bjNlosCsd:nqaeqzJzfsIkd&oEadttOzjGAex&klMcvnFgbNNms/y
jutmbfLgSNNli/yfakvxrwpPywj;rltgcwuo.sLjx/oqwcn	rhowtmm"nxjijyAuh
imqcdnDpuByxd|AshguywkaMIel*sltgxjJhmsHjA!gHfpwjKgpytwi|kmsejeAuuH
2usikq\zaNMjd=lltqwsvgfyzjg:ygabVmAzatHjg%uFbnbfujpNHy{!JMM1brspoMunr^jf
smzbujJCfsNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgtNxii+fmofbwskjvuqd:xmouhtJtbMCtr
hqjpieOypNAmx!ozavjjrDbRMew$nAmctxrDpKE
