+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and eyCx^tFaqheLofBLey|k
CAvnfezhwxtys!CmjvbzFAjEtsi\zlzgcwm

GEavqeLofswme+mqtbumwgttQes$iGstksygbMtyl^fZbvktFhmsUwg&oHfubfFka~yhs/jE
GpnkpnKAstNns+f<OCTF{gbLtfd/kEvnveGmaMBjd*tosgcxAuhsyrt&gEjubtF
zqdjptDvhRtnr!yoiqnfJszsLjw^gDdj?e5PD1YQWjTltvcywkaMBfx!TMSCbfLguACx
vAjpveOhtsugw=xnjpieLofsLjt=xFadAezlssush!PqghbWGAixHgi/mlbffwwztBHl
yFscvjypfLtks/fFigbfJjiBPfp!vDphgxKppGtnr!mqogtfDaatFyl=AsibptLggHLex&k
TmukqsssaTLhl*BqtbuuwjjyChe-rK?bbSSYBsCxd(AEubdjypoGCsk!zAaguysimBMmd*zE
xAmgbfFkaPBfx!oFaecsrkpnteM+fFftoxrvgswme+mqtbcsvgjGCym@zuwgueLobMtSEmG
imobvfCl.sHtd$rqbtbwwzqHHxi!iAvnfetlazCAi+fmubvmAzaMCri8

M4FGPK1LMWtwi_gDlgfeLDpsNwi+jEaogsLppGyid*tlujgeKltLCtr8flSghqwjuBHld=t
JMM1&xrvqxHnr"fopoojFAtsIsd&uIajgeuvvExel@Bqawujvgbs6fx*tldqnqwjuBIsd=l
zqyvbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLr{!nqaucnvguAuyd@zlgktxLgixtyl=AsivbrGzusMhl=rmsu
CAvnfetlaNHBm-ruoibyGgeHtyl@zgabDzLgbLtmi!ztpwimLgpytyl@zljpbywynLttj!ztf
uDjiksssaFyfr*tsaqheJltxuwg&/\ujcyrptmtme<ozhbcqJlbwSeq@yFftgirAixMjd:kJuu?
xqtgcwuojGAex&kyahqwrjsBNng@rlbpfeuvnIuwe:oHfbrzJwpLyx[TlAsbvmwggBLxx!zung?
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$frptofLgntxjd@fxpvbtxgtxHxi8flHTGJ6MJX6Id$uGmfbjFCjLCtr
mDpyksygoNGgi/ylphbxuopEuww!rqbtpnFnaMBjd+kIavghzupEIlm^ylgqteLobMtAi/E
gEqgeyrvgsNmi*xltejtDhsLBnt!gzebhtJgdHHAi+oqoeg)KgttEj	

RutvgsAuhsNtdqKODKCesuesZWI SMO?bL0LF7ZNIgJlujqzyousIkd@tlbffnLppGuq
gBqnkhsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFt}beZlaKyfp*FqebvmsAaT7eg=AxebdjrBtxxee|fm
mGjfgeLvaEyfh!yAngqswguHttv*muocneKvvKwjw8flTvwiwuuLthe+tAubdjrlyIyhx^j
zAajcAwgntMyi/kpavjjKlaLIzv$kE.bvmAuhLtyl^ElicxjrufOywd)tAxpbftvvM
hqgqtjmga!Bzw7fMNbkxrsftxnr"fFigo	rposNmi=xK.bvtrhaOuxx!hAeAbtx
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlhkxnFnaMBjq!gltwrjJmjvCfp!uHftxnwDaHzem: lfpcgDpoztyl^s
zAaugqwjusJfv:ylphbnLbas1WI TRJGNIrhtDyid*llbpAewCjwysg^fqykuyKguAuyd:nut
xqtqwwulaPCqp!ozeggirAftwmd:nqapgBrBtxL	d:nqaM+6"gtMOii+zE.bjtOguHtis
xqtgcwuo?stXg&uxbtuesssxuiC!qzpybmGDaMIeh=fDfugfJjisush!gDfbcuHszBHl
ztfugeFlxsNts-ygabDzLgixtBs+jqsgfeOozsMyy%kzuubBGBmwtls!hqzqpirwjvEnr"
uGubvmAuhLtyl@zlxgtjrtpLNei\iuukplrApsNmi_a

L4FGOF6gdHHhi%kpavjjrjpKLjg:tqtubtxgH~YJRaOQMF&xrvcLywz@zuppbfKgbIJqm^j
zAacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuunteX&klskuprptsNme:fmauvzvloMtBs;rpaukyrkpPHee:fm
yKtvgrlgqEuDd>oFibkylggBHid|uyfbvmAuhLttj!ozugtjKA.sush!ztfpbBsslsuBe,a
HGubksrAixtwi-gFjxgqQgdHHyv=rxffbxAAvtNns+fAgbceKjiHIqd-onsctDlgnNwmd>oxm
jqqgpirvosNmi!oztvtzuAjHHxd@fFfcemwyaHLee!ructcwAhosAnz^ylbbuyMkfGN d!Ytf
BufygirAixtxm:AmukqsrupMtfw!uzfbqkrmjGy]x;tuoibwwzftLhl!ywjnnxrivMttj
ozwqnAAuhsMyy%kzuubfLgbsJjv|uzbnbqwCfEtnr!AzegtxLhowCsk!gzebtjKlbKwmm+m
ztjpixmgaZCAi+fFigblMpetHhi!uzfbefFgsxwjm<klbvbxuopHF	d*zlujgsrifvIri|
vAtukgDlaMIex^goibgqwtfGNfv,fDfugfJjisMpm-rEavqeKAvwysx| lxjkhzgjGtke$z
uzfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJpbGtxe*jltjgeOhtsNje$nuoibmwyayCkx&fsscfjJz?
L4FGOF6gdHHhp;jqebvmsAaBHyv=jGdkplrAixtnh^glphbkGsmHQnr"fAog&xrvxGtue:n
urakpvMpsRneA&ooibkxrltLysx*gxmAbBzhusLjw^gDdjbjFAbBFx{!ozwqnAwzaFIwi
ztbpbywhdACsk!yBfekkAjaLEnp-ygabVtrAixMjd$uyngpyKgWXWHM?fmefgirAix
untgtAsAjHHex&gFavjjrpowCAm%AmmbvjsjixLee+jlujgeMzfsIkd@fosgcyACf
xqtqwwul.sLfx&kDavjfFgB6tnx|kxg?bxwlnxxex=fybmgeLofsEjC!jughgwwudxo
YAngbxuopHFxd@tpauqrwguxuhl^xEactjrtbDCsk!kJdgnqwuusOxi!uravjjrubMOwi
uraetnLpdtFex&ozlkplrhowtyi@itjpieKrjEFx{!ytfbufAk?

IAoewwJpoztBm:nlujgxwgsxGfv)yfaFCQ%gdEIxi%fFigbxwztBIsd>oFibvmwguAIzk&zlujcy
ztfbotJlaMBfx!vDpfwhwytsJws%AoffbkGyaMyfg&kDtbcsvggHLew$nAmctxrApsOxi!Cuuj
ztfkteKAvwysx| lujgeEvsxtxy$iqtuhzDguAynv!kxfevwGujvtuv=jGdvueOvvExet/uHf}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ2oednN1XbCSVgUX6Q

PmdswjDpoxtMInYfafkwwjuHL	digFjqpfDgExGtr|zDbvktFgMtvtv@zAsA?eKlsOyid@y
sAegtfLvssIkd:nqa*umGD_tHi[:kxm*bxwztBIs	!f5igbsGAfwtyl@zlb
wGfuvnGu_tHi[@tExgteHlsBIid>uGmfbkGsmHQei@itartjKloMuym=tg

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
S~MQPF~g(s9Ai/BufybfFkavIsx^tFaqhe8lsLyzw!=lQgtxwBt,tuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|
kJjuveAuattxC|zqn+ksvlqxHii+zfacthzpwtFej=xya)bFrjpGwjw|oAob)e`lyMOfp
gEqgeyKgpytUi/yqvub+r1pHFxd:ulvugeOpuAtyl^fSsggprAfQNe_!VDfrcwwkaBHim$kE
gzebhzDs_MyCx!yqbtemwzaBHeT^xEfwue?gFGAqm|n\HtgjCgxHLid|kmsejeDlbwMex=
ixpugeKAvwSes'fIptfxrhowths+iqqvue?gOtPnk@zuoibUwytxOxd#ElutchAuhsxtA+
ozekejKg(s#xm+mlujgeAjpGIlv@vtzbvtrwfKztv_fDfugfJjis{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KxmkbR%SP7UX{!smocinFnaxxnx=xfaRgwKlvLtUv=pqdv?eZhsOuwh!1zjxgwKpuRnej*xEu
mmwgbfFgpOywz*kIaqhe8lsLyzw7fmancwyl.swtp-gnptcyACfsykj=xFadcxwkatN
NmsxcwvgVGCAi/yuuAbgMAaPCyl!iAovtntBuHLxd@tpaeqqDhcHLfx=xEanqhsAfwtfx
tGngttMzaNHnz^xEjvkjKgbGxeg=rxfigxrposNmi!1zjvgirZutNjw![q?i}	rIpPxtm+ 
SmsAnfFk.s0tq=tm.bEmAjbzI	dqoDhkpns/?stKy+jqebrwAtbKCqC!hKavjj
GzogpgwyhfWUF!VDplghLaaPCyl!gpekvnGubEtky+juoibkJvnsUut-kfaJcwNhswnee+j
ztfbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwza2Hxx*zGug?estpGAes:nqsu?e8lsLyzw!oEacbrMsuBGjh*gf
nKqgtywEuNuqd%gFbdcxwggHLex^goikplrhowtwi|kmsejeGuavFfw|oobnbLJlfD
iuwknnRhuBIs{!CtjejeOhtsLjp^gEffbnFgGxvwy@xKa3~@"gjGtAi/yuppb6m%atHi
jutvtntBuxxef,f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaRtjKz?

IAoukxLpoztjr:oDfnAeGmaILnq@xKaocywyjtFx{!VqsugzKgjGwqy%kEacphAloMtLv^kw
zqyvuesuesNwe+yxbvktFzaHzex&uEfbvjPAtithe:gxpibjFAsByx[TztbvbnKaaFOxi;s
imucntygfGNwm^yfapqyrsjuLfv,fobvcqGnaxHyv*kE_+qsrCbLyx{!yuugu	rjpBHx{
yovnryMyfmtfr%fmsejfwvmHAng@rlpdljuAtitre[ybacpirhawChx*uzbtA	rhnHHl
uFigteKvvKwjw8flUjgeFBnuywd=llpdljuAtsush!ztfbqgBldMMej=xlxjkhzgdtNfp=m
kzutkjKgfQCxx!gDfbchuvnIusm^jlcAbyzvvLush|fAgbetDvssCre"kE.bymAji
iAouvnLBuxtfd_gvptbkwhuNLjd=llujgevhutvfw^alaRgwKlvLths+zmjpu
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*aoglsizMyxd=llugzylgbGtfq=AzubvmsAaPCqp!jAvdnjrpo
yGcugvMloMtAi/yuppu rgJGtfh%oFjqpeLvaMBjw^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommu?eLofs0jv|kGt
VDplghLgitMef^kzadwnDkjGAex=uxtbhtJgvLCsk!ztfo?eEhlBHld@iofuuesue
tmwkifLppGtje|oqs?byzlazIfp!hqjpieLvauOnp%fBbtveGmaMBjd^rqdvttFpd
kzwkttFtfGNeh*yovuujvgftLqm^xljpbyzlaFIwr*tsakpeOojvBew:Apfpvxrvs
yoiqnfJzavusd>uDlbynLoaMBjm/fEpwthwz?

ZtfbfjEvoLNwe:oAobqkrWfKMjy|fIjnneKopPttr-ElbbhwsjuBIsd=llujgeJlbEtBs/q
ztbvbmszazIsi!ozuqbnLaauyhe;yqavjjrwsHDjg:ftbfbyGggtwjd:nqafkqwtntttj
CtbvbyGgfGNjv!CtfpbuMAuBHld|uyfvjnFnaBHys!smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwE?asMms;rp
uzfbcnEggHLez^xKajklzgrNuqm:Elptbrsrfswtr$kEtkqsKgjGttv%kDavqeylusNmi
smugtnssaBHad!Yuoege8lsLyzw!jqdkfjvguHttt:frptbAwyzsBnk&fCvcnnLF.suqp!ur
oFtbrwAtbKSeq@zqskcqKgfQCxx!ozacbxQzuxG]m+jqqgpiwuu anr|urbtbfKgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIef^fEzuvjE|jGxjt^tpfpv]	hsvBnz@rlgqtrmgaWyhm%ozhbymsAaMBfx
gDdjkAssayIwq!CAvnfetlatHid@zFbkpnFnaBNev^wGjtgirtvvBeA=xwacpirAiHOll:a
LAsbgCstqEy	d@rxavjjrAfQNxd@xqaocwClesOud*tlTIOQlgxAChl!Cumnbgwgntxj
iAnrcyAimxtBm:nlujgeyBjwyqm+kEaqheLofs@jB:fQoeqiAuhs3sm:omukxjr]UX3[d>nqo
ztfAbfJlaBMxy^jg

JDbyksyzatLjd[uEuuewAwusznp^yfapqyrtfxNnr"fuovgwFhuBIse-fEucpisyeLnef;z
gFangfKAawyxm"tqebvtrnpsuhv=yEarnfLmpKGx	!fUncijKaaHLev@ztftbyzlaKyfp
gDdjkAssayIwq| ldqpxAzusIkd:nqadgxLgbOunp@hxfbuqAkfLneA&ooibcwwgcxCsk
juhkvnRlenteQ;itaqheLofswfx@rAhbofLlsBuqd^DutvueAuawuye#gEfbhtJt_ uej=xy
ztbvbyzlatPjv@mqawujJgdHOqh!AEf?brsujIOqe:kfacpirkjLJqe,fAobceHlsLIse-
iAnrwywy.svzx!uzmAbfLghKyfx!iAtv}er1iNM	d:nutbkxrDixLjd:nqaeqsultLCtr
iAngueAu;stFp-fAgbvmAzaKChl7fIfnn]EhsDyi[;vljphtJtbMCtr!oEauvwAwqxxes'
sGdjbtxgjMMeg=tFfpv.rAixtnq@mqtbcwwgdHHAi/zqebksLvauCy[_gBtbcsvguAyex^DF
ozuqbxEhmEtks/smuvgirjiNHpw8flBnneLojLtnr'uDncvnGuavusd:nqobdjrpnIIwx^j
ozuqbMQwfKWfv%fmofbwMuaHHee!sue+tfFnfs7fg*tFpuj	rDiBwmd*ylxjcyrWfKMjy|
AEftuezhwxoedonutbhfuAaAuxd_gpfbkyrwpLMnf-klgqte8lsLyzw!zAacvysposQnh^
AEfbhfAymRtwe[opmA}er4jMBty:fFiqujrhsvBnz@rlgqtrKguAyeL,vqsEcwvgwxLxm=t
hqjpievlnHHxx/gFffbhGBmwtss:fnfbofvlaxuxm-EfacpirAixtuv=pqdvbhGBmwtss:
nmwgbyzlaIIyi+zubnbyGgnHPjd:ulpvjjJggHLrw!gzebofuojGyxd@tpauqkLDbKyee|
ztfAbfHwftL	d+uzfbqkrDiBwmd*trptofLppGtnw!ozaRgwKlvLttr!ztfbEIm

UravjjruvFyws;ylnwnyAtfwCfd@yBfevxrvgs0jv|kGt?bR%SP7UXd'uovugirvosNmi
zqyvwfDbas0fv:fAgbymsAaFupi|f2ftujMzaLOhl!glqngfKBsxtys!AEf?bR%SP7UX
ymjf?eAzaMBnw!krgqtyrhusMje_rqtubnFAfzLfx*uzacpirAixtff*ruuAbyGgnHPj
gDpwpiripMBez*yGbnbfFkaMyCx;gxaocywyjtF d!VqsugzKgbEMtd_gpfbvmwgexwnw*uz
tAubvtrhuMyrt:fFpbksLlsILjx!oFtbofLlsBuqd@tKaoqwwguAusd=tqakpywyqKyyw!hK
yqmgeyAuhnteF;zfaO1Q7UB`tjq[nmtkBjvaa9yww^AEakueFvuswty/yqxctjgga7I
yKmncgMzaxRnw:ygabVmwyfsCxd+ulfhhtJAaMIeh^luogbmGDaHHjd:kmdjgxrhaMIum$
AEjpie8lsLyzw7fmmvjtMnisNmi!vDplghLgntSei<kzuwcqDFavIqp^iFarcuwytsvD
vqprnjrDiHtme<klvugirpusNtd:kmdj}erYbMBjv7f2ftujMzatCrw!zAarttNpex
vDjocwQgntNjv*gxakpesglBHid=llfnghLypGChd-onsctDlgbGtjp^iFsqpnugttHif=Df
yAavqeKhzmtnr!CtjejeKAvwysx|fmofbxuopEuww!CtpbcwwgxHLpm+mlppbyzpt
smugtnssavusd^DBmqtjrizsNmi_yqmxgxmga$Cyl!ztbv?e56M88FW!jqnqpxLybMyi
VqsugzKaauylm+tuoibBAAisNmi!VqsugzKghtNjA@EfavjjrmjKMyd:nuoibtFlaLyjw
ABppbtHloBHldkkDtgwx	|bGtjj'uDubksrwbKNex=fEpnxjrAixths+zqyvwfDpABHl
vDpdnjE|_PBng&fFfnnxrAixtzw^xlxjcyrAixtxC|zqnbetFAbBHx	

S~MQPF~gexGtr|zDbvgirvoESee!BqsAbxEhmEtus/zupp?etlhBHsm+mlxkvmrwsBGfv,
zqyvuesuesLzr+ozhbqkxguAyeG	/4PO}erObOCsk!yqmgeywkaTyxg&Exvu&e8ypFyyl^AE
HAvpf	rDiBwmd>gEaxkjOhcEyem+fSsggprhowtJr"rutjbuJluMSeq;itakpeLofsMfq^
yqhogsLzaMIli:nqs?bR%SP7UXd%kyppuyJhuxxex=uxtbvtrBtxtBm:nlujgeYyfxEex^DF.
yAngvmAuhsHtx!vAtukgDlaPCyl!glcqqpggaEIto*tsawreLofsxng:oAoctDrloMLDd'uDn
uracpeMugtGnp*gDayqwvgjGtLv^kwachywyaLOgn^iFjpieAAaMIeT^xEfwu)
sAsrjtDvhBwfp!gzbnAxAzayIwd@rxavjjrAfQNx	!fMgvgwrmjGxnr"fAvvbftvvMtf
CAsf?esgvLywd_gKavjjFgexwnh^fFpbujwgjytnx!oEawujvgbGSBl^xqagnxwgjGtLv^kw?
HqdcwxwgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsCsh^DuoibxMwqHLyd@rxaqheLofsJwm_gDzbofLlsBuq{!uzf
imobhnFkaHOyd>nqsgbjDzfsuqp!lAsoueGmattue/zudwnfJgHKyjo!CAsfbfHwftL][
urugpeFvusuex/oHjcneEhuMywd#kobwujrNsxypd*ylikimDFaBHkp^iFff}erMvKNmi/ 
yuoegeLofsMys/ElphbUJvnxNmi;ylicueLvawIeA*ztavjjrvsBAnr|fAgbufuyjyChi7fm
AEftbrsFaPCxl!zAauvzvFatHid^DBmqtjrzbvLnj*iqakpeYyfxEep*zqscvzJl<svD
zKqkplrzbvLnj*iqakpyGgbsMre-rlxkpiGD.suey|kDaiqjKguHtyl^fQoinnKo_ZLji)
CAsfbqAzu axs_kFikplrvoxthe+tAubftrDjMBty:fFigbhGtqNNjv![2ftujMzaAux
ozegzjvguAyeh^luokvnGutsIkd*zEafkhLppGuwCS/\ujgeKAsBHld|goskhnulatJui@xE
ozavjjrkfyCsm:oAoubtxguAyxi!yuyvA]xpwxtBs/jE?bbTFlaFuDd:nqobhnFkaHOy
CtftgesuzsIkd:nAtgbBGyeLtnw!AEffbnFguAyeA=xw)u_eGmattue/zudwnfJgbNNms/a
ZtfbGsysjLBeh^luokvnGutsuwi!tAubnjEtbMCEi%
