All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The Perseus Project has an evaluation team at the University of Maryland
that has been documenting Perseus' effects on education.  Perseus is very
popular, and anecdotal evidence indicates that it is having an effect at
places other than Harvard, for example, test sites at Ball State
University, Drury College, and numerous small places where opportunities
to use vast amounts of primary data may not exist.  One documented effect
is that archaeological, anthropological, and philological research is
being done by the same person instead of by three different people.

The contextual information in Perseus includes an overview essay, a
fairly linear historical essay on the fifth century B.C. that provides
links into the primary material (e.g., Herodotus, Thucydides, and
Plutarch), via small gray underscoring (on the screen) of linked
passages.  These are handmade links into other material.

To different extents, most of the production work was done at Harvard,
where the people and the equipment are located.  Much of the
collaborative activity involved data collection and structuring, because
the main challenge and the emphasis of Perseus is the gathering of
primary material, that is, building a useful environment for studying
classical Greece, collecting data, and making it useful.
Systems-building is definitely not the main concern.  Thus, much of the
work has involved writing essays, collecting information, rewriting it,
and tagging it.  That can be done off site.  The creative link for the
overview essay as well as for both systems and data was collaborative,
and was forged via E-mail and paper mail with professors at Pomona and
Bowdoin.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * PLD's principal focus and contribution to scholarship *
Various questions preparatory to beginning the project * Basis for
project * Basic rule in converting PLD * Concerning the images in PLD *
Running PLD under a variety of retrieval softwares * Encoding the
database a hard-fought issue * Various features demonstrated * Importance
of user documentation * Limitations of the CD-ROM version *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Eric CALALUCA, vice president, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., demonstrated a
software interpretation of the Patrologia Latina Database (PLD).  PLD's
principal focus from the beginning of the project about three-and-a-half
years ago was on converting Migne's Latin series, and in the end,
CALALUCA suggested, conversion of the text will be the major contribution
to scholarship.  CALALUCA stressed that, as possibly the only private
publishing organization at the Workshop, Chadwyck-Healey had sought no
federal funds or national foundation support before embarking upon the
project, but instead had relied upon a great deal of homework and
marketing to accomplish the task of conversion.

Ever since the possibilities of computer-searching have emerged, scholars
in the field of late ancient and early medieval studies (philosophers,
theologians, classicists, and those studying the history of natural law
and the history of the legal development of Western civilization) have
been longing for a fully searchable version of Western literature, for
example, all the texts of Augustine and Bernard of Clairvaux and
Boethius, not to mention all the secondary and tertiary authors.

Various questions arose, CALALUCA said.  Should one convert Migne?
Should the database be encoded?  Is it necessary to do that?  How should
it be delivered?  What about CD-ROM?  Since this is a transitional
medium, why even bother to create software to run on a CD-ROM?  Since
everybody knows people will be networking information, why go to the
trouble--which is far greater with CD-ROM than with the production of
magnetic data?  Finally, how does one make the data available?  Can many
of the hurdles to using electronic information that some publishers have
imposed upon databases be eliminated?

The PLD project was based on the principle that computer-searching of
texts is most effective when it is done with a large database.  Because
PLD represented a collection that serves so many disciplines across so
many periods, it was irresistible.

The basic rule in converting PLD was to do no harm, to avoid the sins of
intrusion in such a database:  no introduction of newer editions, no
on-the-spot changes, no eradicating of all possible falsehoods from an
edition.  Thus, PLD is not the final act in electronic publishing for
this discipline, but simply the beginning.  The conversion of PLD has
evoked numerous unanticipated questions:  How will information be used?
What about networking?  Can the rights of a database be protected?
Should one protect the rights of a database?  How can it be made
available?

Those converting PLD also tried to avoid the sins of omission, that is,
excluding portions of the collections or whole sections.  What about the
images?  PLD is full of images, some are extremely pious
nineteenth-century representations of the Fathers, while others contain
highly interesting elements.  The goal was to cover all the text of Migne
(including notes, in Greek and in Hebrew, the latter of which, in
particular, causes problems in creating a search structure), all the
indices, and even the images, which are being scanned in separately
searchable files.

Several North American institutions that have placed acquisition requests
for the PLD database have requested it in magnetic form without software,
which means they are already running it without software, without
anything demonstrated at the Workshop.

What cannot practically be done is go back and reconvert and re-encode
data, a time-consuming and extremely costly enterprise.  CALALUCA sees
PLD as a database that can, and should, be run under a variety of
retrieval softwares.  This will permit the widest possible searches.
Consequently, the need to produce a CD-ROM of PLD, as well as to develop
software that could handle some 1.3 gigabyte of heavily encoded text,
developed out of conversations with collection development and reference
librarians who wanted software both compassionate enough for the
pedestrian but also capable of incorporating the most detailed
lexicographical studies that a user desires to conduct.  In the end, the
encoding and conversion of the data will prove the most enduring
testament to the value of the project.

The encoding of the database was also a hard-fought issue:  Did the
database need to be encoded? Were there normative structures for encoding
humanist texts?  Should it be SGML?  What about the TEI--will it last,
will it prove useful?  CALALUCA expressed some minor doubts as to whether
a data bank can be fully TEI-conformant.  Every effort can be made, but
in the end to be TEI-conformant means to accept the need to make some
firm encoding decisions that can, indeed, be disputed.  The TEI points
the publisher in a proper direction but does not presume to make all the
decisions for him or her.  Essentially, the goal of encoding was to
eliminate, as much as possible, the hindrances to information-networking,
so that if an institution acquires a database, everybody associated with
the institution can have access to it.

CALALUCA demonstrated a portion of Volume 160, because it had the most
anomalies in it.  The software was created by Electronic Book
Technologies of Providence, RI, and is called Dynatext.  The software
works onlyRtBm:nlTIOQ	jpwyid%gFb}

2ufyksygbsNff-klphbhGuuxHyw!uzavjjrzdKyjr7fFigbfMkjxHhi!ymxbjtOgERHfx^DF
zDfcvxrlbvBei-kyfpveszattgs=qlbpfesAuxGux|fFpbunEwmBzDd_uHfogsLguALty"nlb
BAmwojmgaYurm-omskvDrDjMBex&klQcvwGspzCfd*tlqtksLg)Boj	7fFigbywEumtnx|
yAvtejlgbGxex&klffkyAvoL eA*rxaocpwguAyeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^fHftunGutsBnk&rK
AEfhwqmga{!tj:CmsgbBAAisue1*tppyueswqEChe:oAobyfKgtHOll:frptbU4K.
IMMCNZUHaLunh7fnfeczKlaMBnw!CmtbvmwgntCsd:xqofbkGyaLwms-gDmAbzKl?	

IMMCNZUHatFxs!jqnqpxLybMyid&uIacbzKlsswfr!vqshqwEgbsPfv*kFzbqkrzftLhl^y
gzebszAjlESeq=BqavqesuzsJfv:fAgbceNvmNGj,!ztfbntGr_NJew$xqfpbuJvwBxjw
yAngbgszjvnew*sBmgbBGye Mje/itjpi 

IMMCNZUHatLly^jlujcyrvoxttj!ztfbofBvssxnj'oovnvnwzaBMer=zlujgeKvgMQfv^a
XmujgwlgjGthv^gFjpiesgqKIiy$zlujcyrDjEFef^fGtgfetFaLwms-gDtbtjHyfLysx*ts
glctqfvgtIyhx/AyaqheuvnIOyi/fEprjnKAjvuym=tfabwxwyawIhy_kzucvnGuaILtz^y
zAadgeLofsGtw:funrqwLhoMtxi/BudgbtFlavusd[xAwkfjm

IMMCNZUHaGyCx!oxmwuyJhuxxee!zDvpefLlesMje/itawpiwyaFSxx^xuvobBAAiBHex^t
CAsfueGmaOCwx;ylbpfezvxsIsi!CAvnfetlatvqi!zAahksvgjMMeg=tFfpvxrAiKIzk&uGu
ztfbgsLpsxtie:gnbug rgIxtxe*jlujcyrAixtjB$oFjpieLojGAee#uGubRQVgjLtyl@z
smoAbtxguAyee[vxjecyAvoLtnr!ztfbtjLyjxPfp!yAgvyfJlauynr"fIskvywuayIwd*z
CumnbjPjfxxex&kldcrftpmBNni|fAgbvmwgtHzyA@xqagouDvzxxer=ClgqteLofsWI[mUY
BqsuktFbas@mi!IP_TQRrmbvyxd"kzvkpjrsjFCye:oAou?eAuaMywq|fAgbuuwlesush
iAnrtjzloLCAi+kEt?bnFguAyeg/kmukqsrvgsuev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqavqeJBosCy	
IMMCNZUHaLunh!nqajquwkaMBfx!ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtueOpmEtis>txpcfeLofsxfx@ 
oravjjQgxBMm{!zAavjjAyaIyww=tmmbetEwvMyww7fmofbmsCfsLje%ElbeejKzaMI
oyqqtysuusNjB:ylppbfrjpGMye+zlccunKaaPBng&fFigAeOpmEtgi!gnmgbyGgvLyem+
ztfkteJltxuwg&fmofbkJvnsQmm$nlujgDrtjzByd^BqobdjrhcEyex=fBvdnnKo?

[OBNCQ!JBsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^fnmwgeFBnuyww!xqqtgxwuuxxeQ*mzf&ueuvmNGsd+Aycgtxl
CtjejesyfsNmi!yFbpffJkaLwms-gDmAbwwmfKysg^ygabRzDsjGAey[fmapqywaaAyew:gFff
ztbvbyzltxtyi\zEaygwwgixuAm-ElffkywkatHid:nqakofylayCqi|fIpwnirhqIyfv!yunrnD
gEacbsGAfsuxd>kxm?bxGguAuyd=tqaeqzDkaJOng)rKacehwztsusd*smhg}[

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YW< X9B1b+rZfOywe-fBsqdqwttsQnx&fIikemrHNsCxd|zumnbBJltMFnr"f;
2mskqzKgtxuwg&fmofbwwAsByAe-fobrcgAsjMCjw!=lJnnzKAstNns+fAgbczLvntNng
yFfoonFnatHid@fFswphsAfwtxi@xoib)eST"Ltfx:kyqvbyGggBHid>gKtbvtrjpGHjg:
imucntypoztys!ztfbvjPAts{eEh-EaitfNputNns+fFpycwvza`1RP!=lTvtnCpoztf
hmmcphwgcxNBi^tlrwcsLpuRtfr%fCvcnnLFa}tMs>fMNbhzJujLBjw!AEftueJldHOww^fFp
oybigxr[aVIsh;iFjpiesgtxuwg&fuobcexBmEayi\zlfpxnJvoFysx!=lNcenFApLBee+j
ONNbrwGApMSui|fAgbCRr[a6Oqx*sqekceszqxwyw!uraCOe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GlegotFzuKuym=tlphbFElsBwfr!SqnqtDrizsCyw!iAptfnFhuHL	d{gDmbHQWPTV2MEpK4.
gzebTnurzsYW1?5facuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKneP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt?bhGudEOii%
ztfbotJujGAew^yEjqp rgCxAnr+ozhbynLoatths-rqdvktFgpytgv=gptkfjKggKIrd:nq
IAovkswuutFeG=tssguxrhowtyl^fOppuyAAvMCtr@rlDqpAwuuBIs{!ztfbqsDFaMyCx
iAmnghLppGtnr!glqtgxwuutvqi!lAsobfLguAyex*sqaqheLofs%tv)ytpr?eXSF2!HLcG7FT
nuhjnnyouxxew^BqscneGmaMBjd[xAcngrKgxBNmd>nudjbF5gjLtxx*rxaytjKAmBHl	
[UobkyKggBHfp!lAso?eLofsxnw)fIjnneuvoMunr!zIpbetDsfvNns+yfapqyrvoESex&k
hDpcfxAkfLtgy:fmmuqeLofszzp-fFfzveOpuAtnp-AEutcyAvoLttj!gltgveGm
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*~bCkJpdtH]E_kDjecsrwbFJmp^zEahttEguAyet^xupfb6_@~sNtdv#!~}_

GEaHTJWTB7tme%fqyrnfAufwtje/ruft?eSTaAuxd@zFforywkaMIey|klbburssmsurs;tF
urakpywyqKyye:oAobvtrpoMLth;iqaeqqDldMCtr|alaKpeLofsJwi|kzubefKl.sNmi
iAovtfuApKnee!iAnrcsQgotGjh!WGjeme~vvKwj{!ozaUkqNlss!uv*ts.bOImaaNMjh
yAgvyfJlavuqp^jlUqqqtvpDtfr%fBvvbyGnfMBjv!glnqfjKAmRtnr:kDbevnNl
ozutqiMjuBIsd:ulujgeuvmEyhx*uz?bbQArfsNmi!zIpbrwwjfwCsk!yBfcmjJz.
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@xsvgfeLobMtyl^fDfcnesztxNeA@ylujgeMuexLqC*tsaeqqDldMCtr8

LXFKUHZOB@YWd[xAdggiwkaMIeh^yoskdjrCbKCty|fEfcthzgbGxev^zDjgxfD
imqcdnDpuByxd>numgbJ04B^tBs/qqebvmwgdHGuy:kD?bbNFguACxd[gDukezDhssJfg)gsf
ztfb*lGguH?et;rx_fqBFgbEFtA^jlujgeMzfKtnr!krggeyrApsDzq[fAvvbtxgUHIqf=uw.
CtftgeLofsCsx^xmdvkAwgqKIlv@slxcueDvdtNjh7fmofbjFAfKtyl^fFikti	wbKND
yAgvyfJlaNMjh!hKaCOexvssNmm|fFfzveuvmEyhx*uz.bymAjisCxd$gxmgfe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAhonteX&oEaycxrAixt2m+jAxubAwytBIsd=llQgtxGubEtQm#xmskcslgb
yAgvyfJlatJup*imukqsrwvMtys"kFigtetFatths_vmoAbnFgSHwpz*rxf?bRvb

YuoegeLofsvws@jEjfgxrjbFyej/uyavjjrYfOIqy:oAoctDr4bKtui/oAe?bfrzftLhl!Cmt
iAofwhLlesOxm+mlujgeOvswMeF/oFjujeGyaPuw{!Cuujbyzlawyke;rFaqrjJhuHLev^yqu
gEaqt rgG5YNW{NTBWGWrkfFIsw:xmugfetvuAtfy:uybvkhrzuxGrm+ml)yjnuoayCsh|
uFigtexvsFMes'fFigbxstfsLts:]lbpfesguKOsg@zqebujsydAoedjtqaqhe8lsLIse-
RuctcwAho,Mew:xAoigxLggxuyy/kE.bvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGA	d>gEatguJltxHyi%fnz
gldjcwLguAuyd*tpjecywkaAIBd=lFfpbBGyeLtgi*tsauqzyousuut^gDffbnF
jAdwojFAtmtBm:nlujgeGufsLjg^oHjpieLofsGtw:f|ikvx,gpuNfm+ozhbvmwgiBAmi|z
yoptg rgUAye)&oFankxL+aMBfx!oEauwuHsjxxex@qqtbvmwgsxFjz@tofbtfFrjGAem+zA
godqwsLaaFupm+mlujgexpsLNel*zfakpewmgxwy{!ztfbqswguAyew=lFxctjrobL
yqmgeywkatMex&klnquyryfEyAe+zlfzcrHsfn

3tjngeAuaMBjd:kJubqkrvoxttj!ztfbdwGheLCii!jAdwojFAtmtKP O5DJJF!LS
xqnctpwkaT7)w!gFugouLguHtkm+jlxcAxrApswtr+koubefLhmHAnr"fFpbvmwguxRyw7
CtjejeAAawIjw!ozafkkxlsxHyd>gKtbksrkjyzjv^tFaocsAmfLNfx*uzt}be1uaMBjd$gEf
ytpyp	rAixthe:gxpiksygxtMet@yFffbtF?asURd:uAlbOF0JaKyhs/jEavjfLgxxLj
CDjvvjFgbLttrTruogbwwjpKxxd/osivbnFApsIsi!uravjjrSjuLfv,-EaocnFmstGj
xqutkjNhmsJws"xmnu?eHBmEyid:nqnbqzLaatHid&gzegfeLofFttj'fFpbvmwgdHHyv@iFpt?
CtpbofKzbzyid:nqnbutElxAuyd:ulekuuDhzsNmi_fuobvmwgntHsi/fEiqysmga8Hjd=l
GY"ubvMltMCtr|fut?bIGltsNmi!imucntyBjGAer=xybnnDrwfKztv_kpakpeLofsGfm+lDbog
CAsmbnFguACxd$uzugzylgpKtme%fMNbqzyousNtd:nuombyzypNAmd@jvvuvrwuuLp

LXFKUHZOB@YWd_gpfbvmwgbwxnx*uzbnbuGpoMtyl@zfacuexhssuxd:nqavgCLghHyx{!GY
nmtbiwsCjMuyi%fFpycwvza`1RP![tfbrtAuuxxex=fFigbgGseyuhi!ozavjjrBqIywd[gDu
uravjjrzdKyjrSalaCnyzvvzBei\zDfogqQgmBGnx^jljpbnLzatvnp*zKavqeLybGMqe:k
uDakpywyqKyydnMYM?bUwytHHfp!RuctcwAhosQnp-frvtpnKoauIyl!hAmfbfFkaBNfp*iE
uzauewwloitfd'gusnAewhtRtyl*tsavqevv.svzx!oFakueGufsIkd:nqaycDKgjGtBl*it
YSNNbnKgvLyky-a

YFskmnFnattge-gzdgbgwAxxysd]AmovkyQgbGxeu;gxjvAezhtsvji+fmaocoGyavIsg^xz
uraCO	rDjMBee$iGsceDrifBHld=tqaqheLofsJqe$kEayjjJlaILtn^iFauvfxmaAuAi
lqmvbyzhusFjw|fFicpe'%~ Jjv$kzubchuBstwDd>gEapqyrBotwhi[zmcng 
LXFKUHZOB@YWd$oFffbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofsMye+jmsfbtxguAyev^qqzkplrpowOxx/Ef
tmngnDr$0n[0d[kDdgpyhgbLttr^fEftxnulauOwi@AljphtJtfwtmm_ luqblGggKIr
#&?~7eLva"]#d[kDdgpyrDpNFid%uGcngeLofswtw:a

LXFKUHZOB@YWd+kJubfjEvoLNwe:kpajqBrHNszzv+oEigueMzfKMev^iAvtujrApsCre"kE.
gzebcyrAixtxe_klukojryfvuqp^jlMGUP\zaIInr:kpaswjKAjHHeg=toftpnFnaMBj
tGndgwrvgsJjs[rqayjtrDpNFid-uAlbcyrAiHMjd*smhguesuesNmi!tGndgwrDiHtBs;rp
CAsmbtFszsQnx&fFigbywEunteM'fFigbnEwmBwfx*uzaqhe4LT4.xd]AqtvktFgxtM
yAvpf	rMMX3XGcNMVGTeKhjwnem:fDbkujvguAyew:gwfubkGyaMyCx!godwtfuFatHi
xqewejvguAyez@rGfbqkrAixtxx/gFfiAexvssCre"kE?

IAovgsvpoztyl@zlqtgxwywtNns+futbcqOhzLtfd#AsbdqtlgG5YNW{NTBWGW
jqnqpxLybMyid|kHftcqrpntAjw!jqskxjvggKIrd@fEdcpeGmattuv^yqsxcyAvo
sudtqkAsnsNme:fMNbjfvgntxj	!fTfbcBsyexxee!mDbfgeGmaVtfx!hqtv?eHlsAuuw!g
IlnkpzKgpKtfd{fBmwu	rmpKtms>fIfnneAAaPIwo^jlpwv rgJGxji% lujgeEhuMywd=l
rqbtpnFnaBzes:nqsbrjGwmxtme%fnfvvjJgjwyfw!gnpwveKjbGHnr"fuobijFlstF	d@tp.
ozarcwLpdNFfv7fEdcpsAuhszws_fyjettxpmFneA@ylppgeGmaMBjd'gouqtxrAitNeh/uHf
GYavqesAuxGux!zAavjnFraMBws;mtavjjrhhxHie!lAsbvmwgXHLpw&uB?bbXClxmtks/
kJborqwaaPuxd=tqaqheLofsCxw;kEavjfLgB6tnr!oFtbklFvstHhi!nmebptLgsxwps+kp
CAvnfeHypOyew=fpjhhnuBmMo

LGsvjjJaaMBjd&gzenksygpytnq@mqtbqkrAixtxs/zltjqBFaaBHee!jqtmvtHgdHGuy:kD
kzwkttFtfGN	d*tHpnxjvgbswtr|opftcgDlatGty+zlphbEGvnBHld@tpauewGsmBHl	
1xukofLlmRneEhfEuchkrmfxFex&gFargwzhqLtyl^fBbrgwrjpISex&gFakueHyjGNjh!uGu
suhjvetlaMBjd_uEubwxwmvEttr^ lcwveLofRtwi_guobwsulsMunr!gEavqezvxsGzg&
uz_uewwlosLje%ozhbwxwytsQnp-fpp}

XquwtsAuhsNtd:nqavgCLaaY6JMnITICWJ0gbLEjh!BufygwKguHtnq@muogbfrwfKMtr!Ctp
suhjvetlavIsh;iFjpiesgtxuwg&fuobcexBmEayi\zlfpxnJvoFysx8flXkvmrAiBM
yofpcwAv.sBjd[xAdggiwkaMIem-rGtvtfLlaHNmi/frfcvzJltsIkdkkDtqpfDgMBvwe/omo
ztbvbmwgdHHxm%kDffbmwsqyOq,!lAsbgCstqEy	d*zlqtqAAkfLtyl^fmcknnLFaMI
tAukejrDpKxxd@ylppgeJlbwM d!IxjemnFnaMBjdOozdnwiw+auOyx=tlppbyzlauIyx=s
uravjjrzftLhl!CuofqBrwpIMex&klxqtiKguAuyd&gHfbdjwuaACll-osivgirpoMIex&k
yqbtemmga!Bzw7fmawujJgdtHev^luogbyzlaLyfv$nlbubmwgpKtxl^fDfcfxl
xq_gzjuBuBHld:nqaugfJjisush!iAovksMpoztys!luofbyzpozMem+fFigbvMltMtks/
smugtnsstnteX&oEauqkLDbKyer=zlppnDrjpGNfm+ylsgnjNhovyev@twjpi	rIpHFje+
uBftcyGytmtfr%fFswphsAjHH	d*zlbnutrwfKGnx|fAogbyGgqxLks/slxqtirhmzygv@ 
yAavqeKhzmtBl^xqaqpjrwvMMex>ulptbyzyfxtBs/jEakpeHhsxHyl^yqtbcsvgmBHpw
ztfobBAAisIsi!HApngfFgpIywe:uDacpirAixHee!iAvrnjrvgsQtv%yljpbfFvuAywd|kF
urarcwwuuAyxi|fmofbfKrtsztv!ztjpixrDjMBnr!yAaocsQgxHLiw!uraqvmwytn

1zukneLofRtgi$gyfbchIBbBHyi%fDfegsLszsQnx&fEpogeGmaMBjd>uDlbdjAuhsxtr^fuo
ixbuunuz.sNmi!GYauvfxmaAuid+uFatgfDpAxxex&gFacbqsyhxtsy_hqsbqkrAix
vDplghLzaMBfx!ozwqnAwgfEyhx/uzjebywEuLtBi/klcgksygeHHjd#ElqgquDlaPCyl!g
vDphqzFkaBHyi/kEubksrsbGAze"klbpfeDpozOnw:oot}be`ofBLew^gDdjbxLybMylm^y
gzebvmAulBHld@xqaqtnwuuxxex=fFiqujrmjxFiw7fmtbkxrziHQsd*tlqctyAjvEuwd#E
ztfbRjJzfNMei\gyqng rgBLtfq@zqvtbmAzuHLne+yfavjjrHNsMye'llxgtjrAiBHpm+m
sAsgbtxgtxuwg&ozhbhtJgdHHhi[zEacpirpexuxd:nmobhtJgqtLym$AxbtbBGyeLo
UnwkqzKszmtKP O5DJJF!LSswtr$kpff?eKlbKwmm+mlgqteuvovyux|fmofbnvlbLtfr%
yqbtemAuhsztv!CAsfueEhzsvjd:CAatcyzlsswqs|kxzbtjDhuxxex&ozhu}

3tjngevptIFfC*tsaugAwybEtnq@mqt?bK4LJ`WML?1QSbqgKlsOyid:nmubvmwgNtwnr:uEi
vDpvqyQwfsvzm-zlcAbF5gdHHye*tEacblJlbMywd%oHftunLFaHzej=xybvu rgFvBtm+mlb
vDfxktMzaLJje)kD.bjjrzbBxex&gFakveOhtsyfw*kDavqeKAjMwmd:nuoiueLvhxNmi/fuo
ztfbOfupoMIxl7fFiqwlzgjMtyi+jqebvtrifsuep*zFmgbrGyfsusi_ooakpeKlbKwmd@tp
xqutkjNhmnteEh lujgwwmpKy	d*tosgcxAuhESel@ylcggsrpoOyxx*mmukpl
yAqjkxLpdtNjh!xqutkjNhmsysk*tqtbksrAixtNFhfrptofLb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd%kyppuyJhuxxew^BqscneskeBNns+gxagzfEwmxMes'fFigbuJvuHNDt^
ozugtksjfLiedjtqaycxrHN,Meq^zmqjqwrmpKtyl^fzfvytJrayOyy/kfakpeOojvBee
quofbtxgsxuim+m\sqqrrnstJmm$fEviijKAtsBtA!uzfbytMsesvjd@hxfbvtrnpsuws;tp
zAafkkxlsxHyd_gFftkfDz?stFQ!iAovcnFzattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[nAuqiwswiLtnr
gzbnqlrCjwytd'uDnbytJrfwtzt!lDpobfrCjwyth*yo.bymAjisyse#rqawujJzaMIeq@qq
iAqkgxrApsJwm+zlptbnFjpKJtv@zqakpevphBNfp!jAdwojFAtnteE!lDbog]yybuvjv!oE
hGjnveAuuHtyl^fEzuvjEaaFupm+mljvbuGztBvqi!zAadtnFnatHem_gsfbksLvattBm+jAx
gzebfnypuBTjd=xlqtksLgjMtty:a

LXFKUHZOB@YWd+kJubfjEvoLNwe:kpauqzFkaKyhs/juoi?eOojvBem+ixvfgirAfQNx	
XqdAeqwkayLtq!glqtgAAvvLtuv=pqdv?eLofswtp-koukqsrpovFzh^jltkzyQg8+awt_
vtppqlJhqAtwi$uDeubtxgqHFnx*immbuuwldAyxd:nmubyjJlaFuii!jGskplrhow
oyngfnsAfESee'zqsbYtJses%fv!OgabVmwzfswtr|zuuwvjvgbIJws\oybvgqQguALji
nAvtueGmatOim= lbubF5gitMeh*muukBjvgjMneA&ooibqhuBqRt69EfyficgQAfLttr!g
IP?bbYzBtmtyl^ElbtgeuvoLCii/gnmAbhGtqKyxw^jgabHwGtaMBjd$gFbnqlMlavuwh7
LXFKUHZOB@YWd[xAdggiwkaMIee!zDbpuhJpqMttj!gltrgjuoaPCyl!ztfbczvpp
gHbknftsfsush!CuujbmAniECll:kpavgCLggHFqs>ozhbkyrhtsCyd[rmzgf 
GlqjqyGnstJmd&gEadgjFgbwxjh!gzebceLybGMhv*vFjqpeEhexo

IAoukiwybuFjd<gxvgbmszauyjr!gpegfetlzHHid>nmubvmwgMBvwe/ElphbHGuhKyxw
tAsocqDFaPIzp%fppbksrjbMuqs"AuoibfrzpNHid/koptfnFn.sQmm$nlsckxwzaLyAi/gx
wGfuvnGutsztv!GYaeqsulsGCsk!CtftgeLvawLfA!ruoguesipNNel=ClnwemrCbEOjd*zldcp
grgqtirApsuih!gzebcyrDitNet=ozu?buwyitJx{!ztjubgwjpFyxd_uDfbvmsuaT7eg=Axe
xqbuqssimRtis!uDatgfKvotvqC!CutjbyGgeHoedaRQJUEMZHVX`ee-yAafgrGutMLfx^j
glnqvnGuaIChx;xq?bbFKgG~YJQ?TlicfeJlqHLyi%fqbtnnwy.sNmi!sAukqsrwjvNzv^
smugtnsstsBfz^fBsqxjvguAyeq=yFarquMsbKner=zltwtuJptBHlp,alaVjnKgttSxd_uDf
gnpwveLofsGjh*Ay.bjjrAiHOll: lujcsrhcHOyd?S/tbrwwzfGNfx*uzaqheAA?

HqdcwxwgB6.xd"ummbyfKguHtgv*tsavqlwAixLex&ozhubyzhuswty-jlcgbzKlesvD
nutvqwAhoLttv!hKargtHsfsQms!CqsgbhMyjHOxd@hAvvbmAzuHLD{
zGsp+tx|uAy]g^tFvtAexvpMuli!yqfogirApsLjt/kEfpveLofsGtw:fmqrttHyjtNj
iAmnghLppGMej/uyavjjrSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMxd*tlnqvnGuaIChx;xqt}bYzltxtBi/k
ztfbxjJFayCww:frjnoxrtbwyef,f6iqofKgFwCxs+-EaeqrHhoRtfr%fEpogeGAixLxd@z
ztbvbyAtfnteX&klqctyAjvEuwd^DmnrnjrpmEOxx/gFffbBszattGm=mDbrjexpmFn
hDpwimLgjGtBm:nlbbhwstf Awe#hqsbksLvattBm+jAx}beSgtBHlp^fHjfgtvptv
iAovcnFzatvty:frjhvDrAjMFjw!gzebrnwjfLttj!lumobkJvnsNme:fBftktvaatFqd=l
Tqxb1tJraVCyC8flUcmjFguHAjx&kD.bCRrifECjz^yfavjjQgqKIAm%klbpbnFAfKyxx*ts
jAdwojFAbKSev^yAvtejm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dpyuoibyzlayLfq^/sscdgwyaBHeEhf;aXqqMtfsIkd_gFftkfDgqKIhi|yqe
gzebvtrifsJws$kEtgfe?gQNLus|klphbF5gxBNmm+fXDb)eUhutFtk;ozhbcsvguAy
tmuwtjrvgsUR(|fybvgwAhms{eWbSXaeqiAuhsush!ztfbszwzuBIsd=llrwcqAAzsPjv|AE
wGbpvnLFa}
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtvy^yFjqp]sue usw>kDargwAvesNme:frpnntOlesZQIdYOIJCZWY"L
vDfugsLhuBIs{!yqwgtfDgdEuwm'oobvktFzaPywi!smeg}

GYakuetyjGAnr"fuobotLppGtum$zGsguexypFtfd<opfqfnKj?stYl^frscoj	nstvgi/
jqwkejKgdKyfx^fmayksvvxsIsd@foporzLlssMhv^kz.bymAjisJjv_oFtbwxwytsNt
juhkvnRlattxm+mxfbhwstfsIkd:nqaoqAAlaHLes+klphbyzlaIBtx=mDbrjxmga2N
vDpfwhwzatthv;jq.bttMni ushTxqbfAeAtbzyex&gFajklzgtvBts-fEuwfjFAtswfr
ozdqtuGybMyem+zAarcuwytmtfr%fFicvezhtsQtv)kpaxgwQgoBwjp,fuobvmAzaPuD	

IAnogsLpozttr!LXFKUHZOB@YW(|fmtugwLppGtyl@zlBObBszaEIto*tsaoqwwgbM
yqbtemAuhsCii@ylujcsrDpKxx{!S~MQPF~gbKAzi%fFicveOpuAIzx!CAsfuesuaBxje
jAfubsGAaxRnw:alaHNJ1ZD12FY Xldqphwkfwtyl@zligbtMniMtys!nmwgbfJAjvOqe:kp
nutbrtAuusGtv^fomgcwDF?stR3gUZBUbxLhuxxex&gFavjjQgxxLjd*tlgceyripMB
zmmmksygbuIzx!ztfbufElaMBnr"alaDAeKlbKwmm+mlgqteOvswMee+jlcAbkGydBHl
vqprnjrApsztg;ylppbyzlaPIwh7fFigbUwytxOxdkxAkgeyrmfENex&gFavjjQgxHOqh!mqu
ztfobyGguAyem%km?bbYzlaPuDd=tqatgAAlxLtwi|AxuubnKgutCqs/kpaoqwwguHttr^
quofbtxgvLywd:nmobcsGAixL 

IAoegwFpoztyl^fFpvcqrCpEOri!uraocywyjtFex&gFajcxrifxHet/uofuujvgjGtyl*y
Cmz?bF5gbMtyl*ylqqksLgitMem+fDfvtnwCbuFjd'uDnbujNlosIwd^osivbhGsmxwym=tE.
gxmbqkrAixGet&uFpitfHojvoeddtlujge5hdBHys|nlfpxnJvoFysx7frptbjPhnIFj{
ztftgeHypuugp,fmsgb8(a~[]]8E *~`buzvuHAwe[nE?bbYzlaLIzr%fDfeqwvpozM
tGndgwrzjQNDd*zqnu}er1ixtgv=gptkfjKgoNGgi/fmcqwyr0~[tnx^sE?bbYzlsxtfv^
~*~brtDpuBwfp!imsvqtFzaBHex&klgqtrrvgsxwe>ozhu}er1ixtrs:oAobrnuAvKyx{!gE
ozekxnvBbEtnx^sE.bpzEifKtxm\zKavqeKlwxHyC8

GYacnxGgitMee!smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFaaMBjd-orfbjnKApKSet=xFjqpeGmaHHjd=l
ztfbhjvlstFet/uvfeveKlsByx{!CtjejeOpmEths+zmjpb7l$~[tnr%oHjfwfD
jAdwojFAtmtfp-frjtuy	wfKMtr!tmstcyACfLoed?SlicueAuaILtg^yEacdtMAa*-#
GrskefF|BFywm$gzarcrHomxNx{!uDacdtMAa"*	@E$lqtksLlesJfk^ylgqteLofsJjv*up
7"8`+6+8~nteE-yAakpeLofsQtv)ylbtgeKvnxt9{E$*arcsGybFChd[nAuqiwswiLoed?S
nmtbtjuFdEyid@frbktestpNHyd=llujgeOvsDtis+klcAbQU_ts0wm+zEacpi
VtpvqlJhqAMeH*ButkqsrkvKCsk!ztfbNntybKS)w!uBukefDgeBMpd[oxpvbuJvkxwyd*t
ztfb3@_%tnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtfd|vqdkcqrkjOCxm=tlphbQUgitMex=uxffbzHgbGx
ztpwimLguALty"nlbnneLofsLfq*ludcvnGutsIkd^rqdvttFpdsJwi|kzucvnGuaHz
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzeggilguAyDd@xqayjjwsjGAex&kyaqwyrposAwi@zlcctwwsaEIfh|a
ZtfbrzJwpLyes'fMNbynLojGtyl^fXjdtfJF.sCyd*yliqrjvaaBMex=fobvcqQGfsMjz^xmm
uravjjrvuAywd|vqdkcqrjpEFjg:oAobfnNptBIsw!Ctjejezhwxtss!vmsvkhMsbK
kJqgtnwudxtBm:nfakpeKvnxthe|kE.bonPleszji-ozhubftvvMnee+fmdvkAAAzsMzg&fmt
GY?bbRGyfHPjv7fuobofFFavuxi|fFigbiACjLCtr|fybAbgwgdAuwe$zqskBjvgbLtss:
uzmAbqsjlBHld^DBftkjFjfsCsdOkxfevwGujySnr"_lujksyzauOyd@rEpbksrhvMIre:kp
imucntyBjGA d!SMSEbhsAbEIly*tsacueHybvNng^jljpbyzla@Hnx^jlTvcywzaBM
nqbxkqQgxxCll:kpavqBsyesNmi!jqtetnHAjHHes'fyppqlJhqAtfr%fEftkfD
smugtnsstmtgy:futbozuoaMBnr+kDayjjFgpGyei+zqsubyzlaPIwp%fAgbofFBtvLnt:y
gzebvmAuhLtyl@zlbtgezlmwtnr!ztfbNntybKS)w!sGtkeeuvmEyhx*uzacpirvuAyw
Azjvu rgJGtwi|vAougeLvatths_sqovbgQgMX!P{!ztbvbF5_tsGfx^xubnbnKgwxLD
nqbxkqQgqAIys"xmqjkhlgbGxem|fEpbrwAtbKCqC!hqdcwxwgjGxnz*jGbnbwwjpKxxd&gHf
hqfpbrskfsztv!kmdjbuzvuHAwe[nfaHNJ1ZD12FY XlpdujJCfwtyl@zlbpbnLln Fjz^r
imucntygsxwtv%fqykuyKaayIwd^DmnrnjlggHLei@itarjtLvhKuul!ozavjjrKfMLtm:
VGcnkxzpozths-rqdvktFgpyt797$*~brnuAvKyx	!fUobvmwgdtMjd=llujgeXlexLfp
3DjvgwKgQKIoi$zfahqwrDiBwmd+kmsnAe&a~[]eh=iGngpyKgfQCxx7fDfrtjKloMCsk
ozgqtrsAjHHej/uyavyjFAz MnB!jughgwwuusMye:kE.bCRrDjMBex&klbuunKAbGwjd=l
Qmsgpe~1VT`Yd=llujge5hoNMhv*vFaFkAAzjHHeA*rxacvywtqMtys!luofbxGtfsQfC!tAu
uzmAbyGgitPjd@fopnnjuAjHH]p^Bqmbtjuvswtgy:fBftjfHzattREmIlsgetJkayIwd^goi
yFbvg	rDiBwmd>oxmbvmwuaLywz^fmtbcsrBnuLjp-glgqteLofs&#@T8*~bftuBnxHyw
ztbvbhGtfsOsh^xljv}erIvMtyl@zletcrsgsxGfm+yluqbgwgfGuhx^jgabVmwgB6txx@lr
oEaeqsKlsOuym<klbpfeusjGAxd:uldcvfDvhNCsk7fFiqwlzgpyths;xEfbxnKpuHLxd:uGu
gDukhnupbEtnr:kxmkijFjfsush!tqvtcqrufMQtv)yljpbfrtbGHjv!ztbvbxMnhxMyw!ztbv
vqsjcuKgpGyer^kpapqyrobOyeg@zmmqizAuhsIwd:nmubozuoaHzem:fopwnirifsJzx!gEjfg 

ZtfbofLAfKttj!YSNNbhGkjGA	daRQJUEMZHVX`eg=toffgilgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAo
zAavjjrlbKFni/fFsgcywkaJOjw:oAobqkrxvtFnx,fHftuzKgrNusx*zKakpeLofs6nf/gDz
uraEqsyyfLM d!UraeqzJzfmtyi\zldqpAwytBIsd$gzadgevvoxtBm:nl2``]Hlsvysx
godwtfuF.svzx!oFaogfFzaMBfx!CtfpbtFl"Ltms-juoiuesyfsuxd<gEubcxrSD,Mes+rK
glukpDrhnHOsx!CumnbgwgfQJtw^jfayjjJlbLtui/suuvksygmHQjv!rqwgnxrvg
godwtfuFavusd-kmebvtrlyIIxm+mlptbxzhsBHld-gDhgtestpNHyw7fnvvbBAAisNmi
wGbnkyQgdHLwi|vAofksyszsCrt@oDff}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
Z9PJKLr[aTths+zDbtAewEqxLni+iqaeqsulsGCsk!kxfevwGujvttt:oAoub+r3pEOri!ur
smugtnssaBHex&klXcumAuhMIsd[gBftuesuesuew;msfuvnGuaHzeH@BuebRfurbKxe_
OyqnkhsAjHHxd=llQcepsye,Mew;msfuvnGua}tYv@tEdtkgAuhsNmi!jAdwojFAtsztv!ztf
IP_TQRr[aTwhy/gozbqkrAstHxg/oBukqsKg(s@mi!IP_TQRrleBNns+fAgbvmwgGHOsh*ts
LmujgwKgeHwzq^tFtb)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

LuofksygfGwty/gsfogsLgjGtfd$uyngpyrvgs7NGcKXTQP)KggKIrd:nqaoqwFpoz
yqtuktF|_MBfx!tGngttMzaIytt-kljpbyzlaAOre+oFjgueOlsxthl=uEjpiewsfvNws+oo
uBukqsKguHtis!ztfkteOvsDa]H=xAujAe`4P13L{!kpjvqwlgUAyeT@vqsubtxgHxIwk^
3mtjksyApGnes[kzffbmwyaBFqy|zDbvgirAbEEef,fzpvksyguAuyd&kDagzuwyjxHhi
CuujbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJzatHid+AyftqzKgqxIup^fuobgiAAjGAeA@yldqpyJhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,M d!Z9PJKLrlnIBfw*FqebnnLlstLDd|itpncwK_avIrt-kFfbklFvstHhi!ur
ztfbvjuooHFtk*immbquLppGMee<gumcdqwguHtyl^slptbyzljKtwi-AoucphwgpKnem+
yAngbhszfLnex&kusbftOusBAmx!nAtvkqAAzsNtA@xpavjjKlaHJym=tE?

GrugteHypOCim+mlbpbtNlsOCjA!uravjjrmjOyeJ=AzekplrMbMBjv|fBsqljuAt
[VfhhjJzpGtfx!VDjpejLvomtKv@twmkpesAa^uqi7fVpjpeSkbFMee:fFig
SmtuchzBtxNyw!NutvqwAjbEtXs$oquA?esues7fh*yAobftOuaMBjd&gxmbhwGtaAywd@z
ztfbWsACfKMnx,fAgbXnJnjGCf=7f6XQJNYgpuMjv<kpavjfLguAye1@ytjpiyGuaIuui/yf
rulgbfDsaHzex&klqtqowjuLnem+ixvfgetvuAtxm%kEaqheLofs%fw&ozhvqs
iAstgxHvowysg^fmofbiwhmsQnx&fEpoge'06m]#@!jAdwojFAtsNtd#klqwdqAzixxeA*zt
kJugpxACfsusr=zmukqsrposynk&zKavqewphAND['oHfbxtDBnxM	d@fBsqljuAaMBfx
CumnbsGAauyeg=sBmgvjvgvGNnp!CqmnbnFApsNmi!tqyvbhwuuNLD	!f6iwu	rpusQfw
CuujbhGutBxjv@hxfbgsLovLCfw_fEfxgwssaRyfv|fmhqbyzhusNmi!3mtjksyApGtUe[kDt
VDplghLg)$0U=!mDfgvjvgEtPnh!Vmdmcwv_tsMzk"kEukqsrAitNex&klqcrjJzaHzex&k