great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that involve the administration of a test treatment
to some experimental unit in order to test its usefulness before it is
made available to the general population.  LEBRON proceeded to give
additional information on OJCCT concerning its editor-in-chief, editorial
board, editorial content, and the types of articles it publishes
(including peer-reviewed research reports and reviews), as well as
features shared by other traditional hard-copy journals.

Among the advantages of the electronic format are faster dissemination of
information, including raw data, and the absence of space constraints
because pages do not exist.  (This latter fact creates an interesting
situation when it comes to citations.)  Nor are there any issues.  AAAS's
capacity to download materials directly from the journal to a
subscriber's printer, hard drive, or floppy disk helps ensure highly
accurate transcription.  Other features of OJCCT include on-screen alerts
that allow linkage of subsequently published documents to the original
documents; on-line searching by subject, author, title, etc.; indexing of
every single word that appears in an article; viewing access to an
article by component (abstract, full text, or graphs); numbered
paragraphs to replace page counts; publication in Science every thirty
days of indexing of all articles published in the journal;
typeset-quality screens; and Hypertext links that enable subscribers to
bring up Medline abstracts directly without leaving the journal.

After detailing the two primary ways to gain access to the journal,
through the OCLC network and Compuserv if one desires graphics or through
the Internet if just an ASCII file is desired, LEBRON illustrated the
speedy editorial process and the coding of the document using SGML tags
after it has been accepted for publication.  She also gave an illustrated
tour of the journal, its search-and-retrieval capabilities in particular,
but also including problems associated with scanning in illustrations,
and the importance of on-screen alerts to the medical profession re
retractions or corrections, or more frequently, editorials, letters to
the editors, or follow-up reports.  She closed by inviting the audience
to join AAAS on 1 July, when OJCCT was scheduled to go on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional features of OJCCT *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the lengthy discussion that followed LEBRON's presentation, these
points emerged:

     * The SGML text can be tailored as users wish.

     * All these articles have a fairly simple document definition.

     * Document-type definitions (DTDs) were developed and given to OJCCT
     for coding.

     * No articles will be removed from the journal.  (Because there are
     no back issues, there are no lost issues either.  Once a subscriber
     logs onto the journal he or she has access not only to the currently
     published materials, but retrospectively to everything that has been
     published in it.  Thus the table of contents grows bigger.  The date
     of publication serves to distinguish between currently published
     materials and older materials.)

     * The pricing system for the journal resembles that for most medical
     journals:  for 1992, $95 for a year, plus telecommunications charges
     (there are no connect time charges);    for 1993, $110 for the
     entire year for single users, though the journal can be put on a
     local area network (LAN).  However, only one person can access the
     journal at a time.  Site licenses may come in the future.

     * AAAS is working closely with colleagues at OCLC to display
     mathematical equations on screen.

     * Without compromising any steps in the editorial process, the
     technology has reduced the time lag between when a manuscript is
     originally submitted and the time it is accepted; the review process
     does not differ greatly from the standard six-to-eight weeks
     employed by many of the hard-copy journals.  The process still
     depends on people.

     * As far as a preservation copy is concerned, articles will be
     maintained on the computer permanently and subscribers, as part of
     their subscription, will receive a microfiche-quality archival copy
     of everything published during that year; in addition, reprints can
     be purchased in much the same way as in a hard-copy environment.
     Hard copies are prepared but are not the primary medium for the
     dissemination of the information.

     * Because OJCCT is not yet on line, it is difficult to know how many
     people would simply browse through the journal on the screen as
     opposed to downloading the whole thing and printing it out; a mix of
     both types of users likely will result.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
PERSONIUS * Developments in technology over the past decade * The CLASS
Project * Advantages for technology and for the CLASS Project *
Developing a network application an underlying assumption of the project
* Details of the scanning process * Print-on-demand copies of books *
Future plans include development of a browsing tool *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Lynne PERSONIUS, assistant director, Cornell Information Technologies for
Scholarly Information Services, Cornell University, first commented on
the tremendous impact that developments in technology over the past ten
years--networking, in particular--have had on the way information is
handled, and how, in her own case, these developments have counterbalanced
Cornell's relative geographical isolation.  Other significant technologies
include scanners, which are much more sophisticated than they were ten years
ago; mass storage and the dramatic savings that result from it in terms of
both space and money relative to twenty or thirty years ago; new and
improved printing technologies, which have greatly affected the distribution
of information; and, of course, digital technologies, whose applicability to
library preservation remains at issue.

Given that context, PERSONIUS described the College Library Access and
Storage System (CLASS) Project, a library preservation project,
primarily, and what has been accomplished.  Directly funded by the
Commission on Preservation and Access and by the Xerox Corporation, which
has provided a significant amount of hardware, the CLASS Project has been
working with a development team at Xerox to develop a software
application tailored to library preservation requirements.  Within
Cornell, participants in the project have been working jointly with both
library and information technologies.  The focus of the project has been
on reformatting and saviBHld#uAlubyzhusuwi!ozadtnLAmxths+juukqsm
VQSUQS12TsMms>kpaYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtfd#xuuvnjripHE	d@tpafgxuyjuyid&uI
yGdjbgGvlLtBi/klujgeJltNFyd=llegxjDvqFysx|fuobrfHlsFupm+mlbtqzFkaMBj
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nqaKpiMzuKCfp!XqwqnzLppGoedonqarcuwyntEnr"fBsqejKzaPux
itbpijvgtHtyl@zlbbunyujyChe+zlboqzFAaHzee$opaycxrpoMLth;iqebksLvaMBj
gouwcqrwbIywd*zEfnh	rDiBwmd%kFftktJhuxMee|fuubunLzaHHep*hDbtAeKofEPjw8

UzfbqkrAixtfh<gzucijKggHLex^itoqntyFatHid'uDavjjrJMT!XdkxAkgeyrptsNme:
ztfbksxvsFuym=tljpbgJpuMFjd#uAlubnKgnHMyp,fAvvbtxgdHJDv*mtubcsvguAOx
urggtxrhosIut=xFvpkyQguHtBs/qlxkvmrtbMywm@rlujcyryfJOnv^ylmkdwsyz
vDfugwNhuBIs{!gzebvtrjsxuyi!gzebytJraHHee+fuohtfKAsNwyy/kluqbxsCfsNmi
smugtnss?stFg)tAxngiypoztyl^frbokqAhsBNDd=llujqxwgxHLpm+mljpbuJltxLAe:oAo
CuujbyzptsCsj=xybvktFaa9YWWjTUVUbsGAfwtyl@zltgxjJhmsNmm+mEactjrifBHl
jAog<erAixtuv*smsAbuJltxLAe:oAobvjuooHFtk,fGtgfeLvetSem|fBiqvtuvqRCsk!ur
hDjvvqwgntNjv*gx?bbXsCjGAex&kljpvjDsfvNze-foppvjFAaHzex&klncvjJpbEtnw!ztf
smjpblGhmnte1*ztaokhJvgBFrd$uBz?byzlaBHyi-rqdvwfDgdHHyi+zljubuJltxLAi%fAo
ztfbcxKBnINns+fFicveAuaMBjd'AFvtgeLofsCre"kldcpetlaKyks/smuvgirposusC
uFigteOhzsNme:fFigpewEjLNx	

GzawpiwymRCsk!gEtwouLppGttj!ztfbEQSZTs0ws(koubhwGtaMBjd#ksjppnFnaPux
ztbvbnLgxHOqh!jqwgntHgbsHjx>uDlbcuHsjvuym=tgabRwGqfvNew:grgbuhsuauIto|
gFacbBGylLNfx*uzanqhsAfwtnr!ztfbnntybKS	d+kmsbvmwgcKCyx-klncvjJpbEo
Gzakofyl_Lywz^xlgknnFnaLSxx^sljubqGjbMyid@zlbbfnKAbGwjd'xAnbvmsA
CAsmuysAjHH	d@tpacbuJpoMywd*ylmqefLlesCsd@tAujgwrivBFim+mgabCqDgpytyl^
smugtnsstsxnk*zuAgfesuesMys/kpaqpeLofsCre"k\gknnFnaLSxx^slbtgeuhutFtk^j
ozavjjrvo Fnr^fobvcqGnvxoeddtlgceylgbsLjg=xpahqwrlbvBes'fFigujrlmxwyv=tud
hApmueAzaLNtv^jljpbyzla~6NR!jmucdfKlaLIex&gFacbwwjpKxei\oEuubtxgxAuyd*y
ozavjjrkjzCye-fxjdtfJFaMBws;mtpwveKAbGxfv%fobvcqGnvxtuv=iqewtjKbas3sd:nq
lGuwtjlgsxMje/itftueOvsDCsk!lDpobyzljKttA+fIptmxLhuBIsw!ozavjjAyaHzkm$kE.
uDavjjAyaGyyA=xwt?bBAsmsBfz^fmdegxK|_PBjv^BqsbvmwFaFCll:fnf++yzypNAmd@
xqrwgxLgtxLAi/fnfkplrivBFyd*tFpbvmwgoxQeh*muucneDpcKuwC8flBbujuvow
gEtwouLppGtnw!ztbvbyzlaILjj^xDffbrwhoLttj!luofksyguAyeq@zqskcqrDjEFef^fnz
rApmksyguALty"nlbbefLhmHAzi8flQGTX7UJ@!eh^yoskdjvguAyew$gzokplrwsHwjw| 
CtjejeMzfLtfd[xAuqvDHlaLwfr+kDadgnFnawyAi-uBffbgQgYxLtB!gzebymAjisMhe+ylb
BqsAbmAnisLjw=rGukqsrpntAjd@zlhtgfLgtIyjh8flBpqyzlssMnk+orjecsLggxuyy/kf
hqdcwxwguACxd*ylbbrwwzfKPfx*uzacruDpdtNns+ ljubyzlaIFfg*tsaqheLofsJfk^y
ztbvbkssmsuue/zlppgexvssIsi!uzavjjrwmtNjr8flPtfnFhsBFD{!gltecsFlsswty-j
hqawujvgxBNmd|uyfbutJAaHzee!jAdwojFAayyjh^xfadwyrifvuzw^fAgbvmAz
gBqnkhsAjHHex&gFakueFvuszje|onmg}erMvKNmi/ lcgefMzfsWQEnYljubf
vDfugwNhuBIsd@vBmkefLppGnee'zqsbvmwgqtJjv!xqqnchwtfGNem|fybfgeLofKy	d@
BqsAbhsyfyOqd]AmmkvDrjpGNws-foigeprptsJjv'uDngf rgBGttv*muocnetvpDtnw
iAnrcwwkaMIex&klqtksLleswtt,fmofbAwyjyChe:oAobkxrtbwy	d#krptgeHypvyjh*ts.
ztbvbfDsaHzex&kljoclwaatFqd=llujgeAugHLre:oAo?bmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stYl^tf
glogyeDpcKuwC!hApmbnKgqKIiy$kp;bbYzlaILnr:kpakofyltsuwi!xqcqwsvgcRtf
iAnogwupbEtgm+jqsbcsvgbsHjA!hApmbnKgsxNzv+kpavqeLofsMmi-lg
YuhpkkAjbGNqC7fFigbgGvlLtwi:ADogfeLvaMBjd-onsctDrzixFAi|fmsgbgwhvMCky-
gzebwxwmvEtwi[rmdgojFAtsIsd@iue+hwwlaIuui/fFicveKopNFid-gEubceDvoztym_kf
ozaghkwjumtyl^fqrwkAssfGNes'fBsgujJCbMCtr!vtpvqhGwjxM d!Ztvu?eLofsJws(kou
nmtbceDpcKuwC!urafklAAbEtgs=qE?bbNFgfLMjr$kfaENF~ZaBMew$gzokplrhow
yFptksygcHIpw!gEa8`#rkpMaui//uoejetpu Gft[kpakofyltmths_vDfuujvgvLCsk
MDpwre*gDV3YX![u?g}	rAixtKv^toibchJvoRGej=xlJpvjJubMCtr@rlDqpxMsutNnz^
IAnokyLlfsztv!Zqmgiwswisush!ZqmgrmGuf	ths_vDfuunGu?stYl^ElbtgeKApKyid@y
ZUGHbkAsfLttr!gzaqryAjbEtkm-ozhbuDKAfFtyl@zljubhGtqHMjh!uracbisAbuuxi
AEffbkGyaLyfv$nuoibfFkaEIhe:ozhbvmwgcHIpw!gzebcsrvqMChe-fvvmggGEaMBfx
yFptgxr!5sNBi-Bq_kphzgqEuyx^xE?bbFrCfKS]l*mt_tgxGsvMCtr!vDjpvjvgdHJDd=l
ztfugetvpDMee:f^~`biGAtsJjv!ozdjbnKgdKyfx^jfawunFnatt3i/uJaFqhM1fvB
vDjpvjJguHtre)klujgeHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLttr!gojf+kJlfsJft^xg

VQSUQS12TsGfm+zmjpgirAitNex&klDNCX~gQKIoi$zlqtgxwuuLtfr!uBqqtyMujMSex=
ozutqiMjfsJjs[rqavqetvpDMee|fpjikyssaBGfk^ylcAbzKpoztfd[gBftbrwkjNG 
HApmuesyfsLjx;xzffbyGguAyew&kxwgueOojEyet^uBmgbfJlatFxs!muwgpeLofsugm-oFz
zAartnFAaHHeh^smof+]LvaFupi!ztfkteGDoswtt*kEaqhetvpDM d![2FTUT6PV`
jutvtntBuxxeg=vufubtxgbGtjr"ozfgtnFnaCIzv+gxarwgDptAyid#ElfpinFlfKCsk
yFvfgsLzatNeG=xzfnnesypNHidv#*~bcxrhosyCe_vxfbqkrDitNee!vDjpv]Gu_wyre+j
iAqAbtxgntNjv*gxaoklzAauyep*qq?bbYzptsPjv,foigcurjpISeA=AxebdjrhwtCqe#rq
zAargtHsfsNtd;yqahqwrAixCwd=CzatgxwhsvBet;xBpugxrhowtBs;rpadtnvnfsNmi!mmq
hquygjFgbGtjp^iFsqpnugxHLpd@tpavjjrwbIywd:nmubtjskfKMep*qqavqezhwxo[
VQSUQS12TsNmi+fmuvgrHAfwtys!oxmwuyJhuxtfd<kDzbgfJszsJws:uFzrgeGm
tquyqwClesuhg^yEavqeLojLtim"oFbnbqAistLD	!f0ftqCrJpKJtv@zuppbmsz
jqwgntHlesuet/uFpvAuwgpytfd<oqxbuysAjHHex&gFaecsrzfGxem_gsfubfuypLMex&k
tquyqwCguHtgi!Bufygim

ZtfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJFauLty"nFafqBFggHLeh^sAouvwsAjHHeg=tFbkpjvguPI
smujgrsAjvMef=uwt}beUSB`!em|fpfxgqGwjGAee+jlxknqrzqxHid:nqapgCLgzxuw
jqwgntHpoztfr!gBqnkhsAjHHex&gFacnqGDtsJjs[rqacveOvsDMye:oAoubyGgcKIBw^
ztfbdtGrtnteX&AE.bEQSZTsCxd%kHfnquAuhsuef/uItkplrApHF	d=tlujgesztNGux*uz
ztbvbzKlsLtis!tAubyfFAaMIev^gpacpewuuBLjd#uAlbhwGtattBs/qEucvnGu.svzx
CAvnfeHyfyywd:ulcgbftsfsNtd-uAlbvmJvvzBee+jlegenvlaBzex&kKayqzDkaECpi!zA
nmwgbfrwsBHyi%foprAeGmaBN 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dmklsgvwAlwtFew=lFxctjr[a.Xnk*zmmbhnDlavIuC/osiv*e?gTvusr*ts
xmugbiMyjGAet/upvevnGua}tFy:uEfiojFAbMCtr!=lDtkywyjttjq[rAzgfeAu
yqmgeyAuhsvts)ylgqteKjbGHnr"f;aEqrHyfLMns+fmofbiwjpFJwi|yuppbtxgjFuli|f;
UOSbptLgqKyhp;jqeb)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtvy^yFjqp]sue usw>kDargwAvesNme:frpnntOlesBjv!vDfugsLhuBIs{
VQSUQS12TsGfh^fFigujrhewCym=tmmbrtAuuLi

flabb+rYfsLjx/oqwcneKvgMQfv^ lDqtswsmsCxd%kHfnquAuhsueY+oJ_dcxwkaLywz^x
flabbfKgxxFqd@yldnkjFAtsztv!ztfbujJCfKtyl@zltwruGyusGzp:oBmgbuDhuyIwq|
flabb=5hdBHys|nfaKDRrhowtXy+fIptmxLhuBIswS ljpbyzlaAIui!ztbvbuwvqEyej/uy
flabbfFFaHzex&uEfbrqsAgHLrw!CumnbwwAsByAi!hApmu.rhayOwx&kDaqrjJhuBHl
flabbfKzvFJym=tljubyzhusMye+jmsfbnFAfKzfg^ylxknqrifsOxi%fmtbozuoatM
flabbuGztBvqi7fIigtjrzutHie/jEaecsrifsJzx!ozarnful.svjg@AEfbEQSZT
flabbhGutBxjv|fFikueJluKCjz@rltqhyOhsxtfd-onsctDrhqIFng@zuppbfFkaPIzp%
flabbqArfsNtd#klbdnjrApsFts)fmubofLlsBuqd+uFaqpqQgbMtHs/tqmnbgMAatNes:nqs
flabbnFzuBNzx*uzt}

flabb+r1ixtul/gEfb*iAnjMuqd'oxfbetHFsBAmx!hKaEqwFlmEtZr*BqsukyQ+aPux
flabbfvkfwtfx!ztfbciNpdxttj!IAspgqD_tsFjk@rltvckxgxBNmd:nqaecAwhusNme:fuu
flabbuJvctvqC!CAvnfeFvusBtp%fGqbksrjpNLy	!fOptpjDsawIjw!tAubyfFAaIytt-k
flabbyGgdHJDd*zEadqtCzatHid|kxmbvmwtauOyd>uGmfbqArfsNtd)kqqbvmwt
flabbfNhjEugp^frptbzKlaBHee!ructcwQgfGPnv=tyfpvexvssFnf/gDzbrzJwpLyx	

flabb+rPosJws%AoukqsrAixtxg@tzftbhsuaLwfr!gnpwve&%~sJfk^ylqgtezvvKn
flabbhswuNLnr"f^~`biGAtsJjv!ozdj}

flabb+r1ixt3i/uJauqkLDbKyel@ylgknywytsNtd|imobjfDmuHHjd_gFftkfDgbGxee<uue
flabbyzlaFInv^fBbvvjJutsNme:fAdewwrDixHel@rruqpjrtbMywm@rljubxuhoGyi	
flabb3wypQtme|fnfgpeOvsDCsk!uzajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxtyl@zlxqwqvgfGugp^
flabbyzlaLwfr+kDakvxwsgsNtd/kopipnRlaMBnw!yuuwcyAvosush!jqbnbBAAisCy
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqmA+]sglBHid=llbwvtKlhFysx@zuppbyzhusQty-jlfpcgDlaMBj
flabbxuhoGywd:ulicpiDlaAuqj:uzfbofLlsBuqd@ylxgnqrhtsNjB:fAobceKpozFjd[gsf}

flabb+r1ixtgs=qEauwgBldMyid:ulujgewsbuIwe:klqtqhwztsxjw$xucgfesipOyeA^xq
flabbxwsfvNjh!hqdcwxwgD5UXW!oEacbuJltxLAe:oAobrwGqfvN	d>oFibvmwggBLxx!~*~
flabbgGvlLtxi-kougfeuvnBHld'xAnbEtJufEF)w!smujgrsAjvMeg=rxfevnGu.svjg@AEf
flabbyzlzsQjv^fEuknqrifBHld&kmwknDrBtxxee+jlcgefMzfmtfp:nAvijeLofRtBi/k
flabbnFgoxyid=llqtgxwywtNns+ lujgeEhuAyre:ootbnntybKSee+jlujgeEhuAyre:oot
flabbksjvENDd>kDfbwsuvnyIwx@hxfbjfNpoztyl^slnkewGmjEGjh8fl)VjjQgxtHyi%fm
flabbuJpoMyid$uBz}_er1iNM	d:nqtgbgGvlLtgi$gyfbceDvhBwfp!itpkejrmpKtyl*y
flabbuJvkxwy	!f1ujgwripHExd>kDfbemGzfGtgC!ztfbrwGqfvN)w!yqmgeyAvoswtq_oFuggx
flabbkGyaxRui/oyfpvxrDjMBex&klugemFvmHAD{!gEaygqDgbLtys!sqfvbfrkfFush!uDapgjvb

flabb+rPntAjw!Cumnbgwgexwtq[xqtugirifyIwi!ztfAbfJlaLysx!uHftbyzlaECsi3fmu
flabbyzptsNnq^fFigAesyfswtq[xqtugirhowtxi+zluqbyzlaBGfk^frjnksygtRMyi_
flabbfFkaMBjr!yqovbyGguAyet/ozugteszavIrt/kEtgfeAtbzyx,!ztfAbfJlaKyyy/tqe
flabbyGguAyeA=xwtvcyAvosuxd$uyqtgxKles_#@TjBjbkrsnfLtfr%fFigbBGylLNfx*uz
flabbiwjpFJwi|yqtbcsvgtvuqi|fFigoexvssxnw[rmz++fFgjGykj*iufpveOhzsNt
flabbfujfLMex&klncvjJpbEtyl=AsibkyrDpKExd]AuugbBwsmsztv!vDjpvnFnatHi
flabbtLofKtuy/vAtgu 

flabb+rJMT!Xd*ylbnutrkfvIrt/kEtkplrvos7fg*tFpujesues3GQ7fmauntOgqKIhi|y
flabbwAniMtss>alaGxjFAvtFqC7foporwwztBIsd@tpafghGtqKyxw*uzaykqDgutEj
flabbuDhdxttr!gzakofylavIsz^xEjqpeKlsOyw	!f6scfj	vgyMeA*rxadgeEhexnef@yqe
flabbtFggNNzv^fBfthtJtbGwjd:kEukpllgdHHhi/tuoibBzlsxtyl^frjngeAz
flabbhGtqKyxw^jlbpfeOobMtwi|uxvvktFgjFuli!oEaugsLb

flabb+rVD~tme|fzpvbgwlosJwi$rGegf.rpntAjw!gDfbdjAuhsMys/kpavjfLgitPjd#kqo
flabbxuhoGyid@zlbbjnyoaKyxs-AFjqp	rDiBwmd[xqtwoftszsQty-jltwkyrAixGeA^rx
flabbyGgbGtTGmfBsqejKz?stGi$gGtgbyzlaFuyi/ommbdjAuhsMhe+tqebkxrhcHOydv$*
flabbDwhsLttp%fmofbBszaILnr:kpaykyzgmxMx[:nmo+kiwhmsNjg&tAmqinwz.sPjv,
flabbjsymRtfr%fBsgnnEpotLDd:kEuubmsCfsHtx!vDpfwhwkazIth!xqtwnyKbasVzx!ztf
flabbuJvkxwyd*yldcryMyjGAee+funcijrAitNem|fAgbuzxmjvCjr:fDfuqqMAjHHex=fnf
flabbxMikxwyi%fFpbQH0gjGtyl^frvvwwwbas7tv^uHft?eLofsMDw:kyacthzpuxwyy/k
flabbfFkaMBjd|EEugoeHsbGtme<klbbntypdtFet-gofbvtrzuHLjd@tlPETeAtbzyem'fuu
flabbmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stGy:fFicveAzaGIyd#kuoibiGufsHtA8

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ23 d!JUTVTNT2U29S{!TQUYQW3Z.sUSH!TQUYQW3POZiedjV6JQPXrMP~
JUTUGR1UB!3TR

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UDJb+rPtLOjw!vqsvcnFpoztys!IP_TQRKg(s9ux*uztbhtJgqNvqm|nuoibnFgDWaWShf;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAcgtyr7JV2	d|vqdkcqrhtLCxx@tFavqeLofsuxw=iubvgeDpcKuwm@tlgqteKwfvCfp
vDplghLz.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|yfacpirtpwywe:uDaqheLojLtxi|yupp?expsLNer=zqe
ztfbdqwztxxef;zltqojOobMtfA)CmsfbhAydNGxx@tofbqkrobOCsk!lAvtbAwyz
jutvksyBjLBjh!vqprnjryfILjw^tFjpieFluPIwo|fmofbswAxHLpm+mlptbfLgmxuxx
rqbpksygjGtyl@zlektjuAjHH	d>numgbqsjlBHld@tKppgeLvaLJje)frsqoeLof
yFsqplwzusJtw|onmgbgsjlzLty+jljpbHV|S87x	!f`JEJewEqKyxw^jlujgezvqxtyl@z
sqndgwKgpytyl^fmvfkjFjfsQty-jlkqksrAixtim|iGtuktFbas2jd|zDfuujvguAy
yGcvkyDlaHzex&oEarcwLpdNFfv!yqtuktFaa.9ux*uztbhtJgEBMxi_ozbvktFa&sush7
iAoegwFpoztHHTX1Nu?eLofsCrt=xFbpejrvgsxjx^xyjpksygxAysd*zlxqwqvgcxtBm|k
zAaeqsKpexLeh*yEfokssAjHHem+fOE+TT5gwxLxy|fzfvytJrtnteE!ytprrnFnaECxx!ur
oEtwgxrwfKNfm+ozhbvtrJE `TQ|fuoenzvlehtex&klhtqzFktsztv!yqmgeyAuh
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKaatHid*t\iqwxwgqNvqm$gFjqpeOofKyet=yEjdnjrCfKMzw
tAorttxpusIwd"uHftprwuusJzf-oobvktFbasUew*sumcteDptMtks/fzfvytJrt
ozdnwiwk;stii:kDnkpnFnaPBjr!uzfbumGBmwths+yuegtevptLyrm+gFjqpeLosHOll!g
tquyqwCaaBxjr:orzkplrAixtri$nmokurKgpKtjr:oFjgueLobMtjB*yFavqeHsbvyem:kyt
uzapgyOvsDM	d*jqovkkQpoztyl^fBpqneGmaxRnw:ozhbpjLDpKEx{!jqugtrAujGAel=Clb
vDpfwhwyasQty-jldjqtKlauyyA^kzapgyOvsDM	d@tpakfjFAjySnr"fFigbjDlnxHyw!ur
glcwunFltLtfv/gzhgojFAaBHee!tquyqwCb

UBukqsKggHLet;hxjujnFnaBHeG	/4PO<erhosIzx|opfbrztsjLBjv!Bqsuwx
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz?bbNxgbGtty:yuegbuMimBMmi/futbwxwk.sCyd$gzadgeFvoILtj*zf
yGdjbfKguAyeK=BqspojFAa9Lnr:ozhbQkxpdxt=KkU>aqteLofs8fx*uzbnbYwjiGChe-
OzgqtrsAjHHeW^xHjege}UU2![{!ozavjjrjbLyes'fspxgwFtfGN d!ZtfbrwGzatHid$uzt
gEtqensAfwtBm:nlforqGFjGAee+fAvvunvlaIOgp*ytftbfJlaHvAm=AE?bbFEvoztyl^
vDpu?eLofKyem|fzpbvwGBcEyek^zFjpiesjdxJyi%alaQpjrwbRMex&klcknqrhownem+
krggeylghHyxd=tq"ubBsF?stFq=tsavjjrjpGM	d>nqobqswgqtSxd@tlpwvxAkf
vGcnkxzlssNtd[kDgqtrrAixtBs/qfavjfLgqNvqm|nqsbynDsaIywj=xyavjjrDpKEem:fut
unmkijvguHtis7fnvvbuwyitJxd>oFiqwyrAixtuv=jGdvktFgfQJjv:oEfbcsvgtDCqp!oz
smsmgyAuhsush!jutugrAubMCtr!ztbvbxGtfsQty-jltggpmga!Bjv^futbvmwgcHxDd=l
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKguAuyd%ulqquxwztsNme:fwjpfeGmaxRui/zutgbnF
jutvtntBuBIsd@tpaocwCluBHld#AFavjfLgpuPns;yxzbcwwgtxFjg:oHf}be1u
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz.bqswgfQywg*yqtbhzDsavIsx/ux.bdzLguAysd=tqaowxLgitHip^
smuvgwKgtNwmd@ylekuyJpcNNns+fmofbrsylxNnr"alaUwhzgbKyew=sqaqheLofsIux*uzt
lAsbrztsjLBnr"fuobvmwgdtMjd=llDF+W7T?

OzavjjrjbLyes'fFfejsAjbEtfr%fpfuklFgjLMzi| lxjkhzgbKyee-yAakouGyutHy{
ztftgesyfsGfr,fybvvjJzaPBng&fybpAesAaMBjdruDlujtHgbELje%EllpgBrhazIth
jqbnbftvvMied/kFskgAssaLSxx^slsgszAyfFysx|fmofbhGzuLneA&gFavqevvatvty:
oybigxlguAyez@xupwueuhqtvnp*zufubfFkaIFfx'uDnu?eLofsNwe%k\phhxrifMQji+
iAtvbfFkaIywj=xybpejlgdHHhi/tEacdtMAaEIhe-/msgceFluPIwo@humkvDl
ozugttHlstvnp*zK.bgyub

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
R~OEJe?gDKyfx*tsapgyOvsDyid*trptofLppGtnw!jughgwwuuszws_fGtkplrufMQtv)y
gEacpesjdxMxd=xlekuxwtjGuym=tlwgjnusfs{eR^zIptmjvgnNFym_kpjcbtFgbsFfv"k
yobngevvfLtss:fKfvbBGyls{eX,vudcneUK_~9Rd[AnmkefLppGtrs%kxacbyOv_xxli%
yIptfe?gQNvqm|nuoibnFmpKGfx*uzaqpesgDWaWShfuobvmwgqKyxi+zlxqtqvgpy
oyncvzJlaLNfr%gDeub+rJpGNwe|zlcgvBwlosWI[mUYacpirufMQtv)fBskenFna}
KJborqwzawyrs+yFscvjvgftLqm^xljpbyzlawuDd@ylbbujLgpytnr|AxbtbnFmpKGfx*uz
mqnub+rWbKurs;tFapgjvguHtqm+qlecvfthtxMe_!RmzgtnFnaMIef^iAngbnFjsxuxm+mxz
tqdguxsyzs{eT/uvfeve6LFW!ee+jlujgeAztNyxd=lljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugesuesuhx*Bq
BqsuwxrwbLMnz^fGtgb+r5_$Csh=CEacuesgxtSes'fpjhhjJloMCfx*tsadgyOlfG
tquyqwCgbvwjw|fmofbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsdQfNbttnwytsNtd:nqafkxLyjuOym=t
urapgyOvsDyid_AxukojvpbsCsj=xybvktFg(s8ji%frptblGvemtwi@r\ukojrkfECAi/E
vDpvqhGsts{eX&klrwgxLppGttj!vDfugsLhuBIsd*tFfitnLFaBHeg-oqov+xwywxL
iAnrwyAuhsCsd:nqacefvlnBweA=xxeb)e0ldHGri+jmukqsKggHLet/upveksygnNFym_kpjc
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

IxjhhtJka5'SGc lektjuApKneP*hDbtAeSBuHGfx*uz.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@ 
uBfpgirojLtye-qlxkvmrAixtli+kDbnbttzfKPfx*uzavjfLgoxNBs/qqebksxvsFuym=t
iAouvnLBuxxee!jughkhMsusush!kxvukAwguHJng!hqdcwxwgjMtnw!yAngvmAuhsDzw:
yFbtvnFnaMIeh^BqmqresuesHtx!EqubhzDszsOsh^xEuqqimga5'SGcfoppvjFkfwtyl@z
iDfcvnFnazysy*tqmAbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsd>gEafkkxlsxHyd'xAnbwxAuh
tquyqwCzatMee+fmdegxKgpKtim|yqnkpfLppGtAi&oomgbfFkaPuxd_uDfbutHojLNng@zqe
gzebotJlaLOgx-kgabJjrpoOCyi%fFigbrwtcxLxd=llujgesBeBysg^fFpbgCLybIIqe:kf
lDpobBzhusNmi,ftfctirhcHOyd:nqartjuleBHld%kyppuyJhuBIsd[xAkgeyKaaMIeA&gF
yAsvbtxgbsQtv-jlphbjDldMLtr*iEakpkGyntNns+/\tejtDhsES	d@xoikxfDa
iGmvwwss.syyg8/\ujgDrDjLBjh!zAagpirBqsQnx&fFfpbtJggBzyi^tlzgcwKggKIrd+uI?
R~OEJeKBhzyxx^jlujcyrApsyCx/gBpncywgeBLjg:rKahttEguAyxi!vDplghLzaPIzp%
vDpfwhwgvGJqi@ymovbwwzvENx	

VGuvksyguAyem|yGfbqkrJE `TQ!ozargwKwfvNnz^fnfhqwwghxNym+mljpvt
mqogtfDpuByxd=tlogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvomtQ3iITaqdxwywxxex&gFavjtKlaxHle"kp
ozaowqLpnxxne!zAecAeOopsQnw&fFpbumAwattuv=jGdv?eKvaMIew@EfarttthcESeh=
tAubjfNlaFOhl!itpkejrlyvyux!zAawujrJE `TQ2flogvBGylxxeq;rFjogiAhaHHee
rmsigeKjbEyef@yudcnqQgeHyxd+uFaAgyrDpKEef^imvugeLofsNjg&tAmqiDrkpxMer=z
kJjuv rgGHLei\gyqng	rhoRvth,fIiqbmszaMLni%fypxksygjFuli|fmsqwsvgpOywd:nq
OzugtswAaDHtA|fFicveLojLtnw!gzagzhAAjGAex=Aoi+csv|hHtuv=iqtu?es
lmtekssAjGAee+jlggtyAsfsuwi@frptbjPwfKCri+zmukqslgsxMje/it.bcsv
jqwgntHtfGN	d#AFapqyrzpFyyl*tsavjfLgpGyeg@tlcgetElawyjt-ElfpvmMzjtMym$
gnpwveuvnFCyx*tsavqeHypwOhx*uzauAxLlnLtfx!ztjubyAtfn

ZtjubxAAvtNns+fIjnneuobGAj{!R~OEJeKhjwoedcklekhkwyfGNne:kpaEF]0VNszws_
ztfbrwsjuBwjw!ztbvbmsCfsvji+frpnntOlesOud:uloqyeAuawCxx/onvvksygetNfd=t
IP_TQRmgaYIwdg5ZDJbyzlaILtf-kyaykyzgDWaWShfutbptLgjMMet=xFbdkqAAzsIwd*zE
yxpypjKzauOyd:nqavyt	lezyid|CAsfbtxgitPnr"fFigbwwAsByAe-fmqrnnuhuBIsd@tp
ztfbwxwyaBHyi/lmdgbnFlyMLng@hxzbdtMuesOud>oFibvmwgetNf{!CtjejeAzaMBj
zKqkefDgDWaWShfBvdnnuhuBIsd_upfn}erPusCxd+uFacbhszfsIkd[AnmkumAuhsxfx@
hGubqkrkjLNwm#AFjpiesguRJng@rxzbuysue uqs+kfavAuAjbEFDd$rAtgfeKFtMyr{
gxm++xGmuPuwi7fGtgteAuuxLke$kfacpirkbMu][=tlbbnnLAmxtim|qgabJjFjfmtfp-
ztfbdjLDfxH]h*ywapcAAnbMCtr@rljuuzwzatMeA^rxacueLofsCrt=yEjdkqAAzsCsd_uEu
imtgueGmaBHyi"xmukplrkbMues+fAogbiAzlsQnx&fFicveGuatHtx&kD?bbRGzusWI[mUY
xqutkjNhmsMtj:CmsgbiGltsHtx!tquyqwCgwxLDd"xmdghzDszsuyd[xqtgpymga1IBi<kD.
ozavjjrwsxMjr:fIptnirvgsCrq@zGsgbxLhowuwh|fmofbqsjlsIkd;tpftuysueBHld=l
CtbvbswAxHLpd*trptofLppGtnw!uDayjfLguAyek/uGofbwMsfLtfv^frptbhJlbMCsk!uD
AEjpieAA.sJzf-oEikplrpoyIwq@zuppbtFgbsWI[mUYafqjKgbwxez@rGfbksrhaOywC
xqbnbxwutxo

R~OEJevyfPtfd$uzutcxLgcxNBi^tlDF+W7TatHid+kFxqtprwsBwnr"fmofbnFgeHCsk!yA
nuhjnnyouxxew=squjksygcBTfv/kljpbnFmpKGfx*uzartnupozoed?fxbtij
oztvkyMAjHHew;itacueLofs#sm<kDtkvDrvgsWfp*lAspkfrobLtAi+jAsubBzvaPCqp
urggteLvaLyqp!ozgqtrsAjHHes+fOE+TT5ggHLee!vDjegeHlssSje/fuobhtMyawClm:yf
hGubhtJguAyew@sqafcysg)xol	7fmobcgKAstwym+mlbpfeAuexRnr"fpbvcgszf	ttr
smhpgyAjaMuui7fDficwvsfLMes'ftpybrsuzsJjs[rqaocDrBtxtnx!iAoewwJloMFD{
CumnbvMvuxtfd[xudgbnFgtBReh*muuu}

3tbvbnKgqtwpe"kpaykyzguAyeG	/4PObnFgpGyew^tEfbcivzaOuqy^/\bbetEwmxNj
godguxrzzLNjq7fzpvboMzusLfA7fGotgkAufwtnr'uDncvnGu_ uqx&uGhjbnLgjLtss:
mqogtfDszsJjv$kuwgfeLobMtBe,alaVjnKgjLtgi$gGtgbyzlatwhi|yltqhyOhsxn
gxujqzyoaBNee%jEaxcqMl.sCxd<oqxgfetFaLIri!vqprnjlgqtLym$AxbtnDrposNmi
AzjxgwKpuRtjr<oDppojFAaPBjv^fFigtjrptsuez^xKajgfNFavIrq*zyfpveLv
tquyqwCpoznee|fnfkplrkfOyqs[kpakpeLofsQws+mlektjuAjHH 

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e46OV2eh^yoskdjvguAyei\gyqngxrkfFIsw:xmugfeszattxi:fAg
oztwnfJgjGztv_gFjqpeylnLa]T^xEfwu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eGmgxLxd+oofnAeDpoDyi
ozgqtrsAjHH	d#AFayqzDkauyez^xKafkkxpdNFyd:uljpvjyybMyeA*ztaqvmwy
jmucdfKltmtyl@zlju?eLvaECso!zAhgvmwyaLyfq-kEtnAeOpuAttx&kDauqzJjfsznp^y
lDpobtLofKtxs;xofu}erPusLjw^snmguesuaBMqe+jfacpirposNmm|fDfurjuAaBM
yunknfJguHtsy_kDpwueKAbGx]e-uzfbrwGqfvNxd:nmubcwwgctMjh!uzaxkiwveBMhw7
ztbvbnKaaHHex&kltkplDl_PIwo|zmukqsrjpGwjt:a

GEauemGsbKMmm[fqwqnAwzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv	rAixtue/gypwpyrufxxeA*rx
hqavqeDpoDtie:gnbugxmga$yeq;yFanksCgqxLxs+gxafcysibLyxd:ulqwdqAj
jmucdfKltmtys!mDpwrevhutvfw^yfakpexhjKFDd|kmnngxKgxtSx[TCtjejeAz
kJutgrwszsxnj'oovnveAuaMBjd^tHjtqsEloMMey+jqsbfnKjvLMns+fIjvjeuvqByxd=l
jmucdfKltsJws-orftcyAuhsuqp!uHftbyzlaIFfg^a

ZtfbptLppGttj!rmzgtnFnatFxs!yFsweprSZ7WMd@ylmwtpAuhsCsd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
vDplghLzawyrs+yFscvjvbas!jz^xmmbffLhctMjw!ozacbxwutxths+yFjvwyw
ozgqtrsAjHHee/itjxgxrDjMBty:fmauklFpgBwfr:fmnqwsLgpytse<osbvktFgcNCqx!oz?
KpvecyGytmthv*zudu?esuesIyl^xEaykqDgxtHyd@fxbAgwwkaLNwy$zGsg+]GufsNme:
jqgkpjKgpKtqm+qEarcyzzaMBws;mtavjjrsbRyww!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbtjsji
yBfekkAjaIInr:ygabKsrSZ7WM(|fHjgy	rsbRywm+mlxknqrifvIri!ozdtgfKpozFD
tqdguxsyzmtfr%fzpvboMzusQnx&ozacbxAuhEyev^yAvtejrivMtfg/uEtbtjKvvKwjw
[q?i}	rAstwnr"fyzvjtDvhRtfr%fovnvzJhmsNmi_kEacewGztsMjz^xmmbeqsztBwx
jmucdfKltsuxd>kxmbcxrhawuye#gEfbqkrYfGunw|gzdgbhMsuNLj=8flUjkxrhcBFnx,fFp
uDhcpnRlaKyxs;xofu?eLvauOnp%fFikplKgpNNes'fyvnvnHsfsIyl^xlujksyzaHHex&k
tquyqwCgpKtxi-koubrnwjfLttj!oF.btjHyfLysx^jlgqte46OV2es+klphbyzlaDyD
gEqgeyKgpytsi:CAsmbnFmpKGfx*uz?

IAovgsvpoztyl@zljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugeuvoLNnx;zqebcsGAixLew*mzjhkhsuusCxw;kf
R~OEJeuvnFysh^jluqbyzlatOim^tof&uesAuxHym=tlQtqowjus8JI	Yl)k}jmaa7uym=tmm
KzhkpjwyjGAeI%AobvktFgExFnz^xKaUAxLln	oedonutbrwGqfvN)w!unkgeyACfsCxd:u
vDpfwhwgbsxfx@hmtgbtxgfGAnr^kDjpieuvvKMjA@xqacueOlmEtfw!ztfbetEwpGysx|
ztbvbhsuauyey|kpavqevlwxFtt!tqxbetMytxQfv^alaKpesgoNGgi/fAgbvmwgfQCxx*ts
gBqnkhsAjHHx{!R~OEJeKhjwnex&kljuuzwgpytwi;yqa-jtOgnNwmd=tqaecsrAbDyee[gDu
gzebtjMzfsCsd=ztftbfHwmBwfx*uzt_bBszaGIyd#kuoibBwsmswtr|opftgimga1yee-yA
xmjugirAixtnw|AqaqhesjuBPjd<kDtwueHhtLCAi!AEf?btFlatMui$zlphbBzpdAtem|
nAxbozuoaBHks/smukqsrDjEFef^fybpkuMsbMyid-uobnnDrizsOxi/ygabOtKAaIytt-kf
nqactlMlemtre,fppbceDpuMFjd#xAxuksygbGxex&kzaykqDgxBMmd:ulqtksLbas64R{N
CmtbwsulsMunr!nAxbvmwzfsLjw=ADdgueOvvExef^fGtgfetFaMBjd<gEubofBvsBNDd=l
AEftueAuaMBjd+kFxqtprloOCws+sqov}

R~OEJeFlyMtxe*jlbbhjOgxHLiw!gnpwve$|XBHis>ylbubfrDbRttj!jughgwwuuBuym+m
hquygjFgoxNBs/qlbeejKzatHid+kFxqtpwkaBHks/smukqsmgaTtsy_hqsbqkrAix
gBqnkhsAjHHxd%kyppuyJhuxxee:fFigb2GylLBtt!iAvnfetlaKyBv*zFfpbyGgvLye2
gosquxrAixtsi:CAsm?eKvaMBfx!uzfbetMsesLzr!ztfobkJvnsusC!4\dcrftsfsxjz*iq_
/mayqwCzutNns+ lbpb3rAfKGnr@r\_cpirAstHxe$zlxkvmrhawuye#gEfbchJvtLtyl^
tquyqwCbasUqx&uGhjbyzptsIui+ylvrbfujfLMee!ruuvnjlgbLMzq*tsaqpjrobLtjr=Asi
tquyqwCguHtme+jxfbkylgjMtis^yloqveHypOCii!gzakpywygtwjd:ulegxjDvqsu
vDpitfEguAuyd$uzwgpnwuuESem+zqhtcywzaBHks/smukqsrmsHGeq;rFjrnjrkbMuge|kE?
4ljubfrCjxQnr"fFfejsGspzSex&gFajcxrsjFCyw8flJpbfryftFew^tEf?bnLgjLtoy|zlb
mDbrjnuhmsPjv|oAobqkryfFIyi!rAh+ksrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKE d!4\uArjrhqIFng@zuppu
xqqtgxwuusIsp,fAogbxLlqsCsd:nqarttyyfLMns+fFpycwvzaKyfp!godguxm

R~OEJeFlyMtim|iGtugiribKLni/yluqbyzlawCxx/onvvktFgpytsi:CAsmgirtvENnq^jub
ozgqtrsAjHH d!ZtfbjjsyusIkd:nqartttsfFtnw!glmceprvgsMye+jmsfueLvaILtz*jq
ztfbcgAsjMSej=xldqouMAfKMex=fFbnmeLvaxuhl!uFigt	ryfMLni<kljphtJtbMCtr7
gzebumMmgEyem:fmsqwsvggtCwp,fobuwfDsznteE:fFigbrGtfGN	d-oFungeHypzLjw|fut
hqjpieEhexttr!yFbpffJktsztv!tquyqwClesCsj=xybvktF}ayIwd^DmnrnjlgqKyxi+z
yFbpffJktsxtd+uFaeqAwyaBGfk^yfafklAAbEtAs*iq.bcsvgeBAnx@rlwkfjGbasU
AEfhwqrApHFeo*zlphbjPjitHli!lAsocyKggHLef@yudbvjPAtsCxd=txzbptOgcxCsk
gEtgogDlenteX&kltAphzypGCEe:oAobqkrjpGNjr:fEutgfEza{C i8 ltAphzypGCEm+mlb
BAjegeLybvEex=fmaxkiwvaMLfg) lfuvftsjLBnr"fFfortJhmsLjp@zuppuetluPyjr
jughgwwuuswtq[uzfpvxrposueq;rFjogiAhaHvoi$z>aeqsKAjMOyi|fmoqvmwyaBMxy^
lAsbpjLDpKEjh!sGmvkrwkjttyl@zljuboMzusvjk*tzjpieLvaKyhi*BqacvywuuBIs	

1zegtqQpoztsi:CAsmbuJvuHwtp|fmmuqeFlfwtxs_klxqtphghHIi{!xqbn+yAtf
jqmkxjJFaILtx=iAmubtFguAyeM+zqspgyrkpsHtx!EqubgCAzunteM+fXZPEM\zaOCjA7
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFakpeLojLths+zqyvbnKguAyer=zuppbtxgoxNBs/qqebfnyputF
unkgeyrPELnex&klbdkqAAzsIkd=tqaqdowjusIsd:nqapgyOvsDtys!vAjpveLvatHtx&kD
unkgeyr]pKths_vAogpyrAixLjs']lppbyzlaGyyA=xw?bbXwyjHOxd#gzeykiLoaBMxy^y
gxtqbjPptMoedg5ZDJbBszaNHhi/zmjpbnxgcBFqm=t\ckv]Hls Mjg=tpapgyOvsDMeA=Axe
vDpxgeKBgyChm^tFakheFBnxLty|fBfqrqwgstHez*jqpbksrwbKuqp^rg

R~OEJeuvovFzh^jlcAbtxmfKCsk!gzakuxMlayIwd%gFbdcxwgdKyfx=xEavqeuvoLCii/ 
gEaygqDgbLtxi<kDbnbhGtnxHyw!gnpwveOobMtrm"nFaeqsKAjMOyi!mApfbyJpbE
sGmvkrwkjttjB[kDjogsLz?stNr!glogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvosQtv-jlujgevhutvfw^
hGjnfjJgpKtxi/BudgbgMpmwywdRvGcnkxzls	tis^yloqvewEfKwnw^fFigbxstf
kJugpxACfswtr:xAmbqAwyaMBjd*tFfitnLFaHzex&klqtgxwuutNns+?ltvtfFnf
vDpitfEza.Gzr"k|aykyzgpGy)w!jmucbgwmpKyex&klvugwrzfxMem:alaUgwAvvL
ztpwimLgnNMyd#klhkxjFguHtBl@zlhwcwsuuxyxd*tFfitnLFaHzet/kEfpvfLppGoedkgDu
uravjfLgjLtwi-gFffbyGgxAywi!uzfbfwsDtsNmi!hAvpffJpfLtfv=AzebceFluPIwo^j
ozgqtrsAjHHew^xHjeg rgUACxd]AqtvktFgpytuv^yqovcyAvosCsx^mDjvAeAu
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!iAnrwyAuhsBfw!tAubdjwuaLNwi|yqebgsGBhAtnr!ztfbchskfFCh
CAsnf	rSZ7WMd@xsvgf	rAiHOll!iAnogwupbEtxi/BudgbuJvwBxjv|fpfcneOpuAtnx
xqhwnfJszn

IAoegwFpoztry-zungfnsaa5'SGcfAcugwNlesNme:fspqfeEBmMCri%omacveLofsGtq^tF
oEajkiwvvLFDd^DBfpunNlaMIet/upveg rgIxtwi$uyngpiwkaILth;iuoibrMsuBGjh*g
CuujbjAAixLez^xKajklzgttFjd<gxvg?eGyaFOqx*sqekceOpuAtfd<kDzbntFnaECki
yBbp?eGyaFOqx*sqekceLobMtBm-rlicxjrhaOywC!hDpcfeMzbzyef@yqacpirDiHMj
iAtvueLofKyks/kldcpetlatGtv:oLffbfEvoztqe/mqapwrtlsLttj!AEftu rgJGtyl*y
iAopghLppGnel*yFptkhssatHid&AybpkxLpdtFqC!uDjgpywkaFuyi/ommbofQgcxtfd"uAe
vxbegeLvaLNfv: lcgefMzfsCyd:kzeubyGgitPjd@fxppijJgmBzjd|vmobvmsuaFOhl!ur
ztfbuhAloMCkm$fybvgwAhmmtfw!CqmnbfKgbsQnh^xlvugwribLy d!R~OEJeFvuxx	d'uD
kJborqwaaMBfx!Gyftkhsua6yrs/ElgkvxrtbGSes'fFigbhJpuxLne!uGunkswk?stMi
xqnctpwkaMBjd^DFfpunNlawCxg;yEjqpesipNNef/ozhkplrAixtNr:kDogveGyaMBj
Tmukqsssa~yxi@xoibcsvgFwOhe:oAobPjLDpKEe+iXQO_bnFApsNmi!Q\24bjFCjKIsq^t
