
ZIDAR emphasized the importance of de-skewing and filtering as
requirements on NATDP's upgraded system.  For instance, scanning bound
books, particularly books published by the federal government whose pages
are skewed, and trying to scan them straight if OCR is to be performed,
is extremely time-consuming.  The same holds for filtering of
poor-quality or older materials.

ZIDAR described image capture from microform, using as an example three
reels from a sixty-seven-reel set of the papers and letters of George
Washington Carver that had been produced by Tuskegee University.  These
resulted in approximately 3,500 images, which NATDP had had scanned by
its service contractor, Science Applications International Corporation
(SAIC).  NATDP also created bibliographic records for access.  (NATDP did
not have such specialized equipment as a microfilm scanner.

Unfortunately, the process of scanning from microfilm was not an
unqualified success, ZIDAR reported:  because microfilm frame sizes vary,
occasionally some frames were missed, which without spending much time
and money could not be recaptured.

OCR could not be performed from the scanned images of the frames.  The
bleeding in the text simply output text, when OCR was run, that could not
even be edited.  NATDP tested for negative versus positive images,
landscape versus portrait orientation, and single- versus dual-page
microfilm, none of which seemed to affect the quality of the image; but
also on none of them could OCR be performed.

In selecting the microfilm they would use, therefore, NATDP had other
factors in mind.  ZIDAR noted two factors that influenced the quality of
the images:  1) the inherent quality of the original and 2) the amount of
size reduction on the pages.

The Carver papers were selected because they are informative and visually
interesting, treat a single subject, and are valuable in their own right.
The images were scanned and divided into logical records by SAIC, then
delivered, and loaded onto NATDP's system, where bibliographic
information taken directly from the images was added.  Scanning was
completed in summer 1991 and by the end of summer 1992 the disk was
scheduled to be published.

Problems encountered during processing included the following:  Because
the microfilm scanning had to be done in a batch, adjustment for
individual page variations was not possible.  The frame size varied on
account of the nature of the material, and therefore some of the frames
were missed while others were just partial frames.  The only way to go
back and capture this material was to print out the page with the
microfilm reader from the missing frame and then scan it in from the
page, which was extremely time-consuming.  The quality of the images
scanned from the printout of the microfilm compared unfavorably with that
of the original images captured directly from the microfilm.  The
inability to perform OCR also was a major disappointment.  At the time,
computer output microfilm was unavailable to test.

The equipment used for a scanning system was the last topic addressed by
ZIDAR.  The type of equipment that one would purchase for a scanning
system included:  a microcomputer, at least a 386, but preferably a 486;
a large hard disk, 380 megabyte at minimum; a multi-tasking operating
system that allows one to run some things in batch in the background
while scanning or doing text editing, for example, Unix or OS/2 and,
theoretically, Windows; a high-speed scanner and scanning software that
allows one to make the various adjustments mentioned earlier; a
high-resolution monitor (150 dpi ); OCR software and hardware to perform
text recognition; an optical disk subsystem on which to archive all the
images as the processing is done; file management and tracking software.

ZIDAR opined that the software one purchases was more important than the
hardware and might also cost more than the hardware, but it was likely to
prove critical to the success or failure of one's system.  In addition to
a stand-alone scanning workstation for image capture, then, text capture
requires one or two editing stations networked to this scanning station
to perform editing.  Editing the text takes two or three times as long as
capturing the images.

Finally, ZIDAR stressed the importance of buying an open system that allows
for more than one vendor, complies with standards, and can be upgraded.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
WATERS *Yale University Libf/gDz&ueEhtMywd[rmobvtrjpGPjv:fyjettxpmFtys
juhkvfDgjFuli/El)RQG{g(s@mi!vxbegeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLvpEMem+fFigbqAistLDd=l
ztfbhzLBsxt+donqawujKgpytnq@mqtbcsvgbGtnq@mqankgJhsRt+dkxunctDrpoIOyd'xAn
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDta}tKi@zGsguevptMCsk;oEikplrWPUtkv=slDZResuesEjC
nKqqvmwzfLtly*juoibU7Ia}tZw^fAgbxjFkpKtxi-koukqsrwsHwjw|fFpbhfupmBNfx^
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme?gDKCyi/omahqwrzfEyhx*tsaxgsvvss{eJ*tmmkuyKgbGx
xqtwnyKgpytuv=iqtubkGya^uqi!=lLgAexhdMIwd%oEukplMptACsk!BqofqwKg(
IAnrqswuuLneh^yuhpbuJpovCup^yfacpirzpFyei|zuncvjvgdHMyw!uraRQGr[a~Iqi!ur
vDfugwNhuBIsd_gFftkfDzaBHeh^BqmqrnFnaBGfk*tsaocwClus{eJ@iFptuesmgxwym+m
wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFa)bKsjuHLxd@lrfevnFnaMBjd;ymcknnLFaHzeg=sBmgzevvdNGjr:y
ozakofylayIwq!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JAocnir4B!YWW7ftfcfeGmaMBjdnEEugoxrVgyChi7f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaNkgJhsRn
xqqqtywkaHHex&klqtqlJltLttj!glncuywyaIFfr!lAsbceHypCyhx!gFa1cqwguH
iAoxgwLgnBwws'oxnbvtrkjzCye-funcijJF.s0ws(koubQuwuaUIto![2PD_ rgTMuym+m
ztbvbU7IaPuxd*tlbpbfvCbGwjh!yFbigeGmaIFfr+ozh?b2S1F~!eh^zmjngilgjG
vmsvkhMsbKnex&klqtqhwztsIkd|kxfevnFnattAi+jAsbrfJAoxLee+jltgxjJhmsEjC
oEtwgxrBowywd%oEdwuxAvosuxdtgxfbrwwwbKyxd:ulnqxjrpoMIex&klqtqowjusCyw^rr?
NqaeqrEloMyid'oDtvbtFguAyez*yuppbyzhusMjv<kEacueLofswtr:kJubqkrWPUtfr%
ztfpbiwzdKCgi%fuuubuMyqHMjd@tpauetHl?

3MUGTXrzfxMex&klmkdwsyzsIkd:nqahwyMyfsHtx!tqdguxsyjESee|fmobgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQgcNNee|fmarnfulaMBfx!mqogtfLltmtuv^yqsxgxlgbGxem_vDpxgxrmpKtnx|
ixjgpyKgsxuiC!godguxrApsvtx&fuovgqDldMOfp!gzebrmQzjvuqd/koptfjv
qzpynjvnfnteI-koutqsAjaMItp|fyvuvexpowtfd[rmdgbnFguAyep*hDbtAeAuaMBj
iAovgCLgpytyl*ylwkunGu?stXi<kDbnbwGsfLtks/fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbksusvwy
yqsxksygbLied*tpjtghLgtHOwg^ylphbjDldMLtr*illpqBDlezyes/fmtb*kAueBHl)
gueub=LofsIs[-ozfbefLhmHAzi| lujgesyuBwqiTrqwgneAueBwjw7fDfikxLlsLtks/
jAdwojFAtsush!gDdjkAwz-itim/koubutMydxMes'fDfeqwvlesEss>rqeig.rmvEF]x^DF
oybigxhgbGxez@xupwueCpowMes'foportMuesMty/iqtbqkryfvIwh^jllpqBDlezye+:nq
yA_ecqDleswtq[uGofbiGjvFysx|fAgbJDHlsMyCx7fyjzgirAfQNee+jljoclwa
suygf]LlyMtnq@mqahqwEhumtfr%fyvnvnEleBu[	

V1CbkxrspHEnr"fBbtvnuBmtLqC!gFakofyltsush!gzakofylaECgv@xK.bvmwgvLyxd:u
CtjejeAtbzyxd>oxmbdjrwvMt=i8mg.buyGybzy	d[xuovksyaauLtA|ozh?bfFkaMBjr!AEf
gEakpuMAayIwd=ztftbuJvdxMxi|]faQEWrhtsuew;hEfswjFAaILtg^yEavqeAtbzy
imqvwwwaaHLeg/kmukplrhosCre"klmkdwsyzmtfr%fmmuqeHvtLCgp,fsfpgwsAjGA
sudtqkAsnn

3tjngeAuqNNeA*rxaeqrwggKIrd@fHbtkjLFaHzew=ADdgu	rWPUtnw!iAoukiwyjGA
kEqgenssmRtnr[AFahttEgqKyxi/BmukqsrtjvLtj*ry?bbFrwpLMnf-klpwvhGtfsCxd:nmu
ztfbhnDtatHid[gBftbBzpdAtuv=BuegbyzlaBHuy:frptbyzlaBGfk^fxjdtfJF
kHfpvzssmRtre,fspbqkxgjGNtd/kypvgeKApKuli7fmofbyzhusNmi!oybigeDpcKuwC!smz
hqavjjrwsBGfv,fmdegxKguHIq	

ZtfbrzJwpLyee+jltequwgpytUS}frpewxrvosCre"ozh}be`opNAmd/kxbvgirApsW3T7
V1CbjfKguPIej^gFvtgxrDiBwmd%oEukplMptAtnx2fl2_bxuhmxa]g=tHftunGuaHz
7*.``#rCpEOri|fuovqevphBNfp!oybigexvsFjee+jl3_bxGBsvy][$uzwgtxAvoszws_
sudtqkAsnnteK*Bqobvmwzfszje:ADfu?eKlwxLfp!qqzbytJrjGAel,vAujgxwzazOnh^
V1C?bnFjmNxnr".la3_e~povyeTjHljubzKpoztrm$xAgknrlgjMtnw!tAubetFjfKHjh!Cuuj
ztfbkrsnfsFnf/gDzbcxrhaILjw^xHbvktFgnxxny_ala4_eVphBNfp!oybigwQgdtHem_vDpxg
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fFitqzyoaILnr:ozhbcsvgoxNBs/qlekuyJpcNNns+fmu
glnqfjKAaBHhv^sqovcqrjpLNes'fyjettxpmFoedx]lDcryMyjGAee+jltvqwAuhsxtg;sqovu
ozacbiAnjMuqd*smhgbkGynsCxd+kofuufJFaMIej;xFigteAtqKIAi_kzuubnFgbvwjw|a
[2PDbiAzuBHly*ytfubgwAxxysd:nqakofypozneh*muukBnFnaILtg^yEacpirVD~n
CtjejesAaMBnw!yFbigeAAawIjw!tAubrqsuaMIet^xrpto {

IGstgsLszsCsd*zEahkwKAaHLes/mmokBfLppGuqd[nmtg?e8VCszty+jlujcyrpuswty-j
AEfbceNlowIwd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEavqexhdBFnx@zqacblGvesxje-fAgbvmw
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme}l?zo	d$xqbvksygbsJws(koubvjstatHid@jHjuqwQgcHuwh7
iAohkwEpoztyl^fHbnkiAAzsIkd:nqarnfFaaxMye#rutjksyguAyeg=yFaqheLofsJws(kou
gzebcetBezyy{!yqmgeyAuhsNmi!smugtnsstsNtd$uzwgtylgbGxex&kzatcnKpoztyl^
tqdguxsyzszzr%y>?

V1CbfjNlmHJjh!tGngttMzaLyqi$zuppbhJpuxLne7fuoenzvpozied@frjtoeuvnFCyx^j
zAakofyl_wIhy_kzubofFhhxGjr: lujgesijECyC!zAaugwNlatMew,yFfoueAuuxAwe:uD
ozacbqsyhxaxg@rqarttBldMttz^xltgxjJhmsSje/yfakpywyfLNem+fpfxgqGwjGAex&k
xqrwkxAAfsMtj:CmsgbfKgbsMye+jmsfbwsAixLex&gzacbhMzuHGet/upvev	rhowtf
CumnksyufLMex=fuoxgxLgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^yljpbyzlaILtn^iFakvxwsgn

ZIpbxjFkpKM	d	KOacpir5fKIC{!CqsgbxwsfvNjh!gEahksssjLNxd*tlPevttlss&@!v 
gzebynLoaMBjd|ABqqtyrvgsNmi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtje$n
CmtbetEtjLMns+kpavqeyloxLfx^fmafgyspmxxev^wGjtgrwuuLtfr@rKtkuexvssNmi
vDplghLgbGxex&kzavqeKBcFCyd@frptofDgqKIus|gxahqwrAixths_vxfvktFgpytyl^
vDplghLaaPBng&fuoenzvlesuef;jsfvbfFkavIxx|alUjgeLlsFMeA^xqavjfLgQ8VeA=Axe
vmzbvmwgmHMjv8flUjgeJltNFyw!lAsb1fDlaHzem+BAmxksygbsPjr%uDakphDBexx,
hDpcfeAuwHFAi_kzubqkr6bEyew:grgbchJvtLtyl^fnpctirhusuev^rmukxjDFaEIB
iAtv?eOojvBeq@ElicxjrspGA]x^xyauklFpgBwfr$kljpbhsysRCsk!uGubvmwgqKIoi$z
[FxgpyQ|gBPjd:ulujkwLFaNHnz^xEjvAeHlpIFjd@xqagplsnfwtnr!V1C_>etluMyw
AzegtxLhowCsk!uravjjrmbvNtv|fFicvesmgxwyd$uDqqtfLlaKyxt=tEfbvtrtbKEjx|
lAsbkrsnjGAet/upvevxhgbswtq[kFjvkAwgqKIus|gx<bcsvgbsGtv^fEprjnKAjvuyi%
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw8

ZtfbotKAaBGus/zmovbksjuHLex&gFafkxLpozOnw&kpavjjrCfGxtv|fGofgw
iAoukiwybMCtr!CmtbvmwpssCii+zugkefLppGtBm:nlujgeuBtMIri/alaVjjrzjSyee+j
ozugtsssavIrt-kJjvAeGmaMBjd$uyqcpDrhmLIeA@ylbpbnEwpKNfr:frbevtJbas0TF!Cmt
rApmksygbMtqe/mqaeqrHhoByxd:nmubjfvgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^ygabKsrAixtjr% 
ztfbrwGjfLMek^tqscvjvggHLe3@rqavytrjpFJjx*zuwgbuJvqHMfp| lxkvmr5fKIC(|
ztfbeqwhssQnr+kD?bb2S1F~!ex&kzafgxuyjuyid:nqaeqrHvoxHyw!uravjjrwsHJtw@rf
ztfbfjKphGtuv*tojrnjKaatHid|uyfbqkrAixths|zEaguyAtbMyid'uDavjjrwsHwjw|a

IAnrqswuuLtfv^fqtugsLpbEFDd'uGs<besgdHHAi/yuppbxMitRMyi_ lb
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd|AntAuywtayIwdv$f~``etvpDMe+@tpaRQGrlyIyhx|
8*~bvtr!~[tit*fEuqtfyl-mtgv=CEjpieKAbMCtr|fpjuvwAivMyid=tlujgeuhnIOx
tquyqwCaatHid+kFxqtprhdvyxw!zAavjjrpntAjd[xuovgwKb

GyppieLofsxjw*mzartnFjjIFjw7f2PDbBsuuxxeg=tHftunGuatNex&klikimwzu
vAtukgDlaKyxs-AFjqp rgBLMzq*tsaVKKXggBFjw7f6JHHexpmxMeA*ztaIttMwa(
iAnrtjKzjHH	doI2|KR	rhowtjx&kDogveFluPIwo!uzaecrHBtmtUS}fIbpvjvgb
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!gBqtqfuoaPCyl!oybigevvdNGjr:ylekuyJpcNNjh!zAavjj
CAsmuysAjHHxd@tpaociwgbvwjw|onmgbyzypNAmd+gFjxgeOvsDMye:oAobksLlsyuhi|
yGdjbfKgXBHis>ygabRTTgbEMtd*tEjuvjvgpGtfd[nmtgfeswqKIfg&fFp
oyqngrwuutNns+.la3_esgtMushTgxppg	rzjGAqiTAEft?eDvx wtw:fqovtDrpoMIex&k
hGtkpjKzaPCyl!glxqtpKAbMCtr!lAdwujvgpGths+BqsuktFgbGxee-rAxkplrWPUtys
kJqnqwwgvLywd@iofuu.r9-sGtz^sqovbnFApsuel*mtft+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGuaPCyl
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd@tpaowqLpqEyee$iqtubxLhuBIsw3fmofb8{gb
nuhj+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGu.szzp-/obrchAAzsMys/gsf?bfFkaFOqx*vxfbdwGDtBHl
yFbvktFzawCxx/onvvgirAiKIzk&uGubvmwgdtGuy|a

ZtfbetKAtsJws[uEffbkGyaLNfv:/GqbcxKBnxxex&klfzkxLlovyes'fFigb4ssfsHjx>uDl
gzebkyKguPIeH=iGUgemrpntAjd[xuovgwKbas9yl^xltvcwL|vIths|zEactjrltMCre:kp
gFa^3eEpmECtr!uHftbyzlaMBwi^fBicujKbasUyd:nqagpirvgsNmi!vDplghLaaMBjd@tzvcn
uBftcyAuhswtw:ylfuvnEhuxxet/oybtkqQggHLex&kltqhyOhsxtfr%ftbtfBsyfsJws[uEff
iAngbyGgbuIzx!*^~?`#=aauOyd:nqtgbjPjmNxjd$uEuubkGyaEugs/fzfgfjvgjGtyl^
iAoxgwKppGtuv=iqtu?eFluPIwo!gzebrwAuuxLey|gsf?bfFkayuhm-oFjgueEhotAjq^tF?

LuocnqQaaMBjd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEarttvBdxxej=xlZcnjrhaFIwi!yAqjkxLpdtNjh
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw2flujgeEhotAjq^tFaqheuvnIFjB!jAdwojFAtsCs
oybigexvsFtnw!tAubceHyfLywz@zuppbuJvcEyr{!tAubceDpcKuwC!vDpdnjEaauOyd@
mqogtfDgqKIgp^sljpbfrisHui{!mqogtfDgjGxzw:xK?bbUJltxLAe:oAobofLlsBuqw!gDf
AEfhwqrmpKtii<kxprksyguAuyd_gDlgvetldtOxi!uravjjrxvtFnx*kEaqheLof
smugtnss?stKs/fqycouDl.sGzg&fAgbkyrptsIzx!uraequQyjzBy	!f6igbwwzpEOym=t
uramgDrptLOjw!yGdjbfKguAyeu;gxjvAeGmaLwfr+ozhbcsvgjFuli!hDpyunFnatFxs
CumnbfxmfvNeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd:nmubofJrfMo

ZtfbvjuooHFtk,futbtjskjESee<gumcdqwgcNNeg&gzhkplrybICip,alaKpeLojL
iAovgCLgpytwe[opaejfFnfmtxi<kDbnbksjuHLxd@lrfeveIBbECyC!gzebetKA.sNt
Ctjeje8VCsCsx^tptbvtrwbRtue/zudwnfJgbMNjr:oAo?bkGyaxRfq[rq.bvmwgwtLns;y
rqwgnxrvgsLjw=rGukqsrAitNeg@tlcgbfuojxPjh8flQQDetlmByAi|fuubefFgcKCsk
xqtqnzLppGtzt!zAa8`#rkqBnef;zlbpbnFAfKJtp@zuppbuJvdxMxd'xAnb6#=guHt~@Efut
sAsgbqArfES d!ZtfbxfJpbMCtr!wGbnkyQgjGtrm$xAgknrrDjEFet/uHfbvtrifsu
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFahchLvsnteTjHlncAeJlfQurm+klujgeKAbGxfv%ylvugirApsznp_fuo
ztfbhnJzusJqe$klcAbqGvlBHld@zlujkxrwsHwjw|fmtbcexvmEIB[=tluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}

UFigteAtqHLye+zlgceyGytsCsg-Apf<beLofsNjg&turwgxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLof
uBftcyGyayIwd&gzenksygntNjv*gx.bvmwgxtSxd=lljpvjyybMCsk!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
ozuqbyzlawClm:oLjpieOvsDtkp=CfacpirhaPIwo!lxpybyzhusCsg-ApfubnFkfQCsk!gze
yFptclwbas0TFNylsgszAyfFysx!Cmtbvtrifsugp^fFpbfjssaPCyl!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
gFavjjrwpBHyd=lltecsFpozoedonGt?byzhoDMex=f0ftqClgQ8Vee+zudkrfLltsBfz*ts
glngemsujLGeA&ooibynDsatFqs>fuubptLgpGFDd:ultecsrposvfx$nlgqtrlgcNNex=
xqwkgBrAixtre:kDjcneszaBNek=kEavjwGBhAtyl^fEdcpswyatHid$uzutqqrxvtFnx,
lDpobyzlaHOyw^zg

ZtfbuysuetLiw!lAsbojszvKCsk!wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFtbfjHlowtlv^gFmAbtFguAyey|kE
uravjjrtbMywm@rfakphDBeBHld|Antgszwuus9HV7fEuqtfyl.sJwm+zuoi?esue
hDpyunFn?stGy:fqtrghAhmESee:futuwjrmpKtUS}futbvmwggtwnp*zKahqwrisHQxm+mg
ZtjubksjjECyC7f9BVGW~gttCi{!oEargwzhqLtyl^fIfcmjKAatMui$zlphbnEhhBHl
zqdjptDvhRtfr%fFigbrGzusCsd+kqebqkrkfOyqs[sqov}

GlwctnwAzsIkd'gouqtxrhgyyhx!ztfbwxsijECyC!uraeqrHsfQtis$AyfpvxrposCre"k
lAso?estpGAex&ky;bb6{guAyee#oxjvAeGmaMBjd|EEugoeLvaAush-klujgexBmEtwe+mq
urafqhMtfGNex,vqt?bsGAaCOxx!sAoqiwswiLtgy:fEftkfDz.sGzp:o\qcty
sAoqiwswiLnee+jlncpzKjsBJyw3f@-bvmwgmHwfx*uzaqheLofsxfx@hmtgbtxgsxwtv%
lAsbdntsjHAwe[nudbksxvsFuym=tlbdqzLguAyem_gsfbftuBnxHy{!Ctjeje8VCsQfr:y
zAagpywyaHHhi!gzebksrAixtrs|zlvugkMsaIFfg^ lujgeGu_ECsi!imucnty}a* ee
jAdwojFAaBxjr:orjgtexvssLjj^xqoeksyguAyef*hxjqiwswiBwem+lAsocyAvosCsd=tq
vxbegesuesNmi!oybigxrposuss:nqs>b9{guAyex^itokszwggHLeq@quoibyzlauuxm$
ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgbtxguAyeh=iGngpyrhdvyxw*hxfbvtrAixtwi@jqs>bfFkayCse-rK.
~>avjjrwiRMng@rlqtgxwuutNns+fAobvmwgD~@es'fFiqujrkpvOri+zE?bbU7IaBMev^gpz
zAaeqrHsfMyex&oEarjfKlaGIB	!f1ogbqszusxjg*yuppbnFCpEPjw!jqdkfnFnaPBng&
smugtnssaMIew$gz?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+doORGbhnDltswtr|zuuwvjrkfszfg:ultvcsvhswt+diG4B&uewEqxLni+iq
CuujbnEhhxths+BqsuktFgtHzyA@xqacpirAfQNeg=tHftunGua}tWJ{f!436e?
IAoukiwybuFjd'rGybetFjfKHnr"fmwckqsimxtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbxGsvMCtr|f;
TMMbvmJvvzB]t;zlscvjrkvKCsk!yobppnFna}t2m+jAxbofFhhxGjr:fCvguyAvoLt+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrxvxMym=t\bpf]sutPywd[kDjqfeLobMtks-rAxgfe#HUX`X(|fBsgujFAbMCtr7
ztfbhtDspPCsk!vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtff=AFawunFna!3KJ!lumgueszattxx@tpbtfeElbGNeh^
flabbksjuHtxx@tpbtf rgUACxd*ylxjcyrtpLNet^uBmgbzKlatHid:EBjecqDFaxRhl@tsf
flabbBAAisIyl^xlhtqzHz.suhv=yEarnfLmpKGx{!uDagxjFgpvwfw*uzbnnDrhdKIxw
flabbiAzqEuDd|uruycwwb

flabb+rOP57JW!iAnogsLlesIsd:nqawpxMjdxMxj;rlfzrjJpfGwjd=llOCTFrpo
flabbfLAfFJym+mluqbwMuaBGfk^/oppxjJzjHHew=lFxctjrvssNtd^DoicplwgcxNBi^t
flabbfHwmBwfx*uzt<be#obMtfv^fEvrrtKleESeXdLRahkqwzazIem+zAaqvmwyaLIkx>gDf
flabbyzhusCxd|ABqqujvguHtgi!gnmgbyGgbvwjt:f6JHHetBuswfr+uFatghGnoBTjd:nq
flabbkGyntNee+jldcpsGAawyfp!CuujbnLaatHid:nGtbtjFkfKMex&klfzemsuhx
flabbzKlmxMx	!f4fbvjPAavIsz^xEjqp	rofsHtx^jlujgevpgyywi+zlsgetyujMCtr
flabbwsAfLttf:guogfetFaLOgw:oFvvksyguAyeq@qqacpirtpwyqd=lltecsFlsLtnr
flabbSSYB,Mev^iqovbywzusIkd@tl&kpywsmBAjr:_ldjcwsjuxL]v^iAhpkyAvosJws%Aou
flabbkGyattsi>foporfFF?stNr!ztfbujDldMCtr!urajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxn
flabbM7SNX!ee/mGff?eKvgMQfv^fzpbntFnfKths+yFjvwywzaMBjd=BqstkiAuhszfg:uD
flabbnLgeBxey+zumbcgGBusueC^gDacithgstNmi/fuubkxrwfKBft|funrqwLhoMtys
flabbqGvlsuyd#uFibptOb

flabb+rKbGHDd{utfpbfFkaTFfr!QmuBbtxguAyeY+oHftunLFaHzeW=AFigtsrJbECks/tub
flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxMeM+yFjvwywgcxAfr!iusewqsAjGAee|fmobKsLlsGyydmLO
flabb=0MDs&85y]lbdqzLgbsGtr:nlbiqesgtMush@xpahqwrha!3KJ!ozugthzhozy
flabbkGyntNej=xlJpvjJufMtim|zDjdwyAvosIkd_uzpejwGtfsvnxTsmqrgirpntAjw7
flabbBzpdAtQ3iITaucnvgixtgi-oqwgfeOvvExef^fGtgfeszattii!lmdvqeKAbGxfv%a

flabb+rMMX3XGcNMVGT)KgjFJwi|yuppbkJvnsBje/ozhbvmwzfsLjt=xFtbcsvguACso*ts
flabbftvvMtFQNylfzrjJpfGwjd>gEavjfLguAywi!oEaeqsKpexLff-klgnwCrjpGwjv+ozh
flabbfNhjEugp^ftbtfBsyfsush!yAgvyfJlaLIqy:oAou}erOP8@TR!gssggirhow
flabbhGtnxHyi%fmubvmwgttGjd:oyfbqsr7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtyl@zlujgewxvBJri+z
flabbjEwmHSjh!grggeyKguAyev^yGmvueHypwOhi%alaQpjrjbGHtx!jDbybfrjpFJqi:k
flabbhGudEOxm=tlcAbxsFjGAem:futbfnxmjvOqx!uDakouGztBvqi!zAargwxvsFtTGm
flabbkJvnsMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_ lgqtewEbFJqi7fIjvjeLobMtii<oof?beLobMtxi:fAg
flabbusybFyyi/yfacpirzzLNjq!xqrwkwwtfGNx{!hqdcwxwgoNGjv=AEaqvmwyaIytt-k
flabbfJlatwhs_vxjujnFnaCOxx!ztbv?eMzjGAes:nqsbetEwpGysx| lqgtmswtn
flabbM7VU88es[ozffbyzhusvtx&fFigbmsyePuwi!gzebvmwgtHzyA@xqaygwwgiBAmp,
flabbnEwpKNfr:alaOqxLgpytyl^fBsqdqwttsxnw$AEtgfeLvetSel@BqadgjFgtHFAi%fuo
flabbsMtfKIzw!jughgwwuusQfC|fnzbqyzlssJjs[rq?bbYzvvzBem:futbitGkaMIef^
flabbhGnoBTfr:fAgbxfJppNMei\vqskgsultmtyl*yljubsGAaMIew@ElujcyrpusQnp-
flabbfDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPle
ztsgumGseBHl{!jKoconuguALjw&uxekpllgeBNmi/ozh?bnEhhxtri/mqa)bUsnfsyik^
krggeyKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Mqptijr1I87F{!itjgh	rJpFGzr*imukqsKgFGAnr^kDjpieTybGwm{!Tmukqsssa5Cgv@xK
uraOgiAjjGye+iRY-?bnDsvLNwe:kpaugAwybEttj!ztfbfjxpdBysg*kEafkxuBtLyid#E
ztfbrwwCjHOxd|vqbmgwKbas2jd*tFsqfzulesNmi!zAqkeeGmaLJjg*gxartttsfFMef,
tAukplrAixtfh<gzucijKgpytjp^iFsqpnugjFulm+mgabHtJgfQurt-kfakveAzaKyli+kDbdnj
hqdcwxwgjMtnw!gldqfjvggBFj{!gzebtjss_MCri!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=rljubuGztBvqi!Cuuj
kxfevwGujvthe[zGsg?eOofKyfw!ozarjtLvhKuul*ildcryMyfsCyd*yloqv 

UzfbqkrAixtim'ludwnyAltsxnw$AEtgfeAuaMBjd|imopksygbGxew:uDbigeHypvyxw!Cmt
oybigeIBbECyC!Ctjej	rDjMBty:fnfncgGyjGAex&klpdxnGBtmtri@tEafkkxlsxHy
ztjpixrmpKtre[yfaogiAjbEt3[/gKt?btJgcKIfh$gEubvjDlwBMns+alaKpeLofswfw^fAg
jAdwojFAtmtYLjSMaucnvaaBGfk^fCvcnnLFauInp|fppypeLvaEylm#oxjvAeGmaMBj
zqyvwfDgqtLyw7fmofbkAkfECyC!ozavjjrjbLyes'fsscAeGyavIqs/fBiqvtrwsBHy[:EBf
smugtnss?stQi"onjnkyQgcHCqw!jAxpbyGgtvusd%kztkvDlguAyew:gzectirposGtw:
imtguetljGAe7E$lerk rgJGwwi@yuoibyzlaKyxs-AFjqpeOpuAtxg@tzftueLobM
vqshqwEg7[]es/f!3``evwjmtms>kHft?euvnxMee:fmaeqxLb

HquvgwrpntAjd]AmmkvDrloMunp|fmubnjszuszty/fpjhhjJloMtpm+jEaqheuvtMM,d!7>
kCvkrrwuuswtw:yfadghsBtxtyl^fODFb=Abfnneg&gDhg+hGBqEyeh^Budg_eOpuA
mDfcvjJgoNGgi/fAgbgqwtfGNxd$uEuubrGyfite6SfFjogeuvtMMex&gFavtfFzmtNjd:u
ztfbchLBbEthe[zGsgbhGzuLnef^imvugeEhoNuqd-gnptbnKgjGPtp<kpa-vmwguBGjd*y
gxtqbiwwfGxjr:fAobvmwggtwyd:nmubotJlawuye!nmtbvtrifsGtz^jlbtqzFkaBHex&k
smdjkswgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsIwd+kFxqtprkfOChi|fFicveHlsyIwq!ztfbuhsuoBHld@y
CqmnbfKguAyew:uDbig[hga* eq^jubbetKAtmtgi$gGtgbfLgiBAmd/kEpnwyAvoLtqe/mqs
lumguezhwxtys!hqauvtJleitfr%f$-bvwsutFCxw*uzaeqxLz.svjg@AEfbvmwyfsCxd(AEu
sAsgbisAbsNtd#klutcsKtjMNjh8

HGubymAsfsLjw=rGukqsrAbDyxd$gDfbqkrAixtnw|AqaqheDlhBvnp*zKakpeAtbzy
wGbnkyQaaHNmi/fpfhkhAlovCjw!nmwgbyGgeHtBm:nldqpyJhtMtfr%fqmgojFAtsIsd:nq
vmhgbxuhoGyid=xlujgeAtbzyex&gFapgjvlesNtd#klsgotNlesIwd$rmskhnwk?stYl;yf
ZTPOCeHypvyjh^jluqbnDsvLNwe:klwctnGBtsxjj*iufpenwz.sBtA!ztfAbfJl
smokhjKAfwnee+jltgxjJhmsNjg&turwgxrApsIAi/iAngbyzlnn

LuygfeLosxMms-juoibBszaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGCvy^fpfuewAifwnew;oFbdnjrmpK
hxbem]sue Qmm:klugzylgxAysd:nqaeqsLybLNeh=kEapqyrCbKSes<kDavjjrwbzy d!Uzf
imobjfNlaFusC!jughgwwuusNmv^ytpnfeDlwxFxd*tltecsFpoztii<oofu}er1iNM	
ZTPOCeGmgxLjh!gzagzfEwmxttj!kJutgrwszsJts/foppvwszumtBl*itatgxMsuxxej/uy
ztfbhfuAaMBfx!ztfbuyGjlsQfw!gligcAQgsxx d!ZtjubnKguAyew=xFaqheAtbzyex&gF
CtfpbrAjsHznp_kpahcnDzaMIet/uHjfgesuzsFjk*humkvDrDitNxs^Bqs}beXpyxx
ztsgumGseBHld*ylujgeOhzsNtd$nmoigeLofsvqe$q\uq+wwkavIsx/gEubvtrAix
jqtktjvgcEuhoTzA_yjnLlavIsx/gEu}

UFigtewEbFJqi|fuoenzvlesGfx^xubnbyzhusBfh!hqfpbgJvxGyid=xlzgnqGDfwtgC
gsf}be`ojLtBe|fmmuqesgdtMjd=lldqpyJhtMtii'oojgphQaatHid$uDsgeyAvosQfw
jAogbgQggBRjh!ztsgumGseBHl	!fMahksssaxRfq[rqadqnDzawIBr!zAavjjrzbFy
ztjpi	rzmBAmx!BmskcgAsjMS	d#AFakveAzaGIyd|osokhnuhoMoedaoJffbyzyfLBtp%ozh
yAmxgxrAiBMet/unmgoeszaPyqp8flUjgeEpdKIkm-slfswnNhmxHyd*yldgtyspoESep^mucng	
hGubkyrjpFyxd>oFibffJratLje|alaVjtMnis@MShGlekfeFvusBfz^fmaunnvlaHzex&k
sudtqkAsnsCsd:nutbefKl.sBjd%opaujtOguAyev^vDpfwhwkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzy 

3tfpbtFlaAuxd<gDjcdqwgdHHyv@yFaqxjJgbsJfk^fAsbvmwgmBAmx*tsaqxjJguAyet@mq
gDfcbAsyjxM	d^yBfekfDszsCsd:nqaecxwgxAywi!glcqwsvgwHFzq^ftbubqAniM
ytjpksygpGtnx7fFigbnEhhxtry|zlcgbuJvdxMxi%fnzbcevFotGng!ztsgumGseBHl
yoigojmga8Hjd|itfog	rkzGurm$fmwgtfypoznee-rAxubyzlaMBwi|nAmfbqwCfEtss:fFp
hqahkCwkauOyd:ulcgbwwjpFJzx^jlgqtewCfKSet*DqmbhwGtaMBjd+kuhjdtJpoz
itbtchLlsBMym$ygabVmwgoxCll#uDtbqkrhaICCi-fpfvgwEpoxtBl^xqavjjrAiKyxl=rp
ytpwnirifsMjx!lAsbvmsAaICCi-a

ZTPOCeKopPyid@tlfzcrHsfsIkd@fBbigeLobMtme%fnfgpeEhextii'oojgpyrizsu
BmskgyQgpytyi$nzjswjKaaBHhp;juoibfrivKHeq@xw.betxmfxtxx@ozt?bfFkattDi-rAx
smsmgwmgaTJup*imukqsrvgsuej*Dqe+vmJltAIqh*tsauemwtfmtYLjSMactlMlemtrm"nF
zmlgbhsyfsIkd|kHftcqrkfyChm^tojgueGuaMBjd[gsfbdzLgoHNee-rlphbyzlnn
VqshqwEpoztyl^fobnezDhuBIsd'uDacbiQubFChd:nDfujtDkaLyyx*ts.bjtOlwxL	
xqnqxjKgnHMyd=llujgevlgBwni+iufubxGguAuyd@zlmgcxLguAyex^DFakueDlhBvqi8

GzpvjjJgqKIgp^sljubwwwsxMjr:ozhbceyybRtqi<kxaykyzgcEuhoTgze+ymAAfsJnB^rE
hKacbuJvdxMxd)tAxpbfKgeBNmi/ozhbqwrlmxwyv=tudbuhJlfGCsk8flCwvevpuAywm+m
jAfubsGAaILtz*jqaiqtvgjFuli!wGbnkyQggHLet;xqadnfur_tHi[>nuugbywEuNuq
smugtnss?stYLjSMaknqMzuKuyi%fFikueHvjGNeA*ztagzfEwmxM d?rFiqwlzgjMM
yGjvcgAsjMSej=xlqjqyGwsBHyd*ylujgeJlbLIsd'uDagnjuAsHHng!yosggsAuhsIw
juujgwAuhmtnx!imopqyrifsOxi%frptbjNlsRths_vAvpfeAtbzy d!OzavjjrkpvOri+z
ztbvbBszawCxx/onvvgirizsW3T7f6IQOFrupMChi%fFicveLofsxnx&kDffbnEhhxttj!ztf
OQFGbywzuswme/zlfxksulesMtq^fpfvgwAvstNns+fuobvmwguxRy	!fTfbrwwzfGNjh!gz
kJutgrwgfQurt-klphbiwAfKCtv@zuppbnFguAyex^DFakpeOojvBeg=sBpwpiwk
jAdwojFAtsBfh!zAadgeKlusLnk&zlcAbtLofKtyi$nzjswjKbas@mi!zqdjpnIBf