is scanned twice and the settings go from fixed threshold to the
dithering matrix; the resulting images are merged to give the best
results with each technique.

THOMA illustrated how dithering is also used in nonphotographic or
nonprint materials with an example of a grayish page from a medical text,
which was reproduced to show all of the gray that appeared in the
original.  Dithering provided a reproduction of all the gray in the
original of another example from the same text.

THOMA finally illustrated the problem of bordering, or page-edge,
effects.  Books and bound volumes that are placed on a photocopy machine
or a scanner produce page-edge effects that are undesirable for two
reasons:  1) the aesthetics of the image; after all, if the image is to
be preserved, one does not necessarily want to keep all of its
deficiencies; 2) compression (with the bordering problem THOMA
illustrated, the compression ratio deteriorated tremendously).  One way
to eliminate this more serious problem is to have the operator at the
point of scanning window the part of the image that is desirable and
automatically turn all of the pixels out of that picture to white.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FLEISCHHAUER * AM's experience with scanning bound materials * Dithering
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Carl FLEISCHHAUER, coordinator, American Memory, Library of Congress,
reported AM's experience with scanning bound materials, which he likened
to the problems involved in using photocopying machines.  Very few
devices in the industry offer book-edge scanning, let alone book cradles.
The problem may be unsolvable, FLEISCHHAUER said, because a large enough
market does not exist for a preservation-quality scanner.  AM is using a
Kurzweil scanner, which is a book-edge scanner now sold by Xerox.

Devoting the remainder of his brief presentation to dithering,
FLEISCHHAUER related AM's experience with a contractor who was using
unsophisticated equipment and software to reduce moire patterns from
printed halftones.  AM took the same image and used the dithering
algorithm that forms part of the same Kurzweil Xerox scanner; it
disguised moire patterns much more effectively.

FLEISCHHAUER also observed that dithering produces a binary file which is
useful for numerous purposes, for example, printing it on a laser printer
without having to "re-halftone" it.  But it tends to defeat efficient
compression, because the very thing that dithers to reduce moire patterns
also tends to work against compression schemes.  AM thought the
difference in image quality was worth it.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Relative use as a criterion for POB's selection of books to
be converted into digital form *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion period, WATERS noted that one of the criteria for
selecting books among the 10,000 to be converted into digital image form
would be how much relative use they would receive--a subject still
requiring evaluation.  The challenge will be to understand whether
coherent bodies of material will increase usage or whether POB should
seek material that is being used, scan that, and make it more accessible.
POB might decide to digitize materials that are already heavily used, in
order to make them more accessible and decrease wear on them.  Another
approach would be to provide a large body of intellectually coherent
material that may be used more in digital form than it is currently used
in microfilm.  POB would seek material that was out of copyright.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BARONAS * Origin and scope of AIIM * Types of documents produced in
AIIM's standards program * Domain of AIIM's standardization work * AIIM's
structure * TC 171 and MS23 * Electronic image management standards *
Categories of EIM standardization where AIIM standards are being
developed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Jean BARONAS, senior manager, Department of Standards and Technology,
Association for Information and Image Management (AIIM), described the
not-for-profit association and the national and international programs
for standardization in which AIIM is active.

Accredited for twenty-five years as the nation's standards development
organization for document image management, AIIM began life in a library
community developing microfilm standards.  Today the association
maintains both its library and business-image management standardization
activities--and has moved into electronic image-management
standardization (EIM).

BARONAS defined the program's scope.  AIIM deals with:  1) the
terminology of standards and of the technology it uses; 2) methods of
measurement for the systems, as well as quality; 3) methodologies for
users to evaluate and measure quality; 4) the features of apparatus used
to manage and edit images; and 5) the procedures used to manage images.

BARONAS noted that three types of documents are produced in the AIIM
standards program:  the first two, accredited by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI), are standards and standard recommended
practices.  Recommended practices differ from standards in that they
contain more tutorial information.  A technical report is not an ANSI
standard.  Because AIIM's policies and procedures for developing
standards are approved by ANSI, its standards are labeled ANSI/AIIM,
followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuoty|fFppgeHopMIlv@vtjebnEhhxtBm:nlhtcDrzdtFjw7
zqyv?esuesMjz^xmmbetFAjGOty|fFppgeHpdMOwi|/\bpfeSPJ6tyi|zluctlwAaGOrf^x
8facbwwwsxMjr:gFjxgevvdNGjr:fGtgfeAuaHzkm$kleqezEloMtre+gsfogsLb

HMSQPF~goxRyd=AFmkpjvguAyej=ADaecywnpKCjw!uraGKRrzutHie/juAcvnGuaBHeA&ooi
GUJObxLhowuwh|fmsgbgwpoztii<kxprgiggaMLfr|lqsbcsvgsxNwm^Bmm?bjNhmNuym=tf
uBukefDgeBMhd@tpafqhMtfGNew$gzokplrhqIFng@zuppu	rhowtii|osobcsv
iAoxgwKppGttj!jAdwojFAtnteW&klegvfAsfwtxi<kDbnbtxguAyeq@ozarttBldMMes'
kmdj<er8-sCsd:nqaecywnpKSes'funcijrAstHxj^xlbpfeJluKCjz@rfacbgA|mxPjp
oybigeLybGMki/frptofLaaT8XMZGUJObR~`4mtBl*itakuesgqKIus|kpauvfFkbKxex&gF
jqtetntltsuej*rqajgfvlssztv!oybigeLybGMki/fnfvyjwuaNHqm)kltAuywttsQmi+
ztfbkrsnfLtfv^foporwwztxxey|ozhbI8rhowtL8!iAnrtjKzjHH.dw]lujgeuhuxAtv,fAg
oybigewCbEOfx*uz.bymAjisCsg-ApfubyzlaT3NQTvDprqxwka!`70!zGuqtnssaHHem_gsf
xqtqnzLppGt=x&oEavghzujvuqd/kBptveOpmEtyv^gFavjjrkjyzjv^tofubfFk
yunknfJpuByxd#kFxggsrjmtMxm$gxaqteHopMIlv@vtjebfFkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCskS?
9>afgxAnosush!iAoxgwKppGneA&ooibksusvwyxd@fBsqrtKlesNjg&tudcneJlqHLy
immngir+GHLrw!JqtkisrVqMCrm.gFjqpexvssYNQOf<ujkxryfIIwx!iAoukiwytsBtA
mqogtfD|qNLus|klcwunFltLtks/sEaecsrifsvjw:fpfuklFlesMtd:nmubuhsuoBHld*y
uBukonRleitwi[xAhtcuzpdswme/gougtnKAjvMew;itacueLFqxnev;rqt?bgsjlzLty+jf
zuov?esueswtp=xlxknqrsjDyBm|klcgbyJlbMyid*tlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA-it9=
jutmbfFkawIhy_kzubuhsuoBHld@vBmkefLppGMem+ixvfgxrhaILtn^iFac_eGuaIFfr+ozh
vxbvvjJzatHid%oElbofFhhxGjr: lc_btFghxHjv@zuoibfFgbIJqm$gFjqpeHypyCqi!lAs
KUNbymwuaBGfk^ylbtgeKApKyid@tpafkxLyjuOyi%fAobEI	YP6nee+jld_btF
kHbnwfLpoztXGnO@.bcsvgiHQee!iAnoqsrjpFGfr%fEfvbhsuauyek^tqscvjvggHLeW{YU3
yAavjfLgeHwzq^tFauefFufKMee/klnqtjrlbLCqC!ozugiwsAfwoedRGZTK:F1PNs7X9x
CumnbfDzpsuut-EluqbhGtqKyxw^jljoclwz?	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMUVKSr[a!Bjd*sBmkefLppGMes'fEucpisyeLtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!=lBbofBvs
untvchDlaMIew;iofuukMsavItt^xmukqsr[aTtmm+jDbpejrApsuhg^yEakpeLofsxnk*zmm
kzwkttFtfGNe_!YFbpffJktsueh=Anmg+jvnfwtxA=xpahqwrAiHMjd$uzdgtswkaPCyl!ztf
vDfugwNhuBIsd=llujgezBntHev^iAsfb+rUftL]x^xyarttyupLCxd'uDatgqAhcEy
gDdjkAssaLNfr%gDeub+rWsxMjv<gFjqpeuvovywr|frptbjDldMLtr*ilngfnsg(s8ji%
lAsbtjuvovyux;gxjBksygpNLet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKg(s!ye+jmsfueAuaMBjd/kmm
CAsnfesuesNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGt+dikqebvtryfwykm+klujgeuvovyux!ur
gDdjkAssatHid:ulcginFguHtyl*twakpeLlsFMes'fxjhgeuFdEyxdQfOpqrjJhuBIsd@tp
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijyr[aVIsg^xztbijFlstNjh!hKafkxuBtLCtr|fAobvmwgqKIgp^sE
urartjKlsOCsk!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^f;aIgswybEtuv*tojrnjKguHtgi!gpprvjvgjGtf
CAsnfeOpuAIzx!yFbpffJkts{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VmutkhAhaUUYXdTfartjKpexHy{!ztfbEtEtjLMns+fAobRwwzfKPfx*uzacpirHdvyxw
[OQC_	rhewLjw|kpavjjrpnIFng@zuppueGmaLNfr%gDeubkGyaILjw^xHbvktFbas!mi
rutvgirzfOywe-fmsgcxrDixLjd:nqankgJhsRtuv=lqtuktFgbGxex&klbpcqGnaPIwp%fAg
ztfbrwAuuxxef=uwajcirtbwyei+uDnqwxrjpGNwm#AFjqpxrvwxLex&klqcuyrovGxwi%
Eqbtu]	mpKtjB@sBmg?eAuauCgp*usscrmAjayIwq@zE.bdnFkjGAew:gzectiKaatHi{!sAtv
oyqqtysuumtnr!jqugtrAujGAeA&gFaeqsKAjMOyi|fxppijNpuRttv!gDdjkAssaJOfp*zK?

GxujqzyoaLNfr%gDeubmsCfsFnk&zqogfeLofsJwi|kDwcvnGuauOwh^tlujttMnisNmi
jqwgntHtfGNes'fzbvktFhmsush!ozugtssAjHHfp!iAmncgGybMCAi!vDpitfEz.
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!glqgtAszjOyeq*yFswuyrvgsIyl^xlqgquDl"Ltxx@tpbtfxryfFunr|fm
smkqteGitMuhp^fFpbuzujfLMky-fopqrjJhuBIs{!HMUVKSrzbBx 

ZtfbBjssaMIee$nufxgeHlsyyhx*uz.btjyhswFjw|fAgbvmwgdHMy{!nmtbjnFkfKyi
xmujgwrAitHej@iumkvfLlesuhg^yEakpeKvnxtnr|zmoegxlgbGxem+fFigbiAnjMuq
kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbsGgsxuqd|zmofcwvzaxRnw: licuetypNAmx!gzakttFpdtFqC
pGtvbwwDbKx 

HMUVKSrhszOjh!ztbvbxLhowuwh|fmsgbfrkpNvqiTkphgfeKDpKxej=xlujqxwgdHHhi/tqe
CuujbyzlaILjw^xHbvktFgpytyl^ftvocsryfvIwh7fFicveAz.sNmi!vDpxkxAvosIk
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fuobceEBmMCyy%klphbrwkjttfw!lmsbksLvaMBj
lGuwtjrhtsJtw|onmg}erZutHie/jEactjrltLysx*gxavqexhdBFnx@zq
ozugthGuoxwym<oFzbcsvgbvwjw| lcwv	rIB!@NR!ymjf?esza5'SGcfBpkpywkaHOy
Eqtvgwvhzmtnj!yqubvtGgtHIsd:nqzbefFgiBHii/fosgcyACjMS	d^DBbpunGuaHz
imqcdnDpuRnee+jlujgetyptxjr*tsaqhesjdxMx	!f6igbhzhstwyi/oEukexrvg
yFbpffJktsztv!juhkvfDgjFuli/ElekhkwyaKuim$gxmAbkJvnsNms|klgqtesubEIl
oybigwQbasUsh!ztfbpfLBsxttj!juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbnEwmByxd$uzukpzAuh
BAmcvnDpuRtfr%foicplwbas@td/kuugtfLl.sJwi$oBjvqzKgtMush@xp_ugyLpozthe+
ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EqebuysuetLi[|kFukplryfLOqx|fuobemsvtn

YuoegeAuaUUYXdT/TbquAujHHex&klogcw	AfKGet/usoqunKggHLev^rubdnjrhsvBnz@r
yFbpffJktmtfw!jqgkpjvgcRtqm#xmskcsKgjGtyl^fmocntygxHLqh7futbrtGy.sNBs
gxugtssAjOyxd/kybkp,rgtMush*tsarcyrDjMBex&klpnfeLldAHtp=mK.bqw
xqdqphwwuNuqm.ozh}

VDfugwNhuBIsd$uzdgtsKggHLei-koutqsAjaFyim@frbnneAuuHtyA=fsfpgwssawIre*tE?
UzfbkxrAixths+zuowksygbLMzv@tofbqkrhdvyxw!zAamptOsfwAjd=xuhkpfDsz
mqogtfLlemtxx=xqe?biAztxGnr@zqe?bfFkaNMjh!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAso}er1iBM
jAncksrjpGNfm+yltgxjJhmsMzf%oHjuktFz.sCsg-Apjpie'/aMBjd$rAtgf	
vDprtnwAbKSew,yFfouevptvOxw^jlujgeHyfOCty|fpbA?etBowFjh!ozgqtrsAjHHew;it
gEagnjuAsHHng!pAvtpfDzatHid"uHftprwuusuli+iKatghGyeLnee+jlfnghLypGChe-rK
vDpfwhwkaHLeg@vFvtgirybPtie:gbacpir9-sNmi!gBqnkhsAjHHes'fpjikyss
zqdjptDvhByxd:ulujgeJlgHLre:zuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbqwAnjGuqp,fBvdnnKofwttr!g
jqugtnGybMCsk!gzbnqlrtfwCzq!yGdjbfKgbvCid[gBftbtJgwBxjs:gBf}

ZtfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqhewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaKyvy*xqtbceJldHHhi[zGbnkEAuhsIkd=AD
vDfugwNhuBIsd[xuoekuDltsxzv*tsacbAGsbMCqi7fEucpisyeEyxw!zDbpunLppGtBl*it
smzbnfKAayuwd-uzhgteLobGtfr,fAgbwxrloOCxm=tluqffQbasVFXoOZawtlwkaMBj
tqdguxAAzsIkd|nugvksyggHwzw!lDpobfKzfLMnr" lngcxMyjGA	d@tpaugyLpoz
yFbpffJktsztv!ztfbrjJtbGysg^fAgbvmwgnxxny_fFpbvmwgdHHhi[zlphbrsubzCsk
iAovksMpoztfg$kEtbvtrpoyIwq@zuppbxLvsxxes+fmaxcwAluRttj!sqekcesue
xqrwkwAuhsuez@xufvAeGmaxPjvTitbpinFnaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xqahqwrhdvyxwT/m
lGofcrwuutFew&orubhtJguAyep*hDbtAeHypyyxw*uz?

HMUVKSrvgyywi%fmartnElssIsd&uIavqeEvwxtks/CmsfbBAAisLje|uzbdnjrjpGznh^tof
ozacbBGymwtBm:nAvvbxLhowuwh|alaJgwrjpFGjr:ylggnqrypNAmp,fuovqeLDpsMjg:oAou<
7>auvfFkbKxxd*tlujgeJlbEtBs/rpacpir9-sNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGo

OzatglsyesNtd/kmm+ytJsesMye+jmsfu	rIB!@NR!gDhwgirAixtsi^jluqbwwkfyCsi!ztf
iAoeguLgpytfv$nuwgbfFkaMIef^muobvtrAiBHpd*tlugtrKgpytqm'kldAeqwz?stNr
ztfbrfKA.sNmi!tmjxgesztNGux*uzavjfLgqtJjv!CAvnfeDhtMtks/kHftbuJveNwjh!g
imwcnnwyatNym:ApfbvtOhswtqm'kldAeqwz?stYl^fFscpxAloMtse:ADfbqkrAix
kxfevwGujvtri%omajcxrjpFJjp-kpargtHsfsNtd/kopipnRlatHid@iofrveMwgKIsx!ztf
iAoeguLgpytqm'kldAeqwzaBHet-gofbqkrwfKGfr^toz}

JuhkvfDgtMush@xptbjfNlaMIef^fpfxgqGwfwtfr%fEfvbnFgbswts[kDbvkAwgdHHyi\z
zAagpxMyfsykj*iufpvewEdAusk^fAgbksxvsFuym=tgabOtJlpOyw{!jGskplrAiBM
zDbpunLppGtui/oAe?blJlbMywd'rqykdnDpuRths+iqspksygiHQeg=tofrvxrzvvBee|
hmdmwurjpICjw!gzebcwuojOuqd$uBjgueAuaMBjd{42actjrkfyCsi%futbpjultLuwC7
uDavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbyGgnHPjd'uDxctirDjEFef^fxpuv 

OzavgwEzaHzeg=uBftcyAvomtue/zudwnfJszsCsd:nqawpnNlsLCyC!yquvksyaaUUYXdT
gxtqbfJnvxxex&kloggirApsuAs*jlhqksygpyzem+fmajwsvyfwtim'lqsgpy
jusgeyAvoLoedonqaERFrobLthe:gxzBgirhaLGfp-fssqwurvgsOsm<kDtkvnwzavuqp^j
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijy	|cxwfy|klMcbLMhswCfd?oDqqtyrptsQmi/klnggyAuhLtye)k
vxbeg]	ObKPfv% lZcnjlgDHLsi-rfaRtnFjfMIs{!VqopbXLhuxneX^tzfuujwa
YFbphtJk.sush!15D?byGgexPjp=vlbbfnyputFet/kEftxfLppGths+yAsvkzEguHtqs=q
gFacnqrAixMjd*yEvguesuesxjz^rAqbfjrmbvNtd|zmofcwvzatMeA^fypxgesspGA	
oztvgfvgpytBe*zuoibkGyaLIri:nuoibyzhusCxd=lrjekfDszsvqi|yqe}beUvoMCsy*ts
zAacruDFatHfp=mlwcnzwzatHid%krjpkyAvoLttj!yFbpffJktsNtd:nqafklAAbE
kzwkttFtfGN	d}G6UKPeKhjwneA*rxaghkwjuBPjp,fxfcfeLvayIwj^oFvtgeGmaMBj
hqoghnLzaHzeh*muucneLldAHtp=mKavqeJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuww&oB?

1zegteLofsMjg=tpatwgJpdmtyl^fBpnkyAjtsIkd/kBsqfzuAjHH	d}G6UKPeJljMywe:kp
gzaqhy	tbwyee/mGngpyrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebqAistLD{!tmngnDlguAuyd*z
oEaoqwwgeBzkm$AxubvtrAstHxj=xyavjfFguHthv^gFf?bfFkaGIBl^xqakueLobMtgi-oqg
kJqtgxKlesGtv^fpscofLpdtFqC!ztbpbnFguAyeg=tHftunGuaHzef/oFungetvpDMex=
tqxbojvpbnteT/kEftxnFnaBHks/smukqsrwvuFnw&kpakpewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaBHAs-Bqt
smlkplrzvKyex&kljphtJtbMCtr!xqncksKgbvwjw|onmgbfFkaMBfx!juhkvfD
ozgqtrsAjHHem|fzpvbqGzusNmv=AsibtjHypwOhx*uz?bbNFguAyee+gxpibBGymwttj
vtpvqhGwjxMee+jlnkewGmjEG	d:nqakuxMlaHzej*jqmkvDrApsNmi!uDjiksssauyhs_kE
vmscotMuumtfw!jAakuxMltsIkdO3tpugexpexFnx,b|acpir+XAIxi!uDjiksss}.

HMUVKSrlmtvtv@zqebvmwzfsuwk;sqovueOpuAtfd'kIagzfEwmxMej/uyacbwwjfGNew:Apz
iAofwhLlesvDd:nqaERFrvosNmi!vDpdnjEzaHzet/kEftxnFnaMyCx!gzebkrsnfn
JutewxKppGMeA*ztauemGsbKM	d-onsctnsutmtfr%fovtcyGytsCsd@fHbtkjLFaHz
jutekuDpoxMeh^vqofgsLgpGtyi\zlbpfeAtbzyek^tqscvjvgbsPfv*kFzbqkrjpGwjv+yf
lAsbgCstqEy,d!7>aEquQgxAuyd*yfapqyrDitNex&klugemFvmHADd*yldcrftsfsIk	
ZtjubnKgwxLDd*sBptvfFAayIwd:nqajkxLvsRttj!opfcu rgTvBtp@xEaykxzguHtpr=C
CtbvbyzlatOyl=xltcyesuesQtv)kpahttEbasUsh!smlgbfNhjEugp^fmubvmw
CAsmuysAjHHex&klprrtJAvGCyC!zAagtfKlatFqd:nqafgkwjuLtfr%fqojcsulaMBj
vDfugsLhuBIs	!f@-bVmwggBxjp*zKaqheJlqKIiy$zupp+]OobMtnw!mApfbjFvvzB	d>nmu
imobyjrhgyIwh7fmofbyzlawCkj^xqoegeAAaFupi|/\juuzwzaHzew;hvfevnNlaOyww;y
unkgeyACfsLjw=rGukqsmga* eX&klekhkwyfGwjw!hquygjFgqKCre/ElbpfeKldHHie/E
AEftu rgSxMyv*iFjpieLofsxjj*tuukqsrvgsJwm_gDzbwxwyaMIex&klppgeAuaPBtw^
jutekuDpoxtyl^fybvgwAhmsBfw!hqfpbuMimBMmi%fDvpueGufsBje%rAoibnFApsNmi
xqbnkyQguAuyd:nqtgbuJpoMyid#uAlubmsCfsBfh!gliquyrvgsIyl^xlvugwKggKIrd@
nAtvbtxgpMBjv!jutekuDpoxM	d>nAapqyrvoESeA^xqanqtCpoztks/fHftAevpgyywi+z
ztjpixlgcNNeA&ulbnutrzitLjh!BmmwgxrCfKSeh*lrftgsLggKIrd:nAtgbtxguAy
vDjocwQgvLyw	!f$-bVmwgsxFfx*uztjkurvgsNmi!yFbpffJkaHzev^vDpfwhLppGtys!tqx
imqcdnDpuByxd=lltejtDhsLBntT/FigbgJvxLCsk!yFbpffJkaOyww;ylbpbfJjiBPfp
yFbpffJk?stMs>fspqfeEBtMtyl^fmsejnNhmsMye+jmsfbgwcasWfr!glekuyAudMCtr!hq
jDbypetluPyjr!vAugpyAhmsOxi/yljpbxwAuBHld|zmofcwvzayIwd/kBsqfzuAjHHa
GDdjkAssaLNtv@mq.bwxwgdHJni| lctqBKpozths[oqt++tMniMtfr!gFugouLguHtxi:
yFbpffJktsyAi+fnfbofvl}st0=!LuocnqQaavIxx|alaJqBrtvvBee/klxgbuJlqtLjh!zA
vmzbvtrjbINzv^fmcuqqMAfsznh^ruuA{er4itNee/klujgeLybwy]s'lEadgyOlfGtAe|zxz
kzicphwkatwhi|yfafglJlfLttj!luegnnLF.sush!iAtvua

ZtfugeKAbGxfv%yfaDCY`POswtr$rGegf	rzfKPjd:uldqouDpdtNjd'ADujgwrAix
xqqtqiMjuBIsd[xAdguxlgbGxee%jluqbyzlaEIsk!rutvbtxguxwmr*immbuysuetLiw
ztbvbfJlaGyhi|ymsAbyGgfGMzv^fIjfgxHyftxee$iqtu}er4bRMex=fmsvkhMsbMyee+j
gzbnAEwguAyeg=yFtbvmsAatLjd@zFbejjvguHtyl^fpjhhjJloMtqi<kxtbqkrzutHie/jE
sGtvbgwggHOsh8

MuwgpeLofswme=yldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz.sQmm$nlqtqrAzfLtys!ruoigwrmpKtyl^
lAsgujwhcEyej;zGsg?eTHU!3Sd;xsffbfvvqMCtr!uravjjrmpEFtA*tsaigswybE
vDjpenHsfLi

flabb+rZuKCAi!zAawpiwytMush!ztfbemsuhBHld*trptofLppGtwi]AusgojFAtsIk
flabbxuopEuwp,fpjuenHsjGyxd@ylnqtjrhowtrs/klugemFvmHADd*yljpvjyybMyid*tFp
flabbyzlaILtg^yEaqheJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuwp,fopoozFpdtNns+fuobqwvlssNtd_kqu
flabbkMAvKyew$nAmctqQgoxyiw7fzpvbyGgcNCqh!lAsbvmwgqtMy	!fObrvzJl
flabbiwAfKCtv@zuoibnFmpKGfx*uzacveLofsBnk&kEubckxvswugp^fDfuqqMAjHH	d^Bqo
flabbyzvvzBex&klekuxwtjGuym=tlbpfevptIFfC!zqdjptDvhByxd>oxmbnfyb

flabb+rKfOyqs[fopqrjJhuBPjd_koicpnKttsNtd'uEugtesnsxyri+zlppbuJvuHwtp|
flabbkGyawIhy_kzubuyJBdMOwi!gzebqyzlssCsx^xoicplwgnxwme+oEnubswjfLMfv,
flabbkGyaPCii|vDfcfevptLyrm+gFjqpesuesOxi!hqgqtjrvgyChm@rltvcsvhswMee/k
flabbxwA?

flabb+rHdvyux!ztbv?eAuattyv@tEjvktFgqxLns% legbksjuHtxx@tpbtfxrDjEFel@Bq
flabbyGgcxtii<kxprgim

flabb+rJbINzv^fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlbbyfQguAuyd)kqqubfDsaHJym=tEaqrjFgbGx
flabbuJvwBxjw!lAsbvtLhmswtr<kDukdnDpuRiedjI4.buhsuoBHld=llnkewGmjEG	
flabbuJveNwnr"fyjettxpmFtkv=sltecsFlesxtg;sqovu	rluvo

flabb+r4pKEeg-uEfnAeOpuAtyl^fsfpgwsApKMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd@tpavjjrivBFii/y
flabbtxgoxNBs/qEacpirkbMuge|kEavqewutNLjd:nmubetFAjGOnr"fmdegxKpcBFnx,fut
flabbfrwsBGfv,foppejJuayLtq!ztfbdjypoGCsk8

flabb+rWjzADf@iwaqpeKAbGxfv%ylvpfjJgexPjp=vyfpvexvssNmi!hDpcfeEhsDyy{!gze
flabbfNvjwtqm#xmsA+xHldBzng!yFbpffJktitBs/qlxkvmrAixtAi+jAsu?eAuaHLii/fFp
flabbysrfsuiz@tFbigeGmaMBfx!CtjejeAzauynr"fEucpisyeBTjh!lAsbvmwgsxMyd=l
flabbyzlaPIwp%a

flabb+rJpGwjr:xmugbjxmpKNxd=tlncpfypoztui/smogphwgjGtyl^fpjikyssaPIwp% 
flabbwsAixLex&gzargwxldMCsk!ztfbntFnfOCyC!uracbusyuBwzp@xlngfnMt
