     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a copyright.  The
     World Intellectual Property Organization will hold a symposium 28
     March through 2 April l993, at Harvard University, on digital
     technology, and will study this entire issue.  If one purchases a
     computer software package, such as MacPaint, and creates something
     new, one receives protection only for that which has been added.

PETERS added that often in copyright matters, rough justice is the
outcome, for example, in collective licensing, ASCAP (i.e., American
Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers), and BMI (i.e., Broadcast
Music, Inc.), where it may seem that the big guys receive more than their
due.  Of course, people ought not to copy a creative product without
paying for it; there should be some compensation.  But the truth of the
world, and it is not a great truth, is that the big guy gets played on
the radio more frequently than the little guy, who has to do much more
until he becomes a big guy.  That is true of every author, every
composer, everyone, and, unfortunately, is part of life.

Copyright always originates with the author, except in cases of works
made for hire.  (Most software falls into this category.)  When an author
sends his article to a journal, he has not relinquished copyright, though
he retains the right to relinquish it.  The author receives absolutely
everything.  The less prominent the author, the more leverage the
publisher will have in contract negotiations.  In order to transfer the
rights, the author must sign an agreement giving them away.

In an electronic society, it is important to be able to license a writer
and work out deals.  With regard to use of a work, it usually is much
easier when a publisher holds the rights.  In an electronic era, a real
problem arises when one is digitizing and making information available.
PETERS referred again to electronic licensing clearinghouses.  Copyright
ought to remain with the author, but as one moves forward globally in the
electronic arena, a middleman who can handle the various rights becomes
increasingly necessary.

The notion of copyright law is that it resides with the individual, but
in an on-line environment, where a work can be adapted and tinkered with
by many individuals, there is concern.  If changes are authorized and
there is no agreement to the contrary, the person who changes a work owns
the changes.  To put it another way, the person who acquires permission
to change a work technically will become the author and the owner, unless
some agreement to the contrary has been made.  It is typical for the
original publisher to try to control all of the versions and all of the
uses.  Copyright law always only sets up the boundaries.  Anything can be
changed by contract.

                                 ******

SESSION VII.  CONCLUSION

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GENERAL DISCUSSION * Two questions for discussion * Different emphases in
the Workshop * Bringing the text and image partisans together *
Desiderata in planning the long-term development of something * Questions
surrounding the issue of electronic deposit * Discussion of electronic
deposit as an allusion to the issue of standards * Need for a directory
of preservation projects in digital form and for access to their
digitized files * CETH's catalogue of machine-readable texts in the
humanities * What constitutes a publication in the electronic world? *
Need for LC to deal with the concept of on-line publishing * LC's Network
Development Office  exploring the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information * Magnitude of the problem and the
need for distributed responsibility in order to maintain and store
electronic information * Workshop participants to be viewed as a starting
point * Development of a network version of AM urged * A step toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for network access * A delicate
and agonizing policy question for LC * Re the issue of electronic
deposit, LC urged to initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
responsibility * Suggestions for cooperative ventures * Commercial
publishers' fears * Strategic questions for getting the image and text
people to think through long-term cooperation * Clarification of the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In his role as moderator of the concluding session, GIFFORD raised two
questions he believed would benefit from discussion:  1) Are there enough
commonalities among those of us that have been here for two days so that
we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  She drew the line at saying LC ought to
be the locus or forum for such harmonization.

Taking the group in a slightly different direction, but one where at
least in the near term LC might play a helpful role, LYNCH remarked the
plans of a number of projects to carry out preservation by creating
digital images that will end up in on-line or near-line storage at some
institution.   Presumably, LC will link this material somehow to its
on-line catalog in most cases.  Thus, it is in a digital form.  LYNCH had
the impression that many of these institutions would be willing to make
those files accessible to other people outside the institution, provided
that there is no copyright problem.  This desideratum will require
propagating the knowledge that those digitized files exist, so that they
can end up in other on-line catalogs.  Although uncertain about the
mechanism for achieving this result, LYNCH said that it warranted
scrutiny because it seemed to be connected to some of the basic issues of
cataloging and distribution of records.  It would be  foolish, given the
amount of work that all of us have to do and our meager resources, to
discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN aush
iAvnfetlaKyvy^yFffbkJvnsNmi_ lCCVY1UaBHyi/pqdvgirAitNem:fIbubjszjES
godguxAimxtys!gzakpxLpuNNns+alaUG1WYU`9Sd[uuovgirvvMtyl@zlujcyrmjEy	d$Ay
kzicphwtfGNx{!CmtbcAspmtvqi!CuujbwwmfKysg^fuohqwEhuBIsd=tlDF+W7T.sQmm$n
smlgueAAattqm:zxfbotJlatPfm-gnmg}

OzaJQH3LZ,Mez*kI.bvmwgsxuqd]AqtvktFggtwnr"fFigb2GylLBtt!oEayjfLguHtuy:fuo
ztjubhsAbEIly^ lcgefMzfsNme:fDbkujKguAyeu;kEukqsrvgsQme:foppuyAAvMyxd@
vGcnkhsAjHHem+fFigbjDldMLtr*ilxqtqvbas	2IdHQMbksLlsCyhx^jlujcyrLsBweN=Axf
ozaQEQU_ts9kj*iqaqhe0ltxuwg&futbcqKvaPLjw:ruoibBAAisNmm|fBbtvnuBmtL
vDpdnjEaaPBnp^fSJHHT0KaMBty"nFakveKvvGxjh!lmjtnDrnfGywm$a>abJTURF^
iAovgsvlesNme:fmaocoGyjMSes'fFfzvxrposNmi!nGncpnLpfLtfv^fuobvmwgitHiw
uragkyzlssuew_gxmbpzEifKttj!rmsigeJltxuwg&fuouvnLBuBIsw!uDakpiACjwOfp|
gzebcwwgoHNek^tqscnqQgbOunp@hxfbhtJgbGStr^fqmugeLvatwhi|ylbvbfDs?
YtfbytFkfKyid*llujgxwguxRyw!uGhjveLvauyeg@zmmqizwk?

GrugtesyhNGjr:fBsqejwkfwtge$qlbpfexvsMBej=xltgxjJhmsGnr;zqtbqAwyaPBD
imucntyBjGAeq*mtubdjrhaGyhi|ymsAbxwywBwj{!RQCTQSrzvzAjw:kpavjfLguACx
oEtwgeAuwHFAi%fFigbwwzqHHxm#oxjvAeGmattuy#rutjgwmga!Bjd'goubvmsAaLIri=tq
nmtbewwhuxxew=squjksygfEyhx/uzjecqDFatHid)kqqubnLgvGxjv!nutbqwrofK
iAovttDgeHyxd+uFaeqsKAjMOyi!vGcnkhsAjHH d!VGcnkhsAjHHem_vxjgu
jutugrAubMCtr8flXjkqwgjMtBs;rpadgeAtqHLye+zlgqtesgtvBtp@xluqbqwAaHNmi/
vqprnjrroHQex&gFavjnKgdKyfx*uzagznKAtmtnr!smoAbwwzqxwyw!ztjubnKgoH
jughgwwuuszws_fmobwsHBcECxl^jlncpzKjsBJy	!f6icveAzaPBfx!oEadgnFnatwhi|yqe
ozavjjJl.syCg^vFavjfLgoHQes+kljubsGAaEIto*tsacveAAaBHex&klicti	jpISef;z
ozavjjrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zg

RQCTQSrlyILjw|kparwERsfFysx!gFavjjrCbKCjx,fAgbyfQzaxFjg:xAokeeHBcECxl*ts
nmtbdjwuaOCjA^jgabOzuoaHzeA&gFajcxrifxHeh*yovuujvguALty"nAvvbyzltxtyA=
jmzubmszavIsg^xzffbHV|S87et;hxjujnFn.sQmi/kmtbksrAixttrTruogbjFCjKIsq^tF
ztbvbxzlavIsj/uzuu?eLofswtr|zDbkpyKgbGxeg&gxmgplwzatLjd<kDzbfnxmfKysx8
YAppgwrvssFfx^xlMEbBAsmsBfz^fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbetFjfINes'fAo+nnFl
vGcnkxzpozoedogwjpieMwaMBjd$uyngpyrLS$U4d_gpfbgfJsjxLee#uGubuyGyjGA
iAqkgxlgMXVWSifsbxgezlssIBr!pAvtpfDgbLtfr!kJborqwbas2tA!CAvnfeKofsxjt=yuu
UVDEVexvsswtt,xuhjvalgtAyee|qqe?bgwjbNMjd:nqalqzJubEtBm-rlfzkxLgjGtyl^
smjphwstfsuydjIXDbcsvgqxIup^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAacehwztsCy	!fTftgeLof
yuuwcyAvosCxd%orggtjFA.sIBr^xEikreNlsLOxd@iofuu	rhowtnw!yAngvmAuhsNme:
gDjugxrDjMBet;hxjecyAvosCsd:nqaqp]Dpoxtjr<oDppojFA.szfw:kDavjfFgjL
yAngvnEltsLje-oLff}erSbvEnr"fomgcwrhoLQjv|fFpbcqDgpytyl^yqaswjKAjHHx
nqsugqxaa5YGVjTlekfeFvususx*iuqcvjrAitNeP{fIpwnirifsugp^fFpbvfClattws-k
ozajgqHpoztys!jqgkpjrzpFyes'fFigoexvssKzm:klbbymAsfn

M4FGPK1LMWttf|kDwgfeLobMtQGNylOgvBGylsXjz^rAqogsLgPyzng^futbcyLlnINnr" 
gyppieGAixLex&ozhu?eLvaxRup=xqavjjrsjFCyw!uraOCWUgbLtfd|zmofcwvgjGtyi/sE
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFesstHtss:kpavjfLgSxvjg$g
M7FPVMWYayLtq!ztbvbtxmjvyek@BqacbuswfKtys!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrmpK
OzgqtrsAjHHeW$oqoege}HT2![d|AynctnRpoztxi<kDbnbtxguAyeh*yovuunGuaIuui/y
ztbvbBwyfswtq*tsaqwyrvgsNmi!TquyqwCgExPjp=vyfpve7mgBwj	!fSSGGSXPF5Xew@op
nqawpiwytMIth!ztbvbyzhusIkj*iqajcirhaECxxTyqsxgwrzpEChm:ozhblzKAaMBjd)oze
urahgjvibvEev^iqjxgirApwuDd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!jughkhMsuByxd=lljfgsLpgRCsk!gze
imucntyBjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFezvqxxex&gFagxjJFcHxD
CAvnfetlatQfv^fAgbvmsAatHid|uyfjqBrjpGNwm#AFfbvtrAitNeg=tHftufLppGo

TAukplrAxHttj!RO"ubwGsfLnej*xEu?byGgbvNee|fmatguGzjMIwC!uratghGyesztv
smugtnssaMBfx!oEaequQyjzByi%fuobvmAzavIzr:xK.bcsvgtxwtr% luqbrsrf
smugtnsstsCyd&uxeubfNhjEugp^fuobutElaECrm:kpahqwEguHtfd$rufpvjDlaMBfx
mAfubgwFpGxeG=tssguxlgCX!XImfEviijKAfwtyl@zljvbBszaBHhy_hqovbtFgMVtys
kJugpirAiHMjd/kEqqpxAijECym^yluqbfDsaMBjd:nuoiuetljGAet;hxjujjvgjG
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabVmAzaPIzp%fyfcpewCfGNze-rKacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpd
lAsocyKbas6Hd$uGmfbwwxvBLjd:nmubcyrzpFyet=ozubvmwFauyem+fmaegwLhjG
runkvjvgtxNes'frptofLz.sush!ztfpbiwCfEIud_koicpnKttsztv!gxmqynFnaIytt-k
zAacehwztsNms|kljpbyzlaLuri!CmzbvmsAaHNmi/fFikplKgbKyee$iqtugimga!Bnw
jAfubsGAaBGup,fFicveLofRtfv^fAobvmwgoxNBs/qlbpfesCbBFff-kluqbjNlsRIsi8
ROafqjKguAuyd>oFibotKAaHzem:ylckdqAvhKuul*ilsgetJktmtGInYQSbufAk.sQmm$n
kzebwurtjzLfx*tsavqeLofsOym-oFzb-jmn?mtTGgI>aqteKvnxQmi/klfnujmgaUOyd(AE
