loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning the need to confront difficult questions, GIFFORD underscored
the magnitude of the problem of what to keep and what to select.  GIFFORD
noted that LC currently receives some 31,000 items per day, not counting
electronic materials, and argued for much more distributed responsibility
in order to maintain and store electronic information.

BESSER responded that the assembled group could be viewed as a starting
point, whose initial operating premise could be helping to move in this
direction and defining how LC could do so, for example, in areas of
standardization or distribution of responsibility.

FLEISCHHAUER added that AM was fully engaged, wrestling with some of the
questions that pertain to the conversion of older historical materials,
which would be one thing that the Library of Congress might do.  Several
points mentioned by BESSER and several others on this question have a
much greater impact on those who are concerned with cataloguing and the
networking of bibliographic information, as well as preservation itself.

Speaking directly to AM, which he considered was a largely uncopyrighted
database, LYNCH urged development of a network version of AM, or
consideration of making the data in it available to people interested in
doing network multimedia.  On account of the current great shortage of
digital data that is both appealing and unencumbered by complex rights
problems, this course of action could have a significant effect on making
network multimedia a reality.

In this connection, FLEISCHHAUER reported on a fragmentary prototype in
LC's Office of Information Technology Services that attempts to associate
digital images of photographs with cataloguing information in ways that
work within a local area network--a step, so to say, toward AM's
construction of some sort of apparatus for access.  Further, AM has
attempted to use standard data forms in order to help make that
distinction between the access tools and the underlying data, and thus
believes that the database is networkable.

A delicate and agonizing policy question for LC, however, which comes
back to resources and unfortunately has an impact on this, is to find
some appropriate, honorable, and legal cost-recovery possibilities.  A
certain skittishness concerning cost-recovery has made people unsure
exactly what to do.  AM would be highly receptive to discussing further
LYNCH's offer to test or demonstrate its database in a network
environment, FLEISCHHAUER said.

Returning the discussion to what she viewed as the vital issue of
electronic deposit, BATTIN recommended that LC initiate a catalytic
process in terms of distributed responsibility, that is, bring together
the distributed organizations and set up a study group to look at all
these issues and see where we as a nation should move.  The broader
issues of how we deal with the management of electronic information will
not disappear, but only grow worse.

LESK took up this theme and suggested that LC attempt to persuade one
major library in each state to deal with its state equivalent publisher,
which might produce a cooperative project that would be equitably
distributed around the country, and one in which LC would be dealing with
a minimal number of publishers and minimal copyright problems.

GRABER remarked the recent development in the scientific community of a
willingness to use SGML and either deposit or interchange on a fairly
standardized format.  He wondered if a similar movement was taking place
in the humanities.  Although the National Library of Medicine found only
a few publishers to cooperate in a like venture two or three years ago, a
new effort might generate a much larger number willing to cooperate.

KIMBALL recounted his unit's (Machine-Readable Collections Reading Room)
troubles with the commercial publishers of electronic media in acquiring
materials for LC's collections, in particular the publishers' fear that
they would not be able to cover their costs and would lose control of
their products, that LC would give them away or sell them and make
profits from them.  He doubted that the publishing industry was prepared
to move into this area at the moment, given its resistance to allowing LC
to use its machine-readable materials as the Library would like.

The copyright law now addresses compact disk as a medium, and LC can
request one copy of that, or two copies if it is the only version, and
can request copies of software, but that fails to address magazines or
books or anything like that which is in machine-readable form.

GIFFORD acknowledged the thorny nature of this issue, which he illustrated
with the example of the cumbersome process involved in putting a copy of a
scientific database on a LAN in LC's science reading room.  He also
acknowledged that LC needs help and could enlist the energies and talents
of Workshop participants in thinking through a number of these problems.

GIFFORD returned the discussion to getting the image and text people to
think through together where they want to go in the long term.  MYLONAS
conceded that her experience at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at
Georgetown University and this week at LC had forced her to reevaluate
her perspective on the usefulness of text as images.  MYLONAS framed the
issues in a series of questions:  How do we acquire machine-readable
text?  Do we take pictures of it and perform OCR on it later?  Is it
important to obtain very high-quality images and text, etc.?
FLEISCHHAUER agreed with MYLONAS's framing of strategic questions, adding
that a large institution such as LC probably has to do all of those
things at different times.  Thus, the trick is to exercise judgment.  The
Workshop had added to his and AM's considerations in making those
judgments.  Concerning future meetings or discussions, MYLONAS suggested
that screening priorities would be helpful.

WEIBEL opined that the diversity reflected in this group was a sign both
of the health and of the immaturity of the field, and more time would
have to pass before we convince one another concerning standards.

An exchange between MYLONAS and BATTIN clarified the point that the
driving force behind both the Perseus and the Cornell Xerox projects was
the preservation of knowledge for the future, not simply for particular
research use.  In the case of Perseus, MYLONAS said, the assumption was
that the texts would not be entered again into electronically readable
form.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN added that a scanned image would not serve as an
archival copy for purposes of preservation in the case of, say, the Bill
of Rights, in the sense that the scanned images are effectively the
archival copies for the Cornell mathematics books.


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                          Appendix I:  PROGRAM



                                WORKSHOP
                                   ON
                               ELECTRONIC
                                  TEXTS



                             9-10 June 1992

                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


Tuesday, 9 June 1992

NATIONAL DEMONSTRATION LAB, ATRIUM, LIBRARY MADISON

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish, registration

9:00 AM   Welcome

          Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs, and Carl
             Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress

9:l5 AM   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What
          Will They Do?

          Broad description of the range of electronic information.
          Characterization of who uses it and how it is or may be used.
          In addition to a look at scholarly uses, this session will
          include a presentation on use by students (K-12 and college)
          and the general public.

          Moderator:  James Daly
          Avra Michelson, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff,
             National Archives and Records Administration (Overview)
          Susan H. Veccia, Team Leader, American Memory, User Evaluation,
             and
          Joanne Freeman, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library
             of Congress (Beyond the scholar)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session II.  Show and Tell.

          Each presentation to consist of a fifteen-minute
          statement/show; group discussion will follow lunch.

          Moderator:  Jacqueline Hess, Director, National Demonstration
             Lab

            1.  A classics project, stressing texts and text retrieval
                more than multimedia:  Perseus Project, Harvard
                University
                Elli Mylonas, Managing Editor

            2.  Other humanities projects employing the emerging norms of
                the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI):  Chadwyck-Healey's
                The English Poetry Full Text Database and/or Patrologia
                Latina Database
                Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

            3.  American Memory
                Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, and
                Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, Library of Congress

            4.  Founding Fathers example from Packard Humanities
                Institute:  The Papers of George Washington, University
                of Virginia
                Dorothy Twohig, Managing Editor, and/or
                David Woodley Packard

            5.  An electronic medical journal offering graphics and
                full-text searchability:  The Online Journal of Current
                Clinical Trials, American Association for the Advancement
                of Science
                Maria L. Lebron, Managing Editor

            6.  A project that offers facsimile images of pages but omits
                searchable text:  Cornell math books
                Lynne K. Personius, Assistant Director, Cornell
                   Information Technologies for Scholarly Information
                   Sources, Cornell University

12:30 PM  Lunch  (Dining Room A, Library Madison 620.  Exhibits
          available.)

1:30 PM   Session II.  Show and Tell (Cont'd.).

3:00-
3:30 PM   Break

3:30-
5:30 PM   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:  Options
          for Dissemination.

          Published disks:  University presses and public-sector
             publishers, private-sector publishers
          Computer networks

          Moderator:  Robert G. Zich, Special Assistant to the Associate
             Librarian for Special Projects, Library of Congress
          Clifford A. Lynch, Director, Library Automation, University of
             California
          Howard Besser, School of Library and Information Science,
             University of Pittsburgh
          Ronald L. Larsen, Associate Director of Libraries for
             Information Technology, University of Maryland at College
             Park
          Edwin B. Brownrigg, Executive Director, Memex Research
             Institute

6:30 PM   Reception  (Montpelier Room, Library Madison 619.)

                                 ******

Wednesday, 10 June 1992

DINING ROOM A, LIBRARY MADISON 620

8:30 AM   Coffee and Danish

9:00 AM   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats.

          Moderator:  William L. Hooton, Vice President of Operations,
             I-NET

          A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
             Direct scanning
             Use of microform

          Anne R. Kenney, Assistant Director, Department of Preservation
             and Conservation, Cornell University
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)
          Donald J. Waters, Head, Systems Office, Yale University Library

          B) Special Problems:
             Bound volumes
             Conservation
             Reproducing printed halftones

          Carl Fleischhauer, Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          George Thoma, Chief, Communications Engineering Branch,
             National Library of Medicine (NLM)

10:30-
11:00 AM  Break

11:00 AM  Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
          Image Storage Formats (Cont'd.).

          C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation

          Jean Baronas, Senior Manager, Department of Standards and
             Technology, Association for Information and Image Management
             (AIIM)
          Patricia Battin, President, The Commission on Preservation and
             Access (CPA)

          D) Text Conversion:
             OCR vs. rekeying
             Standards of accuracy and use of imperfect texts
             Service bureaus

          Stuart Weibel, Senior Research Specialist, Online Computer
             Library Center, Inc. (OCLC)
          Michael Lesk, Executive Director, Computer Science Research,
             Bellcore
          Ricky Erway, Associate Coordinator, American Memory, Library of
             Congress
          Pamela Q.J. Andre, Associate Director, Automation, and
          Judith A. Zidar, Coordinator, National Agricultural Text
             Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library
             (NAL)

12:30-
1:30 PM   Lunch

1:30 PM   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts.

          Discussion of approaches to structuring text for the computer;
          pros and cons of text coding, description of methods in
          practice, and comparison of text-coding methods.

          Moderator:  Susan Hockey, Director, Center for Electronic Texts
             in the Humanities (CETH), Rutgers and Princeton Universities
          David Woodley Packard
          C.M. Sperberg-McQueen, Editor, Text Encoding Initiative (TEI),
             University of Illinois-Chicago
          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  Thef
kJugpyrApsQmm$nldqouMAbMCtr!iGstgsLszsJjv_kmugueszqxwyw!urauemGsbKFD
iAnowsAjbMCtr!xqqtgxwuuLtfd<omcngeAueBwfx=xlphbyzlaILtw[kouubkGy
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE?

ZtfbfnKjvLMns+fAgbezJyfGNet/goukejrptsvfp@toffbgQgbGtfr@rKtkueGmaDyD
zDfpfxrposNmi!yoiqnfJszsOxi!urakpkGyntNns+fFfejsGspzS d!ZtfugeAudEOii!ztf
zDfpfxrApPuwh!kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibfFkavIsr^iFjxkyQaaPBng&fBsqxnvlat
lDbogBGylsztv!lAsgefKAjGAex&klvugeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLlyMMex&xAvijeLojL
sumngsFpvFoedonqartjKloMuym=tldqphDBexMeA*ztacbxMtntLDd=llujgeOhzLtnr
CtjejeLofsHtr|iufpvnxpdsMhl=rmsnAeuvnFOsm:EldcpetlaxRui$zqebvtrBtx
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE.bcsvguAyem_vxjecyAvoLttj!ztbvbzKlayIwd*trptofLppG
vDpxkiwytn

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObberLmxwyv=tudbCwuojOyxd'uDavjjrWvuFng2
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabber2txttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EljpbUMimBwee+j
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberZdAItp!RuctcwAlt

ZtjuboGpoMtim|iGtuktFggHwzw^ylppbsGutvBtp@xxzbcuHsjvuym=tEaqhewsfvNws+oo
ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bxHldBzng@rxzbcivyfLMnr"fGtgbtxguAyeP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[rwsHAwe_fuobceKtbEFer;snftbtxgqNvqm$fmofbxuopHF
ructcwAltsNmv=AsiqwyrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLoed?SldqpxAzuLttj!yqmgeywka5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLMet/oybtAesydACAe-fybvgwAhmLnew:uDffbtFgpINng@rlngfns
[OE+TT5,wBxjs%oEd_?esuesJwi|kzugfeOpuAtqm:zxfbqwrupsyim:ozh}be5hoR
iAmnghLppGMee/klbeetEwbGCjh!hKagnjuAsHHng!ozutqiMjuBIsw!gzebwxwy"Ltly*jqt
urggtnFnauuho"xAvpfeAugHLre:oAobcsvgiBMys/oobnbhGuuxRy	!fOpnnjuAjHHx
xqqtgxwuusuez@xufvAeGmayIwq@zEakphDBeBHld[nAuqiwswiLnek/gBikeesyuLn
sAukqsrwjvNzv^yfatghGyexxew=Aze?brMzjvnef/umeukiwzatHid_gzvuewAwuLn
hApmu	rhowtue_vtmgvxm

Oza3~@'aaMBjdgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtubgwnbGtfd+gFjqpBAkfsyAe-AmukqsrvgsURd*t
jughgwwuusNDt^ylphbnFzuBNzx*uzt}be`ltMtxm:kEakphDBextuy#rudbnntybKCjw7
kxfogsLhsRtfr%fEfeqsvhsRtxg&uAmbnntybKCjw7fopnnjylatHid;tuwgtxAAz
ructcwAltmtxx@zqankgJhsByx{!gzebuuwjjtFep*hDbtkjKbas!zw@tlWGEH1HatHi
PAbppjrMSXYREifIjnnevptvOxw!ztfkteGitxLAe:oAoubtFguAyey|klphbF5gcRtyl^
tAouemGsbKFDd$uynwpnLF.sOxm+mlfxkiwudxtlp^gzffbkJvnsNmm|fAoiqnFn
kHbnwfLppGtjj'uDu}

2QDEKFrDjEFeg=syfpveGuaMBjd=BqscnqrnptFxd=llujgewCbEOfx*uzarttBldMnee+j
ztfbvDHltsIkd[AnmkeesuesMhl=uxankgJhsByxd*tomwfjvgjGtyl*yltvwiQbas2jv
iAnogsLzaHHer=tEdjqqsymRtzw^fAgbCRrDjEFej=iGtbqsrAixtuy#rudbnntybKSee|fm
iGmvwwssatHid$uynwpnLFaBHxx*zGukqslgpyNjr!hDjfinFnaMBjd"gBadgyOlfGtks/smm
gzebksxvsFuqd^jGdcvnGu?stKV KYBPbBAsmsxnw$AEtbvmwgvLyes'fMNbksrzdAItp
ructcwAltnteY|klcAbxLBexHyw!gzebvjsjixLxd&gEatgAwhmxxew=sqadttsk
wGfuvnGutsugs;zlujgeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpdsLjw=ADdgu	rhtsQjp-fmtbfjxpoBNj
hqoghnLzazunr^jlcAbyzla.Htr|itpncwm+as@tt*iEaykqDgjGwqy%klujgeHypuFjq!ur
mDburnFnavIsx^tFacpirjpGNjB:fuobcsrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zfavjjrzuNGgp*ts
hxpemxrjsxuyi%fnzb*swD&sNjg&tAmqinwz.sush!ztfbwsAxvxtxo*rxtbcsvgjGNjv^yFt
gIbmgswkaMBws;mtawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhryfLIzv$kE?

YQTUKT6gJ2

KxmkbR%SP7UXd!flabbergastYl^f2ftujMza9Ltn^iF;bbNFAfKuhx*BqaUqzJjfLtfr%
flabbergasted!flabbergastXx;jufubnFgDEuxw*immbIwwldx

ZtfbRjJzfNMeT/uvfeve}`-sBfw!pGtvbwwsftMjh!VqsugzKg2n]	d:nqahkwKAaIOgp*ixz
gHbknftsfsPjv|oAobqkrpuLtmC[kDugzyMhmsxfx@hmtgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbrsAfKCfp|fAo
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq?bbUwytxOxd*ylegunyufwtys!hqawujvgcRtfd>opfbczvpfGwj{
iAnrtnKlesIkd/kmegtxrhusNmi!yFvfgsLgbGxew$nAmcteDlwxFx	!fMtbuzuo.sCyd_AEu
hqacdqwguHtqs$gFfbksxvsFuym=tlvuksygeBzki/kzubuyJhuxAni| lbpfeAAaFOxx
iAovcnFgfGIzk&fpfvcnDguHtxi/Bqavjjrkjyzjv^tFapgjvzaHzem:ylvugwKbas3s
gpekvnGu.sCyd_AEubdjrkfECAi/kpauqeLobMtnx!oEachkGyetvqi!zAakvxrAbKAjx
gGekgsul?st;X&kEfbrwGimxGxd@tpavjjrzpEOym=tEaygeuopLyee/kleguhJpcxxem+
SKmqpfKaa.UsddtFfthfulaMIeG-gEtkefDgHKyjo!IuwknnRhuBIs{OfVBUKXr~4h*	
Smseje'$0&o<

OzaqtiwyaMIee$nufxgeAAtsIgn^iFjxg	rAixtuv=pqdvbxLhgytii$opffbyGgntEjd@
iAouenGBtsMjt@xmukqsrifMQji+fEfnghLpoztfr%foppxjJAjGAex^DFvcn	rkbMuge|kf
gzebkrsnfsxfx@fAobvmwgpGyel@tp.bcsvgqNNym+mljvbnFApsueh^ruwgtDrzzLNjq!uz
ztfbqyzlsnteX&gFaycDlgjMtnw!vAtukgDlaMIeg/kmugbyzlaxFjg:xAokeevhut
CuujqzLguACso*tsacdtMAaMBjd/kEutkhLppGMes'fFigbiwsjOywC!yKtvgrmga$yel@Bq
smegbfrnsxuyd^lrptveLvavBts|kltAuywt_BHii[kzegpyrmpKGfx|frptbtMyawuye7
gzebvtrwvMtfw!sGdjbyzvvzByd@tpayqwCgbLtus|yucngeAuuHtxx/AouwtnFnaBNew=
ztbvbyzlaMLfr|rmukqsrmsHGet@vqsbvtrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtaPCqp!kzicphwguAyez@rGf
uravjjrkbMu dXGlekuhMztBIsd=llujgxwgtHFzx*uztbcxrvgsNBs!EqbtuesnpsCxd*t
KxmkbRQspGux{!MDfiqwQgDKusi7fWfppjLoa6Iwv^rx.bcsvgEntSi^rlTokyzaa.@mi
VqsugzKgQKIoi$zaabFfLhaBHex&klFnghLypGChd?mq.*bnFgBvwjw|ozhbCsLprNCyC2
ZtfbEtEwvMywm.gFjqpeGmaVFfw|oobnbIsAbuuxi| lK}bXGspFIsd@tpaV}e#vsMBjr
[qeu}[lga@Hnz^xEjvAeGmaTLnD=tmaRtjKz.sCsd[xqtu}<

SGdjbtxguAyeA=xwaqpe8lsLyzw!oEahqhMzfwttr!iAmnghLpoztfr%foppxjJAjGAex&k
jmucbtFgxAChl!ztfbrwGqfvNem|fnbugimgaTNex&kltcojrAjFy	d*zljubswjfLMfv,fFp
vDpxkiwgnxusw!uracehwztsNtd:nqakpkGyntNns+ ljpbtJkfKtys!smlgbnLgvLugp^ 
gzebvmwtaMIem+BqtvklsAfsBtA!oFakueMzfwoed?ylxgbqwhsGtrs/klbdqzLgxAuy
yFvfgsLzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd%orggtjFAauuho"xAvpfxrkpsQnx&f2ftujMz.sQjd$gz
gpkwuyrvvKtie:gldqnqwjuBIs{!gzebcqKvaFIim'ElujgeKFtMyrd:ulbeetEtpwuyi
ztfo}erPoswwi@zuoibfrkfECAi/EltAuywtayIwd"kzftcqrBtxneA^ftbxgeLyjxxex=
gHpkfexhwHLnr"fmoAbtFlaMSui!urawujrizsuqp=CuoibrMsuBJqi!lAsoueGmatwhi|y
zAacpirubOCle:oAobvmJvvzBex&kltAuywt?

ZtfbyfQguxRyd*ylicpiDlesyCi_vxjhkjKgtHGjd=llujgxwgqKCsg*vxfu}erHmEtyi\z
ozaRgwKlvLtnw!zmhigirBtBHldnMYM?bkGsmHQnr"fFigblMpexFnr^ylphbyzla!yCx
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2  d!ZtjubrsylNJem|fGtgfeLvaBHii\fFigbywEumtfr%
vDpegxKgjMtxs!ztbvbnLgdtHef^funrqwLlesCsx=fTzrgwUhswoediulTIOQrtbKEzt
xqncksKgjGtyl^fFfzveLobMtwi@itfubyzlaNMjv7fnfeczKlavOwv^tFmAbnLgxHOqh!hq
zApbgCHloLCAi!zAaetjsAfsuew,yFfobyzhusuhx|fAobUL5SaBHev^gxavkrwb
NAxgxjJaaMBjd/ksvncwAAzsJws<opffbgQgTZ7Qd*ylfuujFAjtFej=xlwgtnxFjGAex&k
iAovgsLgpytyl^fFfzvxlgbGxek/kmunAeKwfxxxd@rxavjjrwsHwjw|ozhbrjJmpKGjh!uz
ztfo}er1ixtke$zlujcyrAixtyi\zEagznKAaBHeWbSXagpxMyfLtyl@zlujgDrDjEFef^
xqmcvnNlmRtje|EluqbuGyusNtd%orggtjFAaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xq.bcsvgtHtBm-r
uGuncxLguAyeg;xDfpvevlmBPjv,fBmcvkGynnteJ*tmmnA	rAixtXKhRlnctpMw
ozdqtuGybMyxd^DutvksygdtHtr*immbtjxlsxHhi!yKtvgrKg)vBft:kD.bxjJzfmtqm+kf
kFd}_.rpowyCm+mlbpfeFhwBAfx*uzactjribLyid=tlujgxwggxuyy/kE?bbYzptsysw;xqt
ztbvbyzlaLuri!imoqpnuhmsLjj^xqoegeOpmEtfp>gKtbtjKvmOyex=fFigbxstfsJtm+z
CuujksrhaMyCx7fmofbyzhusuqp!BqsuktFzaHzes;xlugzyKaaKyle/jxfuueGmawyqm<kDz
vxbvhtJta{yAi+fBbrgwrwsBHys;zE-bynDsayOsg:oAobvmwgttGjd>gK?

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeLvpEMej=xlvugwKaaMBjd:kJubkxrwsHwjw|kpadAes
sAsrjtDvhBwfp!gzbnAEwy.sush!ztfbtjKBmMMee/kltvqwwkaBHee!jmucdfKl?
ZAhgvmwyaPCyl!ztfbksvlymtyl^fSsggp	LozFnw&fXfzkhGu.sush!ztfbksvlysIkd@rx
ztfbGsysjLBeA=xptbksrAixtii'ozjvktFzaHzex&klmgznuvomtyl^fyptrmGspzChe-
gzbnAxwzavIrt/oEfbceKlusIkd-ozhwkxLpdsNts-ylujcyrhmEIBd;yqsubtxgbEF
rqwgnxrApsQtv)fIjvjeLofsNjB:AmmbksxvsFuym=tfacpirApsuhg=sBmkumrkjyzjv^tF
zmtmu rgGHLei\gyqng	rzuNxjr:ylxjqeJlbwtss!MDfgmeEhzsyCt-uDfbceuvovyux!gE
oFacruwhsLtnr!MDfgmeLlyMMef,fGtkplrAixtJr"rutj+LJlfDtnr%kJ.bcsvguAys
rApmksygvItBs/qEakpeLofsNjB:ylbpfeLybGMqe:oAou?eGyaLwms-gDtbofQgeH
jquckqwkaFIwt&uxpikhssaLNzh*kEaqheOvswtzw^fnzbwxAuhsNmi!sAsrjtDvhBwfp
gzbnAxwzaHzex&klugzyKbasVjg@AEfbvmwzfsNts-ylxgtjrupMtii|osogfexvssusC!uzf
AEf?byzlaLuri!zApnuesuesNmi!ymngbisAbswfr!hqawujvgcRtgs:nltvwiwuuLtfr%
yoiqnfJz?

T1UGU
