     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

What attracted us most to the CD-ROM edition of The Papers of George
Washington was the fact that David Packard's aim was to make a complete
edition of all of the 135,000 documents we have collected available in an
inexpensive format that would be placed in public libraries, small
colleges, and even high schools.  This would provide an audience far
beyond our present 1,000-copy, $45 published edition.  Since the CD-ROM
edition will carry none of the explanatory annotation that appears in the
published volumes, we also feel that the use of the CD-ROM will lead many
researchers to seek out the published volumes.

In addition to ignorance of new technical advances, I have found that too
many editors--and historians and literary scholars--are resistant and
even hostile to suggestions that electronic technology may enhance their
work.  I intend to discuss some of the arguments traditionalists are
advancing to resist technology, ranging from distrust of the speed with
which it changes (we are already wondering what is out there that is
better than CD-ROM) to suspicion of the technical language used to
describe electronic developments.

Maria LEBRON

The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials, a joint venture of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) and the Online
Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC), is the first peer-reviewed journal
to provide full text, tabular material, and line illustrations on line.
This presentation will discuss the genesis and start-up period of the
journal.  Topics of discussion will include historical overview,
day-to-day management of the editorial peer review, and manuscript
tagging and publication.  A demonstration of the journal and its features
will accompany the presentation.

Lynne PERSONIUS

Cornell University Library, Cornell Information Technologies, and Xerox
Corporation, with the support of the Commission on Preservation and
Access, and Sun Microsystems, Inc., have been collaborating in a project
to test a prototype system for recording brittle books as digital images
and producing, on demand, high-quality archival paper replacements.  The
project goes beyond that, however, to investigate some of the issues
surrounding scanning, storing, retrieving, and providing access to
digital images in a network environment.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation began in January 1990.  Xerox
provided the College Library Access and Storage System (CLASS) software,
a prototype 600-dots-per-inch (dpi) scanner, and the hardware necessary
to support network printing on the DocuTech printer housed in Cornell's
Computing and Communications Center (CCC).

The Cornell staff using the hardware and software became an integral part
of the development and testing process for enhancements to the CLASS
software system.  The collaborative nature of this relationship is
resulting in a system that is specifically tailored to the preservation
application.

A digital library of 1,000 volumes (or approximately 300,000 images) has
been created and is stored on an optical jukebox that resides in CCC.
The library includes a collection of select mathematics monographs that
provides mathematics faculty with an opportunity to use the electronic
library.  The remaining volumes were chosen for the library to test the
various capabilities of the scanning system.

One project objective is to provide users of the Cornell library and the
library staff with the ability to request facsimiles of digitized images
or to retrieve the actual electronic image for browsing.  A prototype
viewing workstation has been created by Xerox, with input into the design
by a committee of Cornell librarians and computer professionals.  This
will allow us to experiment with patron access to the images that make up
the digital library.  The viewing station provides search, retrieval, and
(ultimately) printing functions with enhancements to facilitate
navigation through multiple documents.

Cornell currently is working to extend access to the digital library to
readers using workstations from their offices.  This year is devoted to
the development of a network resident image conversion and delivery
server, and client software that will support readers who use Apple
Macintosh computers, IBM windows platforms, and Sun workstations.
Equipment for this development was provided by Sun Microsystems with
support from the Commission on Preservation and Access.

During the show-and-tell session of the Workshop on Electronic Texts, a
prototype view station will be demonstrated.  In addition, a display of
original library books that have been digitized will be available for
review with associated printed copies for comparison.  The fifteen-minute
overview of the project will include a slide presentation that
constitutes a "tour" of the preservation digitizing process.

The final network-connected version of the viewing station will provide
library users with another mechanism for accessing the digital library,
and will also provide the capability of viewing images directly.  This
will not require special software, although a powerful computer with good
graphics will be needed.

The Joint Study in Digital Preservation has generated a great deal of
interest in the library community.  Unfortunately, or perhaps
fortunately, this project serves to raise a vast number of other issues
surrounding the use of digital technology for the preservation and use of
deteriorating library materials, which subsequent projects will need to
examine.  Much work remains.

SESSION III

Howard BESSER                      Networking Multimedia Databases

What do we have to consider in building and distributing databases of
visual materials in a multi-user environment?  This presentation examines
a variety of concerns that need to be addressed before a multimedia
database can be set up in a networked environment.

In the past it has not been feasible to implement databases of visual
materials in shared-user environments because of technological barriers.
Each of the two basic models for multi-user multimedia databases has
posed its own problem.  The analog multimedia storage model (represented
by Project Athena's parallel analog and digital networks) has required an
incredibly complex (and expensive) infrastructure.  The economies of
scale that make multi-user setups cheaper per user served do not operate
in an environment that requires a computer workstation, videodisc player,
and two display devices for each user.

The digital multimedia storage model has required vast amounts of storage
space (as much as one gigabyte per thirty still imageyx=8flJpbyzlaIuxx!ztf
iAtvbtxgtNwmd@fxbtijrhnHOsx!urauvtJhhxtxt@iqaociwguACxd_upfnbf
vDpjkgAAjOyeg&uudgbfKgxxFq	!fNvvbuDBozCsk!yFptclwgdHMyw!gDfbhnFhmES
smlkplrAiBMew^iAofbfDAfKHfx*Bqaxkftsfn

OrauvtJhhxtss!rAoigwrwpLyxd|AoibcsrpnIyim_kzu?bBzhusxtd>kloggirAp
iAoukiwyaBHef;oxekplrkjzCye-rKauvtJlesGzp:o\vugwrkbMuge|kEaqheNptNuq
smugtnsstoteX&oEartjKloMuym=tlxknqrlytGnr^fFigbswAxHLpm+mlbpf
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAobetFzuKunr:ylujcyrtvLNef^fAwgthGtfsvjj=xqauwhzgetNff@yqt
imobdjuvnxths_sAornfulatHid;yqgwneLvattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[kAqng 

ZtfbmjQgqKIgp^sljubyzlaOuxx!yuAgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbiGjvFysx| lbpfezvxsNmm|
grggeyKgoHNes+rKauvtJhhxtgy:fFfnghGtnNHng@zuppueLybGMrm|yuppbyAtfn
GzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsr1_"txt^kpakueAtqKuhx*immbhtJggBFjw!ura3brwnbuSyi!uD
rmsigwr]xAChl!oEankpwszsNtd#kltocqDggHLee!sGmvkrwkjttis$Ayfpv[mgaYIw
oztvcsul.syAi+fAobce(!a4vep*tqakveOvvExex@qqavjwwlaFCsy:kEavqeLybGMki/fm
7\ngiftFuxtkm-kgabCsvguAyxi!luhwtjKgbLMzq^fuegcqrjjKwzq|zmoegxlgbGxeh=
tAubvfClaBHys!iAoukiwybMCtr!uFigteMzfKMeg=tFfpfnFnayIwd+kFxqtpribGxBm%zt.
jutmbfujfLMex*sq.bqwrAixtym_kloggiwkayIwd/kypvgevptIFfC8flDwtwwuuswtq_uz
zqmgrmGufsNwe+yyjuunGuaKuyi|fIpwnirifswtq[rqugnDrpnILfg:oobn>exlxsOxi/y
CAvnfetlaPCqp*tsavqeOhjMtyl^ftpwteFldxMxe/EluqbyJhoLGnx!gltkplDlaBGfk^fmu
8$~`bgsBen

ZtjubswjfLMnx@zqtbetEwsxMxm=tfayjnuoaBNxi-llsckxwzattsy_hqsbqkrvuAyw
oEtwgxmga2Hes/jqsbvtrkfvLje|klgknjrzjSyxd|osokhnuhoMFD{!CqaowxLgfFJqs,
rAtuAeuvnILjw|oAobcqyvsBNmq|alaDwyropPtry$nlrwcqAAzswfr!CqachkGyesNt
rAtg{er1psxfx^fFigtjrobLtgi^tlppnDrvoxtxm"tugkefFAaLNzh,fpppgeGm
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffuexvssuet@xFjewqsyaNMjv!mDpwr	rhowtyl*yltvwiQgeBxer=z
rApmbfLgmHMxd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!iAnrtjKzjHH d!UzmAbfxAfKtnh^tFjhAnFn
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffueuhosQjd#ksjpbyGgbwxwi|yltvqwsnfsush!tquyqwCgctHiA*jFi
tqffu 

KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlY+YnFkpPM]f@yqebcuHsjvuym=tEa-uzuoatMeM_gsfswjJF.sNmi
1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujttfx!HqsmgqwFaBGfk^fpbvcgszf	tii_uztvtfLltsNmi
AFjnkyQgpytfd$rufpv]KlsOywd:uBpnqlQaauOyd@rEpbrtAuuLtys!ztfbnnEputNns+fAg
iGstgsLgtHzyA@xqahqwrhawCxx/onvvgirloOCws+sqov}erMpKtjB@sBmg?
gBqnkhsAjHHxd-owfbKrsnfJOjv,fobpbnFjpKJtv@zqaeqrHyfLMns+ lcwveuBsKysx!4
oyqngrwuutNns+yleqbsGAaIywq*zlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaxHid;yqs&u
CAsmuysAjHH d!YGdjbiwjpFJwi|yuppbfLguAyel=yFaeqrHBuxLee-rqwkcywzaLNtv@mq
imqcenLFaILtf-kytbymAsfsxtm+mloqvmAuhsNtd@jpsguxrwsHvqi_ylph
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubgsuePCix&a

3qapgjvguHtjB@suogbyzlaxzki$zEaqpeFluPIwo!ztsqwlz|qNNes'fypxksy
sGmvkrwkjttis$AyfpvxrhsHOsh!uzacbswAxHLp	!f9fbpjwkaMIei\gyjpgeNhsBIzw
zAqqntypfLtyl@zlxknqrofEJey|fmwqkiripMNqi+kolubfJvvGxew^xHftuesue
mmugyfQz?stJB[kDjgphwgxBNmd@vBmkefLppGMew;itacueLofLyev@oEfbuyAsmsvws@jqs
wGfuvnGutntMs>fomqujDFaBMex&klnwnyAtfwCfd%uovogsLguByid:ulujgeKvgMQfv^
lAsbxnwDjGAem:blaEcsrpusvjd@iofuujvgbGxez*kIffbkJvnsIyl^xlbrrqAjbMCtr|b
KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlujge5HSVtks/smub-fFkaFIwi!xqdgpyDFaPCyl!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGst	txl=CEajqBrBtxzzp!oFaecsrifsNtd|zAsgbiGjvFysx|fuobcexvsFtnr
CtjejeLofRthe+fnfbchultLyid#ElbbxfJpfMSes'fmqrnnuhuBIsd|uruycwwb

LuocnqQaayLtq!gzakpywsmxwyy@r\beejKzaLNfr%vAjpv	rDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLMex&k
oEtwgeGmaILtz*juoibfujfLMex=fFigujrtvENnq^jubbftuBnxHyw!oz
ozugtiAzdBJqm+gDzbgsNpsHHri+zE?bb2wgoxyid:ulfzcrAufsNjv_ozpnqlQgbGx
ozegznFnaLNwe:ksjgueLobMtBm-rlbnntOgvLtys!vDpxkiwgbvwjw|fFpbvmAzaFuyi/omm
ozacbhJvtLaim|iuqnkssyzsQfC8

XAocnirSB~!JR!flabbergastIm/koukqsKgjGtMm"n\QgtkGyntHhi!TquyqwCpoztks/
flabbergasted!flabbergastQm#xmskgx

ZtfbrfulatNeA&ooibetEwvMCsk!zqdjptDvhRtme|fmexcsulesIAi/fFigbuszusztv:E
EqbtueKopPMer=fEjipeGmatvfx*ts?bbWGBhAFDd|vqbmksyaaxuhl!luwg+DwhssJjv*up
nmtbAnwsexxee+fAsfgw	vg Gfk+oFvfgeAtqKIAi_kzubksrwsBwjd@tpargwxvsFusg^fAg
iAnrwyAuhsyvy*vyfpv rgOHtky+jmngpyssaAOwh-kEactjrsjDyqC!zAartjNloMtyl*y
vmdgbkJvnswtr:ozvkplrmpKtfx!rqbuveLofsHjB:fpfeciwbas3yd*ylppnDrposNmi
vmtvbkACfsSje/yfavjtMnimtyl@zldqouMAjGAel@ylcgetElaNvnu;oFpwueAu
ructcwAltmtfj'koukplrhmEtxx@lracpirwbMLtr| lektjuAmRttv!ozektjuAmRo

JGskplrAixMjd|gyfbhnNlaRyfv| ldqorMujvuym=tEatcywzaHHex&klJpvjJufMnex&k
vDjpenHhmsuhe%kyjebhGtqNNnr"fzfvytJr.sBfz^fssqysrmsHGe9AfwcrueLva"o0
Snqu?esuesNmi!T5GPgyribvEgs+kljubsGDaKOsr*tsa67e5iqLoedjBqsbvmwgoxRyd'oHf
Eqbtu	rjpFGzr*imukqsrybMyxd=tlujgethdDvtr^fmsgbjPwfvNjh!zAagzhwles&eK#vE?
MDpyvmrposvtx&fFigbuGwvEuym=tlphbswAxHLpd;yqsubfFkaMBjd<uxvogeGmaGyyA=xw
zDbhhnugaAuxd$uzukpzwkaMIek/uIaigtEluKChe-rK.bcyrybMyxd@vBsqchzpozt69
vqsegsLgqxLeq=tFi}be`ojLtkp=upaqheuhqtwnx,fmofbzKl.sFno^tqebdDrzpFyex=
_pskppAuhszws_fmahkwwopLy	)!fosgcywzaBGri+yqaqruGyuNHnx*kEacpirjitFqi+mqt
lAsbnntybKCjw8flMkdwsyjxMeq;yFacpyAjjIuyi!ztfbhzLBsxtnq[rudcvnGutsIkd:nut
zqdjptDvhRnet@xFjekusAfsCsd*zEafgAwspIGjr: lbpfevlqEIDd*zluqbjFzvKy
godguxrApsNmi!CAsnf)KgjGztv_gFjqpeJltHOwg^yg

ZtfbksxybLNwy$zGsgbkGyaMBjd*trptofLppGtfk^futbdjAuhsJzx!ozarnful?
RuctcwAltszfg^fEutcywnjvtii$oEjqpxrhcHOyd:nqjtbwGsfsCsd:nqafgAwspIGjr: 
jqqnqDEloMnee+jlvugeGmaMBnw!ozgtcxLyvvNzv^alaVjjrlnxLlm+mljphwszuKOhx;xq
oEaowhzgnHLjd:nmobetEwvMyww!gzebetEtvGChe:oAobnnFltnteM:futbotJlaMBfr!ztf
gnjnkyQguHths_vGugbfLgbsLjq=zqaukywaaLysh!kxfevwGujvtre*rluqbfrwfxL
gosquxrAixths;tFsA?eGyaFIAi!glgknjrmsHGes+klmkdwsyzsNtd@tAujgwmga!Bjd+kJu
luwgbDwhsLtBm-rlxkvswztsMzf|zmovkfDgexPjp=vyfpveGmaMBjd*trptofLppG
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbvmwgoxNBs/qg

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeswqKIuv*gFfbnjskfKMmm[ lmkdwsyzsJws'kEtkqssstsGzw:
nmwgbfrmvGxfq^tFbnbzFkfKMye+juoibtxgbGxee[vDfekfLppGtks/foporzLls
tquyqwCpoznej/uyanqhssatLje!tquyqwCzaMIex&klOcvnGubEtWi|kmsejesue
KpvecyAvos8jx>uDlb-S0LO	oedonutbrwwzfGNfx*uzacfiJltLyxd:nqtg
lGofcrwuutFx{!gzebjtOguAyDd/kxbvgeLvaECgv@xufubyGkbRtfr%fuobvmwgoxuw
lGuwtjm

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMlabbergasted!flFnghLypGChdgonsctDr3jLCtr|fmofbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$zE
hmtgfeGua6yrVd-EatghGtnxHii%fpjtghLppGM 

ZtfbG]DpcKuwC!yFscvjyFaILtn^iFffbnFguACxd[rmobkxrhaOCxm=tmsAbtFlaMBfx!imo
kzbdnjrtbCIwd$nmoigxrhowtnq[xAwgojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaIOgp*ifacpirzqxwne-
ructcwQgtxLAm$kgabVmAzaOCxm=tlju?eLopNAm{!uzfbvmsAavusd#klsgcqAGfwtBm:n
zAecA)Kguxwmr=rAhA}erHusNmi!ymngbyAtfmtnx!CumnbhzhmEysk^fFigbuGsjMChe-
gzebutupbEtxx/AouwtjrDjMBnr!CtjejeDpcKuwm^ylprgwsAfhtem+fmdcfjEpd
ructcwAltmtyl^fFscfnLppGuqd^sBicunKgpGtqs$gxaeqqDldMCtr| lfzvjFkjGAex=
godtgiAAbMCtr!oEtwgxhgjGtuy#rudbnntybKCjw7fFigbuGAfGNne-fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
hDbpemrhowthi+zDbnbqAistLni|frvnnDrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofsJzf-oo<bcsvggHL
yBfekfDgmBvwe/oqt?bswDaHJus/zGokvnwzayIwd|nmsgfeuvmEyhx*uztbcsvgoxNBs/qE?

ZtfbgsNpsHHri+zljpbBzpdAtyl*yltvtfLlhBwet-gzajcxrifxHeh^BqmqrjvgjLnee:
ztfbotEloMneh=suocvjvgcRtfd|kztgbtxgmBvwe/ElmkonLz?stYl^foppvnFBfw
kJqcpxAvosush!xmqkfeyypPNmd=llmqefDgbvuii_ooankgJhsRths-rqdvktFzaBMer=C
ixfctqQgbMtfr!kze}beUvsIIwe:klmkdwsyjxM	d@tpagxjFgmtQep*hDbtkjKaatLj
lmdgfeOpuAttt^xmukplrDjMBnr!glekhkAjvENei$uzpokhrjmBGfx^ lbubBwsmsuxd>oFi
BqsAbfuAjOyeg=sBfvkyAvoszws_fopoojJjjtFem+lAsocyAvosMty/iqt}beXvs
kJborqwaaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeq@Elcgbxwlosuxd@fpfukwsimxtgy:fzpvbhJpuBwfp
sGokenHhmsMjv<oofbksrhaMCri!CtfpbyzlauOik^zEaqheKhgxNDd@tpajgfDAi
gsfpenwzatLjd#kuoibhMAauuho8

LGsvjjJaaECgv@xufubnFghxHjv@rlicxjrhaOywC!nuhjbqsipKaysTiAtvbwsAjHtnr
ztfktetBezyyw7fmofbqsipKths|zEactjrzuBFqd*tosgcxAuhmtss:CuujuysueBHl
gGuqofLppGtnr<kEuogsLz?stNx!oEafkkxpdNFyd'uDankgJhsByxd:ulpdvfAuavuum:gx.
yFbtvzHaaHLew^kpahwsvpoztks/fuopqAsAjOyee$zuwkvnwz.sush!ztpug
zqdjptDvhRanr:kztkxjrpoBNne:oHfubyzhusIkj^xlujgeHvuxHym@rlphbiwjsxuxi%
rmcqteuvtMMeg@tlqtqAGrfsNmi!uBqqunLppGttj!ructcwQgtMukj8

NAxgxjJaaECgv@xufubmsCfsuhl*kHffbxGtfswtr|opftcgDlaLOhg^yEfubnFguAyet@yF
zIpbfjuhexMef,funrttNpoztgs:nlujgnJgtxLAm$klbpfeLofBLeg/kpjdkqAAzsQnx&oz
ztfkteGyhtHnD@zuppu]	howtyl^yqarqxAAjOyeg&gzhguezhwxtgi^tlbeetEwmBMmi%
sAtvnDrDjMBen;judkqzKgvLyes'fuohqwEhuBIsd:koipqqGnjxM d!ZtfbciNhovyxd*t
iAnrwyAuhsush!ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaAuAi!hqfpbBwsm wmv=tudngiggaMBj
iAovksMpoztuv^iuqkvtMzawLtt!ozaeqrHBuBHld$uEuu?eLofsAws>ztaqheLof
OzugtswAatHid[xuwcvjrufMQtv)yfacpirAixtjB[rAtkxjrpovLje|kljpbuMimBwqC
gHbknftsfsCsj=xybvktFgetNff@yqt}

LAsbgCstqEy	djIXDbjfKgcxwtq^fAogbtxguAyep@xsfuveuvnIOyi/fzfvytJr
uDhcpnRhuBIsw!ozavjjrDpKFid#EldtgfLpoztfd$uAqgtfLpwxthe:gxpiksygoxNBs/q
uraoqwwguAusdA *~`bqAistLni|fIptniOpexoedjt\mkpjrwvuFng!godguxrjbMuqs"y
tAxbujJCfsGnp-oAoubtxgvLyww!uzaoqwwguAusdz$f~``evleBwfx^jlugtrAubEMem+
ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcqGufnteX&klVpkAwytBNDd=llDcnnxvsGCfdhKXW1NeGu_ECsi
imucntygtRMyi_ftbubsGDaxRue+jqebksLvatHem+jqybffLhctMjd/krftgsulaLywz*iq
gzebuzHwpKNxd_uDfbvmsuaLCCd_oxmkqsrzftLhl^ylbbAjsy?stFr% lmkdwsyjxMel@Bq
hqdqojrAixtqe/mqtvblJvvIttj!iGtvqrwytsIkd{J\SQOeHBcECxl*tsavghzupEIlC3
sAsgbyzhos(#{E$*aqryAjbEtri%omarwgDpdtNns+yltwemrhtsNms|klphhjJlesvD
OzgqVwsjatHidnoxwgte8sbMNjv!gDfbuztzdKCgi%fFpbdDr2?`oep*hDbtkjKb

ZtjubrsydAttj!zqdjptDvhRths+zuowgxrhowtnr!ztfbpjPAawyhe%klxknqryfLOqx!oz
lGsvjjJgjGHtz@zuppueLobMtfv^fqyvtjElmRtim'ludwnyrApsJwi%oou}be#obMtnw
ixfcteAzaMBfx!ructcwAltswfr!tAxbitrifRIsh!gGuqofLppGttj!ztfkteGyexLej*rqt
gzebefLhmHAxd:ulbwvtEhuBIsd=llujgnJgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kE_+csvgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIeg*xovoxjFAaMBjd'oEdcneDpnBNfx*uztbvmsAatJui@xluqbttAbBH
zAecA 

ZtjubJDldMLtr*ilMkdwsyzs!yv@zqhkee8sbGtwi$uyngpiKgbsJfv@juhobxzpgMtnr
ructcwQgtxLAm$kfacpirkfFIsw:xmugueLofsMyi[ylogejKzbKSex=fBsqxnvlaBGuv=Bqe
ructcwQgtxLAm$kEaykyzgmBGnx^jldcrfupuByxd@tpaqrjJhuBHld*tHfuvrwuuLo

YQTUKT6gJ#aF

GzogbPWUOX'

ZtfbEtJufEF>2^xAybLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHev^yGmvgirposNmi
xqdqtiAuhsIkdv *~`bgJpuMFjd#uAlubfKg7[]]h[olekinLhmsCre"kEacpirAix
vDpfwhLppGnes+fpfocsvaaHzel*mt_swfDpuRtfr%fmsejnNhmESew=AzebrfHls
xqqnchwtfGNx	!f6igbuJvkxwy{!CtjejeOhtsMzt[uDugfetFaMBjd{uynkuxAvosIs
VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtfp|uljpxjKAjzuyi%fEpogeGmaMBjd*yEvgueKBsKIzr%ozh
yobppnFn.sMys/ozh?bwwAsByAm+mfacpirwsHPnh*tsacehwztsNtd%osjvcqrpntAjw!oz
glogvBGylsysz*xAoogsLb

GzogbPwuoxSeA*rxahqhMzaHHew=sqaqheLofsCxw;kEauwwJvvGxnr"fpjtghLgtvusr*ts
gEakfjFAjyCjh!ozavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:alaCotFnaMBtw^fFpbdjrkjLwzw|kp
gDf<beAtbzyez^xEvubywEuswft:ADf>bnFkfQCsk!gzebchultLjem_gsf+efHAvKy
imqcdnDpuByx,!gldqousyjLIsd:ulqjqyGjpISee+jlnkewGmjEG.d[xAeweyAvosush
iAtvbfFhmRMnw3fEuqtfylayIwq@zE.brwGApvIqw7fmofbxLhowuwh|?lbpfeLofsOxi!ur
ztjubxuhoGCsk!zqdjptDvhRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!vGsrqxwz?

Ztfb8#=|eICeh*muucneAtbzyxd[xAewejvgjGtyl^fOptpjDsa%yws\f2sqljuAaILtz^j
nuhjnDrhdvyux@hxfbhtJgdKyfx*tsarcuwyaKyup@iqngpyKgpytii:kDjqtfLpoz
uDjikssstnteX&kl2?`#=gtvusr^jlwqnzEltsJws<opffbfFgbKLfC!urakofyl_vuux;x
