of croquet she was playing against herself, for this curious
child was very fond of pretending to be two people.  `But it's no
use now,' thought poor Alice, `to pretend to be two people!  Why,
there's hardly enough of me left to make ONE respectable
person!'

  Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under
the table:  she opened it, and found in it a very small cake, on
which the words `EAT ME' were beautifully marked in currants.
`Well, I'll eat it,' said Alice, `and if it makes me grow larger,
I can reach the key; and if it makes me grow smaller, I can creep
under the door; so either way I'll get into the garden, and I
don't care which happens!'

  She ate a little bit, and said anxiously to herself, `Which
way?  Which way?', holding her hand on the top of her head to
feel which way it was growing, and she was quite surprised to
find that she remained the same size:  to be sure, this generally
happens when one eats cake, but Alice had got so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out-of-the-way things to happen,
that it seemed quite dull and stupid for life to go on in the
common way.

  So she set to work, and very soon finished off the cake.

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *

         *       *       *       *       *       *

     *       *       *       *       *       *       *




                           CHAPTER II

                        The Pool of Tears


  `Curiouser and curiouser!' cried Alice (she was so much
surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good
English); `now I'm opening out like the largest telescope that
ever was!  Good-bye, feet!' (for when she looked down at her
feet, they seemed to be almost out of sight, they were getting so
far off).  `Oh, my poor little feet, I wonder who will put on
your shoes and stockings for you now, dears?  I'm sure _I_ shan't
be able!  I shall be a great deal too far off to trouble myself
about you:  you must manage the best way you can; --but I must be
kind to them,' thought Alice, `or perhaps they won't walk the
way I want to go!  Let me see:  I'll give them a new pair of
boots every Christmas.'

  And she went on planning to herself how she would manage it.
`They must go by the carrier,' she thought; `and how funny it'll
seem, sending presents to one's own feet!  And how odd the
directions will look!

            ALICE'S RIGHT FOOT, ESQ.
                HEARTHRUG,
                    NEAR THE FENDER,
                        (WITH ALICE'S LOVE).

Oh dear, what nonsense I'm talking!'

  Just then her head struck against the roof of the hall:  in
fact she was now more than nine feet high, and she at once took
up the little golden key and hurried off to the garden door.

  Poor Alice!  It was as much as she could do, lying down on one
side, to look through into the garden with one eye; but to get
through was more hopeless than ever:  she sat down and began to
cry again.

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself,' said Alice, `a great
girl like you,' (she might well say this), `to go on crying in
this way!  Stop this moment, I tell you!'  But she went on all
the same, shedding gallons of tears, until there was a large pool
all round her, about four inches deep and reaching half down the
hall.

  After a time she heard a little pattering of feet in the
distance, and she hastily dried her eyes to see what was coming.
It was the White Rabbit returning, splendidly dressed, with a
pair of white kid gloves in one hand and a large fan in the
other:  he came trotting along in a great hurry, muttering to
himself as he came, `Oh! the Duchess, the Duchess! Oh! won't she
be savage if I've kept her waiting!'  Alice felt so desperate
that she was ready to ask help of any one; so, when the Rabbit
came near her, she began, in a low, timid voice, `If you please,
sir--'  The Rabbit started violently, dropped the white kid
gloves and the fan, and skurried away into the darkness as hard
as he could go.

  Alice took up the fan and gloves, and, as the hall was very
hot, she kept fanning herself all the time she went on talking:
`Dear, dear!  How queer everything is to-day!  And yesterday
things went on just as usual.  I wonder if I've been changed in
the night?  Let me think:  was I the same when I got up this
morning?  I almost think I can remember feeling a little
different.  But if I'm not the same, the next question is, Who in
the world am I?  Ah, THAT'S the great puzzle!'  And she began
thinking over all the children she knew that were of the same age
as herself, to see if she could have been changed for any of
them.

  `I'm sure I'm not Ada,' she said, `for her hair goes in such
long ringlets, and mine doesn't go in ringlets at all; and I'm
sure I can't be Mabel, for I know all sorts of things, and she,
oh! she knows such a very little!  Besides, SHE'S she, and I'm I,
and--oh dear, how puzzling it all is!  I'll try if I know all the
things I used to know.  Let me see:  four times five is twelve,
and four times six is thirteen, and four times seven is--oh dear!
I shall never get to twenty at that rate!  However, the
Multiplication Table doesn't signify:  let's try Geography.
London is the capital of Paris, and Paris is the capital of Rome,
and Rome--no, THAT'S all wrong, I'm certain!  I must have been
changed for Mabel!  I'll try and say "How doth the little--"'
and she crossed her hands on her lap as if she were saying lessons,
and began to repeat it, but her voice sounded hoarse and
strange, and the words did not come the same as they used to do:--

            `How doth the little crocodile
              Improve his shining tail,
            And pour the waters of the Nile
              On every golden scale!

            `How cheerfully he seems to grin,
              How neatly spread his claws,
            And welcome little fishes in
              With gently smiling jaws!'

  `I'm sure those are not the right words,' said poor Alice, and
her eyes filled with tears again as she went on, `I must be Mabel
after all, and I shall have to go and live in that poky little
house, and have next to no toys to play with, and oh! ever so
many lessons to learn!  No, I've made up my mind about it; if I'm
Mabel, I'll stay down here!  It'll be no use their putting their
heads down and saying "Come up again, dear!"  I shall only look
up and say "Who am I then?  Tell me that first, and then, if I
like being that person, I'll come up:  if not, I'll stay down
here till I'm somebody else"--but, oh dear!' cried Alice, with a
sudden burst of tears, `I do wish they WOULD put their heads
down!  I am so VERY tired of being all alone here!'

  As she said this she looked down at her hands, and was
surprised to see that she had put on one of the Rabbit's little
white kid gloves while she was talking.  `How CAN I have done
that?' she thoughiv}er'JsGzw:fnfbiwGDjGAew_gxmbclspon.ednnqaiqyrBq
gzebyjFAaMIex&klucdqwguHtri@yGsgbmwytxFkd#Eljv?esueszty+jlujcyl
gEapgfJszsuxd|nqaeqzDkazOjw| ltjgeOhtsHtA!gnpwveLDpszji:ftjij	
gzebyfKghHCsk!uzaujwAulBHld/gBjfnDggaLBjd|uAobhtMuesIzx!ztbvbyzl
imvugeGmaMBnw!CmtbvmwggtHew&klxcuezvmwCsk7fmofbxzlawLtt[kpakv
nmtvkqQaaCOxx!ozavkrwguHtfz=opaujwAulBHld@CmzbcqLvhxNmi/a

^6icve#HTsuer@xDpybjKjbIy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee!mApfbiwhmszwm"nFfpgirhu
ztfbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMAaOywC!mxbfbyGggBHid&kDtgnkrzuBFqd*t
kJjuvjFjfit%e+jloqyexvssNmi!mmsfgs/_atHid|nqatcsrDjMBee-rltrgjv
hmdmbyGguAyep*zFmgbiGvshtef;zfacnfK"aMBjd-oFungevvpKtBe|fEiwv
gsbkp	rhowtyl^fxjvvqwghHFii+fwfAbBszaESnr"fAobvmwghEuxw!zmcngesz
hqgqtjlg!tHid:nuoiuesyfsQtv|klujcsrlwxL	(!ztpwimLguAyet=uDaejnDk.
^rptbNrufOywd>gEauqeKtbEFee|fFikuetlgHLj{!tqwgt^rgBGxeM!jqdncww
oF"ubyGvauui{!ztbvbnLgjL:)

flBubxzlaLunh!ztfugeOvswMel^xlgqqyrzmBJui% lbpfeAuatHtx&kD
sAngpylgtIFfw&'ltjgeOhtsOud:uligteuojGtnr!ymmvbBsAfKoedcklgktxL
opfcbBszaMBfx!ytfbjfvgtHGjl=ClgcnqwuaBHys!ztfbujsaa/ush!ozavjfL
imtgbNrjbGtls!hmdmbgQgstCqA@Ef"bumwgttCid:uligtxwsgnte+?rudgbmsk
hqfpbyGguAyew^gEjfgeGudxtnr!nqsbnnxl.sush!nmebetElaMIex&klhgpjJhm
iAoenzKppGnex&gFayjjJlwxLeC=AlhqbyGgpGtyl^fQoinnKoavIfw:fKpwbkAue
glowogwyaHzef@ztjpieEhdACsi|fuobvmwgtxu	d|uyfbemAseKysd%oshkplrpo
ztfbufFkaPCyl!CApfgsrzqtxjw7fFigpesgsHQes'fxpfinFnaAIzw^yfacpi
hqikpirAixGee!xmjnyfQgtMuym=tg-bbMGDfOyw{!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
ytfbyfKgjGtyl^fBpqneGmaMyfv|fIikemrzixtme%fIfrveOofGtxl^fIbubsAuf
lqfvbmAnin

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbhJpfwtxs!sGdj#)rzbBxeE-oof?bfKgtAyew>gyacdtMA.
zDzkplrApsznr%ftftbBsFaHOy	!f)Jbumssmsvjd[AzjujjvggHLem:fzpy?e1
yGqrqxwaauSef^ozhbfwGDoxxem+fyzbqBFguxuwwHflUjcyr4J56ef^fmaswjwy
ztjpi	rApsvjd|ADf#beZvxxPjv7fqwgtDLojGAem|fCvggwrAp xfC8-

flKwuyrAixHew&kligcwvgtHGjx&ozhbuuDhtACsk!gnpwveAuaMBjd[uAmbc
ruuvnjrDbRttj' lbpfeKofsMBe_fzfctjJguHtre)klpwveOobMtnx!Cmt<besA
lusuveKofsNms;mtubkyrtvLNef^fmaycqJBtsIwd&oBqqrtLhnNM	d#AFavjjF
ytfbtjElnuywi%ftpybxEhmEtxl^fIbubsGD.sush!ytfbutGuaFuii!uGubvmsA
oFaycxrvoESee!sAvugeLobMtme%fEmkruwkaBHep*qqajgwKlmyo

fl!YqzDkaBNef^fAgbcsQgvLy	d+uI.&byzvvzByd?rudg?e]ApsMui@qluqbyzpt
sAvugargFOywC:nuoibnKgtHtty:/Ag+vmw|xtSeh=CzajgwwaaMBfx!OltjqzDk
ztjpmeNlsRtqm)kxzbkyrjbGtye-qaabcyrhoRtwe:kfavjjJl"Ltss!nmsobnF
zDzkplm_as!td|nqadglsu;st%S!SAvug	rkpsSty!qzpybyzlaPuDd=AFaqh
ztjubuGvmoteM!gyaxgwQguBLjh!urauynEtjGAee#uGubjjJl.s9eQ=AEf#&
[MmkejrAiHOll:fFikueEBtMtgi!ztfbtnyousQfC!uraurjsrjGAex=fmaoqzKl;
ytfbjfvgoxPjv!jAogbxMjisuex&ozhbdjxvsxnef;zltjgeJlnxGgi/kpajcAAuh
yqfpbnFgixLef/uFigt)KgMtNnr!MDboofJaa/Ueq=AEf++txgbsGty|k\_vqes
sAvug]	haFIzw^/\PbotMzf|.edonqaOqzKlaEIto^jlbvbmwyaKuyl^x
ozrwkxAAjOyqC7fmofbxwlnxxex=ftftbyGgxBHpd>oFibqswgpytnx|fxjvvqw
kKfu?etBusCyd|guebptLojGA 

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!jAfup)LgvGxjv|zmofbJFnmBMm{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^?l!K
jmsgufQgjM.xd@fRsgphzgnHOxi7fopogeGCfKtBm:nlXknqAhnsNmi
IAoswjJvsn.edRLAs?bBAAisuqp!nqsbmsGDmxxli!urajkxLvsRneE-oofbjfv
tAaxgwQgdEyfv!tAukqsropPtqs+mlbiqesuzMBnr"ftbfbmswqxHjh8]laUqeKof
hqhcpesnbBH,d!^1vbgxLgntthl@zFf{&eOojvBeA@ylujgexpsLNew^tFfpejrpo
nqsbHwwudAtqi|yAo+dtGr?stYl^fYpwujrnbOyee!yGefgsrsftJes;zlphbyzl
Cmugt	rhowtxi^sqebvtrxvBPjv!gxmbqAwyaPCyl!lDjijymga/9m{!Olcgi
EAvtbusyeHH^(!iDjgfeSsjvyel@yFjnA	rhgKunh!ztbvbxzlaAuid&ADubvmw
vAptbfFpntF)w!lqfnksyz?st%M!wGjvgexvszIyd,uGafkiF_usFno^fobvu \

fl!PqyrsjDyeg@zE@&bhJpfwtyl^fYpwujlgjGtfd|nDjnn	rwbLMns+gFf
BAjeg rg!$Izp%f~PWbqArfswfx|fugbAtMgxxLjd_kh"

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEapqyl_aLunh!GxjegeAuattxs=ztjpieLvoxiedGjAo&vetl
gzhtAesipNNem:alaCpirFfMtNd>oEibKeuvvExew&uIaAqzrvvKthe:fPjpcmg
OlujksCgzHO)h!zmlgbfrmbGwDd:uldcvxrpgsSty!iAvnfeGumRtxi^ftft}
YtfbkxrzvvBee!jqbtbvMpfMtyl*ts.&bFDpdxtBi+zlpp?ezhmytys!nqsugqxa
gEaujjrzxtGep@FumAbftvvMtnr!ztfbrtGs.s|fr%fEigbxAAtsJzv/ozhbut
tudgnDrizsNmi!lusg?eDpdDCsk!nqsbrfOzatHid>gEikplrofKtke$k\_cpi
ytfbkxrzvvBee!tudgbxGmusNmm+mluqbsMytxa]e+jltjg)KgtNwmd@fobrkyss
uzfbhtJgdtNhl*tsaokhw|_HB	ddfnfibDGBssJfv%uz@&bhJpfwtFp*iqacifAu.
lAsbvmAzaMCri!ztfbOtMzfsQfw!hDjuvqAuhsuqp!uHft?esuesMmi!lqmv
iqsvcnFgjMtry|zlcgbwwhmESes'lqofgimga/%jd>uz"vbysslsugs;zligtesuz
sAsgbnxgzHO)h!xmujgwrupMo)

fl!YgeAuexyi%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bymGgxtMex/kycnksygeHQsd:ulujgewue
urajkxrAbBF d!^MtbkkrPaPIzp%fFbnmeGuaLOhl!gltwdowju|teS;xlgconDF
gxxcAxrOB!YId$gFt<beFhtMS	d-uI.bxzDnbKtyl*tst#beVvo,Nep^zlngbmwhs
ztfbpfElatAfm+'/

fl!KbBGu"Mtnr%kqe#&eKhjwtFp*iq.bksrhazLje:ftvttDrApswme+mqavjj
yGclghLgpyths+BqsucyAvonte$?xqaAqz	|bKyeC=Algqpi	|pya]s'fppiua\
ZtfbOtMzfsxnh!tAubcsKDfKnew=fMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF;st%X&kDfbkx
yGdjbfrujvyep*zFmgbiGnaGyfv!uGsbjtMzfs3ew&uGmfbqArfsNtd|nAxbAtM"
GlmkvyDlauLnk&z\fAgirAfKLni/ lzqweCupPneA*ztaqj	rzvvBep=tsaewwDF
hDpypezhjK:ed?tpakv)Dsayyyg&fFikplKgxAysd,uGavjwGDaMBjq7fmof
oF"nneKpusOud@tpadglrmpKtnx|fpjppjJaatHid@rxauqwLzaHzex&ozhu+]1
imo&veJlnxGgi/ftbnheGmaMBjqT/mofbnLgcxFtr"yluqbfrmbKGjv7fKpw
qzpy?esuesBjd|gKtbky\zaLIey|krvn?eAA"LtBs/ztacbmMueKyid[uGofu^
NqaucDKgjMtpm-rEacnqrAixtwe:ylbpf]	visxje/'/aetnwkaTFng^fuobc
yAstqBxBmsNtr^ l!K&rrhgKunh!O/wgbtxmfGxjh!oFacifAu@,teJ=xlujg
SAvugeOhtsMBm_suoibfOhzszws_ftftbfKgitLid@yljvbhGBmwtls7fmof
smlkplrxvBNjd@fopootLppGtnr!ztfbrtGsatMem:fIfpv 

flTqbxzlavuqp^jltqhyDFatzyi/fuu?b%5vvLyeh^gD@bbIGgdHGjd#gol
gsbkp	rhowtBi!CAo&veLhmDtff=AFaecyKgpKtis"ylfkvmwy.sCkd,uGafqs\A
rulgbyzln|.edrnqobvmwgNHOxi!nqbtfeLojLnem:fFvtpjvgsHOsh!gzebuBst
yxpynDribvEex=ftft<erpuLtke$klxcueIBjMyet@rqa-ynLoaIuxw*uz.bCqAjf
ztpwimL/.sush!oFaucnvgjGtfd-uIavtjEimBHld<uudg?e]SfMtzw!mqubvt
ztfbumGyfmtfr%fFigpe1_mEtyi-rlzqweEFaACxx=xK.bcsvgzHO)p-
AzegtxLhowtBl,fuubkxrPaAuyi!imuubfFkawIlw8-

flJvbBszaACll!zungbyGghHnej=xlujgeHvpEtBe|fsfvvnFnaJOnx^fosqyiwk
CuujbyzlauCwh|fmofbfFpntFxd:nmubjfvggtFqi+fuovqeAA;styl^xqaygwwgb
JGdmbfFkattIs%ufacbQGyzsush!gzaGclDlumtfr%fEfxgwssaHNmi/fovtktMz
iDfcvzJltnteE-oofbnjvguAyeA@EfacpirAixtBl=rqarcwLFaLQfq!zAavjj
ytptg 



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPJ2

flabbergasted!flabCeUhvvOx[mgofbcsvgbs6tr"f6bng


flUjgDrDfKyem+jqffbfrxvxyw[-uAlkplrwbKNDd:nmubcxKlnuFjh!uzavjj
hmom+]Lofsvnv%ylxkvmrkstAlp^jlggcyzlsLnex&klbpkrsstsQnx&fFigkw
lGsbeqAuhBHld$rAtgbyGguAyr{!gzebcqDgeKCut*tsaygylgdKIxw7fmof
AzdqokGyutvqi8

flUjgexpsLNeu;kEukqsrvgswty/yqaycxlgiHQex=fsfvbiJFatAfm+.lavjjQ
nmebceuvoLOqx@zuppbftvvMtyl*yfacpirhgMywd@frfybrAuvMyxd*zltggrwk
wGjvgeFhuNLfp!zAaCnnulaMIej*tpajgwKlmytye-quoibkstjECfv-Elxkvm
ztfo?eszaBzew&klicfeCupPHex&kyacnqrofKtqm'kgabKsvlfwnew&klicf
wGjvgesgmHHld@xsvogsLgxBNmd:nqaNqwQaaPBtd@zlmcuyrAvKHjh!yGmmA	
gzebytMsesIsp,fEbA?e]PatGes-jqsbvmsuaRIz{!gzebozKAaDHtA!hquvgw\}
gzebvmAzaTFng^fIpwnirupMtfp-uIaykyzvvMtpr=CuoibmGDaHFid*zlxcu	
gze?bfKguAyeP=xKarqxAAjOyqC!xqgwujvguHtyi-rljvuesnfmtyl^xqaycxrup
sAsgbyGgcxtxe*jg

flBvbqszusNmi!SAvug	rDiHtxi^sqebvtrifsuet^xEppbtxgbNNms/oFzbcrGuh
ztfo?euhmEyid=AF.b@XAAawIBr7fmmnbtxgzHO	d@tpankxLlosNtd_k-abK)4S
yAppbrsrfsSty!jDzbgsGBhA:)d!ZtfAbfDsaLuyd%uIobcyrvovy	d*tlbbnfJnf
xuoi?eOpuAtyl^fYpwujrposNmi!suefnjmgaTFng^fwfrvezlssyDi|
gzykqzKszsznB^jlppbnLaayIwd|nqahgqLgtNLjd|nqayqzDkavuyg&fmadci
iAmfbnxgtAyeh*jloqveylusxwC!BqsAbxGvon

fl!CjjE""sMfm%fFigbRGBtxtBm:nlbpbnEwpKNfr:fmjt?e]hsxtDs;fmmnbwwheRp
ZtjubnKguAyeh/oqtvbyzpoztNd)tAx}be~pmxHhi!gxmbttMuemtnj!EAvbrqwhtx:
_9jnnnstaMBjd{uzrwgwGy.sQms|kldcwxwgxtMej@BAvtgirizsNmi!vAqg?eOht
yAppbxMinBNyi%fFpbdDrAixtJr"rutj?eOopsQfr:kpangfvlsLnee+jlicfetlfG
urancywgnNwmd@iovuvtElesNtd;yGsrcyAvosush!iAoswjKA?stJh>ozacpi
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*g\_*&

fl!Wim/_aLunh!ztfbNtJF.sQnx&fmaujnNlsn

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqs/_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfmtkv=Czjpi	rivMtAi/E
vAmkvjDF;st%H*jlzqweKwftEa(

fl!PqyrP@,txe*jlujge4vsRtme|zumA}

fl!KbyzvvzByd,uGafkil_aLunh!ztfbOtMzfnte$T/UarttulfwoedOKpxkpesue
SAsecwlguAyei@xxtbqkrTfKwne!gzebPtJAiNGgv*gfafghDhsxxej=xliko,
gzebgAwua`Nnk@tp.bvmwgqtNwm=zudbcwuocBMms[fAgbEfFAfKvzv, lgqwsv
oFacfAAzbuFj[T_/

fl!HqzFka$2FX9-ltckirAixtIy$qg

fl!HqzFka2@	(!ztfbOtMzfsLjt-oqebtfLofKthv=yEmA<er'pyths;xEfbAtM
qzpybBzhus?nxOfyfcpxm_

fl!KbpFvxsQme:f|jv*eElbGMeA^rxagptMnimtBl^tlJbhnFkattyl*ts.&bxspe
ztfbFzur;st%m:-EaigswybEFDd@frsqieGyattBs/sgabVmwgrNyxx*uzaku	
CtbvbiAkaMBjd@xoidkxzvqsznr%b/

flUjge5vvLyeh*jloqveFvuBwjd:nutbszwzuBIs{!hGubjzJyjxxqC!CqovbtFa
^|_+htMuesCyd@jHjucgDlaMIek=fIjvjeWkhtLeE:nqmkplrApsGji:f9jnnnst
gzebqkxlssBnq!ztfbewGDonte1*rxjco)KgdHHiy$zlbvbkAytMtBe|
sAegtfLl?stGy:fFigbnFzpEysg^fAgbjnKgOHLre+y\_*beZvxsuwi!EAv
mquvksygpGtss> lnAbiwhso.em:foppvnFBfwnex;xzjpieLvaTFng^fmtbky
yBpmg 

fl!CueOlusuxd^Bqs?&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesgnxFfr$nAmAbyGufhte$*zleqgxF_u
yqfobyGgeKSeq^fmubcqDb"

fl!KpeLobMthe|kf"bufAkaMBjd	uppbutDlnGFD{!xutkplrApsCyw!lqfv?e]P
sAwgbyzhusNmi!sqfvksygbwDty/tfahqwrAixtnq_kpjcvjrheHJym=tlphbrGyf
kzftijLpdsLjq^jufu+]\

fl!UrjsraXHlp*yt@&bxspesNmi!Kmhngymga/3eh=t/ubmsGDaMBjd_kmokplrvg
nmmhbyzvtxtqs+mlxqtiKaatHi{!Ctbv&xrtpKy	ddfppp&yrifECjz^fKpwbiG
kuujgw/_asUsh!ztfbGfysfMtgi+zleqysrpuLtmi@jluqbmAkfsuew_oxf<
yAngbtxguAyes:nqsbdnJktsNnx:kDffbfMkjuFD	

fl!YjfLgJsQfw!mAjpieLvaLuD{NfEbkfeLofsXth=fuobcsrvgyysh^jluqpjl
^Ibu?eLobMtyl^fnfuveLojGAex=fsfvbzKgeKSeA=AxebdjrhaVuzg;y\scejm_

fl!YjfLgJ`tfd{gGdwu]Jhdxp)d|guebCqAjfitss:fFicveKofsQfr:kpaowhz
zAamptOaauOyd:nqaFqiGgitxet@AEffbfKgjytnx!ztpwimLguAuydnUYFDQI%
uGhjveLvaLJje) lbpfeFvaHHjd^rEfbujwtfwtnr$ruogfeLvaLuDd@tKujksyb

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv.s|yl^fnfuveOhzsNtd^DBmcksrpusCxd:uleqbnLb"
[Mof?eszaRIzd_osivbqArfsNtd:xKavjjrAiBHld,uGsugqxaaLIri!Cuovgw
jmz?bNrDjEFex^rxaAqzropPtyl^fPpfqeEhotAjh!oF?_

flGktxLgjMtre/qqebqzLgbsLfg^/opwtxwaaBHee!yAsvbtxgdBLhp^ l)@vmw
kJbeveKobIyeh=kEo&veEhuMyw{NfuubufAk.	tfr%fFigpessmsNmi!vmsvA
CqsgbuDhdxxee-uzhbvmwgdHOww^ ligtjrhowtyl^xq?bbYzlsxtBe|fzpb@TFl.
zIp?byzyfxnee+jlbycDl_auOyd:nqzbdjyhosLzr+ozhbymwuaMBjC!rulgf	
gzebnjxAaHzkd>nqobvmwFaECpi% ltqbyzhusCyd>gEapqyrlbLSex=fwoqy
CtfpbyzlaKuhi!CmtbqAwy?stMs>kHft?eOofGtyl^ElicfetlfGtwy+tuoibmssg
gzajqzJgpKtxs7fmofbBwyfsKzm:kletAesnbBH	d:nqaFqiGgtNxii+rKaecqDle
uGub@YzlaKuhi!oEaqxjJ""sush!ztfAbfDsavLtA%kpatqzFkaBN	d[gzukpll
gzebcxCpozne$}AFayjtrobLtBs+b/

flUjkxrxvxMym=tlujgeVveHths;rpapqyrhoLQjv!CuujqzLgbsAwi@zlegcqrvg
ztpwimLaatHid*zltcvexvssuep=tsavkrwgxBNmd=tqahksylssJwi|yqebwuGu
oFtbhtJlixuidRztfbrtKpuBIsd*tlxjkhzgzHOey|AmmnAeKlfs!me)kEqgcwwa
ozavjjrwjvNzv^ylphbmAt-mtBl*rqavjjryfLNeA@oFffbnFgtBFjr$kgabCy
rmtvbyzlaWIis!ymjf?e]LWX`4FjJ~ajcxrDpGnee+jlbnneEBtMtme<k
vDjBgxm_

fl!DwyrDiHtnw!zAaikAwguAyet/oLfu{)rxvBNjd@foiqtzKgpytAs*iqt
gElgf 

fl!YjDlgT1Y	d=lldqwwKl.,txe*jlujgeVveHnet=ozukplrApsUqm$klxkvm
uzfbhnFnfKjee+jlujgeOopEyet@xFzbcyrvovyeg/uIegfeJvvGxel^xf
immnksygpNNem+fmaeqsxBtxxeA@Efa@RwAGfL:eT/oLfu#)

flBnkhwgitxer=fuegceOobMtys!jA.bcsvgjGtii|vmjtbxzlaIOyd&kDajcsv
ozajgwrwpvEjx7fmofbuMsmxxes;zlbbdtPgpyths_luuu?e}svvEnp,fFigbxssu
CmugtezhesHtx!mAubksLvaBN[{!gzebjfFkfwtyl^slsqwsvgbLtuv*Fqt}
ZtftgeOhtsyCe$zxzbqswgb Jni$klbnneJvvGx 

fl!Dwyrzixtry|zlicxjrhaILnD^ftftujDm.sSty!qzpy?)rzbBxex&klNqwxwb

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbIGkpsLjt-oqebxjJFazLfz^rK?bb%#obMtjp|klicxj
EAvbitLgjGtDs;xlqqepwA},tmi!CqovbtFaaMOwr*tsavqeSsjvy 

fl!QpqQgbsNmm_hxf?&eKhjwtFp*iqauciDF?

fl!JcsvgjMttz^xligtjl_aLunh!ztfbFtvv?

flUjgsrAixSee-rldtqBvlesLty+jligteGudxtrs/kfayjnDlaMBjd	upp
yAmgosDFaILjw^tFffbyzlaMBnq#rq.bufQpozt%1^fnfibDGBssuhg^vFbpejrvg
ztjubjDlhtHyd:nundnj\}atHi{!CtfpbnLgitxej*tutjgirAiBMew&uDu
yBfgemlguAyDd@rxaejjwyfwo

flBnkhwguAIzk&zlujgeOopEyex&ozhbxjJFatvxy/jfadwyrAixSee-rlmqqpwk
yAaitfNlaMBfx!ytfbfnvgoHNeh@xqavqeDhvzB.d@tp.bcxrzixths;rpapqy
ztjpmeGmatHDx&ozhbvtrzbRnew&kltkouDFauIBi% lbpfeLvpDtyl^fFikogDl.
rApmksygbLtxs-kyobcxrzixths;rp?

flUjgeFlyMtyl*tsaycxrApsyfx!ztfbetEmjMM,d!ztjubhsBtxxew=sqapqnKl
gzebetFmvLCtr7fmtbvmwgmtLli!husfueuvnIFfm+kpavjfLguAyDd$uGmfbsGA
zmtvgeLofBLx{!gzebvmwgtFuqp!uzfubhzvlxxee+jlicfeLvauyet@zFffbtF
ztfbdfur?stMs>kHft?eAAaPuxd=BqsbcyrsbLN	d@tpavjjQgttNeh=CzacifAu
ozacbwAuhmtfr%fnfiijvguAyeQ=AEfbvtrAfEFex&kyauqrwAiBHld_uDf}

fl!1qzrwsHGnw^jluqbywsmsGjd,uGsbjnKApKS	d,uGamptOa"sMfm%fMmkejl
^mofbBzFaBNem|fKpwbmsAf aHd@tpaF?)rzixtfh%kpakpesgxACxt^xfajcqx
grsckirAitNem:fIpwnirifsIkj^tpffbfyhjGo

fl!OkswgjLtfd-uzhbcsvgbsMfh!zmmg#)rzbBxex&klNqwxwaaMOwr*tsavq
Gxjeg	rhowtxm"nuoi}

fl!Kve1Zattqs+mluckqlgdxLye*txz?&eKhjwtFp*iq.bntGrjGAeh=Czaykyz
CAofgwrhusNmi!SAvug)KgutCq,!^nvvbBzFawIeC=AldcnqrpusMfh9-laCpi
ytfbmjHAaHHet;FLmkplrhcHOyd*zlxjkqwguAyeQ=AEfbyfKgtIyfo*ts.but
ztbvbmwyaBxje!uravjjrAbEyeA@yltqojLojGAep*qqavjnK?_ 

flabbergasted!flabbe]MvKSew@opavqes
flabbergasted!flabbrGBtxneX&gFajg
flabbergasted!flaogyrposNmi
flabbergasted!ftpwujl
flabbergaste)gkFawu
flabbergasted!hAujblGguH
flabbergasted!flmcy,rgJsQnp-
flabbergasted!flabrwGzfvOyi
flabbergasted!flabbe%VVnte[TIAng?
flabbergasted!flabberga2.qp!zmlgbsG
flabbergasted!flabbergasxjr*gx<bYj
flabbergasted!flabbertvLNel@Bqac
flabbergasted!flavtnss;stKs/
flabbergasted!xqbnnDrAiBM
flabbergastrs/tuoibN\Cf
flabbergasHtx&ozh
flabbergaMIeh=a|
flabbergastXe*jlujg
flabbergasted_uGtgbyGguAy
flabbergasted!fovt?e,ZvvB
flabbergasted!flacbyJpbEn
flabbergasted!flabbiwhss!nv7
flabbergasted!flabbergast2m:n
flabbergasted!flabberupsDzv,
flabbergasted!flabqwrqvwAj{
flabbergasted!flxqwqvgcx
flabbergasted!Cmtvksy
flabbergasted=AD
flabbergasted!hDfcvmm+
flabbergasted!f|J&nqrif
flabbergasted!flalwiyl.s3)p-
flabbergasted!flabbgwgkNLD{O
flabbergasted!flabbergastXe*j
flabbergasted!flabbeuBoGCsk
flabbergasted!flabbergpExeJ;xK;
flabbergasted!flabber+J,Fq
flabbergasted!flabberguKSex&k
flabbergasted!flabbergastBl=rq
flabbergasted!flabbergasteg@AEf?
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!fmof
flabbergasted!flabbergaswtr%kyo
flabbergasted!flabbergaRIz
flabbergasted!flabberguH
flabbergasted!flabbergawyfx&a|"


fl!1qzrhsxtss:fmuvgsvpoz:)d|guebvmwgNHOxi!zAaCnnulaLyAi/kxz}
^9icvesyfsSty!ztjpmnFnaHza(

fl!KbgwnaRIzv!vmsfqsl_aLunh!GxjegeNlsRtmy_hxz<be]FpNtme%fspvbyG
ztfbhnxAisvjr% lJbvmAulo.

fl!Kbmska79Y%NfoskgirAixtRs;yq.bumsyqESee+jlwgtDrhozLnp,a

fl!CbpFvu|.ew@opaCnnul.suqA@EEatgfvFaMIeq@qqajgwKlmytzw^lGm?bfFk
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusBjv8fl!Qj	rkpsFjx!sqajgqHguHtzr%uljv#)

fl!KbxzhmEtis!tAujksygpytyl^fEptv	\gttCid:nqaOqzKl.sAjx:ozhbwu
gzebyfDrjGAee>gK?bb%%vvsCsw;rFaogetFaMuqo*tsauwhzgoHHxi+yq@&

fl!KbiAko,Neq^gzakv^\gqEyfh^jlqqqwrHmBwj	!f)CwveQvv,Ljd|ulfcunDF
urggpiwk.sSty!qzpy#)

flUjge5vvLyes+rKaittOsfwtnr!xqqnA 

fl!Rnjszfswtq^fnbemesuesznr*ytaAqzJgtMIwCH-lBnkhwgdtFqi%fmgvgw
oF<bcsvguAyes:nqsubfDsaCInr^jljpbhzvsNM	dG5qt?buDlbLyeh='/adwy
ztfbOtMzfsIsp,fEiqqprpuLtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC7fmofbBsslxxee!ruuvnj
wGjemjJb

fl!YjfLgbsJnx,fuubytMseG.yd|zmz#&eKphAyid:nqaNqwQaatMew=uzacueAA
CmtbszAAfsIzx!urauklzA<sush!gzaqnirJstvex=uwavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbtx
ymzkplrApsBjv!jmvijywya/Um{!sKafgfJ"as6jx!ztjubgwgbsFjw|uzavqeQvv
tqwgteLvaEIxi!51VTbywtqxL^(!f)IqnirFpNLex=tsvg?e5h@,txe*jlujg
EAvpieUybunee!ruuvnjrzotJum|nxz}be]6pN.wi!kzpwimrApsNwC!ztf
vmukgsulaHzee+fAzuvjJ""

fl!KbBAzis3el@jlpwteVpotBel^xq.bKeCupPtNd%u-"bufAkaTFng^fmmqwil
gpetgxKpoztss#upzbksrwbKNng;rms}be]Zix.id|uAobhjLjisCyd#gol#&

fl!CpirDiHtnw!Juocj	rpgs3eq*mtubxjFAvKyex=fmtmbyzlaJOjw:oAo{&
ymjfbyzla5IwC8

flBnkhwgsxJqm^jlfcijJszmtks/fEigbBszatFBe,ylsgciQguHtye-qlbdqzL
nqsbrjL?as|Im+gt"ubtMyavuy	!fMofbxzl"Ltxy$nlbbefHputFes+klgqt
imuejnFnaFChi!EAvbefF_usNmm+q-abCsvgpAneM!CutjbDGBavIzp%fEfgbmwy
grugteLofsvnv%y-abYmQaaLBj(-rlfcvesgmBNyp^fnjtfeszaLItr!gEanqtC
gFakv^\

flUjkxrzqxyhl!imvugirhaKyre/qmcngeKloLuym=tlboqsyguAyet@xFz}
YAngbtxguAyef*xptbjzJyjxxes'llbvbtFjfhtes+klujgeGses7fk[oqadglsu
CDbrrnFnaBNxi-llvrbAwyzswfv^lGmnA	ryfFuwo*ts.b@NryftFqC!sGtvbgw
mquvksygiHGj,!ztfbpnyou unv!jAfup)LgtNCyd_ElujttsA@,tfr%fmaEcssyz
immngirvvMtnr!glutgrtsjGAez=oofbvtrpuLthl*rpsgp	r'DHGjd@Cmz?brQ
jqbtu^rgJM.xd&osibvnElaRIzd>kDfbcqDgjGtgi%'/abQsrCbKCty|fBsgvjPAt
ztfAbfDsaFIAi%fAgh?esuesUqm$klxcueKvpGtqi'zlbnqswb

fl!KbBAzis3el@jz"vbrwuuBIsi%fPjpcm/_aLBjd|guebvtrofKMjp'fuobc
sqmcphzvmRtys+kgab@SGipwSew^kytbvtrsjDyel^xfafqBFgixLj{!gzebK)E
yGsgbxzl"Ltyl^fnfuveuhusCsd:nqayqwDk@stTl7fyzbfjsyaWCse&'laK
CAofgwrpgs3ew&gxmbgAwyaLyjd,uGacpDrtpKy^(!fMofbmwyfsJts/fMmkej
hqhcpeLvavLDd@mmjp?exvssMmi!lqmvbAwyzsFtr^rKacpirspPaxt*xuugf 
OzacbqAAuEyeA&oxf?bmGDfOyw{!ytfbclsposBje/jlbbnnLAmxtue:zqskplrvg
lApvuywwtsCsd:nqafkxLhovy	d@tpaujjrspHEjh!ABagclwymRnel@rrajquAuh
ztbvbyzla6Izw^ftbfbhzhozyid&oEaoksvaatHid>gEaeqrAuhsvfg)fFp
luokumrojLtxx=xK?



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPW

flabbergasted!flUjge0hcuCydnkzeubnFgbs6nx:rqaDkqD


flJvbBszaMBjdrnuugbWsicBN	d:xAuvksygtEIBp,fnbemesnbBH	d@tp
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbcgGBusuxd*zlxgpylgbLtnj!oFajcirspLNew=squjksy}
gzebumwgixuwh!oFaowyLlsBHld:uljvujDma/@mi!JGdjgxK"as@mi!JGdjgxK"
UtaoAevlbKtue>y-abQmrtzszzv!gzebymAzlxLx%!f5ig&qDghxNeq^
kJfewywk.suxd|ADfbcxrmfKLjx|fmsgbkwysxNx%!f9igtjrJB7tNd&gHf
jDprrjvguAyr{!Olxqpiwy},teE-oofbizwztxxem+fmaoqrwuusNme:fuubyfK
rApmksyggHLex&klgcpesuesNmi!vmjtbtxgxACyi!quebiqGCfLnee+jltjg
BqsAblGve Hfx;xqenAetlhtHel;tFjpiesipNNej=xlujgrlgcNNex&kKaygww
tAxjgwwguHtgi!yqfp+]wCfKSyl*tsaugjElesNtd&gHfbemsuhxxew*tofbjjJ
yIjobnFguAyet=ux.bcsvguAyek/kmubjfDs.sQnx&fFigblDhtLtye#rqacpi
ztfbnnLAmxtis=xfajcirCbGCxl^jldqouDluxFD	

flWgtDrzpHHex&klScdgAAaGIym$kpaCnnul.suxd|nqaygsLgiNHym+mlbdqzLa
gzebefDsfwtty:fFpbjjJgjGtfr!gzhtAeLvoxne$rnK.bOfJFaTHs{!CtbvbF0L
EAvbftAuhsIzx!nqsg{erYvGtms_klujkxrtpFysx7fmofbkwAdAtri!glqckwrvg
mxpxgxrhowtfd'gz@bbVMpdDner=C-"bbFFkaTFng^fIbubxGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFle
ztbvbxzlaKusd=lracveGudxtnr!ztfbfnJldMCtr!oFarqnFAfwtys7fIjvjtMA
zDzkplrApsyCt-guobvmwgnBMye)kljvbmskaFuii8

fl!JgeLvpDtri!lAsbjnKgiHOxi_gue?&eKofsMfm%fFpbjjJzfEzee|fEigbwsu?
^TpybxMyqKCxi%ftf&nqrifsQmi+ftfbhnFktsIzx!CtpbKest@stGy:fU"f
hquvgwrAbDyel*slikuexhosush!mxpxgx	|uAuyd*yfakhe1gdtHej*tpavjjEb"
GEaujjrzbBxex&oE.bumwgdtGjd;vAobceFlbMtqm:zxfbjtMzfmttr!ztfbftGy
urayjnuoaPuxd@fnskimLgcKuxw!vxbvgeOpuAtyl^fzboge]4?s`FF}O6"
kzhtcAwkaNJtr!oF?bbXzlaPysx!ozaykyzvvMtpr=iwjpi	rhowtmy/xuff
ABtvcnJz.sCsd"xqbvbkwhssFjw:fEigbxzvvExeq^kFavjjryftFeQ@xKaCpsl
gzebdjrAvKHjh!uGubqkrAixtms;yqadgkGyfsMmi!nmebhtMuesNmi!lmobcsv
mxpxgxm

fl!JqBrxvxywd*zltggrKa"sUqm$kltckirApsBjv|kxg?b%Lvauyek=ozh
sqtuclwzayIwd@fDbddnL"as3ew;vBpugeVpotB)p-fnfbujFkjGAeq^fAo
sqtuclwzaGyCxH-laCpirzixtgi"gzahcsuFjGAex&kltqtyrvgsNmm+mlujcy
CAvnfezhqIys\!f)&OkxKgBEChiHflDqojrofKyeh*xqdvnDlgbGxek^zlsgciQ
lAsbAtMyaPuqoH_l&EqrAuhsCsd@fyjpwywaaGOww^'laDwyrP"Oyek=zluqbxwl
ztbvbyzlaFIzw^fppgus\Aazyyd=AF?*be7umRtNd%uz"vbyzpoDn)d?rudgbBwuu
uz.b@yzhusNmi,-pangyrKjGumd|zAqbksrAixtms;yqakheAAauyle+fAsfgwAuh
vqprnjrhcHOyd-owfbvmsA@,

flCAbyzptsNnq^fEigbmskayIzr%ftftbBsFaBHys!glukfDrsjMNqi!xApobBAAi
glucdqwgjGtyl^fIjpftOaatHid=tljvb=szaLBjd&gpajquwk-suej@tlbpfeLDp
uDavjwwlaIunv|fAgbvnFFaPBnx^fwjfblDvwxM,d!ytfbvtGraNJex&klgcpesue
glqckwrvgsNmi!mxpxgxlgbGxeA@ylkwuyrnpBHld:ulmgcAwguAyev=uy.bymwu
nqsbgDwggxFqd;vAobceDpuMFjd#uFungeLobMtxx=upapgfJguAyep=uwjpi]
mxbuu rgUAywi!Cmtbptrsbuyqd:nutbvnElaPCyl!ztfbytJkts|IVdTWaOG	\
hGubpjNlsMBjp^yEaujjrBovIwo^jljvbfFkaIOyd*zluqbmwyaECuw8fl!KbpFvx
Y1NGVM1UHsCsx^xqtvksygjLtxy/kluqbmswqxH	(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	
^IigpjNlss3ei@zlptbiJpoDtfr,ztjpi.rzps3)p-fvvuveKlfsQme:fFiku
hAuvnjrkpxM d!OleqbmGwfsCy(-rlncmjrtfsAws>fxbtijrhhtCs{!lAs
xqbnnDrP"Ftvy*zqavkwwkaHzef^ozhbuzuoattym+ElmkvyDlaMBnr"'/

flJvbiAkaLIem+jqff?esuesGzg&fEpqpjJguAusd|nqajcirlyIyhx^ja
hqgqtjrzixtme%fpswpprobEzex&klcqvyDl.sMmi!lAvpfezlssBje%fBsguxAuh
gsbkpxLguAyeg^oxjpi	rhowtme%fFpbuyGvqsNtd|gHfbjjJgoxwpd'xAnbdjAuh
hDpmgsmga`Bjd&gEuknDrwvMtis>tlujgetvuMFj{!ymzkplrApsBjv|kxg
^6icv)KgrNCyi!kzpwim	|JsBtt^fUaujfF_usAws>fmoAbrGyf aFw!oFaku	rP
imo&veylusIzx!gFavjjrkpHL][dfppbynKoa2tme%t/ubfwMulsKzm:kltq
sGdj#)

flBncx/gjMtBe|fFpqbqsAfsNtd>oEibvmsA@stXl^fIfpveGuazLtA*ts.bcsv
mDpyksyaatHid<kDzbutGuaAuid:ullpgjDgeHQsd=tlujgexspHL,d!oz
gzpvjjJgnBHzx^fFigtjrDbLtss:fqwgpeJvpFtks/fFiku	rhowtxl^fFskgi
ztfbgkxldMttj!rKjpievvxGtBm:nlppgewscHQee"guouveLofsxts/ lbpfeLof
uFigtesynswzv-kpatqzFkaAywd&kme}be~AjEFew&klxgpyrvosAws>ozh?bfFk.
gEacbqszusLjw=ADdg?eKofsJzx!uzfbcwEgpNNes'fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpaqpj
lApvbzHguAyeg&oyogA	rhowtxe*jluqbmwytxFkdGTAxbKeuhosxtd+ulnqtjl
CtbvgAwyaAuut^tE?bb2zhus%NPgfnfeqrwgpytri9-

flMwepAszsztv!Gxjeg	rAixtqm:zxfbofypdsvtx:rqajcirupPtme%fuuubkMsm
krggeylgbGxew&klhtgBrupsFfv"kD;bbxLpmEtnx!CmtbxjJFaNHhs_lAsvcgDl.
gze?bfKguAywi!yqfogirApsvjd+ultqtyrvgswme+iqaqhezlssyAi/fsfvvnFn
uGubqkrAixtws=slbicnFaaGIeA=tpftbxzlayyqx!AzicruQb

fl!KveOhtsGzg&fBmgcxsuuxLee:ftpog	\guAIzk&zlqqqwrHmBwj{!^IigpeGuf
Cmtp&yrhmPuDw!mDpyksygmtLli/fmofbxEhmEyw{!gzebdjAuhsIwh^xqebcgGBu
hKaokhwgbGxev@hnjvu rgJsuqq=yFaykxzgJsBfh+-FaiqswgeHQsd:nmu
xmcdky	opEy][@tpaAgy	|bGxeC^z\_kv)KgstNmi/fovtktMz.sSty!qzpy?
ztjubxGyusIkd-orf#be1geHtBs+jqsbymsAaVUSd&gHfbjfHwfGyid:ulng#
3tfpbNrBtxxex=fDfcfexhjKS]x@rqt?bNrmbGwni%fFicveCpowttj!ztjpi
tqwgtezhqIysi% lbpfeFvxsBjv^fUacoeAuaMBjd_opengeGmaHHj%!f6igtj
uGhjveLvauyee!hApmbBJpuMysd@hAvvbrwaaMBfx!ztftgeGBhAN^d!Gzebymwu
OlhtqBrBqmtN(-rlxtkywgpGy][#AFaK&rrnsHQsd;vloqy	\gtAyee%jqebksrh
yAstqBxBmsNtr^?l!cveDlbLNex&kDf&ueFvaKItq!zAaittOgvItfr,fyptg
NQSG})
