  Alice was not much surprised at this, she was getting so used
to queer things happening.  While she was looking at the place
where it had been, it suddenly appeared again.

  `By-the-bye, what became of the baby?' said the Cat.  `I'd
nearly forgotten to ask.'

  `It turned into a pig,' Alice quietly said, just as if it had
come back in a natural way.

  `I thought it would,' said the Cat, and vanished again.

  Alice waited a little, half expecting to see it again, but it
did not appear, and after a minute or two she walked on in the
direction in which the March Hare was said to live.  `I've seen
hatters before,' she said to herself; `the March Hare will be
much the most interesting, and perhaps as this is May it won't be
raving mad--at least not so mad as it was in March.'  As she said
this, she looked up, and there was the Cat again, sitting on a
branch of a tree.

  `Did you say pig, or fig?' said the Cat.

  `I said pig,' replied Alice; `and I wish you wouldn't keep
appearing and vanishing so suddenly:  you make one quite giddy.'

  `All right,' said the Cat; and this time it vanished quite
slowly, beginning with the end of the tail, and ending with the
grin, which remained some time after the rest of it had gone.

  `Well!  I've often seen a cat without a grin,' thought Alice;
`but a grin without a cat!  It's the most curious thing I ever
say in my life!'

  She had not gone much farther before she came in sight of the
house of the March Hare:  she thought it must be the right house,
because the chimneys were shaped like ears and the roof was
thatched with fur.  It was so large a house, that she did not
like to go nearer till she had nibbled some more of the lefthand
bit of mushroom, and raised herself to about two feet high:  even
then she walked up towards it rather timidly, saying to herself
`Suppose it should be raving mad after all!  I almost wish I'd
gone to see the Hatter instead!'



                           CHAPTER VII

                         A Mad Tea-Party


  There was a table set out under a tree in front of the house,
and the March Hare and the Hatter were having tea at it:  a
Dormouse was sitting between them, fast asleep, and the other two
were using it as a cushion, resting their elbows on it, and the
talking over its head.  `Very uncomfortable for the Dormouse,'
thought Alice; `only, as it's asleep, I suppose it doesn't mind.'

  The table was a large one, but the three were all crowded
together at one corner of it:  `No room!  No room!' they cried
out when they saw Alice coming.  `There's PLENTY of room!' said
Alice indignantly, and she sat down in a large arm-chair at one
end of the table.

  `Have some wine,' the March Hare said in an encouraging tone.

  Alice looked all round the table, but there was nothing on it
but tea.  `I don't see any wine,' she remarked.

  `There isn't any,' said the March Hare.

  `Then it wasn't very civil of you to offer it,' said Alice
angrily.

  `It wasn't very civil of you to sit down without being
invited,' said the March Hare.

  `I didn't know it was YOUR table,' said Alice; `it's laid for a
great many more than three.'

  `Your hair wants cutting,' said the Hatter.  He had been
looking at Alice for some time with great curiosity, and this was
his first speech.

  `You should learn not to make personal remarks,' Alice said
with some severity; `it's very rude.'

  The Hatter opened his eyes very wide on hearing this; but all
he SAID was, `Why is a raven like a writing-desk?'

  `Come, we shall have some fun now!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad
they've begun asking riddles.--I believe I can guess that,' she
added aloud.

  `Do you mean that you think you can find out the answer to it?'
said the March Hare.

  `Exactly so,' said Alice.

  `Then you should say what you mean,' the March Hare went on.

  `I do,' Alice hastily replied; `at least--at least I mean what
I say--that's the same thing, you know.'

  `Not the same thing a bit!' said the Hatter.  `You might just
as well say that "I see what I eat" is the same thing as "I eat
what I see"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the March Hare, `that "I
like what I get" is the same thing as "I get what I like"!'

  `You might just as well say,' added the Dormouse, who seemed to
be talking in his sleep, `that "I breathe when I sleep" is the
same thing as "I sleep when I breathe"!'

  `It IS the same thing with you,' said the Hatter, and here the
conversation dropped, and the party sat silent for a minute,
while Alice thought over all she could remember about ravens and
writing-desks, which wasn't much.

  The Hatter was the first to break the silence.  `What day of
the month is it?' he said, turning to Alice:  he had taken his
watch out of his pocket, and was looking at it uneasily, shaking
it every now and then, and holding it to his ear.

  Alice considered a little, and then said `The fourth.'

  `Two days wrong!' sighed the Hatter.  `I told you butter
wouldn't suit the works!' he added looking angrily at the March
Hare.

  `It was the BEST butter,' the March Hare meekly replied.

  `Yes, but some crumbs must have got in as well,' the Hatter
grumbled:  `you shouldn't have put it in with the bread-knife.'

  The March Hare took the watch and looked at it gloomily:  then
he dipped it into his cup of tea, and looked at it again:  but he
could think of nothing better to say than his first remark, `It
was the BEST butter, you know.'

  Alice had been looking over his shoulder with some curiosity.
`What a funny watch!' she remarked.  `It tells the day of the
month, and doesn't tell what o'clock it is!'

  `Why should it?' muttered the Hatter.  `Does YOUR watch tell
you what year it is?'

  `Of course not,' Alice replied very readily:  `but that's
because it stays the same year for such a long time together.'

  `Which is just the case with MINE,' said the Hatter.

  Alice felt dreadfully puzzled.  The Hatter's remark seemed to
have no sort of meaning in it, and yet it was certainly English.
`I don't quite understand you,' she said, as politely as she
could.

  `The Dormouse is asleep again,' said the Hatter, and he poured
a little hot tea upon its nose.

  The Dormouse shook its head impatiently, and said, without
opening its eyes, `Of course, of course; just what I was going to
remark myself.'

  `Have you guessed the riddle yet?' the Hatter said, turning to
Alice again.

  `No, I give it up,' Alice replied:  `what's the answer?'

  `I haven't the slightest idea,' said the Hatter.

  `Nor I,' said the March Hare.

  Alice sighed wearily.  `I think you might do something better
with the time,' she said, `than waste it in asking riddles that
have no answers.'

  `If you knew Time as well as I do,' said the Hatter, `you
wouldn't talk about wasting IT.  It's HIM.'

  `I don't know what you mean,' said Alice.

  `Of course you don't!' the Hatter said, tossing his head
contemptuously.  `I dare say you never even spoke to Time!'

  `Perhaps not,' Alice cautiously replied:  `but I know I have to
beat time when I learn music.'

  `Ah! that accounts for it,' said the Hatter.  `He won't stand
beating.  Now, if you only kept on good terms with him, he'd do
almost anything you liked with the clock.  For instance, suppose
it were nine o'clock in the morning, just time to begin lessons:
you'd only have to whisper a hint to Time, and round goes the
clock in a twinkling!  Half-past one, time for dinner!'

  (`I only wish it was,' the March Hare said to itself in a
whisper.)

  `That would be grand, certainly,' said Alice thoughtfully:
`but then--I shouldn't be hungry for it, you know.'

  `Not at first, perhaps,' said the Hatter:  `but you could keep
it to half-past one as long as you liked.'

  `Is that the way YOU manage?' Alice asked.

  The Hatter shook his head mournfully.  `Not I!' he replied.
`We quarrelled last March--just before HE went mad, you know--'
(pointing with his tea spoon at the March Hare,) `--it was at the
great concert given by the Queen of Hearts, and I had to sing

            "Twinkle, twinkle, little bat!
            How I wonder what you're at!"

You know the song, perhaps?'

  `I've heard something like it,' said Alice.

  `It goes on, you know,' the Hatter continued, `in this way:--

            "Up above the world you fly,
            Like a tea-tray in the sky.
                    Twinkle, twinkle--"'

Here the Dormouse shook itself, and began singing in its sleep
`Twinkle, twinkle, twinkle, twinkle--' and went on so long that
they had to pinch it to make it stop.

  `Well, I'd hardly finished the first verse,' said the Hatter,
`when the Queen jumped up and bawled out, "He's murdering the
time!  Off with his head!"'

  `How dreadfully savage!' exclaimed Alice.

  `And ever since that,' the Hatter went on in a mournful tone,
`he won't do a thing I ask!  It's always six o'clock now.'

  A bright idea came into Alice's head.  `Is that the reason so
many tea-things are put out here?' she asked.

  `Yes, that's it,' said the Hatter with a fEjij,rg!BN)w!gxxcAx
zqb+vnEl.sush!Cq"xgeFvaMCri!zAaycxzguAyex&ozhubgwAxxysd>numgu \

fl!VjjFgzHOeo^kBaoqAAuhsLty+jfaKbxMwqHMj NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!GzfuAmRtxs7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs<be]htsNmi!ztjpixrnfMtzw^jlvr})

fl!DwyrDitNel@vBfpueOofGtDs;fopogeLvaMBjd#ksjppnFnatAfm+b/aCnnul
BqovwwwkaMIee|qg

fl!UwuHvtxtBi!itbpijrAixtxy#pqdv?)rAixtRe/itaJcwwgjGNjv/ABugf	
Emxpksybas|N(_fsfvvnFnaMCwi%fAgbvmAz?stNd<uFfbvmwgzHOsk!rmeA
zqmnueMzattxx=xK?&

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oleqp)LglGIBd=tq.&bxspesUqm$kfatcyzlssuqe/sqebcy
ztfbrwGwpLuq	

fl!VjjFguAyeH=xypwujrzitFq%NfFigAetvuAthv*kp?bb%#hlxtzt7
JAsoqzKl@,teE+jlujgDrwjGwmi%fuubqsripMBew*jqtbcyrvovy 

flUjgeVvsFIzw^fEmqyqQgpIysi%ftjubjQltnte$dfIbup)LgbLFji[ /ajg
ymjfbnFgbsBte/yq.bhjwimxtAs*iq;bb%1gixuwh!kHftAeOvswtDs;frfnntOz
CqsgbxsFjGA (

fl!VgqDgvLtfd|zAsA#)rzbBxex&klNcthzgItLj	

fl!1gxlgqEyfw^fpp#&eHsftxjh!Gxjeg 

fl!CpirifsKzm$qlbdqzLgjMn)d@jpffbyzla1uyx^xfa@qwrFpN.qp!hqacuqwlq
gsbkpetlgHLjd*z/tbftFl?,

fl!QphwgvIIsd@fFjogeLofKyeA^xqavjwwlaECyx-kltkuywytm.ex&k
JAsoqzKlauyle+fuobceyyftNel;xDz>b%suesNmi*xlocojKgxxLjd rEjg?
Rmdkg	rhowtYm-ruf>bfFkaMBjC!ruwgfesAaMBjd#uFuqoeGmattBi-r\_&

fl!YjfLgeBxex&kKankAwgpGp)d|guebCqAjfmtBl=fmmycDKguHIpd@fssgcy
ozugtjKAaBHeu;kEukqsKgpytje:ozhbcsvgeKCso*ts?

fl!VjjQgmBPjh!uzavtjsjmxn)d|guebvmwgEHLrs;yq.bckLlssNmm+quoibf
suowvjrvssNBs8

fl!VjjQgdHOqh+-FajcAwgeHHjd:nmu?bDGBaDHtA7-lBnkhwghxHyp,
xqnctpwk<s|yl^E/ebjfNlauyjr!oxm}&

fl!UqeLofRtBi/kf"bufAkaMBjd	uDnqwxw}a/$JVtfumn})

flBnkhwguKCjh!zAahcsuFaMIel^xEfnheOobMtxy$nlbpbjPAstIwh*tmsAbBsFt
urankAAuhsQty-jlcgbqArfmtgy:fuubrzRGmxxel^xluqqeEBdAnew=fEigbBwuu
uz;bb%TBusQmC!juebvmwFaECAi!gFavjjripMNtq!uracbBwsmo.

fl!VcpwgtHGjd_uDfbvjsa"sNmi!SmsejeZhsxtxe*jluqbFDpdxnez^xK
kmspgxLszn

fl!K&Awgitxer=ztjpieQlum.eE-oofbtjHsjxxem+fmobqkxlowyid:uzf?b%Kv
Oldcp)LgutEjd_uDf}&

fl!1qzrtftHeC=Aldcp)LgutEjdgK5T?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJ?as|nxNylwgtD
kmtAbyGgutEjdhU4FbvmsuaGIyl*ts?&

fl!PqgGkzsuxo^jlZQWWrvqBHns+ /aucnvgBEChi8

fl!Yjt\zaFupm+mlqgtxGubEtwi_gDlubsGD},tyl^fTbvvjJgbLEjh
zDjwouzhoMFD	

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlrwkywglGIBd>nmubvtrzbRtys!ztju<erzpsMmi!nqmrgi
nqsugqxguHtxs_klugcesuesvwi@j\bpf]tBuMyw{!gzebvmwuaMOwr^jluqbyzl
JAsoqzKl.sush!xqqgcywkaAywd]AqtvktFbas|2l,fpjfbyzlzsFnz^fmubvmw
hAuvqrrvgsueA^rx}&

flUjgeVvsFIzw^fmhcksrApHEee!suowvjrvssNBs!zAavjnFratvty:fuu?bfFk
ztfpbxspemt%M:fIbubfrAsxuhp^/Ifnn \

fl!VjjJl"Ltss!yGdjbyzpoz:)d!GxjegeOhtsvjk*tzjpieNlsRtfr"xumA?etBu
ztfbJfLAfKtfr%fFigbRsydAtMe/klxgpyr'TA:ew&'/acpirAixtIs/sAvug
yGmmkqQgsxGfv)kp.b@NxgzHOeg@t/ubdjrjjOCq{!EAv&fetluMywd'ozjujeLof
yFptAexvssSty/yqmh})

fl!Pq	rwmxuxi!mAaqp^\gBEChi!ymjfbAwyzsBzq#rK<b@NrDpG.yd*tFfttzHA
gsbkp rgJsxfv^fEbAbyzlsxtre,fnfbQSWb"

fl!QpjlgjGxji%'/aucnvguAyeH=xypwujrpowClr@tFmA}erOpPyAi/ lig
iAougsLlesNtd"ulpp}er'BGxew=fFigujrAiKyjd-oFungeKptMywwT/FigA
CqsgbqwhsGCsk!zAaftfOaaRIzd)tAx++)

fl!YjfLgeBxex&kKaftfOc"sMfm%fMmkejlgrNCyi!lAsigyLpoztmi/fBsqonKl?

fl!Vtjsjmxn)d|guebvmwgEHLrs;yq.bynLopNNeg=tEjfgwAuhsuyd@rxavjnK
zung}

fl!KbBsuusueg-kmobezHa"sCsx^xDvrvjvguAyeL@zFft<er'mxN)w!gxmbotNl
uzfbrqsjfsIs	N

flIgbrGCfwttr!gEajgeKwpDy	d@tpavjjrKpKGty|klgqnqGDfwtmm_.lavjj
SmsejeZhsxtrs<kpakpyGguAyeH=xypwuj\zaIFfg^ lbpfeSsjvyev@ztft
AzxknqAuhESex=uwavjjrwmtwjd=llujge5hsvBeL@xq?bbYzla1uyx^xlxcueLof
uzmAbtFlaPBtd"uFacpDrheOusx@mqahttEguAyeg&gzhg<erhowtFp*iqaycxrh
mApfbiwhmsQtv|klphheLobGtgi'uDf?bfKguAyeQ@xoibJfJlaAuid(AEubwuKlu
ztfbonDr_COld*tFpbjnKgqEuyi8

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlxkumrApsIkj^tpavjjrKpKGty|klbicnFaaLIew&klcgifF
BqsAbhsBuBIzw-Eaab@GMAa2tis+-FawpiwytMush8flXjgwwgeBxex&kKaftfO
ztfbvwwhdEyej/uy}&

fl!1qzrjbGtiv@ClxcvjJgpNNes'fmaycywy_Pyqp7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs>b%Kv
OltjqzDkaMBnr)fKpwbhGBmwtiv@ClutgfusfsIzx!uracbyJlbvFj[>kxm++jza
yFvrkin_

fl!DwyrAixSeA^xqaKPeLofsQjp- /aCnnulaLunh!zAavjjrKpKGty|kfapqy
itpqunFnaMIer=zudgbyzptsFfw:fDfocwCb

fl!QheuvvKMjd:nqzbyjJl"mtxe*jlujgeVvsFIzw^?l!++BwsmsCs	N

flUjkxrhoLQjv!yAaeqsxBtxxet=uDaCnnul.sNme:fEigbqwAaMBjd	uDnqwxw
mAaqpexvssMtq^fFjogeOpuAIzx!ozugtwMwuBHld*zg

fl!VjjQgxxLjd-kmspksyguHtiv@Cf"bvmwgEHLrs;yqaygsLgpGneC@Czjpiesue
xGcdksygjMMei,kE.bhtJgjMtBe|fsfvvnFnaOywC!yxfgrDhg!tHid:nqzbfwwD
gxmbofFufKttj!ztjpix	|fOywC:nuoibyzhusvjk*tEaykyzgbGtR[T-

fl!YjDrDjMBee+fY}&bxspesUqm$kg

fl!YjDrupMp)d|guebvmwgNtLhl!Nmsg}

flBnkhwgxtMew*rqov}

flUjgeVvsFIzw^ftbfbhDvtxxem:ylfAgxrizsNmm|fFjog	rhowtBe|fspkpl
urgbksLvattis.kbadwylgpGtgi*tsarksuofwtgC!ztfbJfLAfKnem:fIpmgeMw
gsbkpeOpuAtfd-oFungeKosByp{!gzebyjFAaHH,d!^\_vjfLgcxAnr|fIjvjesu
SfauwhzgbLtrs;yq_vtfHz.sush!ztfbotGu.sush!sqnqtDlgbGxeq;itogux	|
EAvbmsGDaRIzd|gKavjnFntsuwi!_yvejeGmattry$nzfuu-	|eBxeC=Alfxgw
yqfbuzuoattyl*tsacuesgeKuBm+mlphbfrtvvBsi|yh"

fl!TgfDszmtss>fKpwbfKraFy	(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKaowhzgdHHky|kp.b@N
jAo&veLojGE][N

fl!VjjFgzHOew&uGmfp)LgutFp{NfEbkfeLofs2fx:kD?

flUjkxrwjxwjd=llswfjFltLtBe|fyptgeLobGtFp*iqaeqzDkauyfv2fltjgeyvu
ABakpeyyftNeh*ysvuv	rhowtBe-qqebqkx}aMBjd	uDnqwxwggxFqd@yxfgr
oztvcsLszmtfr%fzfkvmwyaHzex&klpvjjJzaMIto!ztfbnjszusHtx*iqaqhezls
mAjpi	rAiHOll!ytfbntGrfwtge$qlppejrvssNBm$kfajcqxgiHJnr"fFicv
ztfAbBGBmwthe-rlbhvjJgixL,d!ztfbnfKAaMCri!ytfbufOguAyr{!ztfAbBwyf
zDzkplrApsJzx!ztfbFtJtpNMjd*tFpbvmwguxuus:a

fl!CvesuzsLfx^fU"nneFlwxLek=f6IGTJrhhtCs%NfEbkfeSsjvyee|fEig
vudmgirofKtBe,fFitqzyoaMBjd>uAe}be]Pu,Mex&kltvwuAkfLNex^g\qctyQgJ
kHftbBszatNem+fmmnbrQgmBzj%N

flKwuyrhtsMmi!ymjfbyzptmtxl^fzpvkhwkaMBfx!uzfbqkrAixtyv^kEajcirh
jAptbqwheBHld/osivbnFApsCy	!f)Ujcy\zaOywC!iGskqzK""sMmi!ztpwimLb
^NvvbjNlsRNmm+m/tbezJppNMex=jmz}be1guACso!OlncAeszaPyqp!mAakpesA
uzdg})rgBGxem+fEigbBwuun

flPpejrtpKyew&klgqwsvgixLxi-lljpbyzlaEIsk!nmmn?esueswqs|kluqbyzl
ruuvnjrnmtMxd:gnmg}er'OHQ	dd-xmbofFhhxtgi:zqsbvmAzaMCri7-ltjg
ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfacpirifzusd#ElucmnFnaMBjd-oFungeyvmwysd)kK.bcsv
AzmqepAuhsNmi!jAptbyzhusFjh!ozuqbyzlazuwh^tgabVmwuaLBjd>kzubvt
CAsmbsAicECsk!gFavjjrtvLBws=sl)ujjrobwtpi[zlbbrnwjfsIkd*zljpbmwy
vAdmgi{guBFqd|nqaycxrhcHOyd@frpqvezphAied:nqobumwgxtFpi%fppypeLof
ruuvnjrwbLMfk^.lacpir1IX8][|nqahqzFkaAyww^rracveDhtMtnr!ztf
hqbwvnxBmsAfv%kz.bcrGuhsNmi!hDjijyrmmHQjvThqeubfFkaMBjd$uAm
lAvpvfAutn



flabbergasted!flabbergasteGcG2UGTe@PJ2

flabbergasted!flabbYzla0Oji+-EaEttIBfMaLv=Aze


flBbnfJnfsLtw^/FsggeKApHxer^gDavjjrloMLfr$klphbyzlazuwh^taabvmw
xAtgueyypPCsk!uzakveOlsxtBl*zq.bdzLguAywi!Cqsgbyzyfxtle/jqogtxrhu
oF.bdzKpmRtue*tFjpieLofFtwi%alaCnnulaMBty"nFavjnKgbsPjv,fovtktMz
ztjpi	rhowtxl^fIfpveFlbKywd:ulxcvhzguAyr{!gzeblzKAatMew&kldcojrBq
zAavjjEgtAyel^gDebqswgpytyl^sltcA	r'MHIpd=AFapqBlgGBPj%!fPpp&yrnp
yBmcumAuhsJfm+zlpxgwrtfsFno^fFicv^\

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!nqmrbnLa"sMfm%fRjxg	rposuew;rwzbvtFl<s|Xi<kzalqlyle
sKagngGD?,

flPpbBzpdAtXi<kzanqtClesOud@tpaucnvaa/@me:-EatklzA.sZnz^'laCnBsFt
rmzbvmwgcEuri!uzaqvmwyt|.

fl!1QZ\Kauyyx^xloqveLhmD:)d|guebHnNl?st%M!nqbtfeLofs~zi^tltcAeGumR
EqtvgwvhzsSty!jqtgtAwkaMIef^fnfjgfvle|.

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbyzlaHHjd>nAajcirzqHEjr!lusuv 

fl!VjfL_tsHtr^fAgb1T!YauOxm+kEt?bYOv@,txe*jlTgxjFb

fl!1gxlgjMtNW!nutbdzKpoxMx%NfEbkfeXpwxne$@tpaK&qDguxFqd&oy_+ky
CmtbhtJgcKCsk*tsavjjrjpHEex;ruq+ttGAtsCsw:kmebqkrvoBIsw8-

flTgxjFggEOsk!jAxpbmAzauLzw& lbpfezhesDzw:fnfiwsr'XxFq{!uracnq
ztfbwsBBtMtyl*tst++)rDixHel*ylfAgeuobGwjh!zAahcqDgvIIsd?rudg?esz
ytfbuyGvesQfx$nuoibyzlnmtfr%ftfbemwjlxxel*sEfnheKBewysp,.lavjj
uFigtxrspHEjh!xAvpfesstHnee+jlbnneGmaMBjq!hAxgfeDvxn

fl!YqzDkaRIzd:kxmbojl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rhaECyx-klukonvszmt%A&Elzqwesyf
vmjpvnFnaMBtw^fDpugxn_

flGkxjrhowtXi<kzaucnvgoHNmm+mfadwyrspHEjh!gFaVytmga!Qtd#ksbpbnFgb
rAxbxtAjfmt%1&ElujgexhdMtnw7fKpwbxwl.s7nw| lujkxrofKyes;mtubvt
nmwgbgwlosueV Jlsquj	Asxy	d@tpaygeHBusueA&oFfbqswgjGtgC!sutvcpw}
gzebkkrAixtVy^kzaycxrApsznr%fuubqzLaaPyew&uGmfbfDsaAuAi!uGsbjjskt
iGubqkxaaRIzd)tAx}be~vaRIzd|kq.bOnKz.sQj(/kleqksygpNLef^yF.bckGyf
ytfbetEltmtysT//abCyrAiBMeq=sqovbKACfmtBl=ftbfbgwlosusB*uGtnA
rApmksygbvLtw|fFigblsyexH	d$gxmgfeGBus|Yl^f3vggs/ga!BjdlAqfp#)
gzebvmwguALji!mmsfgswytsCsw:gzunAeLosxQex&kytgnAwzayFfx!ABpp
ztfktexhdxM d!ZtftgeOhtsuew=AzebqkrtbGSej=uFtvguKaatHid?rudg
rApmgirypNHi{!kmhgteLvaLyjd:nqaSwjwu?

flGktxLgdtGjd:kzauqqvpfKMeg@xDzkplrjmNvx,!ztfugeOlsxtfp-fEicrjv
rulgbyzlaMBwi^fsbtfjFlsLnes#rAoibfFkayFfx7fIjvjeLofBLel@tptbcsv
lqfvbfLguAyeg=xzftu,rgoxRyd:nqavgsrjpNLym^xE<bvmwzfsQjv^
uDocojFAfwtfp-fAwgteOpuAtim@sAofu	rhowtBe-qqebvBGgbGxex>ufacueLof
yAmfkjJzawCi	!fMgvgwrAixMjd$gyfbvmwgsHSfp!itjnfwwu<sNmi/klxgtj
zqobqkrAixG	d@tpavjjrsjMNqi!jqbtueuhnxtoy_vuoibrwysBFDd@rAoibmsue
ozajcsvaaBHeg=ABmgu,rguAyDd>kDfbcqDgpKHfq^tFffbBAAisBje/zE?bbSwEu
imngbyzlazOjw:yfaoqxLszs5nr"ylbpfe9BfxHx{!gzebcrGuhsNmi_fMmkej
xqdqisAzfwtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx2fljvbBszaMuqo*tsakpesgiNLwm^jlogtAGBt
smopgwlgtFCqm+mlbvbjNlsRNmm+mlujcyrDbLtxe*jfacpirDfGNef,fIjvjtMA
tAukenFnaAyw	!f6igpexvmEIBi%fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgdtLwC*tsavjj
Quoi&xrjsHQsd=tlbbewAttHHez^rHfvbhMziBIs,!gze?bqszusIkd@rxavjnK
mDbpfeHypvyxw*uz.befEla!2JdfOZHbCSVgR@YJR!URaJGF01Tn

flBnkhwgxtMev@ztftbiGBcMzzp!CtfvjjJgtAyes;mtubptLguHtqm^fppypeGu
nqsbhfulaECpi!ztfbvmJlfsAfv%kzftu	rivMtxl^fopwnirupMtwi_kycgt
kHftAezhwBHld&kmsfbtxgtNwmd@fDvngesAaILtg^yEjqpxhg!tHid#kEjfgxl
CtbvbBGBmwtgi!ztfbwxwgpytfd[xAdguxAvom.ex&uGhjveKofmt%m'fBfqrqw
nmebcqDguHtqm^fppypeMwpGtyl^oDahchwz.sMtd:nmubvmwFavIzp%t/ubujw
oF}&be~vaLBjd|zApfbxLpmEtBl^xqaujjrDbLnee+jlxckywk?

flXjgsrAixtuv=iqtuktFgdtGjd=vBpukywguHtFp*iq.bvmwFatFqd|zAqrgi
gzebntGrfwtfx!nqs?bfFkaMBjdlAqfpbxspesMjz^xqmAb%#opsCxd:nut{&
YtfbufAkaBNex=fFigbPFhwxttj!NqbtvxlgxAIes+rKadqBwkatHid|sumgfeAu
xqqnA 

fl!KfnGA@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d:uEtkplrofKtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC3fmof?
zGspksyguHtFp*iq.bumwgxxHyd=tfa@YmsA"LtDs;xlocojlgdACqh9-

fl!OAeFhnxtnw!Gxjeg	rzpsJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAkaTFng^fHftA
vAmkvjDF<svzx!ytfbcivlemtys!nqsugqxaa/%mC7fFigA)JlaHHqC!glqceprvg
imsfu	rhgMywd@rx?bbNrufxxs(:fnfbckJhjwttj!ztfo#)

fl!CpirDiHtfv^f6IGUJn_aLunh!ztfbSzwlomtus*tFjpieLvaMBjd:nDfg
mmsfgswytsQms!CqsgbqQpoztws;tpavjjrypLyyv^kbahqwlgzHOew^kfacu
ztfAbBwyfsFDm+mlppbyzljKtke$kE.bcsvguAyet@zFftpeGuaMBjm/fnbemx
CmtbvmwgttGjd@ylujgeJltMttj!ztfbrfur.sMmi!iAvnfeFvusNjp-fIigvmwy
ztfAbBwyfsAfv%kzftu	rvssMtp%oqsu?eGyavIzv:oqsu?eGyaMBwi^fAgbjjJ
uIobemAseKys	

fl!JqBrziHOqh!OllpqBn_aLunh!Gxjeg	rzvKJwm|kpacvezlssIBr!iAvtclwb
^Uu&ueFvauOxm+kEtbqkrTJ7Y (

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbhJpnLIsd>oFibhzJF.sush7fmgvgwrnmtLnr"fmubjjJ
lAsbceEvnxHyd-owfbceOpmwtgi@yF.buhJlbFyidGUrgbynLoaAywd&kme#
Urg++)

fl!PqsKloLy^(!ymjfbFDpdxnez^xKanqzvszsush!jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFig
WGfgpeOhtsMnp^tF?

flUjge3poztqe*jlikuezhowtzt=tligtesynmtfr%fFjokiDFaLunh
^OppunvlsmtrC!jqbt<erzixtnw!uzmAbfrjiBFi%N

flUjge9BfxHex;xzffbfFnsBFDd@CmzbhwGtaACr{!gzebufAkaMIex&klLpcAw
^6vtpeLofFttz^x-"

flUjge3ubOyeh*jltq?eNlsRthe/krvnnDlgxBNmd=tqahqtLb

fl!IgyrBq|.ew@opavjjrXvxys{!ozacbxzyjEF	d-uGebxtAjfmtfr%fFig
ztsggeyhswysi/yljpuysuuESen;sBffbzHaatHid#ksbpbgGDjGAex=fFig
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfavjjrypRuqd$numftjFaatHid^BqsAdtvFaxFxi8

fl!NgfNlaHzkd:nmu#&eKjsxuri%fFigbVMlfGoedG5AvbofClaFyek*jpz}&
Gzebvmwu.sNzv+ozhbvtrAixtws|k\utgjlgtAyeA^tFaqp	r'XAuydcG8FbAtM
hqfpbiGpoztmi/kh"

fl!OcDrpusJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAka!Qt{!ozacbAwyzsBzq#rqavqswa
mAjpievvxGttr!uzfbmswlatMel^fEqqmjlg!PyeA^xqavtDAuh a)

fl!Kbxwl@,txe*jlujge9BfxH	d>nAajcirtftHBl*rqadgjFgfQurm+ozhbvmw
xAtgu rg!8zkd>oFibvmwpssBje%y-"bcsvguAyet/uofuunGuaFIAi%fAo?
ztsggeGmaMBjd|uxekgwKgsxGfm+ozhbdjzpowtys!kJfewywguAyey+lAsvwssAf
mmsfgswytmtBl=fDbpbyGgBEChi!lAsbrwGAfvNns+a

fl!1qzrzitH)x!hqadgmwhexx^(!ymjfbFDpdxnee+jltjgeHBusNmi_fuovqes
rmsigexspPyw[[uFavjfLgtMIth!tqbt}er1ixtyl/kqauqqvpfKMeA@tpftgi
gnpwvexvssueq*tGugbtJguPI	d-uAlkplrmpKtyl^sfacpirAixHeu;oqunA
smsejjvgpyzee'zqsbvmwgpMBjv|a

fl!CtjrAixCwd&kmeubtxm},txl=AFffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!VjjAyaAyfh|fmsgblGufmtnj!oFarnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF@,tyl^fEpnfnwyt
ytpwvjvgjGtwi[rK?

fl!VjfL_tsLnk&z-"bumGBuxxex&klRwgjFbas|He+fKpwbuDhzswws]Aqu{&

flUjgeKvmwCjv|fIftgeKpmxHy{!gzebntGrfwtfx!Gxjeg	rhtsNmi!wGfuvnGu
CmtbgAAkfGNqC!sqbpvexvssBjv8

fl!1gx/_aLBty:kpaCnnul?

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz@&bwGhsxxex&klRwgjFaatHid?rudgboGpoxxex&k
vDpegxKppGneA=tpftksygwxLDd_AoibymsAaPIzp%ftbrrjFgoxRy	

fl!Kv)K|_BN)w!glwgtDrmjGyeh@E-"bufAkattym_opaxqnulatNel^xltkfjm
YtfbyfKgxtFpm+mlcAbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnLaaPBtd>gEargjHpoztfr\oAvunD
ozuqbmwyayuhi8

fl!XgwQa"sMfm%fMmkejgga/a]A&kDf&ueLofsXzg&kEt{&

fl!Jwxz"as2zw&'/aucnvguAyeV@hnjvbnFgbsFtA7ftvttnwkaMIsi8flIg
rApmgirhoQCty|rKaqxjJgiBMew&uGmfgwrhtsBjd|vAlg?esuesNmi+fDbkujv
nunugqxgvIIsd:oBuqg	rwvMtmm|fypwvmrjmHMjd:uligtewhsmtfr%
CtjurjJles|Xl^-EawpiwyaLysx^tofbqkrlyxwzx*uz?&

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!FkirFpNtxe,f|XjcyrhaICyCH_h"bvmwgStvgm:fmtmgim

fl!Pq	rPawCirNzf"bufAkaTFng^.la@Kevvo,Nex&ozlbky\zatNee-rlbbrnLF?
Oltckir+XAuyd'uD}*&

fl!UjjripQyid:nqaSwjwu"Ltje/y\_&byzla~ugf*zlcgifFbasUqm$klhcxjrh
ruuvnjrzdKyfq!uranczyouxL d!^1i?bmMzi|.ex&klScdgAAaPBnw[kDffbnFgb
lDjijywufwtys+kgab@Yzla0Oji+fIjnnezlbKtDs;'la1qzrzfxnew&kldcoj
xmujgwrsbMy	d@tpavjjrXvxysd|gue++)

fl!IgyrApsSty/fBmcejK""sMms;zqebvmwgRNyjr!ozacbAGpdxttj!ztvpfjJa
gzebrjGwmxtgi"gzatwsFpoztff=AFakpessmsxnv^iFjqpxlguNGgp*tsawr
gsbkpxLgftwmd=ztft>ezvxxPjv7fFigAeyvusMjx:rqebftOuaBHee!suowvjrvs
zIp?bfFkaMBjd"gyfbdjyhonteE-oofbvmGBhANew&klicfeFlwxLew^kzauwhzgb
iGskqzKgdKIvy^z\htqzFkaBHel^xlmkhjhgjMtBe|fmmnbwAkhxMee+j
lGstqBK}aMBjd#gxmubBwyfsFnz^ftffijzvhLnex&klncnqwAtsFnz^
lxboksyvfLnee+jlujgeKvmwCjv|ftbfbyGgeHOgp^fFigoxwswxMey[fmofbyG
yFbpfeGuaMBjm/ftbpfxrhowtki^zfavqeEhlxtyl^fmsejjKb

flUjgeuojxzeh*lrjewqLFaTFng^frpwpirhusznv|zlxcueAuaFuse"ozhbjjJ
lxboksyv;stxl^fEveejwkfwtnr!mquvksygjMMef=jKavwhClesuBe, 
iAnhqwLhcESei+uGhj?eMuexLel^xlbto	rDjMBem:ylmgixrobGAnr"fppyp	
hGubijFlstFqC7fvvuveszaLBjd&gpaiqyrpuLtsi$qlokejDFaLNwe*mtugpjv
uGu?bfFkaPuxd"uuoibyGghBPjd:nqajgiyliHAee!hxpybBAAisCyw!nqbf?eAA
31VNFeLDjLNem:yqmhbwGBowtfr%fxpqmeMwaBHel^xlgcejlgxBNmd|Aoibc
vGABnjvgfQJwi|yuppbyzhusMmi!iAvnfeFvusBjp[fnvtuyAuhsIzx!rmvijnFn;
gzebymwuaLBjd&gpaiqyrpuLtmi@jleqyslgbGxeA@ylhqksyguHtgi"ozacifAu.
oFaycxrCfKSet/uHpmksyguHtkm+jlujcyrAixtmi%mqiqiezhesOsv=rxff
oFtgnklgbGxeA@yljpbyzlatwyd=lldtcBDpoztfA@EaabdjKpexMee-rlujkxl
ztftgeOhtsAjr^xmmnAesgsBxli!uDahwwJvxsCsd:nqaycDrDixLjz^xltjg
CmovgirApsMjr%fFigbmwkhxBtk!zA.bcsvaatMex&kleqwgDle Oud|uxekgwK
CqsgbfDDbRMek^zFjpieMwatHid>gxlkplrvgytys!uFigteHhsMMes'fFig
mDpwpilgBEChi!yAppbhstfsNtd:nqaeqsusvLCtr!ztbvbnLgxtMee!BqsA
jughkhMsusAfq^fuofgjvb

flUjgeHsbRyww!gxmbrqsFfwtfx!uzdgbBAAiHOyd>guukplrmpKtyy/tE.
wGbttjDsjGAee-rlujgeOojEy	d@tpahklzAjGAej=xlujgezlezyms"ybacpirpo
glwgtDrziHLyd:oyfbvmwgRNyjr!CmtbksrhayOwm=AEarcxKppGnee+jlxgpy
yFbornFnatvty: lbpfeKopNNnr"f)PhheOpuAtmm|ftfcf^\gpKt%S'llxkvm
nqsbjjsk@,tff=AFaqphwgjGtfd_ozvvg 

flBnkhwgcxAfr!zAahgjDgwxLDd;tqbuA,rguHtgi!yGsg?eKofsBfh!tAubcx
EqubjfvgbGSeh*yBvvgeOpuAtyl^f3vggslgcNNew&kllpgBrAitNem:fyjijy
nmqrgsrhoRtrm+AFf?b%suesNmi+ /avjtMniMtxl^ l!yjfLgxHOqh!hqdqojrvg
sq}bbYzlz,Ljd%xqbfhzDszsztr%fAgbdjzlbwCsk!vqprnjrofKy.d:nqaitjsA
CAofgwrptmtyl@zlujgww_tsusC!uzfbnjxAatFnz^'/

flTjgeOhtsFts)ozhbcgGBusztv!yAngbBsFaHzei|imqg?esuesQtr%kDjpi
CtfvjjJgtAyeg=AxebijLgbPuDd>oFiqwyrifBHld|kqo?bBzlosMmi!tAukejvgb
iGskqzKgbIJje/gzdgbnFguAyee*xaabkyrwvSTqi%ftftbAwyzsGzg&fmu
lusuv	rivMnee'zqsbyfLjiBHld*zlbbonFBuxttv!zIp?bxzlaFuii!oFaqwyrAp
hqacblJpomtfr%fEigbxspesNtd&kDtgnkr'JM.xd:nqaEjjKojKyeG@zaabptOgJ
ytbnnezhwxtxs_knpfAeLvaMuqo!zA?&

fl!JqBrhsxtDs;fsfvvnFnaHHa(!ymjfbyzlaVuy{!gEauqtFgbLtyl^xqaycx
sAvvjewupNAmd'uDakveLvaLJje)fIjvj 

flBnkhwgxtCyi%fFjnneLofsyDi|fmqrgfJlemtfr%fFigpeFvewyi	!f)Jv&xrup
AEfbuuwhlBHld:uljv?)rzixtyl=Asiv?e]AjEFem:ylfctxrobOyeg=sq.bqwrhu
rqbuveGufsIkd:nqn}&erPosuss:nqsbonFBuxtyl^fIiqnjroftxee[vqbtgil
gzebvmwuaTFng^fBvvbiGDosBjv!lxboksyv.sush!hqhcpesuatwhs;tFaqheLof
mmng?exlfECsk!BqsAblDhesMmi!nmebutElpGyex=fxjuvjFguHtmi/alaVjj
Imubujwtfwtys!ztjpmeLobMtyl^xqaycxrloHOll!urakveFvxsCsd|osiv?esue
tAaoqwwgpytnx!gBqgcwwk?

fl!KbiGu"Mtyl*twavjjQgqEuDd@zlbnnexhjKFD{NfMmkejrifzus{!ozatcyzls
gldqouDhjGCsk!zAog?e]howtyl^ElbnneIBbKLjp!yAaftjskgNFqC!uzfbefF_u
nqbtbtFltxFkd|vqbm+]suesNmi,fppp&yrzfxGex=ftbxgesuzsLzp^yljp
vmsvkhMsbKjee:fxfcuylgjytyl^xqactjlgoHvth,fmuvgsvzaMIex&ky_+csv
EAv&xjrupsCii@ftpybhGugNMnr"fuubkxrhmEtyl^fFikplKgcxCsk!gxjxg.
lAsbksKAbGwj{!ztftg)KguAyee/itaK&AwghHNex=fspbvmJvvzBer^DF
CmmmksygbuIzx!gFavjjrvuAywd^tpaqheLofsAws;tp_+csvgJsMms;rpajcAw
iDpswjLlesNmi!WGfgp)Kgixxli&usalwxLgoHQ	d=txzbkyrybGtfA@Elxjgsrpu
ymxbonFlavIrm+m-"

fl!JqBrkpsSty!rulgbyzla0Oji+b/aucnvguAyeG@zljpbfrspPtAs*iq?

fl!Pqyrhusuqp7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)tjg)KgtHtjB:xqngnD	|"stOy|zlujgs
ytfbptLpdxxex&gFavjjrXvxysd>gEaentKlauymm+jligt	rsjLNjr*ts;bbxG
ytfbyjFAaHH	dG/\mkmjDFaMIeA*tfavjfLgjM.xd&gDenAeOvsMBeA&oxf
luokumAuhsNmi!mmng})

flUjge9BfxHew_oxffbfFkaIuxw^jlpp}

fl!YjtrHSXtDs;fFbnmnFnaMIa(!ymjfbyzla4Csk7fspkplrBqsNtd?rudg?esue
rApmksygbMtyl^fObv&xroftxeA*ztaitjsAavOwm=yuuA}

fl!Kv)Kgbszwm^tpaqheEpoxa]e!ItfujnJlaVuy{NfEbkfeSsjvy,d!^mmnqBrtf
zAakpyJveNwjd*zg"

fl!KbiGu"Mtqm)klujgeDvpDttj!oFacvessmm.ew@opavjjrRjGA,d!^tpygAwy.
oFaocDrrjLMeq,ftbpfeAmaBNep*qqt}&

fl!K&irybMBjv!tAu?&eLofsWfx!xqnctpwk?

fl!Fqs\Aauyem_vqsvkswuum.ew@opavjjrRjGA	dGgzebftF_usFts)fmuboj
rulgbyzhu|.edcklhqvetliBHid?rudgbfKgixtxt=qq?

fl!CbhsAaFuDd-uAlbcyrhaDCsk7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)J&xjryftxex&gFak
