
  `Well, it must be removed,' said the King very decidedly, and
he called the Queen, who was passing at the moment, `My dear!  I
wish you would have this cat removed!'

  The Queen had only one way of settling all difficulties, great
or small.  `Off with his head!' she said, without even looking
round.

  `I'll fetch the executioner myself,' said the King eagerly, and
he hurried off.

  Alice thought she might as well go back, and see how the game
was going on, as she heard the Queen's voice in the distance,
screaming with passion.  She had already heard her sentence three
of the players to be executed for having missed their turns, and
she did not like the look of things at all, as the game was in
such confusion that she never knew whether it was her turn or
not.  So she went in search of her hedgehog.

  The hedgehog was engaged in a fight with another hedgehog,
which seemed to Alice an excellent opportunity for croqueting one
of them with the other:  the only difficulty was, that her
flamingo was gone across to the other side of the garden, where
Alice could see it trying in a helpless sort of way to fly up
into a tree.

  By the time she had gdtOll:fFigbkDhnBHls!gzebdwGBhANem:fnbem	
ztfbhnyousQfw!uHft?esuesvtx&fFigbmwkhxBtk|fIftgeGBusIkd|osiv<
^nvvbnLgeHyxrNzlncvywyaFOhl7-lujqzyousUqm$kfa@cxrhmEtyl^fmsejjK
gDfbitFlayLtq!ztjubxAkfsIkd:nqaittMuen.ednultjgeLBdDyid*zlbycD
Azegtezlssuwq7fFicveAAaFCll:fzpvbjKjbIyee"guo?bfFkaPysx!hmdmbkGy
glmkvyDlaFIwi!iAoxgwKhuBIsd>oFibjjJggKCjr%a

flXjgsrzixtls:fnbemeLvaMBjd{nqtjkwwgDtN	d|nqaycxrzvKJwm|kpavq
luofbvMpuxtfd-gDhgbhJvxwths-rqdvgirypNHid*zaabvmwyfsQfw!glekuuMAf
mAjpieGuauyyA^kzavjjrlyxwzx*uzft?eLofs5nr" lbpfeLofs~zi^tfayjt
CqsgbfDsaMuqo*tsacveGudxneA&oxfbcqDguAyev^yFaygwwgrNCyi!yumgpyl
gzebntGrfwtAi/ElvpetEmpKNff-kg

flUjgeEvnxHyd?rudgbfHwftLjh7fEigbBszatJui@rqebvtrizsuqp!ztsggeLv
yquvnjrAixtvy^yFjqp	rhowtyl^ElsgrjsAfwtyl^oDactlMtfGNxd:uligt	
ztpwimlgbLtyl^ElbnneKwpDyee:fAoeg	rzixtks;tpakveNlsRtme/jljpfjwk
zAaocpwgpNNei\gounAeOobMtyl^Eltckim

flUjgewEfvOym=tqs&uesyhNGjr:fIbu?eLobMtDs;fopwniF_uswzx!urgbc
nqbfbzFsfLMex&kDfbyfKgbsvth,fFpbezLgjMttj'frsqo,rguAuyd&klicf
tqwgtezhesNtd%ultwemrhaMBnr"fnfhqwwaatHid&klxcus\AazInr"fFpbdjypo
gFaJKXrAjFyes'fxjhg 

flUjge3poz.xd@xsvogsLgxtM	d:nmubcsQAiBHld:nmubjfvgbsBje%fopwnirif
hqigciwk.sush!ztbvbDGBaPywi+-FavqeLhmDtss+yqoug 

flUjge9BfxH)w!gDhwojFAaPux{!ztbvbnxgtHGjx&ozhbyfKu"Mtis+klbdqzL
oFakpeDltLtyl@tloqbyAtfsMmiNjlicxjrlwxLDf=jKagzjuBuxx	d@rxatqzFk?
[UubyfKguACxd-gEubtjEhsDtyl@zlicfeEhextyl^fIiqnjrwbKNDd-uAlbut
mDbxgesuesusB*uGt}_

flBnkhwgdHOqh!ztjpmeGmaGIyl*tsagnxwguHtxe,fnvvb%1Aauyqs+mEavqeLof
JGdjgxK?asStyNjlcgvywyatMpdcK4acdtMAaBN (

fl!Ujj\zaBHet/oEpp?)rAixtVy^kzaucnvguHtyl^fqygezLppGyw\!f)ggvhz
nqsbjjJl?,teE+jlujgewEfvOym=tqsbyjFAaHzkd-owfbcsrhsKIB	

flaVjjrJbM.xd&kmebdjyhoszfh*tsacyfQguAyeq=sqovbmwgxtMek=tq.bcsva
hKavjjrAjFyel^ftbfbhGtfsvfg)fIjvjeLofsXzx$nqtu?eAAaAuid^tFjtgqQ
jutcruwhsxx.d|ulujge3poztfr%fFigbjPldNNns+kDatcsrDjExqC!ABacpi
jAxpbqGvlBHld'uDakv	rDiBFjd:nqatgxLgpytyl^fBbtvDrDfGNef@iwavqeLofsAfq^a



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWrPY

flabbergasted!flabber1ixtRs$qlUwtyDl"LtXx=xK


fl!1qzrjbG.yd:nuombmGDazFfh!OlbobyGgtxyeC=AlbicnFaaRIzd%kmsbqqv
ztjpi^\gttCid:nqaFwhzltLnee|fEigbyMjlxxel^xlbtoesmgxwym=tmugnD
ozuqbFDpdx.x{!gzebvmwFaPuqo^jlphheLvhxNmi/a

flBnkhwgxtMez^xKainfvguHtkm+jligteAuaLOhl!glqngfKhoMtyi_vqs?bfFk
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmhbyzhusJjv&gBtbkyrDbLttr-ElujgeHlqIywd:nmubjfv
smegbmwyaLIew@BmhgbBzlosNmi,fyfvbnFguAyeo*zoigp 

fl!YjjFgJ,7ee!JGdjgxKa"sMmi!ymjfbyGgixLxi-lfa-ptLgjGtfd<kDz
nAqghzDguHHjd:nAvij[lg!2tBs+-FajcAwgbGSet^vBftbnFgnRtpm:itfpbF`
GXM}be~vvItis^ylwgtDrDfEFeA*ztpwv]	TbRvjd*z/tbcqOhzLtui[vqsbvmsA
smlgueHlpIFjd&uF_vgrHlsxx	(!ytfbyjFAaHH	d<kDzbozuoaIFje|kpacv
nmwkplrmpNHid=AFacbswDaDCsh!uratwqwaa/ush!BuogifJguAuyd_gwfubyzln
yAvt+]sueswfq=sumgbyzhusGfo^ylujgrrijMNjvT/mof+]suesvfv-kK_uwlsy
gzebuzuoaMBnr"ylujcyrtbDyeg&oxetgsrzxxyy[:kyqgtjvbas3es+rKaykxz
vqprnjrroxQex&gF;bbyzlosNmi,fIpwniF_usvjd|ultvksyFatvty:fuu?bDGB
qzpy+]\

flTjgezhesKzm:klgqtlGAuxHex&klEwemwztsvDd:nutbvnEl.sush!Cmtbc
ruuvnjrzutLyp^jlxjgsrzixtmi@xpajgwrCpBwjd$rAtgbyGgixLei@xg
^~pw&wwguACso*tsacdtMAaLIri:nuoi?eEFawyfv7fmofbyzhusGfo^ylzqw
lAsigyrApsNfp)alaKbhsu"Mtyi-rlzqweBBtMtss>fIicveLofsGtv@rlphbyzhu
oE.bdzLgJsMme-rlsgojEifKtnx!ozacbgAA?,

fl!RgwzhqLtnx!nmtp&yrvoxn)d?rudgbAwuuNLjh!zAatgrsyln

fl!VwylguNN	d$numf#)rzbBxex&klEwemwztnte$ BqsAvmAuh,Mek=zlb
sAscn	rpgsIsp,fKpwbhsuayCsh!oF?&beSuesMmi!yCvggEwkaAyww^rrawr
ixpugwrApsUqm$k/tbunvlatMew&kltrqpwb

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlnwemrsjDyeo^kBjpieKvavFtw^fFpbjjJ?asznv|zf
hqdcwxwguAyeH;itfuueOhts$JVtfGhnA.rhowtxi$uzenA	rifvuzw^fEigbBsz
kJbevqQguAyev*mtubjjAniMtys!xqtvbmwyavBnr!ABppbFDpdx.xd|nAvnfjJa
gzebkyrDbLtfr!AzdqokGyutvqC!ytbtreuojGoedcuIfxgwlgtAyeh*jloqv
rulgbyGgcxtwy%kfauqeKofsvtv^fuubcxrDfEFee|fEigbhGBmwo

fl!VjjrnbFy)w!mAjpieGuaKuyl^xlcgvywyaGIB{NfEigbxspemtgC!Cmzbqk
qqfrksygvItyl^foppxjJzbMCtr!glmkvyDl?

fl!&VnKgtHn)d|guebvmwgENwmi|yaab@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtxguAuyd*y\_*Qml
-FjubqGCfmt)x*ylmqxjlguAuyd_gwfubyzlaPIwp%fspbttMue|?)

fl!UqrwipwSew@op.&bFDpdxtBl*yBftgilg!MBfx!oF"ubiGufsvDd^BqsAdtvF
suofksyguAynv!uIobdzKpoxMx%N

fl!Cj	rDfEF^d!OFaogfFzaFOhl!ztfbufElaMBnr" /aucnvguAyeH;itfuu	
juhiksygixLew&gDqbnnLAmxthl*tljpvtrHmBwj(|fEiqwqvlssuxd|nqacfiwk.
^mofbyzlaFIwe-fAgbVMS1aBM][OZmlgbhsyfsIkd:nqaugsKl.sush!ztf
yAvpfxrDjEFex@qqaecwwgpytyl^sEfnxjKb&,

fl!JqBrmpGxew&kljubtxggBHim+mlnqtfDzaBHex&ozhu#)rHmBwjd:nAvijyrAp
nqsugqxb

fl!KbisyfsMfC!EAv&tjrDpGxjv*tsayjDrPawIs(:fBvvbrQgbKGev=AzebAtMy
Cmjuv	\guAyeH;itfuueKhjwtfj:kDacbusBtxiedGztfbtjszpGtnw7fFicve1_n
jAvdvkMsatvty:fFigbywtqxLes'fKpwtexsbFCsk=alaUjfDsa2tyv,fFig
kJqgtnEloMp)

fl!JGeEphANef*zq.&bFDpdxthe;zupwuqQgsxJqm^jfapqyrmfxFnr"fmubcqD
gzykqzKguHtme<klujgewEqxLnq^tFavtnwk?

fl!XgwQguKOj{NfEbkfeLofsXzg&kEt<be]mmtGnr"uqtbcsvgnNMye/jlcqvm
huug}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-TpswMes'fmahgfLofKtkp=iw
zAhgvmwy?..

fl!QpqQgnNMye/jljup)Lgbsvnv% /aCnnulaKyre/qqe}

fl!TklzA.suxd;yGbn?)rzbBxex&klEwemwzthte$>nmubceusftLeA@Elzqw
nmwgbtxgqNNym+mlujksyz@,

fl!Kv)KgbsGnr^xmm?bNr1I28P{NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlju?)rzbBxex&klEwemwztmtBl=fEfgojvgsxuiC!zAaciwwl
zAagxjJFuACsk!ztbvbFDpdxtxe*jba@vmwyf,Mee!rmsigeEBtMuwhTsuogbswhs
nqsg}erHowtyl^fyptcqrvgsNme:fut++-`ofsGtv^fFigtjrptsIkd_ozf?byzl
rqtubyzlsxtnw!uraAqzJz?..

fl!Qj	rPaDHtAH-lfzeqspnxxeE-oof?bBzvaAuid+uFacvywuexxex=fFiku
rmtvbwwtbKE	dGoF"ubfrCfzyye#rq?bbNLgeHyxrNzlmqqprsjDyes+kfadwyrpu
oE?&

fl!KbvMpuxtfk/kqaykyzgzHO	(!ymjfbyzlaWOhl^yE<b@fFkaMBjd_uDbnbtx
ztbvbnK|_.Vjd>nmubAtMgxHOqh!yqfobyGgcx?][=xljhbDGB"wtqm)kljvbuMA
sAsgbxAtqES][OTqwgteAtbzCsi!EAvtujDmaGIyd:ulcgbtLofKQnw^fFicp
CtbvbnLgnBAmx!gBqgcwrApsIyl^xEavjfLgxAuyd,uGaygwwgpKtrm"nFajcAw
hqfpbBszaGIyd=ztftynKlaMBfr!CtbvbDGBaAuid#kqobytMsesBfz^fmqrgfJle
zAavjjEguHtgi!uFigtBAzfn?)

fl!KbyzpoDtNd|nAvnfeMuexLxx@tpavjfLgcxNyi/ /aCnnulaLunh!BqsA
vAmkvjDF.s|nj!OlicfeAAaPLnx:kzafqBF?asvzx!Oldcp)LgrNCyi!lAmnqBrpu
gEaAqzrzbRtnx8-

fl!VjfL_tsHtx&ozhbvtrDitNeM!iAvnfeKhzsCkddfoiqujl_aMBjd	Aoigux
xqqnkjvaaBHee!vxfcujvguHHj	

fl!RtfQgeHH)x!zDpwdqwgzHOww^rravqeKhzsCyd@tKanqsylssNme+fFicv	\
ymjfbFDpdxo

fl!Qj	rkpG.yd:gxlbcgGBusNws;hxf#&eKhjwtyl^fPvejjKz?st%M!smlgbDGB
glqtgxwuusIkd^BqsAvmAuhs3)z^fEbkfeszaRyy	N

fl!CbhzlbItxs/zlphbuJltxHy%NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ala@K)EghEuid:nqzbftF_u
muwgbgAyuAxfC!vDfugsLzaECpi!ztbv#)rgCNNew&klekfeFvusPjr:ADfbvt
ymzbkyrvvMtqs;jg

fl!VjnFrjGAee"guo{&eLofsXzg&kEtbcxClemtBm:nlbpqyzlssxnk!urajgw
ytbtreDpuMFjd$nuo}

fl!K&AwgbsLnk&zluqbyzpoDn)d|guebCqAjfsMme/vxz?bkGyaLBjd>gE
hqhkpsAuhsNtd'kqmbceDpuMFjd>uDskgim

fl!LwxLgbuIzx!gEaowhzgsBAmx7-ltckirAixtIy$nqtu?e]htsJnk|ftbxgeLv
lxz>bfFkaMBjd_/\"

flCwvezlsxnex=fMmkej\zazLje:fEvtrwAzfmtyl^fPvejjKz"LtAs*iqafkjv
gIbA?ewCfGtnr!ztfbonvkmxttj!nqsbhfNvvKCyi!CAsfb%EvstF	(!gzebvmw
gDnbvmsAaPuxd-ozlgfeAuuHtmi/ylcgifFguHtyv^snmg}erHmBwjd-uAlgfeMw.
gzebvmwyfsMys=jlujge9BfxHem+frsqpyrvgsNmi_ lxkvmrofKtfv_ylgqniwk.
lDpypnFnaECpi!glujwsvlsLNtv_a

fl!CbkAufsxfC7fKpwte5hkxMyCH-lujgeVBdAyxw!hqhcpeAuattqs> lxgcp
BAjeg 

fl!PqBlgJsAnz^fKpwbkspssQfv+ozh?&eKopNNjh!ztfbSzwlomtxx@sBjpieGu
ztfbiwGBowtfw!ytfbuuGrfit%i*ztftbDGBaHLeC=ADajgfvgnNMyd#klphh	
gzebvmsAaBHee#uGubjfDmaGIex*sq@bbYsrfsSty/foiqkhw""

flUjgeVBdAyxw!zApmbmwyavBtm$kfacpirDbLtls+kljpbfrtpFysx8

fl!Ngy\zazIes+fIjvjeLofsAfq^ /avjjrXvxysd|guebvtrHmBwj,!gzebCqAjf
CmtbvtGgnNwmd'xuhjvjFlesNtd|gKacbBGyemtgy:fEmqyqQggHFqs>kpajgw
hmdmbyGguAyeg/uCvgv]yypNHi	

flUjgeGAixLek;kEuubmskaMupi+fmexcsLhhxttj!ztfbSzwlo,Mee#yqoeg	
gzebyjJlaKyxx*tsakpeLofsMme%kaabjtOlwxL	d:nqaoqrwuusNmi,fEbybmwy.
ztfAbmMysByid#golbvtrAixtle_kfavjjrXvxysd_kDfnAeJlntLpm+mlujcyrh
sAngpy\zawyqe,fIpwnirjpLNex&kyavjjAyaECAi|a

flBnneLofsNnq^fFigAeOlsxtup@Euoibyzla0Oji+fzfxgwrsfyNes'l
wGbttjDsjGAeA*ztavjjrvuAywd[rmzgtxlgbGxew&uGukplr'PyzeA*ztajkx
nqbf#)rvss|Tj'fIjvjezlssBje%'/abVmGzfsQms_fEigbxwuuxHhi%fIftg
zmlgpeAuuHthy|zAeAbgQguAyew=rpjgtxlgxAIes'fopwtxwgitxex=fxfcxj
urgbdjAuhsuwg&kEavqevvaMBnw7fEpbvmsAauSex&klfpfeGmaAuqj!gzajqzJ
uDauqeLofKyeA^xqapqesydAyxd-kru?bfFkatFqd:nqarnfQlsLnei\iqqvbyzl
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfacpirHmBwj{!CqsgbnFgdNMys%ElbpfeMuexLew^tFfpejrvg
kJfewyAvon

flUjgsrAixtVy^kzangkLgpyz	d]AuugbtMAaHzef/kmuj?esuesMfm%fFp
Gxjeg	r'ItPjd,uGaugjFguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsSjx9-

fl!Pq	\gttCid?rudg}er'JsxtrNzlfxgsrroHQeA&gFacbRGjls@zv:rqaku \

fl!Kv)KguAyex&ozhbOtura!Owx-klTqwurptsGfh^frsqo	\gttCid:nqaSwjwu?

fl!KbswCfKtxe>fAog?eGyaAyfv%fAgbqswa"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz.&bxspesNmi!WGfgp	r'bGxel^fEicnqrAfEFeC=Aliku
nutvqwQa"

flBubyzlzsQfp)kpaqhkrApzyyl^xfaCnnulaAyfv%fFigbPAuhsMfC!ozacbqGD
BAjeg	rApsNmi!iAnrcsQghxHjv@rxz?b%%vvsuwi!gxmbrfJkpGyi	Nfl!Eqrwa
ZTBV&XrhazIth!ztjpi^\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7frptbxzlaAuid'kxubszAAf
AzicruQgbMtyl^fzvodjJgpytjB^iGukqsKguAyeU;kqobjfvgpKxjv^jg

flUjgDrCfKSew=uzaecrwgvIIsd@fSsArmGu.sFDm+mlgcuyrhtEyjt!ozavjj
yGo}be}PGsSty!jAo&veCupPtBl@zlbbIwQwiHHem| lmqqprhusNmi!vudvwwwb-
^7q?bqsGzsNmm+m-"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp?e]howtye)klujkxrFpNHld-gpzbvt
yqfbvmwgNHwpdoADung	rhowtys!nqbtbmAzaACxx=xK?bbNrtvLNek=fnbemesue
yqfbckLlssMtq^fqygezLppGMeM!nmwgbtJkfKyi(3fmofbxzlaPuqo^jlphh	
rqbxksygBEChi!gxppgeOpuAtyl^fSsArmGu?stFp*iqafkirupMtvy*zqankpw
ztfbntGraHzex&kldtgfLBsxnef;zlppbyzlaPBtp^fEigbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqv
hqaswnLlatMew@lqavqeKAbRtBm:nljvbfKguHtls!grugteLobMtxe<gsf
WGfgp,rgtHtxl^fIbkvjvb

flUjgeYyzIBtr!ymubwurhowtwy#hqebkyKgfRyx\!fFigpeAAaPuyg&kpavjj
WGfgpeLpmEtxl^fIbubtMAaHzew*mtu<beLofGtnx!itvemqwk?st%1&gFahws/_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz.bjfDmaMIem:yqmh?ezhmytys!Gxjeg 

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^frvp{)rzbBxeE-oof}

fl!YjDlgT1Y	(!ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?bb%1A"Ltfp-ftftbksudRnex&gF;bbyzlz
tqwgtewEfvOyi|fzpdqiQaaRIzd)tAx}beUvnxttrH-

fl!GxjJFcHxDd|gKtb*hGtfsIs%Oftftg	\guAIzk&zlBnkhwaatMew&klxgpy
yxpynDrhgMywd*zaab@NrufOywd>gEauqeGyexLjh!gnpwveAuatFqd_Elmkhjl
tqwgt^\

flUjgDrobwtss:fsppgexhssvjj=xqavjjQgttQex&klNqepr1vKNqi!ozavjj
jutvcsul.sMnx:ozhbufvgbGxep=tqmAbtFgbsFnx:rqangiylaHzev=iw.bcsva
gEavjjQgdtGjd+kmsgt	rHmBwjd$uGmfbmwhssBnq!yuhjksygbLtnj!nutbjjsyu
CAvnfetyftE d!YtfbrnLpfwtmm_fpfgrqQbas|2l@zljubmAzaLIwv=Ch"bumw
gElgfeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFkaMBjdbxKqjqsrhoLQjv^jfaxgwQgoxuwp,fuobvmw
ymngbBGyeLtfw!hqgqtjlg!2N)w!gxmbjnKggtHhC7fFicv,rgixtme|t/ubitL
tAauqwJvxmtDs;fwoqy rgDHGjd=t-"

flTqbyzlzsQjr:fGqbvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sQms!rApmgirhusNmi_fIjvj
rmsigewFfLtky-rlphbywhsLnef;zltckirupMBnr"a

fl!VjnKgixLjd,uGoibqskzm.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ l!ujjrDbGNxd'uDavq
qzpybDGBssBnw:uDz?bxzlawI (

fl!K&qDguxFqd*zligt	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fuobcevlfInel=rxpy
zAog<er'tBNeh=Cz.bdtLoaHzeC=AfacpirkpG.yd|vqbmbfrDpKxex*rxaK&Aw
luokumwk?,

flTqbyzlzsMfx!jAxp?esuesHtf=jKaurtClayIwd|uyfbonFBuxM d!Gxjeg
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh?e]PawIs(:fEfgbmGDaAyeg@tlFXGSrmjGCxl7fugbjj
jAfup)LgcxAnr8-laDwyrzixtBe*zqebrfLpfGNqC8

fl!Qphwa"sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqacveDhtMneA*ztacbiwlqsMnk& l!KbBs
