
  These words were followed by a very long silence, broken only
by an occasional exclamation of `Hjckrrh!' from the Gryphon, and
the constant heavy sobbing of the Mock Turtle.  Alice was very
nearly getting up and saying, `Thank you, sir, for your
interesting story,' but she could not help thinking there MUST be
more to come, so she sat still and said nothing.

  `When we were little,' the Mock Turtle went on at last, more
calmly, though still sobbing a little now and then, `we went to
school in the sea.  The master was an old Turtle--we used to call
him Tortoise--'

  `Why did you call him Tortoise, if he wasn't one?' Alice asked.

  `We called him Tortoise because he taught us,' said the Mock
Turtle angrily:  `really you are very dull!'

  `You ought to be ashamed of yourself for asking such a simple
question,' added the Gryphon; and then they both sat silent and
looked at poor Alice, who felt ready to sink into the earth.  At
last the Gryphon said to the Mock Turtle, `Drive on, old fellow!
Don't be all day about it!' and he went on in these words:

  `Yes, we went to school in the sea, though you mayn't believe
it--'

  `I never said I didn't!' interrupted Alice.

  `You did,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Hold your tongue!' added the Gryphon, before Alice could speak
again.  The Mock Turtle went on.

  `We had the best of educations--in fact, we went to school
every day--'

  `I'VE been to a day-school, too,' said Alice; `you needn't be
so proud as all that.'

  `With extras?' asked the Mock Turtle a little anxiously.

  `Yes,' said Alice, `we learned French and music.'

  `And washing?' said the Mock Turtle.

  `Certainly not!' said Alice indignantly.

  `Ah! then yours wasn't a really good school,' said the Mock
Turtle in a tone of great relief.  `Now at OURS they had at the
end of the bill, "French, music, AND WASHING--extra."'

  `You couldn't have wanted it much,' said Alice; `living at the
bottom of the sea.'

  `I couldn't afford to learn it.' said the Mock Turtle with a
sigh.  `I only took the regular course.'

  `What was that?' inquired Alice.

  `Reeling and Writhing, of course, to begin with,' the Mock
Turtle replied; `and then the different branches of Arithmetic--
Ambition, Distraction, Uglification, and Derision.'

  `I never heard of "Uglification,"' Alice ventured to say.  `WhobM
oEakva\

flUjgeYyzIBtr!rugvgirBqsvtx&fuuubusDtsCsd|ADqtkxwbas|2l@z-abPjNls
nqbtfeGmaNAqm'Euoi#)rpusyCg-gungf rg!^Izd)tAxbymsAaMIef^gGukhD
oE.bKeKBqIIxi9-

fl!1gxl_aLunh!GxjegevvvuNky-rK;bb%AAaFyfr|/\uq+]Ehlxa]e+EFikpl	|
vDfvvnwy?,

fl!YgqDaaMBjr7-lujgeYyzIBtr!CqovbtFaa/Ckd,uGafqs\AaDHtA!CtbvbyG
AsmkhDrptmtDs;fMSGbfrzjFJqi:uz?&

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlgggqrlovIzv@mqebvtrhtDtfr,fyptgeIBfLNns+ylbdqzL
oF.butrzixtyy/tqebvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sush!ymjfb%#obMtjp|klicfeQvv
zAangfJu},

fl!YgqDaaMBjv^fIbubRQzuxLD{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqatguDpfwneg=Azukpl
urgbvmwgtNvoi$zEaqpezptszqe[vqsu?e]|_6Sxx^xK.bcsupfGNee+jlnqfjJu.
CuujbXwhpzLft&EaabvmwuaWLfA-ozh++yzlaWLfA-ozh+ofKAfKtBe|fmobqqv
iAoigw	lfEnex&gFawujvguHths_klppejrhaPyjo2flIGbysBhANey|
JDbynnFn.s!yv^zoikpllgbGxeJ@ozukplrposWtm-yg"

fl!YjfLgxtMeXcG6ankpwc"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!YgqDaa2the+-FaujtOgjMtDs;fyzugqxa"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyew@op;bb%1_n
zApbuyAmgnteE+jlujgeYyzIBtr!tqwgteDlbKHyd*zg"

fl!JciF_usNnq^ /aucnvguAyeK/EBiqp,rg!2tBi+zluqbyzlaVFfw|oot
smtvgwlguAIzk&alaJgeOhtsusd=rpaetftaa1YeA@yg"

fl!KbswCfKtBi+zluqbmAt.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd|guebynLoattxm"naab@mw
zmvijyrSbNAmm+mlbpfeYyjxz	d:nqzbwxwkaMIew@Eg"

fl!UqezlawCi{!yAajgevpem.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ ltkimAuhsCsd&oEavwwF}
gzebdtLoavLje:ADfubmAkaMBjm/frbegxrposNmi*xlqcyxm

fl!CpiropPtre+EliqwwKgbsxfC!juebAtMgeHtqi|yAou{)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgb
nGstAeLvavBfr"klujgeKBcCyhx8

fl!VgsropNLxd:nqahkwKAawuD{NfEbkfeLofs7tg)f6vtvqw?a/Hnr^fFig
tqyv?esuesMtd=tg"

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbrqsu@,tjB$rmjogirHmBwj	

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!xqbuqsrAixS)v^fobnnjvgmxMxs+yf"bvmwgHKSul=t
xqnctpwk;st%f^imvugeLofRtqi|yqobhwGtawuDd:ulecA \

flUjkxrDbLtvy*zqacbswDaBxje!zAaCnnul.sush!ytfbvmGBhANem:fAwgtes
ruuvnjrifyIwi!ytfbofvlaAywd+kJubtjEhsDoedGZtfpbyzlaxFjz^tFibffQ
sGtvbmsCfsvji+fmajqqAkbRp)

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlxcu	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!CpiropPtim%fKpwbrsubzyes+fFigbyOlmyNm NfMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF?

fl!VjfL_tsyss;mtacdtMAaEyxw=tE.&byzlaZLDt&uzakpywysNJyi%fuobc
BqsAbiwjjwyid:uzf<be]AfEFel^xltqojLojGAee#uGubvmwghtGjw!tAx}&



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gY

flabbergasted!flabbergUAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-k


flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkawLjA!ztfbdfuraHzes+klgncuHls
gosquxrojLtjC^ygabJjrspHEjh!gFaCnnul.sush!zDjgfeLvaLJje) lcwvexvs
glnkpzLlaHLex>ultqdxrjiHEjh!nutbxtAjfnte$ngyfbcxrpgsBjd&gpacbgGuf
ozajkxrAiKIfx7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp<erhowtnx!yqubvtrDpKEew&gwjpiezpn
gzebrzFjiBHld&oyakpeLofsvfg)alaCveDhtMtyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd/kopxgwwk
nutbxtAjfmtfr% lxkvmrAftLxd/AzokplrkpPHel*yldjgjCz.sBjd>kzubqs
gsbkp,	|

fl!1qzrtbRtss:ftbxgeDpwxxeq;itawpiwyaMBjd|km_+&e}'JsBfz^t/u?&
ymjfbFDpdx ][GgzebrjJobIMeC=AlxgtjrufOywd^BqobksLypwOhi%fFpbceDvcLNjvT//
[Mmkejrifzusd:ultcAe]PaHHhi!zmtvgi	|"svzx!itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszm
gzebufAka/8t{!tqwgt){g! axs!EAvbefFgitPjd+uljfgfrDitNee!jqmkimLmvE
ztjpiesgMHvxx^xlRwciJpmEyem|'/

fl!Pq	rpowyjh7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjcyrzpKNes'fmafcsulaBMem:b/

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbIwQwiHH	dGEAvbhnJzusztv_fuovqesgmBHjd@rAoibyzl
yqb+umGyf a)

fl!VytrsjGyx%NfoskgirAixtRs$qlUwtyDl?st%W^gxt?byMyuEyx{!ymmoqsl
gzebutrvoityl^tfayjjFgzHO)z^fomgcwwkatFqd:nqalgqDF_yCxl!uGubqk
ztfbyfQ|_,

fl!VJF`ghxHjv@rxzbvfCltsMtq^fFjog	\gjGNjv/ABugfeLofs1wC[nAo}

fl!++DGBatxAe+iqavynul_ .

fl!GchzgxBNmd@fxpduywyatMee!vmsvpjJ""swwm^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqaucnv?as|fh<gzdgbyOpdxnew^zluq
vmsvpjJz_ .

fl!++hzhozyep=hEugtxlgbGxev^zusgbnFgttGjd=xpft?)rjpGNnr;kpavjj
MDzrjtFb

fl!VjjFaaRIzd)tAx?&eLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgxxHyd=tfa@AtMguALtA!ztf++)

fl!VjjrspuMyi/y-"bumGBuxxex&klHtAuzvomtBm:nlbbdtMuesCsx=fFigbfAy?

fl!++fKggtLes;zluqbxwhatMeC=Aldcp]	_

fl!UynEgbyNjv!ztfo#)rzdKyfq^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!VwwFgbsMtq^xEbwnyrposNmi!yqb#&euyjxxex&klNqepr1vKNqi7
imqgtnFnaPCqh-ElbdqzLb

fl!DchCguHtqe+jlbicnFaatHid:nmu&uessmsNmi!lusuvexphNLj{NfEbkfeLof
SAdmbYMyuEy	d|ApegpqQgeKIut*tsajkxrCpBwj,!gzebvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKa
Ctpbjfvgcxysd(AyqkplrhcHOyd-owfbofvguACsk|fmmnbyzptsNnq^ ltcv
jAxpbfyhjGtAi/EltcfqQgbGxeu;oqunA	rhowtqs=qqebcyrHmBwj	

fl!KveEBtMtgi!glwgtDrwsxNyC!jmoeg	\gttCid?rudgbyAtjwFD	

fl!YqzDkaRIzd-owfbvtrzfxtfd-oFungeGmaBNa(!ymjfbyzla6Iho!ZGsvnjm

fl!XgwQgnNwmd*tpfgf	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!EqrwaaEyy(|fFsAbyzlayCww:frjiwww""sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqavqeLof
MDzrjtFbas|2i!imobftrDjMBty:fxpduywytmtDs;fwoqy rgXAChl!ytbnn
yuoi{)

fl!Qj	r6P@txm+mf"bufAkaMBjdbxKqjqsmga/3)z^frptitLAfGtyl^fIptfxm_

flTqbyzlzsvjk@tltqnjEumRtie+iuoibwGBowtfr%fDpwpirHmBwj{!kHftAeFvx
gzebvmwuaMLje%ozhbqsrofKtys^ylxjgsrAixSet@yEffbyGvavFtw^ lbpf
CmwkplrAixCwd'uDfrcBKguHtre/qlujgeLpnxneA&oxfbvmwgNHwpdoADung
ymoibyzptmtAi/EltnqBDFatHid|gpmA<]	


^|XknqrFpNtBe-qlbbnnLAmxtke|zqs{*eKhjwtfd>nuukplrApsuew+gum}
_6igtj\zattus/vAjugeuspLyef^nuofbzKaatHid&k/tbvwwheBHld=tlnA
fFbkn 
YqfbjtOgftAjv-ElujgeDvcLNjv|fmofbyzlaMOwx-kEacnqrheOusg^'
ZtfAbfJlaPunx*tsaqpeLofsMmm+mxf++BAsmsSty!iAngbfFkaCInr!ztf
jmoega

3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CumnbDGBaCInr!ztf
jmoega
3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CAo&veQvvsDtm+fFig
jmoega


_~pwbhsuaKyfp-ElicxjrupsHtx*uzajqBrkfECll:lGmbkyrDjEFef^
3tfpbyzlzsNfo^fGtbwurhowtyl/uIawu	rDjMBex&klmqdxLlsLnes;zluq
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergastew^g-&
HGubvmwgtGunp!xqqnkjvg&!Itd'gD.bvtGggtL^)!gzebifNlattqs=q
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted@ywbpej	|
YmjfbmwguAuso^jlujgeOojMCsk!quofnDlgcNNel^fIpwnirupMtos*tlujg
flafcsul?
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?eOvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?euvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof}

^|XjcyrtbMNjv|fuubjtOggtLeA^fsp{*ezptsMhe-ElgtkjFkaKyup*kp?
_6igtjrptsuss:nqsbumGyfmtDs;fwoqy	rBqHHex&klpvjjJgtBxj	
ZtfbhzJAixLes'llgtqrrLozFfr%fFigbswhsxLem|fFpbHwsudxa]
ZtfpbyMyosHtx!vmmg?etlmHPjh!yzbkn	rivMths_klbpfeBvjGtyl^fpbpejm

flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bynDsaRIzd(uuobvmw
flabbergawusg^b
flabYnDsaRIz{!CAo&veQvvmtBm-rlzqw	rDpG.yd,uG.bytF_usSty!pAjpbyzl
flabbergawusg^b|"



fl!VjfFraRIz{!oF"ubfrCfKSem+zqsguyAuhsxfr$kluqbBsAdAn)d|gue
Gxjeg	rmfxFnr"fHftAeysbwtyl@zljvbBszaHPjv!gFancxL?as|fr%fUafqeKv
rulgbyzhuswzv*uGtbutFnatvty:fFigbBzpuBHl%N

fl!Qj	rhtsNtd:nqayjnLpozn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung	r'uAyD[TEAv&xj
yqfpbyzlnmttj!iAvtujn_

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'J,Pjd=lFfpbxwlosNmi_fmubfnFu_ .ew&k
itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszn

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClxjgwwgEBHsd_gKadg	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ l!dwy
oraAqz\CfsMji+fFigoeKvaHzyi+ lphbhGBsLyeC=AllpqBrDitNex&kK"tg
rulg})

fl!KbgwsjxPjd|uf"bCqAjfsLjt-oqebvmGBhANky-rK?bb%`ofRtme<klujgnJ
zmjnueAuaMBjm/fypwvmK|_tHid:nqz&tjrhmEttz^xldtwrtz?,

fl!1qz\yfsQws+mlbdqzLguAyeg/Aycu?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi2
^oswogKgxHOqh!gxmbyfKoaHzkd*tlujgeKlbnteF;zlujgDrOB#Yex&kusbvfAst
ozavjjAyaFIzx&ybacpirAixtwi@yAobkx	|"sBjv^fFigbRGjls@zv:rq
Emxpgirhowtxl;zlikuewFfLo][GZqmnbmwyatvty:fFigbwwhtHHee+jlbnn
ztbv?)rofsMfm%fFpbvmwgHKSul=tg

fl!VjjryftMtr!oE.&bxspesNmi!MDzrjtFaa/Nme:fFigAe#VV5Xek=fIjvj
ztfbnttzuxLxd:ulujgevhovy d!YAavjjQghHNex&xAxpbtMAaMIew^ggabUt
ztfAbmskaMIej@rxacbqGuhsQfC8flTqbyzlzsAtx!ztfkteLhjEMej@yFakp
ztfkteEvvMBx	!f5pbvmwFavIzp%t/ubijLguAyrd=AFacifAu?stYl@z/tbcqDb"

fl!VjfFraRIz{NfEbkfeSsjvy	dGoF"ubAwyzsCsx^xqtvksybas3er^BqsbmswD
yAaowhzgbuIzx!glxjkyAuhsvjj=xq?&

fl!KbhsuaMyqp!EAvbotJlaMBfr!ztbv?eAmaRIzd-owf?&eKhjwtyl^
MDzrjtFbas|Is!EAvbmsGDaPBDd*z/tbefDsfwtfd>nuukpln_

fl!KbswCfKtyl=AsivbftvvMtnx7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjAa\

fl!KVeVVF`tYL fNPQVXrHOWtXLjK5?&byzlaZLDt&uzatguDpfwtAi/E
yAmgosDF?

flBnkhwgxtMex&uDpwimDFaIOED-kp?bb%VvfLtyl^fnpqvxrhowtxl=kE@&bxzl
xqqgcywkaBHee!CAofgwAuhsNtr^a

fl!YjDlgxAuyd@xqa1QZ0gtAIjw!jAogbBAAio.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ala@K
sqbp?eOobMtre)kEavjjEgtHtxl*tK}&

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fppypesAaMBjq7fmofbhGutBxjv^jlbbnnLAmxtgi'uDfbumw
mmwgbmwyatHxA^xgab@Yzlz,Ljd%uzfbynLoauFfg)ozh?bNrifECjz^a/

fl!DqtLzatHid|nAfubzFkfKtyl^fEfc?)rAixtLv,vtppbBwuusIsd*tlbbfjww
BAjeg	r'bKyeh=tqaykyzgbsQmm:ozh}be6vxsSty!qzpy})

fl!CpirDitNee/klujgDrtbwyes'b/aCnnulatMpi%fuobceLvoxttj!mDfcv
iGskqxAAzn

fl!UqqwzatHid^kxt?btxgdHOww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrnnwkaKuyl^x
oyqcvnwuuES,d!^moAbxzyjFJeg=AxebjfNlaMIqh!EAvbvmsA?,

fl!Khe1_esvji+fFigbBzpuBHl{NfEbkfeSsjvy	d>nAtgbyzvvzByw!Cqsg
yFjnneJBoGCsk!uzavjjrzpGA	dGO/ebjfNlaLunh!zAavjjrwpKJtm|kfa*Mjww
hmdm?eHsftMj\!fIfbftF_usQfr:f~PWbBAAisOx%O-

fl!VjjQgxxLjd=hxjigirApsBfz^ftjobBAAisNmi_ /avjjrTpvEeX;xFmg
ymjf<er'oHtBm|klgkumrDpNFid"ulbpABzlsxtBm:nAvvbfrwpKJtm|kg"

fl!YqzDko,Nem:fDfcnqQc"sMfm%fMmkejrposuex=tqaqheyyftNew;xBskujm

fl!QheuvvKMjd+uF.&bxspesNmi!SAdmbYMyuEy,d!^IiA?eAmattkm|nldcoj
zAaOG	rhowtys-jlngbmwgxtMek=ozhbceBvvKHjC7fUaujtMsesMfC!_9jvj
CtbvbuGyqHCxi9_/

fl!Fqs\AaRIzd_kmob*uMyqHMj)9-ltckirHmBwj	

fl!KbrwhosQme:fUaucDl_aMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtwi[ruffbnFgbGttj'kzegf
zAog}erHowtyl^fSsArmGuatxii%f)DqojlgmxN)w!nqbtbxGtfsIkdtU7S
gpwgpyMyfLo)

fl!KbhGBmwtyi-rlzqweEFatxAi+zGsgu]	ifzCsr*tsahttEguACxd_uDokpll_
ymjfbFDpdxtfd-oFungeLpnBxqC2fl!dwyrpu,Mer=fGtgblGpoztge$qluq
Eqtvgwvhzmtgi$gGtgbNrDbLtfd%orggtjFAaIyww=tlujgsm_

fl!GzuDhjGtfp-fFicv	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!Pq	rup|teX&klbfxjFAvKyxd'oDtv?)rzbBxex&klHtAuzvosCsd@t
oyqcvnwuusNtr^.la@gCHsbGuym=tEavcpwgtNwmd@fpsgcixBmsNnq^a/

flTqbFDpdxtgi"gzavgqDpoztyl^sligteskwxHyy/kEahttEguAyex*sqayjjF
ytfbhnJzusMfA!ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oF?bbXzlaPuxd@fxjvvqwgoxLAs;ylbdqzL
oFalwxLgbMtkm/yF.bvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKghHNew=fomqujrApsBjv7fAogbtF
kmdjbxAkfmtfr%fAqgpjvguAynv!kKfubfFkaFIzx&yltqb1WYZsQnh^ lcwveKof
mmjpgirjpNLfk^fmtbumwgxxHyd=tgabJjJgmBMyi+kDtbyjJlaIywj^iFmA
wGjgveLpmEtxl^fspvbyGguAyet@xFacdtMAaAywd/kBfcvnFna/'TY!G4FbQQVa
LMUJGWr4J56NEh /avqeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJaatHid:nqayqwvzatFqd$uyjpi
jughgwwuumtfr%fFigpeLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgeKyBd@fxppietyftNm{!gzebufAk
^6icv)KgwxLDd$ADjqwxm_

fl!Kv)KgbEFee#uGubcxrjvKCty|fmtbkyrjbGtgi7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp}

fl!Kvessmswfq^fpjhhjJloM:)d:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fDfrgfLle
ztpwimLmvEFD	!f)JbumGBmwtqm)kluqbmwhssBjv!zDzbcsvgsxJje:
yAngvmAuhsHtA8flUgnqrofKtys!hqhkp \ga1yep=uwffbfLguAyeK/EBiqpesz
orajgeLopNAmx!oFajcirzpFyeo*tpaqhesBuAIwm:ElpxgwrHmBwj	

fl!UvfFkaNJee+jlsgrjsAa..YMnf6IGb17PDXtTJ!ZTFbUQ!NHT`I{O-ltcki
ztfbIwQwiHH 

fl!JqBrAixthv^gFvtgxrvswywd=tqacdtMA.sush!smlgbtFlaKyui@z
rqtuqsK""sNms;mtubCqAjfit%M!suhjveszaPyqp!hqacveKjiHIqd@zlppejm_
NAxgxjJaaLBjd"uFawr	rhowtgi"gzavqeJlqxuyd*zfadwyrofKtmi@jlxcueKv
lGmnbtxguAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-kfavjfLgtAyel@xpmAbpFlxsQme:fEigbBsz
ymzkpllgbGxex&klxqtiKgdtGjd<kDzbszwlssCsh^kp;++

flab@)`ptsNmi!BAjegeGmaMBjdguntvgwhgJsBje/jlikoevldEuwi7
flab*4GBaAuAi!hmlgfeElaMItd#xAxp?e1gnNMyd|AsbtbrQgitCw	O
flabCxrhawOho!CuujbnLzaxSjp*jE.butrofsQnx&ftjubsGzf
flabVwAttsBnw!hqmvbfFkaACxd#AFuqpxlgbGxex;xztbqzLgiBMex=kE?&

flabbergasted!<xbvgwrleBNns+yldqpyAuvxxee|frpnntOz
flabYmwuaMBjd|gzeubfJlatFqd%xK.bjjrptsAfC!gEacbqsylm
flabCsvgxBFqd:gxlbksrjpGNjq[zGpwueLvoxMes'fFigbXzhsDn
flabDzLaaPBjr!ztfbvnvlaKCxi|fmofbxzhsDMee/klbtqzFk.
flabJnKgwHChi!nmtbceLpnBxee+jlutgrMspNMew=Aze}|

fl!VjfL_tsxnj'kDfpvexypFtBl@zlJbwxwkaMIew@ElxjgsrPaPuxd@foiknil_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?

fl!YgqDaa2tsi<kDajgfJkaBNef^lAsg?)rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi3f)cwveAA
yAvpfxrBovIrq=tloqpxwutxo)

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplhgtAyel@jltcvevvxGtBm:nligtexhdxtnr!nqs
nmofu	rDpGxjv*tsakhesuzMBnr"fIpwnirLWX`el@vBfpbnFgbsHfx;xmmbyfQ
gsbkp 

fl!KbxzvvExep*qqavqezhwxtnx!kJqncnFlem.ew@opavjjrTpvEeX;xFmg}

fl!UjjrjbG.yd^DBmcksrpum.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ftbuvnDF?st%K=fAobynLo
ztfbpjPAaOyww^a/

fl!DwyrhcHOyd&oEavqjKc"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyet^xEjuvjvbas|Ms>fOPWNI
nqavwwFguAyrd=AFaykyzgiBMer=yq.bAtMglGIB N

fl!Kv)KguAyej*xEubrtKpuBIsd*tlecphAuhn.eE-oofbufAk<svzx!Cmt
jDfcfkMsmRtuy.FxffbgQguAyeA&uxfbvmAuhmtfr%fxppijvguHthl@tsfbvmw
yGclghLb

fl!IqeGuaPCyl!ztfbpjPAaOyww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrgfLlesCrt@zufpvqQ?
^uubdjypoLt-M!vmtugirizsBnw!mmsfgsm+"

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlectjrApsxnw=hqz?byzvvzBew&klggnyrzvKyem:fIpwni
gxmbetElaPLtr" lbpfeKofsQjr:fAobksrhaMLjq#ruoibAGpdxi][

flab@NrwbLMjh!hKajkxrnbKxjr7fmofbrsylxx	d>oFibqswgfRy	
flabJtOguAyeS>rlbpfeLofs0fr:nqsbyjJlaLBfv*tsacbuAl_ .

flabberg]Euyi/fqekvnGutswtr:ozvgfeszayIqp=CE
flabVmwgQtHyl^xluqqprwjxahv;yF.bcsvghKuAC7fmofbrwhum
flabYmAsfsNmi!UImbjfvguAyeh*ytacueAAtsMme/klphbyzlaMLje:a
flabYmwuaMBjd[oqaycxrhmEtkm+oEigf	rAixtTA- lbubfripHH	
flabYfKglBHip,fBftonLAfwtys!vAdmgyrAixtxt=uz;
flabYmAsfsNmi!VmovjjJgsxwjm<kpampnxlatHid'uDlbynLoattlv=Cx.
flabCsvgdHHhp;jqebvmwgctHvy^z\_|

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^fGtgbtxgsxJje:ozhbcqDguAuyd|zGgh?)rAixtRs$qlUwtyDl
ozugtwMwuxx	dGoraAqzrkpG.yd^DBmcksrpusuxd,uGaiqeGu}stNxNylcAbksy
ztfbotKAavIsj;yuoibyzpoztNd^Bqsbjjsye|.

fl!1gxlgJsNmm+qlzqw)vgcxNyi/fxfcxjrvgyn)d|guebvmwgHKSul=taabcsv
GxjegeOhtsIsp,fFpqblDhesNtd%ultq}

fl!UjfDsaPyex/Elbpqyzlssznk;xqaqheLofs6tf|zqsbSzsksBFqi9-lujg
MDzrjtFgxxHyd=tgab@TJgxHOqh!EAvbnnClaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtys!yuoibDGB
gltqpln_

fl!Qj	rhaLIsk7fBmgcxwaaBzex&klNqepr1vKNqi!CAvnfetlaLIeo*tp.&
GxjegeJlqECjh7fEpbgfylsESex&gFavjjrNsRJms+fEbkf	rposuev@ztft
urggpiwkaMIsi7f)Io#e6vatwhs;tFjpiexvssNfw:kE@bbXAuhsBjv!_6vtvqw
YAvr?-rDjEFeC=AfaqnirmfEFtA9-

flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkauyle+ ljpbfrCpBwjd|uyfvkrwz
itpmgirDjMBew=hE.bvtrzjGAex&oE;++


flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr	rzpsLng&fmofblJlfGn
flabYfAAjGAem+fmajqyrAvKyjrH
flabYmGggHLew;itafcnFAjxMeA=AxebptLgtMItt9
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^

flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr^rgXAIeg@xqtbhtJggBMm{
flabIfEl.sIwd@tKaqvmwyawCxl9
flabYmGgxHOqh!tAubinNlatFqd^rEfbhtJguPIet
flabgsFFxHLyl!uzmAbtxgcxuzx*lGmbUtMw}
flabRjFuzPIwx&fAonAeGmauyfy:orvnbXGBqo
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMC][a1XaUQZ8""

fl!EjtJBtsule*t-"bewAlesNmi!MDzrjtFaatHid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ftbf
pGtvbgwnvGtys!xqqgcyrpumtBl^tlbbewQgpyt%X&klutkfD_tsvjk*tzjpi^\
CmtbjjsyesCsd:nqafkxLhovy 

fl!EqrwgpG:)d$xuffbyzlaZLDt&uz.bcsvaaMupm+mlBnkhwgcRtyl^ftbpf	
oFajwwJpfwttj' lxkvmGBusQfm:ozhbhtJguAyei+jlphbyzlaLIsk8

fl!YjfLguKCfp!oEakva\gBEChi!vmovgirhtsMmi!xmo>bgMAaMBjdbxKqjqs
uzmAbfFzxxLjh!^OpogeGu@,tfr%fDbpbyzlayuxx^xfayjnDlaFIwi!gzebotJl
lmjpvqQgdtGj{!imstkjvgpGtyl^fnsggEwguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyr{!ztf
sqmcphzvmRtBs/jE;++

flab@XGv_ Itt!uravjjrl_ y][^Bqokpll
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^\



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J

flabbergasted!flabbergXAIeW:uxfbvmwgUtLyw9


flUjge3poztfr%f3vggsrvgs2je/zEaygwwgtxuyi%fAobvmwpssNmv=tqayjjF
ztfAbfJyjOyi{!Cuujbfrnsxuyd$xAxfbfKzfFvqi%fmcqwyrAixG][@rxauqwLz
urankyLsfsvnv%ylbpfetlbLNx{!gEaygqDgbLtyl^fIiqnjrwbvEes'fobtfxg
ztfbMssCfsQfw!yFbpfnFnauyks/klujgrlgjGthl@ozt?bBAAisuew=rpjgteGu
kmdjbxAkfsNtd"AmsfbmAt<sush!tqbtbyzla4Csk!CmtbvmwgXACyi!Xmcdkyl
CuujbfrAsNGui:fuobqswgitHi{!gzebceKjsHFqd=llqcthztfGNem+fFig
uFigt rgJGtyl^fHftAeEpewFjd=llujgeuvvKNeA@ylbbvftsfmtBm:nlbbnfJnf
jutjbtxgutLyw!ABppbnL?asNmi,fxpqmjvgtHtls=jfavjfLgjMtre%klBnkhw
wGjvgezBozLDd:ulmqqprhusNmi_/\!KbBAzisNmi,-paigyrAixtyv*gxafqswa"
ytfbvmGBhAN	dGgzebjfFkaKIzr%fFigbwwmsxMmq^tFt#&erIvMtyl^xqaugjEle
zAadgeFvavBfr$klphbyzptmtxs!ytfbdjyhosFts)ozhbcyrlwxLDx&ozhbcgGBu
nqs?byGgqtMxd@CmzbvmwguBGj	

flBnkhwgitxer^BqsbdjwuaBHee!iAvtveGmaCOxx*iqadgkGyfmtgy:fEigbmsk
xqbfbftvvMtyl^sljpbgGvlLnee+jltjgeOhtsKzm:klqngfKlesNtd'ozebvmsA
ytfbmswDaMBjd+gyfbqkruftLqC!kHftAyzpoztyl^xq?bb%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk?

fl!HkkLlfGNm{NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!UkCLlfGNm{NfmefgirAixtIs/sAvug 

fl!YtnLlaMBfx!jAxp?)rAixtPm+mltckirApsNmi!pGsA?esuesNmi!pGsA
kmhgtqQgxKIyi!jAxpbfDsaMBwi^fpbvgxrvosNmi*xltncywz.sush!ztfp
gpegfeLofFtzt7fmofbwwkvvyid:nqacpxOlssNtd|numnksyzatHid[kzdg}

fl!VcpwgpyzeC=ADajcyl_aMBjdfozhbufAkaMIex&klIcvywy?

fl!KveAzo,Neq*tq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwm

fl!UvtDlo|.ex&klLkplrlyvFfm_kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigboMyzmtBl=
oztvcsLszsGfh^fmaogrGybGxzq!uravjjrmbvN 

fl!KbpwlqsNmi_fFpbujDs.,tyl^fTbvvjJgbwxjh!gEacpewEqEuse:oAo>
^U"xgeFvoxttj!sKaqysmga2.rd@ftbvvjJb"

flIgtjrAixtVy^kzarwyrvosBjv!yBfevfusfLnee+jlcgifFgtMuwm+mlbvbyzl
NmuvgwlgxAIex;xzffbussfsush!lueigywk?

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhit%e+jleqp)Lgcxtsi/BAvu?eGy
O/mnbmsCfsSty!kJfewywkaHHex&kltrqym_

flUjkxrkjwtss:fEfgoeLvaxHhs;xmhgbyzlaPCyr^yEacvessmhtel^fwfrv
ytjhvnFnayLtq!uzfbhtGAaMIex&klpvjjJaaEIto*tsawpjszjESee:fFig
WGfgp	rhowtnr!nutbetFmvLCtr!nqadkyrhaEuwk^fBjgejrvvMttj!nut
zqbewurpoLNje%fAgbvmwgcKyfhTgze+dzLAfKo

flKwuyrhusNmm|fypogsLgBEChi!lqmvbfrCfKSeg;xupwueKloLuym=tfayjnuo
vGABnjvgixLee!mApfbiwhmsOsx*rltjgeEhextty:fIicveAAaPux\!fEigbBsz
hqhkpsAuhsNtd"xAxbnfJnfKtfk@oz.bcsvgtAyex&uGhjvesAayCww:fEig
CAvnfeylusOud@tpangfNlaMBjd$uGsv>etBusIsd|koppfeLopNAmx|fEig
jqdkfjvguHtwi_guobymwyfsMmi!CmtbcxrspGAee|fFigtjrDbLtws=slgqt
nqs}

fl!KbBAzisSty!CAvnfs\AaLKzi^Fqauq \gttCid:nqaFqwEvvLy	d>nAaycx
yuuvksygoxRyd:uligt rg!2the+ftbtfqQgcKyfx&kg"

fl!Kbhsu"Mtmi-vljv?)rzbBxeE-oofbxjJFaFyjo-Eaab@N\tazLtA*ts?&

fl!1qz\CfsHtd/osivbyGghKIBd&kDf?&eKhjwtyl^fPptotMzfn

fl!Fqs\AaMuqo!tAougsKl.,txe*jlBnkhwgnHLjd#uxenA,rg!RIzd)tAx
EAv&tjrnsHQnr"fFpq})

fl!1gxlgcNNeM!mDpybfLgbsLje|uzbdnjrwbvy	(!ymjfbyzlaWIwq=AEf<
^zpvbnFguAuyd/opjewqGBtszfw&oAo}&erHowtmi!mAubwurCfKSew;rwjnA
gzebewGztxxes<kDavqeLofsIyl^xltkfjrvgsNmi!iAvtv 

flBnneLojLtym_klujge9BfxHel@jlogxjJgmxzyd=lrauvfJpoztfx!ztf
NmuvgwlgbGx	d(AEubcxrAixtIs/sAvugeuypLMjh!ztfbetMyumtxl^fEbkfeLv
uzfbqkrAixttj'ooftueGmaMBjd$uGsv?e]IsBHld_klujgeDptMttj!ztf
yuoigwKgjGtyl^fxbuveuvovywxH-lppbBzpdAtyl^fIsgvhzles2fx:kD
zDfodqwkaLI	d:nmubjjrziHIpd#uFibjnKgtAIjw!urg}

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sNmi!QuoibwwwftNjh!gzhtkqQaa/Iwdd-xmbjfNl
EAvbgCwjvMyi{!CtfvjjJgzHO)v^fzftxtMzaHLer=zg"

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?bDGBss7fn^yFz?&eLofs2fx:kDadglsu.sCsd@
zDfodqAuhsPtm$kfa@+]sues3el@jz"vbgwnvGtrC!zqb++sGAatvtz^fmaygjC
uDauq]	howtBl@zlxkvmrAixtgv^gp_cpi	ivMNjv!mquvksygtHtyl*t\_cpi
ztfbvBAulECsk!uravjjrAfta](

fl!VjjrAxBHpp*tsaqheLofsQme:b/aucnvguAyeO*ts?

fl!KvetlhtHeA*ztavjjrAftn)d:nqaJcyLlssLjt-oqe}

fl!QheuvvKMjd:CuomnnFnauylm+ylxkvmrha!:)d|guebvmwgLBHld|nmsrnDm
^PpbAtMgutEjd_klgqtesgeNHhi9flHqbtF""

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?&eLofs2fx:kDaygsLgpGne$@tpaoqxLguACsk|
zIjpmqwkatzyi/fFicv]	voESex&klNcthzgItLjd|gue++)

fl!KbiAko,N^(!ztfbOfJjis2fv^fuovgwJBqMyid*tlbbiwwhusBzv/Eg

fl!1qzrkjw:)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!KbiwuzsCy%NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!JgevloByxd*zf"bufAkaMBjdfozh<be]sftPjd=AFavjfLgqtLy	N
