  `Oh, I've had such a curious dream!' said Alice, and she told
her sister, as well as she could remember them, all these strange
Adventures of hers that you have just been reading about; and
when she had finished, her sister kissed her, and said, `It WAS a
curious dream, dear, certainly:  but now run in to your tea; it's
getting late.'  So Alice got up and ran off, thinking while she
ran, as well she might, what a wonderful dream it had been.

  But her sister sat still just as she left her, leaning her
head on her hand, watching the setting sun, and thinking of
little Alice and all her wonderful Adventures, till she too began
dreaming after a fashion, and this was her dream:--

  First, she dreamed of little Alice herself, and once again the
tiny hands were clasped upon her knee, and the bright eager eyes
were looking up into hers--she could hear the very tones of her
voice, and see that queer little toss of her head to keep back
the wandering hair that WOULD always get into her eyes--and
still as she listened, or seemed to listen, the whole place
around her became alive the strange creatures of her little
sister's dream.

  The long grass rustled at her feet as the White Rabbit hurried
by--the frightened Mouse splashed his way through the
neighbouring pool--she could hear the rattle of the teacups as
the March Hare and his friends shared their never-ending meal,
and the shrill voice of the Queen ordering off her unfortunate
guests to execution--once more the pig-baby was sneezing on the
Duchess's knee, while plates and dishes crashed around it--once
more the shriek of the Gryphon, the squeaking of the Lizard's
slate-pencil, and the choking of the suppressed guinea-pigs,
filled the air, mixed up with the distant sobs of the miserable
Mock Turtle.

  So she sat on, with closed eyes, and half believed herself in
Wonderland, though she knew she had but to open them again, and
all would change to dull reality--the grass would be only
rustling in the wind, and the pool rippling to the waving of the
reeds--the rattling teacups would change to tinkling sheep-
bells, and the Queen's shrill cries to the voice of the shepherd
boy--and the sneeze of the baby, the shriek of the Gryphon, and
all thy other queer noises, would change (she knew) to the
confused clamour of the busy farm-yard--while the lowing of the
cattle in the distance would take the place of the Mock Turtle's
heavy sobs.

  Lastly, she pictured to herself how this same little sister of
hers would, in the after-time, be herself a grown woman; and how
she would keep, through all her riper years, the simple and
loving heart of her childhood:  and how she would gather about
her other little children, and make THEIR eyes bright and eager
with many a strange tale, perhaps even with the dream of
Wonderland of long ago:  and how she would feel with all their
simple sorrows, and find a pleasure in all their simple joys,
remembering her own child-life, and the happy summer days.

                             THE END
	AS YOU LIKE IT


	DRAMATIS PERSONAE


DUKE SENIOR	living in banishment.

DUKE FREDERICK	his brother, an usurper of his dominions.


AMIENS	|
	|  lords attending on the banished duke.
JAQUES	|


LE BEAU	a courtier attending upon Frederick.

CHARLES	wrestler to Frederick.


OLIVER		|
		|
JAQUES (JAQUES DE BOYS:)  	|  sons of Sir Rowland de Boys.
		|
ORLANDO		|


ADAM	|
	|  servants to Oliver.
DENNIS	|


TOUCHSTONE	a clown.

SIR OLIVER MARTEXT	a vicar.


CORIN	|
	|  shepherds.
SILVIUS	|


WILLIAM	a country fellow in love with Audrey.

	A person representing HYMEN. (HYMEN:)

ROSALIND	daughter to the banished duke.

CELIA	daughter to Frederick.

PHEBE	a shepherdess.

AUDREY	a country wench.

	Lords, pages, and attendants, &c.
	(Forester:)
	(A Lord:)
	(First Lord:)
	(Second Lord:)
	(First Page:)
	(Second Page:)


SCENE	Oliver's house; Duke Frederick's court; and the
	Forest of Arden.




	AS YOU LIKE IT


ACT I



SCENE I	Orchard of Oliver's house.


	[Enter ORLANDO and ADAM]

ORLANDO	As I remember, Adam, it was upon this fashion
	bequeathed me by will but poor a thousand crowns,
	and, as thou sayest, charged my brother, on his
	blessing, to breed me well: and there begins my
	sadness. My brother Jaques he keeps at school, and
	report speaks goldenly of his profit: for my part,
	he keeps me rustically at home, or, to speak more
	properly, stays me here at home unkept; for call you
	that keeping for a gentleman of my birth, that
	differs not from the stalling of an ox? His horses
	are bred better; for, besides that they are fair
	with their feeding, they are taught their manage,
	and to that end riders dearly hirewk;svzx!Ofajkx
ensqvmwy.sAfm+fzpvjnFnaNHii/ftjobgMAazLtA:nbahqwrAix
eIikemrojLtfr*smmubtFgiBMeh;tsiknqKgbKyee|fyvej
enpwpirApsBnq!gEaK}eTltBxjw!ztjubsGAiBHld:nmubjjrzp
eBmgpyAmvEFDd"oHfubrwaaMBjd|uyfvjnFnaMBfx!tmuwtjrnbOy
eyfbjnKgdHOsx^tmoegeKlfFMex=fFbmgexypFtri2ftfbnjLz
eyfbhjwkaPCyl!nutbjnFktmtge/ylngbyzlaIFfg^fAgbc
ensqvmwy.sush7fmtbozuoatMem+ftjobqAltmtrm+kEaoA
esfpvnDpuRtBm:nlnAbjvBdtNns+alUjkxrptsCy{!Gpbo?eLobM
esskgAwzaFy.d@tpavjjrzqBLnx!uraoAexhuAyw{!Ctjeje1
eFikpprptsQnx&ozaog	rifzCsw!zAaowyAuzsule*tEubvmAz
eEftxnLBexieM!CumnbsGgmHHli/fqofwwwgjMnex&uGhjbDwAa2
ewoqyeFvaPCxi!xqngfDropPtys!gHpkfeAA?

GPBOa4GuexLeg=sqtboDrtbLNjv7fKpwtetypMBjv8

U4MCPI7fHHtft@xF.bCist.sush!ztpwbxzhmMtmi@xliqyezlaPCqp
eEicmjrtfsOu	

e}FpvjJgP531Im>

UXJXGWqUpPnew*x-ayjfLgntEjd,uGajgwwc

U4MCPI7fOHNmm+maaKbfEgoHNex@AsivbyGgntEjd@tKavjnFn?

UXJXGWq4itNeq@xlzqweLofGnew*xh

U4MCPI7fNtLwC7fEjt?e1gbFtmi-vuoibDGBaMIeq@xlujcyrDiBwmdbup
eybfg	rhaIItv!AzxqtyzFauLtx&kDaqheQvvKM	d>oFibkiDloxMx	

UXJXGWqTbKLD{!yus?bgwgcxNyi/fqnrntQlemtfr%fnfbpfMniMtfA&oxf}

U4MCPI7fTAuqp!OllggurFpNLel=mEacpirlbMtmy|qEaykyzguAyr 
e9icveHypwCle-fBptvnGuaAuAi!OltrgsLaaMBfx!OltjqzDk
eopogeLvaLOhl!vqowtDn

UXJXGWqRoHQeC=AlxjgwwgzHOwd@xq.bunJc

U4MCPI7fPmtxm/ lwgtDrDfEF.d&kDfbksrFpNLes/itbtf 

UXJXGWqRoHQeC=AlcghtJlaPBtq7fEjt{

U4MCPI7fBRnef^zFftbyzhosBnq!OlbobgwmpKyeo+uItbojmgJsEss>
eKpwbfJlaFSei-jqtvbgJvuAyw,!gze?bnFguAyek^tFmg
eoppfnLppGttj!hxpqf	rFpNtxl=AxebutrroHQeq^alUjg
eopwtywzzsIkd+gFjqpxrhmEIBw!EAvboDrifMNjv7fuobvmsA
eKpwbfJlaMBjd'oDtv+gGyoitgy:fFigbxstfsNwe%oFjq
