	And then the whining school-boy, with his satchel
	And shining morning face, creeping like snail
	Unwillingly to school. And then the lover,
	Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad
	Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier,
	Full of strange oaths and bearded like the pard,
	Jealous in honour, sudden and quick in quarrel,
	Seeking the bubble reputation
	Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice,
	In fair round belly with good capon lined,
	With eyes severe and beard of formal cut,
	Full of wise saws and modern instances;
	And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts
	Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon,
	With spectacles on nose and pouch on side,
	His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide
	For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice,
	Turning again toward childish treble, pipes
	And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all,
	That ends this strange eventful history,
	Is second childishness and mere oblivion,
	Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything.

	[Re-enter ORLANDO, with ADAM]

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome. Set down your venerable burthen,
	And let him feed.

ORLANDO	I thank you most for him.

ADAM	So had you need:
	I scarce can speak to thank you for myself.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome; fall to: I will not trouble you
	As yet, to question you about your fortunes.
	Give us some music; and, good cousin, sing.

	SONG.
AMIENS	Blow, blow, thou winter wind.
	Thou art not so unkind
	As man's ingratitude;
	Thy tooth is not so keen,
	Because thou art not seen,
	Although thy breath befsLzh^a
eTfkim	op|txm+mfajgnyo_AI^d;tFpbvmwghKyjr!nAmnA,
eYpuvexyjxHiw&oBakuexljzHnr" lnquyrspOCsk!sqsgbkGsmRi
e6igp	rofBAm[&ufavjjropEFD%
e6ikueDpgxtnw!sAtvboGsmRo
eRsggEwaayLji.kfavjtMgcBNyi/fElA?
e6icvevvtMtss:fnjvgeKvaGCll
eMtbdjFlgBNxd'uDhqv,
e6iqwlzguAIzd:nqaycywytsQfv[ 
e6iAbxLpoztnw!tAubutrzitLu
eMtbhwAlowtwi_kycgt)vgoHN 
eTfkim	op|txm+mfa(e 

J7LGbXWUJ8`dM'fFicveQvvsQjv^fFigblGves!nv!XAxncsv_tsMtr7
eMtbAtMgitPjd>nutrgw\kayunx&lGmnAeQvvsQjv^ 
eMofbfKgnBHjd^EqafqyzgiBMei'luhkgxrDjMHjw|
eYpuveLyvESep*sz"fbfFkaECAm+mljpbDGBsszfg^ 
eNfbvwMszsQjp$uyfbjnLofKieM!gyavjjrkvDy
e6icveDvwxxeC=ADahcyzlshtyl^fDfukiMlaHzeC=ADahqwLBoxn
eSpbvtrtzswfz^fmofbywsmsGj	!MApfbtDkaFus{
e6iqwesyusLnk&zlxgnhGtfsuxd:nKaocxLlssCx	
e5vrrtJAaACrd#ElujgesynntLm<klngbDGBssBfr% 
eMofbqwAaFyee-rlzqwwrmpKNzr^ylvpfjJzutHi	

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1fBsLts_fuobvmwgqtFfg^a


e}FpvjJgE@5JdaXQEGTNUR.s6tv%yfacpirVM2$JVY

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeZpvbxwlaACrd|ozdg{e~psmtxm/ lujcyrjbGHtx!hq;
eNvvbBwyfs3er=zlujgetluMywd[gDubofvlaFywg, 
eUaujtMsesHtx!yqfmbfFgbuMjr:fmsiwrwuu
e1gboDryfOysk^ lujqzrwsxMjr:alCwveDvpDtys!oF;
eRjpfeGBusNmC!hDpvjjJaaPBjv^yAf&gwrofsCx,
e5fgmezpnsQnx&fobpfqw}auLnr"ftjobiwhesIwd-oHjpi
e9jvjnFguACxd:CqmxgrGuuAnes/fFvtpeLopNtss!sAsg
e6pbujwrattqm<ozhbksrvvKtyi/xuuqtDm
e6iAbqsueLtfr%fmmnbyzpozMex&gFavjtMgeHMyd$gxmbvmAuf
e9ptvmrzfBTzv^fppbyjrzfBTjd*tFpbqzJgitHiw7
e6jnneLopNthe+yFaswnLguAyjd#ElujAetypMBjv|fypwvm
e1gbymsAaPyex&ozlbclspoLNex&kq?

UXJXGWqVaMBfx!EAvtbmAniGyxw!qzfybrQgixuwx!ozavjnK"
eUapgAwyaEIAi%fyzbdwGAixLem+fyzbnnxl?

J7LGbK0LEX`NGfeYptgeNpmEunr!ztpw}e#lmEnet;ytajkrrvvMttj!jAptu.
eMofbqwAaFSes'ludgtxrvgsMzg&fmapcyMyf
eYbmgesuaxRyi+zlvrqsrojLtms;yqacpirsbGxx\
ePpbvmAzaxRui%oqovnDrhowtyy/tlikoeyvjGA 

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgP~6FR	UfaykyzgbsJft^x{

U4MCPI7fItHld:nqsg?eEFaOyww^ ljpbBAAoxMxd=llnAbqGCfh
eMofbyzvvmtyl/oof+ewGDoxxeu;kqobqkrujzBy{!yGsxgD
e9jvjeLozswme|zqagAjlggKIrd:nKarcqwgtIBjv^fmcqxjl
e6iAbmMuuKyxwNfzbogeLobMtrC!lGmnbqAmfsxtx&fExcA 
e1aTqxssjGx^d:nqtgbyJlfLtxl@rxadgeEFauIto|
eMofbnFguAynv!hmsmueEFaMBty"nFtbK)DsavBfv@iFft>
e6icvewCfKSei,klxjkhzgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAaEIto|
e5icnqrzfxtyl,fHjtvzwgxBNsi|y/ebgAwyzsQmi/kg
e4vp?eJBomtTv-gzeq>euhsOyes+fqwgtDrAsxy
e6igbkspsmtyl^foicuywgbGxey+kJqtgxKpwxtxl^a

e}Fzkyd

e}FpvjJgD8`NR!gzebVT!JI`@TR >

I1SKPdSuesBtA!rulgbDGBaMBnw!ytfrjjJk"Ltqm'kfaOcxLlss@ty$nEuqpjn

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bumwwixLi{!ozatgxHldMttj!oFtgnklgjMtnw!glhqqi
exjhg	rivMtnr!xqtrghLguAuyd*zljubfrzixJmi/j/tbnnxl.
euubkxrubNAmx8fUobtjKwfvNex&gFakveAzaLIqm:gDz?bN
exjmgeAAaOywC!Cqmn>etBusCsd/kEqgeyrAitNem:fut
eBskxfLl.sCyd*ylbbxjJFaOCqi!rugg}e6vxmtnr!xqtrghLgjM
eutbksrAixtkm^rpt?bnLgqEyfw^ztaogeOlmEjef;zljp
eDfurjuAaBNem|fzpvbnFguAyeg=ADu?bnLgjLtyi%oAvu}eSz
eutbkyrhaLJfv^fxjhg	rspHEeC=AfakvexpuLtrC!nGnqwwrDfEF.
envvbfKguAywi!oEapqeEvsxtup^tFzbksrpumtnx!mAfubrMji
emhcksKAaFSew:uybej rObLNee+ElqjkqGzpIBDd*tlujgjlgtAyul^xp}

I1SKPd6vaFIwi!hGubvmsAa2tpr=ClujgeEvsxttr^fEjemjFzaMBj
eIptujrhusyfw^ftfbkxhgbGxex&gFajgeLobMtBe+zEaoqswF.
eyfcpxrhowths+zqovbnKgxBNms;zlujtjwghHIid'xufpfxh
eFicveLofsJws[kDuAbtxgstCsd*yluqbBwAatHid'oDfbvt
envtp.rAitNek=uparcxLBsxtre)kEahcyrzixyu{!gzebvmsAat
essgcyrjbNMjd=llujgeFphANem|fxbemeGmaMBjd|Az<bvmsA
etfbvmsAaAuyl!rqbtpjvgoHtBm:fnzbpfLBsxtss/fmsvbrsF
eoporqsposIkd"uAebdwwleBHld=xldqojKgpytfd<kDzbfzDsaDCsh/kp?

Z1VEJX`VOXsXy$nlbbqswgjLtfd+gFvtcqrwiBFtw=vtft}e#htMtjz^xljp
eopwtylgtAyul^xp}

I1SKPd6v.sNwy-Eg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl^tlujqzrhsMtie_tqe}

I1SKPd6hzmtNd&uBf}

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bvmGBatLyd%gyogfeDplxtfr!oxm+ttszuxxei"mfacnq
eAobqswgtBxj	

I1SKPdXvssHtx!hqjpiesAavIzv:blZqwwryftMtr8

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l, ljhbyzvvsHjz^xlxcuyrhuswty/zfavjtMgoxPjv!ymxguy
espqfeEhoGyww3fugbvmGBaGyAi/fEbygxLghHIid_gzogtxl
eFigpeLozsGfr+kDtbozKAauyeA*iwff>esuesQng)kpoguxrpt
eEjp?esuesMnr!oEafcrFhuBIs	!ZtpwbfJAaBHee!vmsnqzK
eEucvjlgtAyul^xp?

I1SKPd6vusueA&oF.bVtMjiLNtr^.lujqxwguAuyd@xqaiqtvgntHsi/y
emubvmwgdHOwx!gDfbcxryjwChy-uGtbksrAixths;tFsAbfKguAy
enfjcAAvssIkd:nqaeqzFAsRtnw!sAtvbrGjltvqi!gFavjj
eopwtymgZHOex=rpaogeQvvsMfp;zqapqyrhusNmi!iAvtv	rivM
eKpwbpAztsSty/ftbpfxgguAuyd$uGsvgxQgxHOqh!hq
eGoenjsumRnem'fopwtyAlsLtBi/kltjguzlswM 

Z1VEJX`VOXsNr|zmoeg	risBykp,?ldqojlgjGMye+iq?

I1SKPd#ozmtBi!gDfbuyAsmsBfr%ruoibtMyaxQjw7fmofbyzljK
erfnnxlgzHOeo+uI.bcwwghKyfw,a

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l, leqbsGAaRIzv!iAvtvnwy"Ltme+jEauyjsA}sush!oEapqy
eFigblJlbLyes'fmaowyLvosuxd>nAmgutElatMex&kltygfLgpy
emaocsngTAuqp=CfaujfDspPoeE!hquvgwrpoLNfr$kfaKbxsF<swtq^a

I1SKPdTltBxjw7fAvtbmsueLtfv^ftbtf 

Z1VEJX`VOXs4s;xlmkrxrDjEFej^kxavjjEguAyew=uzft}e~obEFtA!gsbkp 
eMaoqwwgtHOsh^xljpuysudxneg=sq?

I1SKPdSuesNmi,fmsgbtxAfGtye/xqebqAwyaPCyl!ztfbuzJnfKSes'
eAvtbxzlfIiee+jlxqwqvgzHOel@BqawueCptLtye/blUjg
eopwtyAls,Mel@tptbcwwgqxLky_kpaykyzgdBPjx8

Z1VEJX`VOXsRs|zltjcqDvxsGfrHfFiqweOvsFM]q^gF.bksryfLJjg:fAgbc
espqfeHpfvyes'frmgumrpowyjhHfXfctsrvgsNmi!Cutg?esue
eBftrjFk;swnz^zljubtxgbsvfw^xlcktyzguAusd:gD.bvmw
eHftAeMudEyfr-ElgnwCrvgsueg@zgaOgsvguAyem+yFbpejlgtAyul^xp?

I1SKPd%vvsBfz^fFpqbhGBsMFDd@fIjvbkGyaFy,dd-xmbtjKA?

Z1VEJX`VOXs2m-zlujqzryfLNeh@szff{eYvesBjp[fFigg	rzitFqs>fybp#
eSpfbrsrfsCsg*yuppbnFguAyj%!ztpwbfJAaKuB	

I1SKPd~psmtNd@slbbvwMlaEugs;xqs<bNrlbKHex&gFaKbjsA.sAjx
eFicve1gxxuw{!uIfbptrtbGtme:kfagpAQgoHtre+-E
etbrrnFltLnek-gpaqheGAixLeq^t/tbitGk.swtr:kzubynLoaFS
etbto	rhowtyl^fssgcywzusIkd_ElqtkiwgjLtys!yqfboDrlxxM
esscBjrhowtrC!rmndueKBdDo

Z1VEJX`VOXsYl@zljubfFvuAywd|oyqngeKposCsd,uG.bvtrisBHld:nqagyjK
emofbyzlaKurw!zAhgvmwyatHid:ulphhjJguHtli:fKpwt
exjxksygcRtyl^foprwqsAjHHes'fobvvqw}aMIef^fnbyfeLvat
enfnn]OluAyw{!gzebvtrifMLfC!gltjg]Dhnuttj!g
eFxgnAwtpGNmd:ulbbewGvlxx]t@zqe?btDk.swzg)uxenAeJhnm
eAvvbtxgbEFev^gEppcgDlaFuyg&alJhbyzvvsvji|zloqv
epbopjvggHLex&oE.bvmwgexPnp!nunugqxgxBFqd&gHfbpt
eEigrmwyeLjeM!imopqyrzfxtjp|kliqyeLopNtxl=Axeuv
e/tecuwb

I1SKPdZlsxths_kEaAqzFna6uxx^xlHcpDElexneq,fzfybrAzuKyxwNylctqyzlsn

e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTP.bynLoattue[kD.btjskjGA<

X1TCNN6K sted!LDpobyzlaxuxx!zAaygxLlsGtNr% 
eZpbljOlmsCxd-owfbTtKhmBHi	
eTftbBGyuAnef^ozhbotMuuxxes+fFigbBAuem
e6itqzyoatFqd:nqayqwDkauyfv|f4pucqAuen
eMmnbyzlaIChx;xqtbhfAyfLNep*tqe
eMsgbgMAauFfg)fFpbTtKhmBHi	
eXfvbsGggtCwd#kllgryrposGnr%
eNvvbyzlayunv!uraTqxssjGx 

Z1VEJX`VOXsN(-rlsjArwgzHOew=fqjijyrFftLxd:usfvjjJaawCsr^xEacpi
eEvrrjJzatHid|rqfrksy|iHOww!kJdgrywk;sCyd*ylujg
eDjijyrivMNjvTCAngp)KgstHpd:ulnctpwA?

X1TCNN6K 8Oy{!lApn#

Z1VEJX`VOXsKs/fmavcxLl;
eUgbcezhsMtis!rmdmbfrojGx	
eXfvbmAtaLyjo!uGubTtKhmBHi	
eUgbvmwgdtNeA*rxachywyaDCsh7
e5pbdjrzvKyeA*rxaTqxssjGx 
e9jpvjJghtLri+zEaowxLgcxtqm+kp.
e5pbozKAaLFjr%kDaTqxssjGx 
e6igAeLobMtwi@vlnwuyrzixukd@tpadksv}
e6igpeLvavuwx!CuujbWGzbECsh8
e5xggywzusHzx!nmujbxGBsxMyd/oze?
e5vejesgoNNem|f4pucqAuen
eTfbvmsAaLQji:kEubttKlaPCqp!luof
eYvuvexpowtqs<k/tbrwAjlsush!XAtcnnFk?
e6ikueAzaMBjd<kDzbhfDzfsAfp-uBaqheNlsLyx\!CtzbftrFpN
euohghLgzHOww^rraykyzguAyr 

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^ lzqwevBmEtks=r-aKbkGBowtyl^slppbfrAsxy 

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bvmwguKyjd,oqmfuetheszwy*zg

X1TCNN6K 2.qp!mDbhheAAaPCyl!EAv?bfFkaMBjr!OltjcqDghKukj!oF
eIjvjesgnxxqe/.lujgsrpusQnp-fnfbvmwgftLqm^yFahtzAA
eu"bvmwgdHOsx/EbahqwrFpN.qp!hqatqyLlosywi!EAvbdjrobEz
eDjrg	rhowtyl@z/tbvmwgsBAmx!BusvwjrvgsNmi!sqencwm

Z1VEJX`VOXs4s;ftbxgeKhjwjef;zlxjgyzlssQnw^rKaqteFv.sFjx!ztf
erptgxLgkNxli8

e}FpvjJgDX6NE7fIjvjesgxKCym+m{

X1TCNN6K 9yfg^'lIgtjrjpFyxd_Eltkuywy.sLje%ozh<bxLhowtfw*jq?

IQMKCdcYftxx;

e9iAbxzvvExex&oEacbiwzfKNef^b
eRptbnLgjLtzr[kAqngingOHi
e6ppizwza2.qp!nmoibtFgfOywC!zDfg?
e6icveKobEFeg*BumbufQpozMew&uI;
e5pog	ropPtgv*kravjjrsjyyes'fybp
e4vpuezptsywv*tsarkqyyjFuli7
e6icveLofsMyv^zoikplrvgsuew[gz
eNvemqwzaBHel*yltwoeGmatAj,
e5pog	rvgsPns-gFffbAGDt
e/UykCLguAyew=AxtbqkrmsBysh!gzebhwAlowi
eNvvbzHvosNmi!lmjtgxLgcHOll| 
e1sbcyrlwxLDd|kzugphwgfGx	
e9jnne1gSHMfp*tpbbywAAfm
e6fcemAuhsuqp!ztbvbwwhesNtd)tAx
e6igbvMpoMyxw^tofbqkrlwxLDd|vDjvg
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ozankyLsfsMms>a
e6igtjxvsxtMi@BqobPfLBsxthl@xsff
e6icveGufsvth,fEiqwqvgcxtkm-r/e
e9jvjessmsAwe$kEaykiw|fGFfv"kp;
eZbvwwwgqKyxi+zxzbfnKAjEF)h
eTfngs\zavBji) lcwveFvusBjv!nqbtv	
eOmgqusAst.xd_gvfuvDl
eMucnfFAb,Mef^zFftbusyum
e5bfbQMjsxNneNylnqfjKAzn
e6iwue0vttFnr%fAgbofFFaIuwx|
eNzbjjsCfGFDd|EzpfbBszawyAm|kp.
e1gbofFFayuhi| lfAgxrhowtmi@xFt?
e6pbjfNlaMBjd:uGdjgxrkftLjw:fBskBjvb
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ztbvbxzlaMBjw^fsjhvxrziHOqh!nmwg?
eMofbNrApsFnz^fmofbiAlaAywd|rmwg}

X1TCNN6K 8trs|zlhgpyDlaIOqt*zqs#bBzhusNjh*uGtbjtEpmRttj!rAwg
etbxgeQvvsQje/oqebAtMyaIuwm|nuppgwKgxBNme- lbpfeFlwxL
eoskgir_ItPjd[gFjgphwaazIth!vqprnj/_

IQMKCdZvxsHtAHfnbem	rmsBysh|'lTjguzlswnek=fAghbfrsjMNqi8
eSpbynLoaACr{!yustcmm

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_kfaujjHofKx	d-kFawueEhlxtfr!nAoqwwsimxtwi:xqbv>
eFiqwlzgoHNeA*ztadclrhowtge"mmhg?eQlusQnx&fEdtkurhowtxg/oBqcijm

e}FzgzFAaV9WMifmofbY72D1!YSiK{

IQMKCdVpeLNex&uGajgfJguAyxi!Bqsugxn

X1TCNN6K 8neC^yfaKbmwhswtyl^slbnn	rhowtrs/kluqq.rmpKtxs_klph
eFigoezhesCsd:nqnbotJlayyjx!ztbpbyzlaOyww^ylxqwqvgcxuw	

IQMKCd`obM.xd+ulncvywy;sNmi!lqfvbrAniMtgi@xlujgeNlsLyx	

X1TCNN6K TS	d#AFavjjrmfxNeA^xqancrwgbGxeg=AxebptLgcxuw
eFigoxwswxMeA*ztpwveLofsPjv|klbpfeLofKyks/kltvqtv
exbogqQgjGtyl^fHftujm

IQMKCdTBusxnh|zlujqzroftLeA*ztpwveOvowywm+mliqyeLozsHfq^
eEiqwqvgcxtme+mqebcsvgdtLAi%fGqqpeLofLyex/kqt{

X1TCNN6K 2tBe|fEfxgsrvgsNmi!tuogbisFtsIzx!uravjjrDpGxjv
enfhqwwgzHOeg@sq<bhtJgmHIpd&kDfbymsAa2tks;tpaqpes
eBbno]LyfxoeM!CmtbpjNlssMtd#k\sjArwkaLCsg^
e2zvjfyvstM)d:oyf?byzhus3eA@ylbpbNJptAtwe: lxjkhzgJ
eobpbmsyeESev^sqndgwm

IQMKCd`ypPtDs;fIiqbmsAisxtr^fFikua

X1TCNN6K 2Mem:fmaocsn

IQMKCdSuesueg&guo?byzhusSty!uzdgbBGyfmtff=AFajkxrufvE 
eOicplwgzHOeg=rAvt{

X1TCNN6K 2tuv*ztfg?eOopo

IQMKCd7gMHLi{!RAsf#eAAaBMee!nmsfbrsAuxLej=xlgtkjFktsNt
eyfgv.rivMtrs;tFbkpxrtbRtgi!xqnqxjvgxBNmd^gDujszsrfL
emofbxGgfGwty+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubymGgjLtnx9

IQMKCd1zaBNet=yEjdnjn

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!OlqtkyzlfsHtA!CuujbrGzusJjx*zuppcwQgwxBjq^tof?
eFfnneElaPBtd*zlju}

IQMKCd7gxHHii/lGm?bBGuexLky- lbpfeEvtMtBs+jqshwq
eIppfjJmvE:ee+jlzgvesnbBHeA=tpfthzDaatHid@lFftbyzhum
eAvvbtxgbEFel=uBjpi^

X1TCNN6K ZIth!sKaeqrHsfQCtrHfppuveLopNtyl*tw.bvmGBhAtNd@s
eobrcwAzpGyid-owfbceEhomtNd&gHfbcevvvuFjx!gzebjtKlaBH
eyzbfnKwpLCym=thaQpjrpovBes'fpfncDrtpKyem|fm
e5pwvm	zftttj!juteqAwyzitNd[xuujgjlguxFqd_klxjqeAzaBN
eCvkepDF.sush!yBfcmeswbvy ddfIpwnirAiHOeg=Axeuv
eEucorwy.sNme:fFiqweEphANxx!vAvtbyzptswtr$kmmgfeEho
eAvvbtxguASeq=AFi?bfKgxBHjd$uyfubtMAaHzee!tmstqB	
eypwvmwkauIyx-kfagkyzlssNts!sGdjbfLgpGwj{!uDapqswgbM
emmn}e1gqKCyl^kfavcpwguAyeg=xwaqwyrvgsNmC!sAvvjeLobM
eybAbiJpoDtyl,fFjfksyz?

IQMKCd~vaRIzd_gKarwyrhaFusd*tlzqwwrifEFD	

X1TCNN6K 2Mel^fAgbItv_tsGfo*ts}bYmsAaFusr^xlphbrsu}s3xd&oE
etfcfeOvsMBee!nmu?btJgiBMeg&ozayqwLoattgi@xp}

IQMKCd6hzmtmi!nmujbgMAattqm:zxfbdjsyen

X1TCNN6K $BD{!MAebynDsaLysh!sAsg?eAmaMBjd_gzaykqDgcx
eFicppxBmhtqi:fyfbuysFaMBjd"xAxvjeGmaACxd#kmsf?eAm
eFiqwevlmtSeq^fzpvbyzlaDHtA-kphgbtxgiBMeg&oz?

IQMKCd1AaBMeC=AzhbQwDhowI	d:nmubvwAwqxxey[fFigbBJltMFjvNy
etfgnxrhowtDs;xligcwLgcHNmd*tlbpbnFzutHy	

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubvmwgexPnp!zmlgbrGjlBHl\!yBfcm	rzbwtgv=Clbpf
eFswgeEhjwo

IQMKCd1_ayunx& ldqB	r_uBMel^a

X1TCNN6K 8Lqe+jA}

IQMKCd7ymtHis8

X1TCNN6K TFfw!ztfbffQ"aPBfx!ytbnne1geHtBm:nlnAbiGBcEyyd@tp
etpugar4itNeh*jligbBzlosNms;fEbygxLgiBGadrnmubufAk
etf{bMGDaEIto^jlig{e#ofKynr!Cqovbmwca$Bfx!smlgu
etjobmwyfotIm%ftfbcxCggHLeq^blXjgwwgsxGfm+ylig{
eTpybusyuxxel^fIjvjeLofxpee+jlxjgsrzitFyd:nAvbujw
etjobfyhjGpeE+yIftbrwgjGttr^fIptf 

IQMKCd%vvsGzw:fnptttOgnxtLe/mmovwf\zaFIzx&frjtuygg"MCxd@
eIptfeLvpsAwi@zlgqtesuzsGty:nlphbyzptsuliNyltkBjmgUH
eEbAbfQgbGxer=fFpbvmwzfsJfv:oovncwKgjLtrs/klujcsrAp
emouyjJgjGtfd$gFfejnKt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd%uFibjjrroHQex&gFaKbfEgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAatHid*t
eybp&xrhqIuwi-blMqqpKgixtfw!lDfujqQgbLtmi!juebvmw
epbAbmwgxKyxx-kp}

IQMKCd1AaBMee|fqbuAeLvavIzr:fmuqonwzatMex=fDfuqqNlaMBj
eBsqrtKpuBIsw!uracbqGCfKjef;zlucmjrhaMuxx^fAgboD
erjpfnFnaACr{!gzebtjDptAtnx!CuujblGvesIgw^xHbpejm
eUahqzFkaACrd;tpftbfrAsxy	d-owfbcevypIJjh!goptp 

X1TCNN6K 2Neq@Elxgnqrifswfp-kpaLqAw_tsNwi^ lxjgsrpusxws[y
erptvmrzvvBej/Auu}

IQMKCdYpwxtri!gGekgsul.sAts%fybfcrm

X1TCNN6K 9Ltg^kp?

IQMKCd`ofKyep@Elig?eKAsxNhl^jlbnqsyaaECpi!glxqwsvlesEsm"nF?

X1TCNN6K !Bty"nljvbgwgqBNDd:ultggeKBdAtfd|osiv?eAAaPyqp
enfeqrwzaMBjd"xAvpf 

IQMKCdUyzs.ms-rm"bvtrAiRtys+mGf?bNrwsBNmi^?ljvbhMywxNx
eGougfKvotvqC8fTfbyfKggNLsm|nqebnnClattmy+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 8nes_ozpwu^rofswtq^yluqbpAsmsGDd&kmsv}

IQMKCd1gxHOqh!yuoibrQgtHHld>oFiqwyrhauOwh^taavjtMgcKCsk^yF
eyfbqzLgpytyy+kg

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AloqveCupPtNd@slbbytEhootBl^tlJbvmAulmtNd_AEu
eEqgcpmgTPyjx7fEbAbtFb

IQMKCd%vvsvwm+mlngbtMA?s!tj:'ldqojKgixtss:ftftga

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe2HR@YX;

X1TCNN6K ,@nw!nq;buqAulsvD{!gzebptLlaACr	

PMRWGXqPaMBfr)fKpwbkGyaRIzv!iAnrcsQ}auOy{!mApfbkspuAneM!nme
emtbnnwmaAuAi!hqfpbrQzfEzee-uzf}

U4MCPI7fBGxew=ftbfbNhgcNNeC^zfahqwrmbLBns+fEbmg	rPaMBfr)fKpw
eFpqbkGyaRIzv!yAdkgyQb

PMRWGXqNpwtgi!Cu"bAtM?aEyy(|fyfgveszaECyx-klbubBwgdtH 

U4MCPI7fJsxtd%kEjtgeOlaFuDd#klcgvywyaLNwe+mqsu}

PMRWGXqPaILfC!EAv?brsyaGIeq=xqavtjwzaPCyl!CDjvksy
expxg]KvozMem+fFigkwribKEx	

U4MCPI7fJsJwe,fKpw?eEhssHtd_uDfbqkrtzsPjv|kEaykyzgsxuim+m
eFigoeAsm zfz=ADffnDm

PMRWGXqYpLuqm+jljubDGBssFtz^-Eapcrwc

U4MCPI7fZxM	d(AEu}

PMRWGXqPawIer=zlmkmjrofKtse_kg

U4MCPI7fUAywi!CmtbptrAiHOll:fAgbrqwhtBHld,uGayjjFgtAyeA@y
eoitkxLloxx 

PMRWGXq4itNew:gFvtgeAzaLBjd=lh

U4MCPI7fKNMyd@ylikimrhtsGDd&kmsv}

PMRWGXq6pNtfv^frvnneGmaILjx:ElbpuBwytntMe<klzqweFvusvji+
emdswfAuuxxeA*ztaiqqvznBNmwNfIjxgxlgbGxeg=tzffbyzln
eAvvbtxgsBHlw9

U4MCPI7fOHNew=?lcwve1gbGMBi/fKpwbwAniMtue*tFffbhDvuAnej/uy
eIigphwgzHOel@BqauvzvpfwtDs;xlrwgxLppGM 

PMRWGXq6pNtme<klbbpnEimxtBm:.lJbvmAuls.yA@ylncfjrvg
eMucnfFAb,Mel^kxt}b2AsmsSty!yuubftOuaPCyl!sq}bcsv
eIfbvBGgxBFqd/gumbclspoLNes;xlnkuyJltLtyl^fIptnirhow
emmnbtMyaFCxi/Eg

U4MCPI7fJsQnp-foikfjrupsvwi@ztftbnFguAyeA=xxebdzLgnRMjp' 
emhcksKAaPBtq!OllpqBrtpLNej@Axuu}

PMRWGXq1ixtBs/yFahczDAaRIzd&gHfbkxrApsvjd*tlmqxjm

U4MCPI7f"!Cxd@frbwnyrPaPCqp!tAubemsuhxtks/fKpwtetltMtAm/zGf}
eUacoeOlbKSes'fKpw}
