      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be defined roughly according to the following topics or
activities:

* Imaging
* Searchable coded texts
* National and international computer networks
* CD-ROM production and dissemination
* Methods and technology for converting older paper materials into
electronic form
* Study of the use of digital materials by scholars and others

This summary is arranged thematically and does not follow the actual
sequence of presentations.

NOTES:
     (1)  In this document, the phrase electronic text is used to mean
     any computerized reproduction or version of a document, book,
     article, or manuscript (including images), and not merely a machine-
     readable or machine-searchable text.

     (2)  The Workshop was held at the Library of Congress on 9-10 June
     1992, with funding from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
     The document that follows represents a summary of the presentations
     made at the Workshop and was compiled by James DALY.  This
     introduction was written by DALY and Carl FLEISCHHAUER.


PRESERVATION AND IMAGING

Preservation, as that term is used by archivists,(3) was most explicitly
discussed in the context of imaging.  Anne KENNEY and Lynne PERSONIUS
explained how the concept of a faithful copy and the user-friendliness of
the traditional book have guided their project at Cornell University.(4)
Although interested in computerized dissemination, participants in the
Cornell project are creating digital image sets of older books in the
public domain as a source for a fresh paper facsimile or, in a future
phase, microfilm.  The books returned to the library shelves are
high-quality and useful replacements on acid-free paper that should last
a long time.  To date, the Cornell project has placed little or no
emphasis on creating searchable texts; one would not be surprised to find
that the project participants view such texts as new editions, and thus
not as faithful reproductions.

In her talk on preservation, Patricia BATTIN struck an ecumenical and
flexible note as she endorsed the creation and dissemination of a variety
of types of digital copies.  Do not be too narrow in defining what counts
as a preservation element, BATTIN counseled; for the present, at least,
digital copies made with preservation in mind cannot be as narrowly
standardized as, say, microfilm copies with the same objective.  Setting
standards precipitously can inhibit creativity, but delay can result in
chaos, she advised.

In part, BATTIN's position reflected the unsettled nature of image-format
standards, and attendees could hear echoes of this unsettledness in the
comments of various speakers.  For example, Jean BARONAS reviewed the
status of several formal standards moving through committees of experts;
and Clifford LYNCH encouraged the use of a new guideline for transmitting
document images on Internet.  Testimony from participants in the National
Agricultural Library's (NAL) Text Digitization Program and LC's American
Memory project highlighted some of the challenges to the actual creation
or interchange of images, including difficulties in converting
preservation microfilm to digital form.  Donald WATERS reported on the
progress of a master plan for a project at Yale University to convert
books on microfilm to digital image sets, Project Open Book (POB).

The Workshop offered rather less of an imaging practicum than planned,
but "how-to" hints emerge at various points, for example, throughout
KENNEY's presentation and in the discussion of arcana such as
thresholding and dithering offered by George THOMA and FLEISCHHAUER.

NOTES:
     (3)  Although there is a sense in which any reproductions of
     historical materials preserve the human record, specialists in the
     field have developed particular guidelines for the creation of
     acceptable preservation copies.

     (4)  Titles and affiliations of presenters are given at the
     beginning of their respective talks and in the Directory of
     Participants (Appendix III).


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  MARKUP AND USE

The sections of the Workshop that dealt with machine-readable text tended
to be more concerned with access and use than with preservation, at least
in the narrow technical sense.  Michael SPERBERG-McQUEEN made a forceful
presentation on the Text Encoding Initiative's (TEI) implementation of
the Standard Generalized Markup Language (SGML).  His ideas were echoed
by Susan HOCKEY, Elli MYLONAS, and Stuart WEIBEL.  While the
presentations made by the TEI advocates contained no practicum, their
discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were c$uEu
gzebszssjMSes'fDfuwqLz.suxd=vBpugirApsGjx&uptbqkrjpGPjv|oAo}beWYXT'er=zqe
ztbvbmAzuHLng@rleqezEloMMes/fnpqmxrvgMysd%uloqveDlowtyl^sEfnxjKguHtTGma
HAvpfeEhuxLne-ylsgrwwzfGNee!yBfekfDgqKIgp^sgabKsrofKtjB[kDjgphwaaJOfp*zK
iAovttD|_BHxt^iFjpieAudHGnr"fybvgwAhmLneg=AzukplrlsKIww!ozaucrHsfLa]t=yqe
ztfbotKAaMCriTiAouwrAuhsuxt^iFaqheuvoMLfg:ozhbqzLgdHHAi/yupp}erLS$U4
xqdmqswkaTGjv*imobOjEvsR.xd$uEuubfLg%(tui/fBbig	rivMthe;zuppgirAitNej^Cqs
iAtv+jDlnxHyw!nmebdjwuaBHhp;jqebvmsuaBHeR?R/tbhnyBsxo


U2UKQS~gG8`eHdY5FOKSS1J88

ZtfbvtHpdsIkd%oEtgonFhuBIsd[xAqgtewtfKAjh!gFaxcwAvvLtus*tFtbfzJpoztyl^
3AsmumGw?stFx!ztfbujKzjHHeh^BAugfeLvaGuym=tmmbcsvgjGNjv+gFjqpfDgdHGuy:kD
tquyqwCz.s64R{NfaJqBsyesVJWnK4.bTtFhmwtQEmYQO?bfFkaXxBm+fNSQYS0PHZ
nuhjnnyouxxex&klwktyMltsIkddtFftpjLguHxfC!gzebqkrAixtsi:CAsmbyzhusQnp-
kHpnxjrmsHGeM+zqspgymga5Cxx^tqsubhGBmwtim|iqspbnFguAyxi!tmstcyACfLtf
Butkqsrvgsusd*trptofLppGtii_uosceDrposQmm$nlnknqAvoLttj!iuukBjFzayLji-E
luofbfFkaNMjd>nmubvmwFaGyjh8flM1PHZgoHNjh!ztbvbfrsbvEes'fEucpisyeL
ozikdnLzawCxw^suocvnFnaFOqx*sqekceGuaMBjd+kFxqtplgbsNtt*ilbnutrkjLwzw|kp
hKaDGX~LSnteP?X5FPbfvksxMxi%fFigbnKzvxMes'fzfvytJraLwfp@humkvDrhow
sAewnfJpuRtfr%fopoojFAfwtzt=tlujgevpgyChy-zKaqhesuuBwnt@zuoibyzlaxzki$zE
uraittOAisCsd=xpftueGmaFulr*zGeg}erIS8%SVdMSavcqClesugs;zlujgesijECyC!ur
vmdmgyrybwCtd:ulqtqAAkfswjv:guobnnFrtsCsd@fzfvytJraPCyl=AFavjjrufxxej=x
Cuskplmga1IBi<kD.bvmwgqKyxi+zqsubfDzpswfp-kpacvywuuBIsd:ulujg
ytptvhGtjGAxd@tpakphGuhKOnx*kEaqheHyfLysxTjmzbetEwvMywd+kFxqtpKbasZtv
kJborqw?as&[dikFxqtprBtxtnw!mDpyksygeKure:oobnnDlgcNNeq;itapgyOvsD
zDbhhnugdHHxm|zEaqheHlsLIse-fopoozFpdtNns+f<F+ofAs-nte6SfXbtijripwCjw!ur
ozgqtrsAjHHee/klbxcnDhcEy	d#AFacbzKls,Mee#oxjvAeLvaLyfv$nlbettKzaMBjm/
kzuktjLFaBMep*suugf rg4	tYl^xqactjrzjzHnj*imovbwwzpNLhi|frptbxupfGwjd@tp
zqdjptDvhRnef;zlggyeFluPIwo!yAvtejKgqKIAm%kldqpywuusCsd:nqajwrsujMCjw8
0>aOchzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMMee/kldqorGuqEuhi7fnvvbyzlavuue#oxjvAeGmaMBj
yKtvgrrApsxje-fIjvjeAtbzyxdRrqubcqGufsIyl^xlngfnsggHLre:y>anclKgcxBnr%a
GlhnkrHzfsIkd@fyvnvnEleBuej;zGsgbkGyaGyyA=xwt?bmGDfOyw{!CmtbrwGCjwyid#E
Smskce4LC~9Sd*tligteGCfKPni>fAgbvmwgPGFnr^fVpwtsssaHzeG;xDfpveUsjGChe-
ZDjcnxr]P3WHXS lbpfeLofsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKarwgDptACsk!uz_nkswb

ZtfbetFAstMym+mlgqtrrvgsNmi!IP_TQRrkjLEeA@ylogxjJgtRMyi_gFjecqDF
gzbnAEwk.svzx!gFugpiwltswty-jlhngfFgbGtnq[xqtuktFggKIrd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
ytpy+fFk_Myqp!vDfugsLhuBIsw8flUjge8lsLyzw!gzebCrwyjvusdhkyptAewEbFJqi|
jqnqpxLybMyid/kofpvqQgqNvqm|nqebfnKrtmtBl*rqavjjrkfLwwm[zuppueGmaMBj
ONZEWXrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgQtJjv|fAgbIjGyhxt2e|nuoivtFgbGxeG&gpxAep	OftFjCNy
VmutqqGnjttQe:ozbbFfLhctMjdRVXE_byGsesIkd%oElubyGgdHGj	!fMdeqwvpoztys
KDjebHSSB5#HE7f2MF&xrwsBHhm[gxahqhMzaAuxd#kqobqsrjpGPjv:ozhbLfuxvxM]T@Ax
Suhpg)Kgexznr*zuwgbhGsmxwym=tlphbQsAjGtyi\zEavqeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlayIwq8
GxujqzyoaxPjv,uzfbetMsesMme/klujgeFluPIwo!gpwqefLlt,tjr:nGtkcxEggHLee+
uz_nkswggNNzv^ lujgeHvtLCgm-oFzbqkrypEFnr"fGqbqsw_tsMqi^BqtbhtJgbsMjw|oAo
CuujbfrJE `TQ!iAovcnFpoztgs:nlugzyMhmsGfx^xubnuesuesuet=CqshwqryfMLni<gx
kzhkpjrtbwyex&klekuprzfxGee+fmqrgfDpoztAi|yqmbksvlfwoedonqaqxjJhmE
jutewxKppGtxy"mqtvgirAitNex&klutcsKpuBIsd'xAnbEI	YP6tys!uz_nkswgoxNBs/qqe
godguxrtbRtuv=BqahcwrzmHQjv!gzebotJlawCkj*iGmvbyzhosBfw!hqfpbfFAjvCue:kp?


3TPbCWWgU1YeYnK4TbCSVgX1UYd	UlUJG4rKPo

GxujqzyoavIsg^xzffbBAAisNmi!zqdjpnuhmBNni|fAgbrwGkvvNns+ lujge#vsDMms[
tqwgteDvtMtxm"nFaqheLofsJzv[uEfubfFkaNMjw!uragnjuAsHHng!BqsuktFzaHz
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt}beSzaGIyi%fmcqxjlguAIxi!ozugtjKAfwtnr!oybiksygeBMhy|yqe
ztfbrwGimxGfx*immbofLAfKttj!juhkvfDgqKyxi/BmukqslgxACqi!ztfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuu
jqtetntlesBtA!smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLzavusd#klvugirposLjw^gDdj}er1iBMep@zFft
zAqkeeJldxCAi%fFiqttMnisNwi@zyfpveAuaMBjd[gBftbwwhesvDd?BDbbONUOF5!TR8
Ytfbrqsjfwtyl^fBigptEloHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbynLojGtyl^foppvjPAaHz
hDpcfjJguKysh|fuobksxvsFuym=tlugemFvmHADd@tpauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIs	

GyppieGAixLex&ozhu?e5PD1YQWjTleguhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%