sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholqsytsNtd;yqakveLv
iAnowsAjbMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw!ozaentKlaMIe5y$lpvjjJgdHOsx/oqt}

UFigteFlxsyCg&gzhgbkGyntNxd$xqbvgirizsMhl=rmsubfFkaHJjv@zuoibtFgJGNjv+kF
ozdnwiwgnHLjd:nmob9#=gdHHki/kzdgu	rDjMBee#uGub0#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmwzfsxjz=zqe
zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaAOre+oFjgu rgUAyev@zqaqheyypPNmd=l
ztfugeKjiHFfv-ElfnghLypGChd$uzggtjFjfLtfp|uljubfKApGCxl*ts?bbKJvnsF@!EfFp
r&03?e"%~sHjA!iAohgwwudxMeA^xqakfjFAjyCjh!uzaKpywyoxN d!LDpobTuApuywdv#&2
zAaLwswg2=[7{!gzacfiAAjHHfp!7%~betFmfKysg^yljpbyzlaLIhm@rltekjFjfLtfr%
nGncpnLpfLtBi/klbffjvguHtyl*ylektjuApKSes'fxjuvnFntnteW$nAmctxrobOy
kEucdqAzixxeg=trftgsultsCsd<oDuwcqDFaxPjv,frjgnilgxBNmm+fqwgtDrkjyzjv^tF
jutekuDpoxoedauDagzfEwmxnex&kDfbcwwgdNLwi+zxzbeqGzfsNtdA$*aceyACfsMtg*gx
yojgphwgbGxel;smokvnwzaswtr'kDfpejKgpGtys[ootbuzuoatMee/zlbpf
gDdjkywjuNLj{!kFipqrMzjvIqs"EfahqqCspKy	degBbpgxwgdNFyy/kfaogiAjbE
kpvecyAvomtfr%fsjhvjvgbGxex@rqovgirleNwfx*uz?bbYzlatJui@rluqbxuopEuww!ur
iAnowsAjbMCsk!ztsqwlzguAyxi!iAohgwwudxMem|fFicv	rBoECpi!gzzbqyzlssGjh*Ay.
kxfevwGujvths+lqsgphwzaMIie,fBsqxnvlattks/AyahqwrnmHvfp!iAnowsAjbMCtr
CuujbuwlsLtfx!ztfbhwGuusysh!uravjjryfLyfv$nlqtqhwztn

OzugtuJlutNns+fmofbfFhmRMnw!urauqzJjfLths+yFjvwywzaMBjd:nusfbuJvdxMxd=l
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosNme:fYJEJJ4ZP7tim|iGtugirposNjv_ylphbywEuLtfr%
zqyvwfDgsxMty/iqt}be`ofsGjx&uptbwxwkaMIee+gxzBgeKvvKwjw!lmmnbxGtfPBjv^fAo
gldqpyAuvNGej/uyaswfFAjMuym<klbpcqQzjLtys!wGbnkysAjOyee+gxzukxm
ZKqkefDszmtjz*jqoegeAzavOqp^jlbpfewCbEOfx^jlvuksygnxNms%yletcBFggKIrd#uFi
kzeubtxguACxd$uzukpzMt?stFx!uzfbgsvaaJOfr:oFbvkAwgbGuqC|oEakpAGswxMex&k
AEfbqkrtbMBjq@zudcneHypvyxw^yltwemrhtsueg=AzubqkrmsxKzi+iufubfFk
jutvtntBuBIsw!uraqehMysxHhi|fAs?btFgbsBnk&kDangAws.sLjk/kEtkqsrhotFDw*yg
GFavjjrvuAywd^tpaqheLofswtr:ozvwo	rxvtFnx@zuwgbfFhmRMnw!zKqkefDsz
ozwqnAwzaGIsq@ztfocyAjbEtuv=iqtugxrvsBysx^jluqyfJkaEusk;gsf
ozugtuJlutNns+fAsbvmwgcNCqh*tsaqheLofHLD	!fMtrghLzaHzex&oEayqwCgjGPtp<k
ztfbrwGjfLMnr"/\fkvmwyaFusy@rlptbhGtqNNfx*uzbn+]GmaEuwk^fmofbxGtfMCri|
smtukAwgbFIzr:ylphbywEuNuqd|uGsegxlgbENms;mtavjjrBtxttj!tAovgCLBbE
yAvtejKgbLtjz*jqoeg	rzvvBee|fBiqvtyybIBx{!yAvpfeJldHLim+mE.bhnDtayItx@mq.
gzebcwLpgtwyw7futbunyujyChe+zlbubBwsmn

YoiqnfJzaAuAi!juteqAwyfwtyl@zlncpDrvgsNmi!squjqiKgpytnr:kDqtgysAjHHee+j
gzbnAxAzaMBfx!gDfbtjDhuxxex=fnpvjeIBbGNnx@zuwgbfFkaJOfp*zmukxjrtfMBth|
gDfbrwGjfLMjw!ztbvbhsuauyet^xrptojvgcRths_vGugtxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlgdHGuy:kDt
imobetMuunteX&kKaecsrjpNHyd#xGtjbxLypDyxd;yqebksrha~yrf/gzevbuspoMCsk!uD
vqshqwEgsxAwi|yuppbfFhmRMnw!lAsbwsvlsLNfr%ozhbefMzfsush!krggeymgaUSeq^gzt
uracfAsudxxex^itoqntypfLneg=sBvvgwKgdtHev^iAhpkEwgqtNyi/tE.bcssszSyex^DF.
gzebotvlmswtr$kBuu}erMvKNmi/sAsg?euvnIOyi/yldcpeuvnIFjx^fFigujrwsHwjw|kE
lmtvgwrDjMBeq=xqauqzJjfLtfr%fIjvjeyyftNjv!vDfekxAvosNme+fEdjqqsytsQms
sGtvbwwszsIsd_gzvcneAuuxLuv^zmukqsrvgsxfx@alaDwyrpgsMhl=rmsubfJlaMIey|k
iAnrwywytsztv!ztfugeHypvyxw^yfauqzJjfsGfx^xubnueEBtMtgi!ozacbkGyn
gyfpcgDlaMIeg=sBvvgw	htLCxx^jlbpcqQzjLoedauDavjnKgsxuxs+fybpAeKjiHFfv| 
uzdgbyzlzsBfz^fuegpyAmjxxex&kltqwwultsNme:fmsgbpwFaMIex&kusbtjKlbKwm{!gDf
iAoxgwLpoztyl^sluqbrsjiBHj[/kmecdqwggHLr	!f6iwu	rhaKyuv^yqovcyACfsyCe_vxf
uravjjruvFyws;ylugzyMhmswtr<kDtkqsrwsHDjg:ylptifFpAxxef,fEdjqqsytsuws;tp
ztfbytJsesCsd/kofpveQlbKMex=fEvrrtJAavIrt;zmukqsssaMyCx!gzbnAxAzaBMex&k
ZXH?byzla!Bjw@ADvubQAuhNujdbxmfecjmga!Bnw!vDplghLgjLtii<uFffbyG
iAoxgwLpoztyl^fqyvcsLgbGwni+zlugzyKgpythp@yEjecqrNsxyhi8fl)GfnLvs,Mer=zq;
godqtiAuhsNtd:nqaVNLrUfPMqi:zqsbqkrTbRtq!D8faVNLrDbLtnr!AEfbksrAiBLyCTzIp
jughgwwuuswty+zDjgu rgUACxd'osvtgeMwetNjw!SUDJGQ~VO,Met/kHjqwxrjpNHyd#Elppg {

ZtfbuhzvmtLxd[kDgqtrAuhsNmi|kldqpAwytBIsw!nmwgbgwlosuxo^jluqbwwjpzHnD^
ztbvbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKvvKwjw!ztfAbfJlavIsz^xFjpiexvssIsi!AEfbrtKzfLMez@rGf
lAsbqyzlssLjw^gDdjbuMyqHMjw!gEaygqDbasUxd@fDfuwqLaawOwm+mlujgeHhtMtki>
Eqbtu	rovFusm:oqtbuhzvmtLxd&gHfbksAAjtNjh!glowogwyaHzet/uvfevxrAp
ozdtgfKlaLwms-gDmAbfujfLMex=foppxjJAfwtyi\zgabUtlggHLei\gyqng	rAixtYi\z
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2 	d@hAvvbBzpdAtrs/kljubxspesFfx^xljpbyzlaILtk/gy.
CmtbgxLhcECxl^jlbubfFgfyztv:fnzbuhzvmtLxd:ulegvjJtjGyew:gzectirlmxGjr:y
gzebojLopwMej=xlfpetvpoztre$nuog+wwhetvqi!zqyvbkGyaxFjg:xAokeewEdAusk^a
OzacbxwjpGxei'lAsvbyGggtwnp*zmugbyzlaLBfv*tsaqheuvoOywx^jlugzylgtvBtp@xE
nmwgbhJlbMyid@fzfybnFzuBNzx*uz.bvmwgDxHyi/frptbJDldMLtr*ilUgzyKgjGtyl^
NGncpnLpfLt=G ZT-}be`ofswjr:kDaguyAtbMyxd:nmubvmwyfsuwi!@f~``eKlsByxd=l
yAvtejrAfQNxd*tlujgezBntHnx*kEavjfLgitPjd#kqobetFCfKNjh!zA
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgxHLqh>opf}beULU1tnw!AzegtysrjGAee+fuovgwFhuBIse-
yqbtemrmpKths+BqsvgirAfQNem+fFigbmMtbGCym^yfaeqrHpmBHld*zljpvtrho
kxfevwGujvtqm#xmsA?esuesJwi[gDjpietpcECtk/gBikeevltvLnt:oAoubtxguAy
yAvtejKggHLex&klSgujsydAtQm#xmskgxrPoyIwq@zuppbSwAxHLp(|f<SNKS{
smdjksw|sxuie#rqafcysggBFj	!f6igbqAistLDd[xAgguxAvosBfw!hqhwpeLvaBHnx*gFf
rmsigeuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMee|fIfnn	rzvvBee|fMngtnuhos7jq=xK?

3tjngeKjiHFfv|ftbxgetlfGtre)ozhbetFCfKNjh!zqyvbfNhjEugp^fFpbqswgbGIyl^xf
zKqkefDszsIsd%oElbqwrvosWI[mUY.bvmwgdEyfv!zDfpfeAzaMIBe/jlncmnFnaMBjw^
xqtqwwultsuAe*rmcngeLosHOll!xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwt}be`ovLnex&k
GyftkhsuatHidaxqoeje0ltxuwg&fAobvmwgUKyfw;xKaqheLofsZwi+itaNcsyBbzy
[MSVHQ{gbGxex&klEcpywgQKIoi$zlbtgesssxuiC!gHbknftsfsIsddtFftpjLb
SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpeGuaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosush!gzbnAxAzauS
tAukplrAitN,d!7>akphJlbLCsk!tGndgwKgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEakpeLofsFnf/gDz
iAnowsAAzsuwi!xqdqisAGjGAex&kljortJAbGwjd:ulujgeskwtHhi_kzubqk
yoiqnfJziBJes'fDfvttKwfvNnz^foppxjJzjHHes'fEpwthwgntNjv*gxtbksrAixtfv:y
gzebjzEhoBNni|?lbpfe"/aMBjv^futbceyypPCsk!xqbnkEsAjHHex&gFaocpAuhsNmi
yAvtejKgbOunp@hxfbqsryfLyfv$nlbpfewkvvuym=tlogvBGylLtre\oyjBgxrAixCw
AEfhwqFltLtks/fFigbfFhmRMnw!vqshqwElesvDd&AybpkyAltsMhl=rmsu}

ZtfbhtMyuAtuv=iqtubtxgtvBtp@xxzbetEtvGChe:oAobkxrkjLMjq*tmukqsrvg
xqtgcwuoayCsh*tst?byzhusCx{!vGcnkhsAjHH d!YoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibjPptMCsk
xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwtbvtrlozCsi^xlbbpjOguRJjd=llqwdqAjbMCtr2
yoiqnfJsz wtr:xAmngirqpNLse-ylujcyrhsxtjp^iFsqpnuhmESet/upvegirhow
jutugrAubMyi	!fMmvjtMnisMzg&fvpwtssstsuwi!yFjnnewtfKAnr"fmtbc
iAnowsAjbMCtr!lAsocylguAynv!tGndgwrobLtlv=Cz.bhwGtatJuv=DuncvjDFaMQjp<k
zAavjnJAz MnB!jGskplrAixtue|zlzgcwr]KNFDdv#&2bvtrQvGye5D#@-}be5vtMttj
ztfugewsfvNws+ooauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKgbKyeh^BAugfeLvaMIum$yljpbyzl
nGncpnLpfLoed?ylxkvmrufMQtv)fopphjJlovyx{!yoiqnfJszsysx&AEjcurrmpKtyl^yq
kxfevwGujvtos;xzbnueKAfFMej/uyavjjrtfwCzqNylvpkvMlatvnp*zKavqeskwtHhi
yoiqnfJziBJem+fmaycDrAitNer=fAujgwrtfwCzq!imobftrizsMzt[uDukplrnmHvfp
lqffdfuratHid*tFftemsuhxnet/goukefDszsCsd/kmmbvnEl.syfv-EljpbyzlaKyxi@xoi
vDpegxKbasVjC=tpauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbfjDpwxLDd=l
iAnogwupbEtky-r\ugzyrwsHxzg:yfauwhzgbLtfv:oomgueAuaILtj^yEjqpfDgkHOwr@rE.
tqxunjLAfKM	d_gsbBkswz.sQnv^fEftxnultmtfr%fDfhgwwudxtxs;xofu}er1ixMjd@xq
hqjpievlmBPjv^jlwkceGu_ECsi!rAdcneDpcKuwC!imucntyBfLnei|vqdkcqDFaMBws;mt
IP_TQRKbasZzv:nqsoqwwaatwhs/juoibyGgN2WMIgY1O?byzlsxtnw!mqogtfDgpINnq*yy
ztbvbyzlavIuC/osivbfFkayyjw!oEtwgxrpnIyim+mlujgevlmBPjv,fAgbhzDsaMyCx!uz
kJjuvnFnaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd|uAobynDsauyev^yAmxgim

ZtfbhnFhmsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uzakueuBsKChy-AyafgAwspIGjr:
gzebksKAsNwym=tfacpirAiBMem+BAmxgxrAixtzw^fAgbetEwvMywd*trptofLppG
zqdjptDvhByxd*tluyqesyftM d!ZtfbhnJzusCxd:nqafgAwspIGjr:fAg
iAnrwywy_HLni+zqebksKAsNwym=tmmbvtGstmtBl*itakphDBexMew*sGmcvnGutm
sGmvkrwkjttft[rudcvnGutmtfr%foporzLlssNts-ylujcyrhsxtzw^jluqbfKzjLNem+
ztfbcssszLCxd=lltqwwultsCsd:nqaenfKzsHIr{!kFd}be`ofs0jv|kGtbRwGqfvN	d
