civilization, is a good example of the way in which entire curricula are
being recast using information technologies.  It is anticipated that the
current difficulty in exchanging electronically computer-based
instructional software, which in turn makes it difficult for one scholar
to build upon the work of others, will be resolved before too long.
Stand-alone curricular applications that involve electronic text will be
sharable through networks, reinforcing their significance as intellectual
products as well as instructional tools.

The second aspect of electronic learning involves the use of research and
education networks for distance education programs.  Such programs
interactively link teachers with students in geographically scattered
locations and rely on the availability of electronic instructional
resources.  Distance education programs are gaining wide appeal among
state departments of education because of their demonstrated capacity to
bring advanced specialized course work and an array of experts to many
classrooms.  A recent report found that at least 32 states operated at
least one statewide network for education in 1991, with networks under
development in many of the remaining states.

MICHELSON summarized this section by noting two striking changes taking
place in scholarly communication among humanities scholars.  First is the
extent to which electronic text in particular, and electronic resources
in general, are being infused into each of the five processes described
above.  As mentioned earlier, there is a certain synergy at work here.
The use of electronic resources for one process tends to stimulate its
use for other processes, because the chief course of movement is toward a
comprehensive on-line working context for humanities scholars that
includes on-line availability of key bibliographies, scholarly feedback,
sources, analytical tools, and publications.  MICHELSON noted further
that the movement toward a comprehensive on-line working context for
humanities scholars is not new.  In fact, it has been underway for more
than forty years in the humanities, since Father Roberto Busa began
developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local musegzEgdtGjd*t
zAawujrHNsNtd[xqqctjrhosyCl*huubqsrApRMes'fFigbuszunteX&kEfbvBGgfQurt-kE
kyqjcxAGfsNmi!sutuktFgpytyl^fBvdnnugmBvwe/ElbubfrjvENzv@rljpuyAAvMCtr7
xqbejnFnaHOyd:ulqgquDlaPBtd%uloqvezhwxtyl^fEbogeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEyex=
ztpugeOopsFnz^fuobceEluKIus-oFbpbfJlbsIwd&gHfbchultLtys!glncltJgmBvwe/Eg
UzfbtzJhmsFnf/gDzbtjHvsMMex&gFalwsAvssBnk&fEdjqtDgtMOii+zEakpeDhszy
tGndgwKgdtGjd*tlppgesmuxLss=tluqbzKlaT7ej=xlfpvjJAbBHri+zgabCeFBnuywd=l
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEatguGyuxxek/kmubksLlsxMyd@sAoibuGzuvuwh!iAmnghLvsLtnr!ztf
JqutqnLgdHFqi$zupp?eOojvBeA@ylfuujFAjtFqC!gldqnqwjuBIsd=lljoclwzaNMjh!uz
vAtvefJktsuws;tpavjjrAvKHes'fFigbhwuuNLD	!f6scksrivyzxd@xqaukrAsbKFD
ozugtjKAfwtgi$gGtgbyzhusQfw!glukojrvgsAwi@zljpvjJltMtnr!xmjnttskjGA 
VqprnjlgjMtBe|frpwpilgsxFfx^fFpbvmAuhLtyl@zlujgDrroHQes'frjtuyzhowoedauD
kJborqwaaBHef=ztatwwssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeA&kDfbCRrDbLtre%klbxcnDhcEy	
untgtAwytsLjt=xFffbyzhusNmi!uxegteHlpIFjd>oFibrjJzpGuqd/kyfodwsudxMes'
ztfbvzJuaHzex&kldgpyMyzsQjv^fsscxnLhuBHld:ulujgeVluKInx!iAmnghLppGo
ZtfugewEbFJqi|fEftxjvguHtzr%kDteqwwgN2WMIgY1O&ueGitxLAe:oAobtjrAix
ozugiwsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbcsvgjwyfwT/FicveHlpIFjd-kmspbgwzusQmi+
ztfbofLlsBuqd/kxbvgxrApsMtq^ztjpieLofRtpr=Cg

2QDEKFrtbwyex&klgkpfDgqHCsx!ztbvbnFgntHDd$gEfubF5gtxLAi|fmtbc
vGcnkh	yfEuym=tEavqtDggHLex&klqwdqAjaECgv@xufubyzhusuwi!zqtvksygjMoeddt
uzfbefKl.sURd*ylcgksygvLyid@ylbbxjzpdEyex=fEfewwwgbwxnx*uzbnbkMueBHld'uD
ztfbnntybKS d!OzacptLofKthe|kfaCOezhtsMjv<kpacuesuaBHxt*xmukqsrApsNmi
yFbhheGmattre(uDanqhssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyzsCsd:nqaUqzLoaMIex&ozlbcgGBusQfC|fFp
smlgbnLzaHQsd$uxmgeyAvosIkd[nAuqiwswiLtrs/klbeejKzjuFjd:ulujgeHBcECh	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe?[(}{+

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
L4FGOF6g(sURd@tpacthzpwtFei-koutqsAjaKyxs;xofubnFgbsMhl=uxagpAAypGGjr:f;
WGfuvnGutswtr$kDokplrjpGNjB:f;aSwjKAjHHxd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smu
oFtgnkr[aVIrt;zqsbcsPpfMSe_!Godguxrhowtfz@oxbdkqAAzsIkd:nqauAxLlns{
NmsfyfJla}tXx/kzhvjxrnbBHjh!ztsqwlzguAyey|klphbfJjiBPfp!xqtqwwultsCs
yoiqqqKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XqjvgwsAjGAee+fAcugwNhuBIsd_gpfbdDr3FVWNE7fFicveSTaBMee+fmsejnNhm
xqtqwwulaFuii!ABaqheHyjFuwC!smugtnsstsQnx&fHftAeDpuMFjd*tFftrwwAbMCtr7
L4FGOF6gtMuyi%fFicveLofsJws(koubjfKgbMNjq[zqebvtrisBxli!ztfbifHgcxNBi^t
ztfugethsxtuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|fmofbfrzdAItp!kzwkttFtfGN	d@tpakpeLobMthe;yq
nmtbewwhuxxek;opffbnFAsHxzg:oAoubyGgB6ths-rqdvktFz?stQs;jlegofFkayLtq!ztf
kpvecyAvotFeg=syvpkyQaaswmm^lxzbhwGtaMyfg&kDtbytJrjGAeA*ztavjjrBqIyw
mDbfgxrvgsyqi_kzuctDrzdAItp!ztsqwlzgiBAmd|itpqn	rnsxyyi%fFigbfFupNHhi_kzu
ztbvbF5gxHOqh!hqavgxLlesuws;tpavjjrjpNHyv,a

L4FGOF6gsxJtv:kpapqyrvoESes+fIicveOhtsFje/tqebcgGBusURd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGN	d#AFacnxGgpGtxi<kDbnbzFpwxLxe-fCvguyAvoLtyl@zlxgtjrybBMjh
iAoegwFpoztfv$nuwcnewsfvNws+ooatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstnteW&klekuhMztxx
yqwgtfDgtMLjr"zttbqkrAiBMex,vqaqheEhuxLne-fuobceKjiHIqd^tHjtqsEloMtfw
uBqqujvguHtfd&osinAeKAsNwyy/kpatgxGBsvyex&gFaqhkwytsuep*suugfeFBnuywd=l
vmujueLvayIqp=Cg

L4FGOF6ggBLxx!xmjugirzfOywe-fCvguyAvoLtff=AFawunFnaT7em+fmauemGvm
kzwkttFtfGN d!ZtftgeAzaHzyi+fEpogevpgyChy-zKakpevlwxFtt*tsacbxwutxttj
CtbvbyzlaLSxx^sldqpyspoLoedhgzzbuyMkfGNxd|oFafqBFgbMtfd$uyqwvjJgsxMty/iq
gzebcxKBnxtyl@zfadghsBtxtFQ!iAnguexypFtyl^fXjdtfJFaHzeG=tssguxlgbEFes'
GyftkhsuaACxx=xKakueFvxsuyd:nqjtbkAuhxLym[ygabCxrhaKyxy-zlphbyzhusMtv:fAg
sutvcpwuaCOik_kzu?bxGtfsMyy%kzuubfJlaDHtA+fFpbetFjmNxjd:nmubCRrjpGNfm+y
tAujksygpytzw^fFpbvmwtaPBjr!ztfAbqGvlsztv!uzfbqwrAxHtyl*tstbcsvgeHtss:
luofbyzlnnteM:futbfnxmjvOqx!zAafkxuvwxLex&gFaokivsfsAws;tpayjjJlaHHjd&gE
gltgpxwgpytBl@zlujgeKFtMyrd$uzucksKbas!tq^fEuwfjFAtsAws[kluqyfJkaMBjd*jqb
uracpesydACAi7fmapgBrpexuex=fFigo	rzjGwjd:nqzbjfNlaGIyd[xqwkqzKsz
kJqgtnwudxxeA&gFakveElbGMex=ftbxgesjdxMxd:ulbbxfKAauIiC!urauqrwDitN
xmofqrrpoyIwq@zupp}

UFigteIBfLNns+ylsckxwkauSeJmKQNCPeuvovywr^jlujgewsfvNws+ooahqwEhusCyw^rr?
LAsbksKAbGwj{!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCyd*ylphvjFgeBzkm$AxubdtLoayIw
zqbejjJzatHid|zGegpyKguHtle*tlbbujFzfsIkd>nmubkyrptsNmi,fmsgbAAlxBHl	
ZtfAbzFkfKMye+jlujcyrpusCxd@fHjuwfDgjFuli7fnvvbyzlzsxtd+uFapghwzttLnp,
qzpybyzhusCyd*ylbbrtKAdtLid'xAnbvmwguNLsd=llujgeuloMOwC7fmarcsGybFCh
vtpvqlJhqAnes/fqwgpeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlaMyCx!uracpewphANji+zt_egsLBsR
hDpcfxAkfmtfd:CqovkjLo_vysx;xKartnFAfwtgs=qfaqtesgoBHjx^kzuj+hwuuNLD
jubtA rgUAuyd%oEukphLppGtnw!urugpevpgyChy-zlgqteHlpIFjd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGNex=fsscuumgaUyhe;yqaqheLobMnem:fAdecxAvotFqC!hqdqojKgeBzkm$Axu
zAaftfOgdHHhp;yuppuexypFtBl@zlppgeAzaOCjA*ts?

L4FGOF6gbEMtd+uFffbyzlaHvAm=AEahgfJgpytyl^foporzLlsmtBl*itaeqsKAjMOyi|fm
jughkhMsuRtnr!AEjpiesuaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^alaVjtMnisMyy%kzuubnFghxHjv@r
juebptLgtNzki/frsqoeLojLtfr\oquA?eKlwxLfp!uxegteKAvwysx|frfctjvguAuyd:nqz
CqsgbhGtqNNjvToxmkvjJhuxnee+fmtuwrHAjHHex&gFadghstfsMjp'/rvnhnDsjGAeA&kz
ztfAbxwhsvBjh!lAsbutEluACsk!hGubhfAsfwtys!luofbnLbasZWI SMObufAkaLBj
hqmkgAwkaMBfx!yAngbywhdAyww!gxtqbkwhsswtq[AFftbwwzpNLhi| lcgefMzfsNmi,
hqmkgAwguAyDd-golbetEwmxNjd$uzutqqmgaY`JIhGZatgqsAfwtyl^fqycouDlaHz
zqbejjJzaLBts*tsacyfQgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx!CmtbptLguAynv!zungbyGgvLyex&k
yKtvgrmga!Bnw!Cmtbceuhtxtnr!CtjejeLofsMnx;gFjqpezhesNtd#klfzvwwtfES
yFsweyMyfwtxs!ztbvbyzlaMyfg&kDtbytMsesHtx!lqfnbyzhusNmi,ftbfbqGzusNmi*x
mDbureGuaPBfx!ztfbuDKAfFths+zmjpgim

GlgkpfDgrNyxx*uzatcnKlesvDdaXQFOCSrjpGwjv+kpacehwztsush!gHbknftpmBNDd=l
ztfbuDKAfFoednnqapqywkaMBjd=iobuktFhmsyCm|zqoegeGmattle[fuobetEtvGChe:oAo
hquygjFgtvBts-fxjdtfJpbGMee+jlugchzlsLoedjlFfpbF5gtBNxd*tlbbuhzvpE
ructcwQgbGxex&klmkdwsyjtHem|fFigbuwytHHev^yBppuntsfsztv!sAokvtJpoztyl^
yKtvgrmga!yfg&kDtbftrupMtfp>gKtbvfClaBHys!ztfkteOvsExer^Clmkdwsyz
xqtqwwultsugs;zlxjkhzguAyep*hDbtkfFgjLtjB$oFff}erPowyjh7fmubvmwgtBNjw
CtftgeSTaAuid#kqobwxwkaFIxx!krggeyACfESeA*ztjpbfrsjuLfv, lujgeDpcKuwm@t
CmtbtjIBjKyid:ulhqbyGgtIyhm'ooavgfuofKMee+jljpuyJBdMtyl^sljpbnLzaNMj	!fMt
glsguzDA.sMjz^xmmbCRrzjMyxd>oxmbjfNlaBH]w^xHjegeKltLCtr|fAwgtesgtNGri/ 
ozavjjropIyex&gFargwzhqLneA*ztacbrGyfsCsh*BuewcqAGfwtqm+qfavgfuofKMeA*rx
hqaoqwwgmBEjp,fFpbwxwguAyev^yAvtejm

GlsgnfLlesCxw;kljpbyzlaLwms=rldqpywEuswtr$kDogfeLofsHzq#kDaqh
CAsmuysAjHHxd@BmjncgDlatNee+ElppgeDvdtNns+alaEgsLybECEe:oAobqkrlrNCuq^tF
gFavjjrkjLNwm$zlmgxjDaaPCyl!zqbejjJzaBHAm:kpavqevvxGFte%fFikplKgbGxeA@rw
gIbAbBAAisNmi_ lqtqAwkaNHxy$iqtuhzDgcxwfy|klujgezvvKMex&kEfbqkxpdxMeA^xq
uBfpbBwyfsuqw=fEdjqtDgiHOww8

GzpvjjJgjLMzi!CmtbjfJkxtLj	!fMtbXJUJJTttf|kDwgf	rhaKusk^fAgbunLltsyCm|zE.
yAngbywjiGIqs"oobnnDrheOusg^jlbpfeGAixLxd^yEfpvnssmRtfg]AuskplrAixCw
lusuveuvnIOyi/frptbyzlaILnq@xKarwwHvtxttj!AEjpieAAaBHeg=tvvpeyAvosQnx&
GY"ubywzuBHl	!f7tgtxrhusNjg&tAmqinuhmESew=vtjuvnuhuxxew*zqtbyfFAaxPjr
sAsgbxGwiBMym$gFffbmsyePuwi7fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imobrjJmpKGei<kzaoqww
yAqjkxLpdtNjh!zmtmueOpuAtyl^fybvgwAhmLtnr!GY?bbGMAaHHhi!ztfAbfuxvBLjd@
tqxgteHpfvyes'ftbtfBsyfmtyl^ElnwuyrsftLsd&uIavqeMzfsNme:fmmuq.rhusus
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jltkvjrpusNfo^ylbpbjPAsxGjp,fxppieLpnxtxm_vxzbvtrifvIri
godwuyGtfwtys!ztfbetEwvMyw{!tAubvtrtfGNns+fFigbuJvhKurd=lrftgirDjMBex&k
iAnrwywy?stFp-fAgbvmwzfsMre-rljuuzwzaKunw^fAogbqsyhxtvy^yFjqp	rubFyqC7
gDfbuDKAfFMep*qqaCOeLyvESev^CmsfksygjGtfd|itpqnewuwBLtr_kzu?btJgeHtyl^E
yunrnDrhdMtfw!ozoqxfLpwxtys,ylujcyrkpsFnx:rqaoqwwguAusd|vmsmbnFAfKyxx9

L4FGOF6gdHHyi+jqebvmsAaMBjd^BmmwcyAvosJws(koubjfKgsxPje-kpaugAwybEtxx/kzhvjx
ztbvbBwyfsAfm+kpavjwGBhAtyl^fGtgbtxgbKwmm<gxatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstmtnr$rGekplg

flabb+rWtRwmm$fDfycwvzayLtq!AEjpieSTatMee!Bmtv?eJpdAtie:gnbug	rDjMB
flabbywhdAyww!gEtkisAuhsPfv*uGtbrwGqfvNxd:ultvwiwuuLa]s/gxartjKloMuym=tE.
flabbBJpuMysd/kBptvxlgbsxtg;sqovcwQaattyy/t\ph+yzl_vysx;xKapgBKwbIyw[T
flabbuJvkxwyw!ztbvbxLhsMtBm:nlujgeEhuxLne-yljpbF5gcNNee/kldqouDluxxey|ozh
flabbtLofKtwi|uGsegxhgB6tyl;yljubzKlesuxd@fDfugfJjisNts-fuobetFqvGwym=t
flabbBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.suxd>kxmbcxrDjMBef=uwtbcsvgjMyrw!oz
flabbyzlaECgv@xKayjjJlaMBjd|EEugoeAzaLyyd;vg

flabb+rZuNxjr:ylbtgesjrNCwm+mldqouMAfKtqm:kDbeAeAuattmy_gzjvkjKgdHHyi\zg

flabb+r1iBMew=xFaqheKFtMyrd*ylpxgwuvnBHld:nqakutDhuBIsd#kFxggsrkjLwnt-ozfu
flabbyzhusIkx^tlfzkxLzaBHew$nApnu rgGHLei\gyqng	rtbGSeI+mxjujeLlbvBjv|fmsg
flabbwwxvBLnr"fFigkwrzuNxjr:yluqbBJpuxtue[kDtbqsrojLNtv*immbvtHpdL
flabbwwwsxMjr:kpakpeST?stSy_kDpwueLlbvBjv|ftbxgeJlqHLyi%fFicveLofBL
flabbxLBexHyw!gDfbnjsyoBHld$xuukefDguACso*tsaumnDstsOxm+mlujgeKFtMyr	

flabb+rVosuef/umegteDlwxF	d?SljubnFAsHxzg*tsartnEhsRtre:kDjcnxlgoHNes+rK
flabbyGgtMOii+zEadwyrhmLIex=fFfcemwytmtnr!gzagpAAypGGjr:fIigtjrvgMys
flabbxAtqESer=tqagznKA_ usd^DojvksyguACsk!lAsbvmwgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx
flabbmwsqLtyl^slmgcwFguHths+jGdvbwwzftLhl7fFpbksLlsILjx7fmofbyGgeKuB
flabbyzljKttA+foppeqMzjHHx	!fUobnjsyoBHld:uldqpiMjusLjw^gDdjbfFkaPBfx!oF
flabbrwhoLnew:Apfpvxrhsxtrs:oHbvgirApsMji)fwoqyqwkhxoedonmubtjDhuxMex=
flabbfFvuAywd[uEjvkAwgpNNhs_k\_cbmAnisFjz^rlphbuwytHHfp!ozwqnAwtfGNes'
flabbxLBexHyw!CuujbyzlaFuyi/ommubnFguACxd|EEugoesuesAwi@zqsbotLpwtNns+fFp
flabbhGueNwyd:nqjtbtOuaKyxi@xoibcsvgeKuBd:nqjtbtOuavIsg-AEjqpxm

flabb+rWfKBft|fFigbrGzusCws+ooauvwwuhMBes'fFigujrrjGxxd=llbtemACbE
flabbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMem|fFicveEhoRttj!ztfbvjsjixLxd?SljpvjJCjxQjh
flabbBwyfsxjw[kDbvg	rpusCxd+ulfzclylstNns+fFpbufQaaGIyd=txzbhtJgqKCre/E
flabbrsAfKCfp|fnvvbkGyaNHxx/AouwtjvgqKCre/ElncvjJpbEM d!ZtfugeOvvEx	d:nqz
flabbyzvvzBy{!lAtvgwrwfKMtr@rxzbotLpwtNjh!xqtgcwuo.syCt-uDbvktFaatHi
flabbjPjjMyri+zljpbyzljKtxx;jqovu rgJGxji% lujgxwgntNjv*gxtbjfNlawIsi
flabboMzusNme:alaKttFpdtFqC7ftpygAwy.sNmm|fxbemeGmaLNwy$zGsgbuJveNwjw
flabbxGtfsIkd:nqaeqsxBtBIsd:ulxjkhzguAyer^CzfuueGmaMBjw^fwjpfxrvg
flabbwwzpNLhi|fybAbfDzpswtr:xucwvjmga!Bjd)kKavqewmgxwym<klvugeGmatLhl*Bmm
flabbuJveNwyw!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCxd@fomgcwlgfyzjg:oHfbksLypwOhx*uz
flabbyGguAyew,yFfobfFkaMIeA&gFakveuvoMunr|a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+diuFikplrroHQs{!wGbpvnLhuBPjp, lbdqzLguAyer;snftbtx
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueOopsGzw:fEfgbyzlaHLnk*tmmbxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrDpNFi
yquvnjrmpKtfr!kpjvgirAstHxg/oBu?btJgbuIzx!ztfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!=lGktrrjpGwqy|oAoubhGudxLsm+m
ztfbofFufKtfr%fqyvgsLgpytyl^fGtgbtxgtNJus/zuoibrsAfKCfp|fuobrwAuu
vDpxkiwkauSeEhfFpbcBspuswtq[rqukqsrvgsyAe-AmukxjrzuNxDdQfMankxLloxL)w
xqgnghLppGMes+fmefkyAvotFee[vxjecyAvoLttj!kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWGsfsIk
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrposNje$nuoibjDlnxHye/ElsgujsydAtxo*rxtbvtrzuNxjr:yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyet/kEfpvfLppGMef,fYJEJJ4ZP7n
2QDEKFlgbGxeJmKQNCP	rhewCym=tmmbrtAuuLtjq^xsff}

RQTMbfKrfwtnj!SUDJGQ~VOswty-jlhkxjrhoRtvy@tFjvcyACfsyxx*smugbtxguAy
tGndgwrvgsBzq@tuukgxrzdAIqe/ylxjqeEBtMtxi^fAsbyfFAaMIew^klujgeGyjzCse- 
uDavjjrifLNet=yEjdnjrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgntNjv*gx.bxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrAzIChe-rK
CAvnfeKluMFjd'uDacpewkjMyid:xmouewAwunte1&oxfbwssimxtys!vDpxkiwgbsznk;xq.
ytfbqkxlsxxel^xljorwwztBIsw!gEacpesydACAm|zlxjqezhtsxtr^fEpogeJlgxLjr$k
CAsmbfFkaAuxd%oEdwuxwkaMBnw!oEtwgeOpuAttx&kDacthzpwBMyw!CtpbrjJmpKG
xqggtjFjfmtyl@zlujqxwgxAIey|klbtemACfLtfr%fFiqujrDiHtzw^fBskofJFaLIzv$kE
lAsbymsAaPIzp%fnfbetFzjwywi%fHftAezphAaqi<kxauemGsbKFDd/kEfcthzaatM
uBqqujvguHnew@EfawpiwyhKuiy@zqarcuwytmtBi/klggyeAuaGOrf^xfaguuwjjtFqC
muwgpeLofsJzf-ooakpywyfLNem+fGtkplrwsBGfv,fEpwthwzaMIeg=tpvev
mqogcqGnjvuqd=xlbxqhsAjHHfp!xqtgcwuoatHid:nqamksvgpytuv=lqtuktFhm
xqtgcwuoawIsi!hKargtHsfsCsd[xuwcvjrpowOxx/Elptbyzlayyii/gxaiqAwyoFysx8
SAsgbnEwpKNfr:fuobONUOF5!TRNylwkgBrDbLtyl@zfaswfFAjMuym<kxz?bsGAiBHld*y
qzpypesipNNex&klxcAxrposQmm$nfahqwrlytGup^ liwofFpuByxd|itpncwKgbKyey|ozh
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyF?stSs!yFvfkjKgfQCxx!zAaqhkwyazOnh@tofbksrjsxuym+m
yFscvjypfLoedonqaoqxLgsxwjr:fEuwfDrDbLths+jGdvgirpos&@`zfnzbvmwgBFywm$gz
IAvpenDgpytQi@xzffbXGjjxNni|f<BENX{aatHid>nmubkyrziHQjh!CmtbvmsAa)]
vqsegsLgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEacveLobMtym_klxgtjrBtBHld$uyqwvjJz?stYl@z
iAouvnLBuxMex&klfzvjFAaHzes;xllpqBDlezy 

IAoegwFpoztFQNyltvtfLlhRtks/fAskgsLpoztui=vxfbvtOhswtyl^fEdqrjrvg
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxlgG~YJQ?Tldqwqvgpyzjv!tAajcwvgdHHhp;yuppuesAaMBnw
vAjpv	rifvuzw^fEigbfFkaAywd$uxmgclMltsQjv^fEuknqrDbBNnr"fFpbujwa
vmsvkhMsbKFDd*tlujgeKjiHIqw7fIicvezhtsvji+fybfgeGmaMBjm/fqghqwLz?st2m:nuo
ztfbuDKAfFnel=Cqwgt	rHNsBfw!vDpxkiwkaPBfx!gDfbefDsfwtjp^iFsqpnugfQBnf*zE_
/EvejeszaBHyv=jGdvktFzaMIex*sqargwAveLtfr%fybvgwAhmLa]e+jlujgxwgbKy
ozugpiwkaMIes'lqsbceKAvwysx!AEftbfrzfGMjd=llxjcyrhauLte%yuegbnKgatHid>nmu
oFaoklzAaMyqp!nqsbqwrojFoed}AFaHTJWTB7ths+iqegfeLobMtyl^fBsqljuAaLNfj'
CAvnfezhwxtys!zmmmbBAAisMyy%kzuubswEusSje/ lbhvjJguxuhl^xEajcAwgitxee
yGnogwrApsOxi!ztfbofLlsBuqw7fmofbfLAfFJyd:ulekuhGCfKtBl@zlujgeKAvwysx|
CqsgbqwhsGCsk!lDpobyzlaFuyi/ommu}erPosuih*zupp?eXYFX7FR!jqtetntle
yGqrqwLpoztre:kDjcnxrposJwm+zlqtqAAkfwtgC!GYacveLofsLju;kEubqkrspvuq
zqbejjJzawOwm+mlbbojwAjGAel^rpacve4J?stYl^yqakphDBexxex*sqankswz.
hucnktyybIBni| lbpfeGAixLeq@zqskcqKguAuyd$uGmfbgwgsxJws%AoffbtFgb
vtpvqhGwjxLem+fmaenfKzsHIr	!f6fcemwytswty-jlxcnprhxtSeA*ztacpirBtxtyl^yq.
gzebksrAiBMeA@Elhcksrhauyyx^xlvpfjJzutHim+mlphbyzlavIsx^tFt}beTBusule*tf
xqbejnFnayCwq!iAoenzKppGMeg=toftpnFnaMBjd_gzogtesuesyCx^tFaqheLofBLey|k
CAvnfezhwxtys!CmjvbzFAjEtsi\zlzgcwm

GEavqeLofswme+mqtbumwgttQes$iGstksygbMtyl^fZbvktFhmsUwg&oHfubfFka~yhs/jE
GpnkpnKAstNns+f<OCTF{gbLtfd/kEvnveGmaMBjd*tosgcxAuhsyrt&gEjubtF
zqdjptDvhRtnr!yoiqnfJszsLjw^gDdj?e5PD1YQWjTltvcywkaMBfx!TMSCbfLguACx
vAjpveOhtsugw=xnjpieLofsLjt=xFadAezlssush!PqghbWGAixHgi/mlbffwwztBHl
yFscvjypfLtks/fFigbfJjiBPfp!vDphgxKppGtnr!mqogtfDaatFyl=AsibptLggHLex&k
TmukqsssaTLhl*BqtbuuwjjyChe-rK?bbSSYBsCxd(AEubdjypoGCsk!zAaguysimBMmd*zE
xAmgbfFkaPBfx!oFaecsrkpnteM+fFftoxrvgswme+mqtbcsvgjGCym@zuwgueLobMtSEmG
imobvfCl.sHtd$rqbtbwwzqHHxi!iAvnfetlazCAi+fmubvmAzaMCri8

M4FGPK1LMWtwi_gDlgfeLDpsNwi+jEaogsLppGyid*tlujgeKltLCtr8flSghqwjuBHld=t
JMM1&xrvqxHnr"fopoojFAtsIsd&uIajgeuvvExel@Bqawujvgbs6fx*tldqnqwjuBIsd=l
zqyvbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLr{!nqaucnvguAuyd@zlgktxLgixtyl=AsivbrGzusMhl=rmsu
CAvnfetlaNHBm-ruoibyGgeHtyl@zgabDzLgbLtmi!ztpwimLgpytyl@zljpbywynLttj!ztf
uDjiksssaFyfr*tsaqheJltxuwg&/\ujcyrptmtme<ozhbcqJlbwSeq@yFftgirAixMjd:kJuu?
xqtgcwuojGAex&kyahqwrjsBNng@rlbpfeuvnIuwe:oHfbrzJwpLyx[TlAsbvmwggBLxx!zung?
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$frptofLgntxjd@fxpvbtxgtxHxi8flHTGJ6MJX6Id$uGmfbjFCjLCtr
mDpyksygoNGgi/ylphbxuopEuww!rqbtpnFnaMBjd+kIavghzupEIlm^ylgqteLobMtAi/E
gEqgeyrvgsNmi*xltejtDhsLBnt!gzebhtJgdHHAi+oqoeg)KgttEj	

RutvgsAuhsNtdqKODKCesuesZWI SMO?bL0LF7ZNIgJlujqzyousIkd@tlbffnLppGuq
gBqnkhsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFt}beZlaKyfp*FqebvmsAaT7eg=AxebdjrBtxxee|fm
mGjfgeLvaEyfh!yAngqswguHttv*muocneKvvKwjw8flTvwiwuuLthe+tAubdjrlyIyhx^j
zAajcAwgntMyi/kpavjjKlaLIzv$kE.bvmAuhLtyl^ElicxjrufOywd)tAxpbftvvM
hqgqtjmga!Bzw7fMNbkxrsftxnr"fFigo	rposNmi=xK.bvtrhaOuxx!hAeAbtx
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlhkxnFnaMBjq!gltwrjJmjvCfp!uHftxnwDaHzem: lfpcgDpoztyl^s
zAaugqwjusJfv:ylphbnLbas1WI TRJGNIrhtDyid*llbpAewCjwysg^fqykuyKguAuyd:nut
xqtqwwulaPCqp!ozeggirAftwmd:nqapgBrBtxL	d:nqaM+6"gtMOii+zE.bjtOguHtis
xqtgcwuo?stXg&uxbtuesssxuiC!qzpybmGDaMIeh=fDfugfJjisush!gDfbcuHszBHl
ztfugeFlxsNts-ygabDzLgixtBs+jqsgfeOozsMyy%kzuubBGBmwtls!hqzqpirwjvEnr"
uGubvmAuhLtyl@zlxgtjrtpLNei\iuukplrApsNmi_a

L4FGOF6gdHHhi%kpavjjrjpKLjg:tqtubtxgH~YJRaOQMF&xrvcLywz@zuppbfKgbIJqm^j
zAacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuunteX&klskuprptsNme:fmauvzvloMtBs;rpaukyrkpPHee:fm
yKtvgrlgqEuDd>oFibkylggBHid|uyfbvmAuhLttj!ozugtjKA.sush!ztfpbBsslsuBe,a
HGubksrAixtwi-gFjxgqQgdHHyv=rxffbxAAvtNns+fAgbceKjiHIqd-onsctDlgnNwmd>oxm
jqqgpirvosNmi!oztvtzuAjHHxd@fFfcemwyaHLee!ructcwAhosAnz^ylbbuyMkfGN d!Ytf
BufygirAixtxm:AmukqsrupMtfw!uzfbqkrmjGy]x;tuoibwwzftLhl!ywjnnxrivMttj
ozwqnAAuhsMyy%kzuubfLgbsJjv|uzbnbqwCfEtnr!AzegtxLhowCsk!gzebtjKlbKwmm+m
ztjpixmgaZCAi+fFigblMpetHhi!uzfbefFgsxwjm<klbvbxuopHF	d*zlujgsrifvIri|
vAtukgDlaMIex^goibgqwtfGNfv,fDfugfJjisMpm-rEavqeKAvwysx| lxjkhzgjGtke$z
uzfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJpbGtxe*jltjgeOhtsNje$nuoibmwyayCkx&fsscfjJz?
L4FGOF6gdHHhp;jqebvmsAaBHyv=jGdkplrAixtnh^glphbkGsmHQnr"fAog&xrvxGtue:n
urakpvMpsRneA&ooibkxrltLysx*gxmAbBzhusLjw^gDdjbjFAbBFx{!ozwqnAwzaFIw
