with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with the subject of clinical
trials, includes text, tabular material, and graphics, although at this
time it can transmit only line illustrations.

Next, LEBRON described how AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials:  It is 1) a highly statistical discipline that 2) does
not require halftones but can satisfy the needs of its audience with line
illustrations and graphic material, and 3) there is a need for the speedy
dissemination of high-quality research results.  Clinical trials are
research activities that inr<uxwgbyzlatxrm+oEutcyAvosIkd@fFfuveLyftNri+z
zAauqrwgfQJjv*sqovcqrBoBNem+fAsfgwrApsNjw:fuuubzKlgNFsi|ylcghtJlaBNem|
smegbfNhjEugp^fFpbvmwghxHjv@rlqqrzDhuBIs	!fXFDTT6gqKIhi^jqebvtrnjOy
gpekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaHHeSeIOUbetFjfKHnr"fuuubjvpuHL]m+/oikgklgfwCys/omm
hAbtf	rleBNtv*gxaeqsLloMnee+jlujgeLFqxMes'fmsvkhDltsCyd[Anmkumwz
[uoenzvpoztui^x\sgxnwDfwtwi|kmsejeJlqHLyw!gzebtjNpfPM[{!gEaygqDgbL
lqbvwwwzaLBfv^jlcAbtLofKtyv@juukqsssaAuwhTiAqAboGBsGuqw8

GyppieLofsuiz@tFbigxrvgsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smubcwwggtMyi/fpjuujEpotNns+fAg
ozgqtrsAjHH	d*tomwfnFnaKuBd%gFb?bfFkaMBjd@hEfpejrvgsMue$kldqpxLybBHyw
hqdcwxwgqtAjw!jAapqyrlyBMy	!f<UjkxrsbMNjv!lmdvbhJlbMyxd@tljpvjJltMCsk
yuuwcyAvosQmi+fuubetEltsNtd$oFbvktFz?	teR=xlbtgeLofKyee+Eljuuzwz?stFE?Y/t
imqcenLFaMIeh=CzmqcirtbMywm@rEafkwwjuESej/uyavjjrqpNLse-fFpbc
yGcuewAifK.xd[xuovgwlgitLid%xuwg?eGyayFtt[ElekuprofEJxd^tEvtgezphAFD
godwtfLlaMLfr|iDjrvnGu?stTx&kDahgfLBsxMes'f1KEEYrpovFzh^fAo+uhJlfGtfp^xFt
ztbvbfDspPtqm+qmhgbtxgtNvxi]AqovnDrwvuFnw&kpafqhMtfGNxd:ulujgeGyjzCse-
jAdwojFAtittrTruogbxwhsvBnr"fnzbuztqfvN	d@AFiqt	rAjMFj{!kFd}>eAuexRnr"fAg
kHftAeKpozFjd>uDebvmsAatJui@xEakpesuatLym$rq<bxnwDjGAee$iqtubyGgbG
gDukeqwgcRths_vAogpyr]buMyv@iF.bhzDsaMyCx7fAsbiwswiL .d+Aycgtjv
vmsciwswiLtys!xqqnchwgqtAjd$uGovu.rwvuFng@zuppbnFgTvCjr$klfxgwQguACwx,
jmzubtxgjGxjB*tsaqhessmsuwx*ixfubuMimBMmi%fuobvmwgkHOwr@rb
zKqgujL|rNuqm:Eltetjwutitfr%fTzrgwLlyMtqm+qEavjfLgfGugp^fEvduhJpcxLxd:u
hDjpieMwa6yip*tqacdxLybvNxd%oDfevqQgxBNms;zlmgcAAuhsNmi!pAvtpfDb

GrugtevlutCqm+mlujgeLDpsJwm_gDzbyfQzaMIek@ozacehwztsNtd:nqalqzJubEn
ztsqwlzguAyeS{ROapgyOvsDtfr%fOporzKlsOtnj!uzfbfjKpsxMek/gBikexrvssNmv=Asi
ztfbKsLlsGyyd*llkwuyrhosUXGdOlgknjrptsxjw*xqe?bQWIS88em-rGtvtfLlesNmi
yBfgfDrleBNtv*gxarttultLtfr%fFigbhGkjGAes'fFigbiGjvFysx!AEjpie~NN5tye"y
grugteAAaAuxd#kqobchulqMyid'uDarwgDpdtNns+alaUjjrhmLIek@BqacpeAsmNMyv@zqe
zAvtbtxguAyen=ADocn	rpuLtxi@xoi+csv|sxNwm^BmmbefHhcBFnx*kEakpeHhsMChy-gD.
hGubcqKvaBHhp;juoibuJvcEyrw!gEtqensAfwtBm:nltecsFpoztnr!oxmwuyJhuBIsw7
gzebvmwgjFJtv:gzdgbtxgpGaxg/kqobcqwyuLtys!ztfbojvpdtFet/urfuunGuaKy
xqutchLppGMes/fopttjuAjHHx{!uDaoqwwggKyvy^tFmA?ewkjMIwm@rE.bnjLAfKMex=
ztfbgiAApKM	d=xlgqnqGD_NJev^vAsvu rgTAyeg-uEffbgQgjGPnx*tsavjjrhvwCjr$k
zAalqnFgBTUXd=tl2bLzDF.sQmi+f1KEEYrDbLtxg&kpvngirApsAtd=t\mkpjm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmszje:ADfubtxgP3WHX!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrsfGAyl,fpjuezKzjHHex&gFahqqDvxxxeP H4PP&xrwsxMjr:gFjqp	rAixMj
vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r1ixtXKhRlugzyrjbGtgi!zmjnqwwkatMey|kDtbynKo?

flabb+rHmEtyl^yqactyAjmxMel@BqacbkspsESew*sBmgbiGjvFysx!jqgkpnLppGo

flabb+rKpvOri+z\uArjrkfyCsm:oAoub=V1EL eA^xqafgAwspIyid@tpaikAwuaMIeSeIOU
flabbkGyavIim+mg

flabb+rUpsuwx*ixfubBAsmsvjd/kypxgirmsHGex&klkqwwFhmnte+}kobwujrAixLjd@xq
flabbsGgctwpd*yEvgu	rAixLjd@xqapqeDvtMtnw|AqtbgnLofKoedjtofbceKBcLwwm#kD
flabbqGntsIsx=fFigboGBsGuqd&klptbxzlaAuxd@iofuueFvusIsp,fFpbvmwgdNLwi+zxz
flabbuMimBMmi%fybvgwAhmLnef;zlsgvwGzqxwym<kxzbvtrlwxLDx&ozhbvmsAaAuxd#kqo
flabbuMimBMmi%fuobkymga!Bzw!ztfbvftsfsIkd$uzugpyKghKIBw!huhigwmga!Bjd%gFf
flabbtxgqNvqm$gFjqpeKlsOyxd:ulekuyAuhNCxl!hquygjFgdNLwi+zxzbrztsjLBjh
flabbrsAfKCfp|fmofbtDkfKtre:kDjcnxm/

flabb+r1ixtuv*iuoibxQzuxGej=xlujgeBvvKHfp!xqtgogDltsNme:frptbrGzusGjh*imm
flabboGBsGuqw2flgqte'$0&ne"D~lgqtesgzxuw{!vxvubywsfvIrq;tudcvnGutswme/mqt
flabb=LofKyee/kloqbhGuoxwyd:oyfbemsyhxM[,!flahqwr80=(	dK7!~bhtJguAy
flabbjFAjKyeC^gDahqwrzjGAqi!AEftu	rAiHOll!ztfbltMyotFeg@tlcgbuMAaHHee
flabbqGjbEtfv^glogvBGyls	QEi]gabJtOlwxL	d=txzbqswgqxLxs+fobpbfujfLMex&k
flabboGBsGuqd@zlbbvnEl?stXm:klmkejFzfLtre,fopogeAuaMBjd'AFvtg 

flabb+rHBT!em|fIptmnFnavFtw^rKaykyzgdHFqi@mGfubfLgPV6Hd:ulekuuDhz
flabbrsAixGfx*immbgvMhuBIsw!uzauewwlon

flabb+r4jMBty:foporwGtjLCsk!gzzbuywwtsCsd:nqagfnLvsBuqd[xAdguxlguAy
flabbywjiGIqs"ElicueJleNwjh!ztfbvnElaEuld#kFxggsrDixHee!smowuhJpqMtnw
flabbtJphBHfp-EltwdrAAuxxee+jlujgeLpnxtnx!oEacehwwuxx.d:nqatgAAlxsJws$kEt
flabbiGltsHtx!jughgwrnsxuyp,frsqoeLofsMye+jmsfbxAE_MI]i*mtubyjwrt
flabbjEwmHSjh!hKaocsQgpytyl^ftbtf]uvqRtos;xzbnu rgUAyet/uofuueKAjEF
flabbiwwfGxxd=tlqgquDl?

flabb+rHtszfv!gEacbuJltxLAe:oAobetHFaBMeg=toftpjvaatLym$rqtbynDsauy
flabbrspoMunr^jlppbyzlavIrt;zqsbrjJtbGysx-ElbpfeKBcLwwm#kDt?bfKgqtLyd=l
flabbyzljKtxy#yoskryAvomtBm-rlsgejACfsueq*iDphkhzl_JOfp*zKacthzpwtFeg=vK
flabbtxgfOywC:nuoibuMimBMmi%fpvtksyguAuyd,kms>bnFgbwxnx*uz.btjHyjGNxd$gz
flabbgwgqNLhl@yqebksrtvvBex&kltcojrDbRtfw!ozacbmsye wtt,fqoxkwGunxHy	
flabbMsyeswtt*kEactjrwsxJfv^jlcwvesyfsHtx!ztfbrwAtbKSeq^juvobkGyaMBj
flabbiAztxGnr@zuppbtxguAyem+lAsocyAvon

flabb+rIfvuzw^f1KEEYrptsHtx!EqubqsrsjGy	d*zljubiAmgBwzp:fFpbmsGDaAIBd_gzz
flabbuwvqEyeA=AxebunEwmRtgv=CEfbvmJvvzBex&klkqwwFhmsIsd:nqauewwlosux
flabbtHwpLyid:uleqysDvbwCsk!ztfbymGsfsNmm+mlbpfeHyjGNnr"fuubqzL}attrm\fAg
flabbgGAisNDt^ylphbzKlsLtqm)kxzbynDsaKyxy-zg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
VQSUQS12Ts{eH^BqmqrrwuuLtnr!zqdjptDvhRttz^xlujgeHhtMtii$gpfb)e`ofsWQEnY
VDplghLg(sUiz@tFbigxrmpKtyi$nzpnqlQgbGxej=xlujgeUSB`!eT/uvfeve?
JqwgntHpoztfd+kFxqtprhqIFng@zuppbfFgvGxjv-EuoibfKzvFJym=tlphbyzlaILtn^iF
=lEgvfAstsIkd:nqauefFujGAet/uofuue?gQKCsxTuz_fgrsueswtt*kEaqhetvpDMe_
LGuwtjrwmtHxd*tomwfjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgbsvws>yuoibyGvms{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

RKopge8LS`9SMpYfacuxAzutHyd%oDfevtJaaVIwr^rxaKpkGyntNns+f6fejsGspzCjw!lAs
YoiqnfJszs3sj=xybvktFgTxLAm$kE.bEtJufEFeY+oHftunLF.sznv|zldqorwuuxxes+
ztfbvwwtfGxty|funrchLguAuyd%kHfnquEloMMem+fFfejsGspzSes<kDavjjrwbLNex^t
Eqbtu]	ufMQtv)ozh?bnFgqtLym$Axbt+]zhwxtme%fAobvmwgxtSem+lAsocyAvosCx
nmofnjvaatHid&uI.bksrofKttA+fobug	rAixMjd%kHfnquEloMMel@BqaeqzFAfKvfp@toff
IAspgqD_tsLjp@zuwgblwvhKuul*immbkxGsbMCtr8flPvjjJgtBAsm'oobpveLldAHtp=mufu
ozdnwiwgtvusr^xE.bymAjisuwi!sGdjbrGyfsMtt&oEukefLlesNme+fFigAeOlsxtyi+fKfctx
gsp>brsztsMys/gsfbcsvguAyeh/gybvkhrzbOCsk|fFicveJltNFyd'xAnbkyrposNjv_ylph
hAujbxHhdxtfr%fyppgDryfEuym<kluqbyOloMSes/fFiktyQgzxuww!gsp>bswDatHi
oyqtqAwkaILnr:ozhbvjuooHFtk*kE.bymAjisBfz^fssgcyDFatzki$zqebvmwgeBMyv*hGukqs
urakpkGyntNns+?lbpf	rvgswty/yq.bfnyputFex^itoqntypfLneA&uEfbcuHsjvugm-oFzbvt
ructcwQgqKyxi/BmukqsryfFunr|fmubkxKBfn

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e8LS`9SMpYleguhJpcxxex&klDqnqwnfs6nf/gDzbChultLtfr
