cooperative.

LESK contended that BESSER was unnecessarily pessimistic about multimedia
images, because people are accustomed to low-quality images, particularly
from video.  BESSER urged the launching of a study to determine what
users would tolerate, what they would feel comfortable with, and what
absolutely is the highest quality they would ever need.  Conceding that
he had adopted a dire tone in order to arouse people about the issue,
BESSER closed on a sanguine note by saying that he would not be in this
business if he did not think that things could be accomplished.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LARSEN * Issues of scalability and modularity * Geometric growth of the
Internet and the role played by layering * Basic functions sustaining
this growth * A library's roles and functions in a network environment *
Effects of implementation of the Z39.50 protocol for information
retrieval on the library system * The trade-off between volumes of data
and its potential usage * A snapshot of current trends *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Ronald LARSEN, associate director for information technology, University
of Maryland at College Park, first addressed the issues of scalability
and modularity.  He noted the difficulty of anticipating the effects of
orders-of-magnitude growth, reflecting on the twenty years of experience
with the Arpanet and Internet.  Recalling the day's demonstrations of
CD-ROM and optical disk material, he went on to ask if the field has yet
learned how to scale new systems to enable delivery and dissemination
across large-scale networks.

LARSEN focused on the geometric growth of the Internet from its inception
circa 1969 to the present, and the adjustments required to respond to
that rapid growth.  To illustrate the issue of scalability, LARSEN
considered computer networks as including three generic components:
computers, network communication nodes, and communication media.  Each
component scales (e.g., computers range from PCs to supercomputers;
network nodes scale from interface cards d*tlbbRHrAiKIzk&fEprjnKAjvuyi%
xAvvgwKgbGxek@zqxcAxhgbGxeg=syvpkhsAjHHeq^jubbtfFnfszws_f@.6`#	ibNx
jubn+zHggtwnp*zufubyzypNAmdya%_OduKgctwpf=tqanksCz.sush!kHfpvzssmRtys
sGmvklAnbuCy[[kD_ughGueswtq_AzjecyAvosFnr^y>.bcsvgbKwmm:kouwtfDszmtyl^
iAnrqswuuLtfv^fAsicsAGfwtys!yobngezpfKuwg&oobnnDrmsHGep=immbcwwhaGyyA=xwt
zAakpywyotNns+gx_uefDlaGyyA=xwt}be~BdAtlv=CFibkxrtbwyet=yEjdnjriz
hGjnfnFnaEuDi/ylphbhGtnNHng@zuppbuJvuHwtp| lbubGWZTX`et=ozugfeGBun
HKancDwyjGAef=ztarjDKpdtFqC!gzebntypdtFqC7fmaugsKlaHzew$gxbdkqAAzsCx
smjpvfAufwtkv=slmqefDgbKyfd+kFxqtpKgjGttj'oofu?esjsHMxd$gyqwujKaaMBws;mt
hDjfijKaaKIzx^xE.befEwvLtge$qnppgxlggBvjvTuBukeeDpoDM	d^zo??bzHgjGNt
xqhkqsssaGyyA=xwtbcsvgvENnq@zqmAbnFApsHfx*uzbnbfFkaBHyi/tmukqsss
tquyqwCz?

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesNmi!mqpogyJpdsAws>ztaqxjJgbsNBsTEqbtbuwyjHx][
ztsqwlzgTxJyi_hqsb3@+8_ Ikd:nqapwrtlssIkd+kFxqtpKguAuyd$uyqtkxwguAy
OzugtswA?stYl*ylhtqBLoaAuxd#kqobuzKAbBHjh!rmsigqQgcRtyl^fmwckqsijECyC!ur
ztsggethtBwej;toukqsK?asyqi$zDppkhrtbBF	d'oxfbvwsutyywdRlFq_?esuesLjq=zq
rAh+qsr]uxFsi:]gabNF0ZF7tfp|ulsgxnwDfwtyl^fssqyyzgjGtyl^fwjpfeGmaMLfj'oo
ztbvbtujvKMes+fFigbswAxHLp	!fZfvytJraMLfj'ooatgkDldMMex&klkqksLgdHHyv*hGukqsK
uracbqsyhxLet=vGmcvnGuaHzey|kDtbcsvgjGwwi@yuoibzKlaIywd;yqs}be`vetSes+kltggx
yqskqzKgbIJqm$gFjqpxrpoOIqz*tsaoqAAuhsCre"kEacewGztsNmi!tquyqwC|_ttwe/oFz
zqobAjsytsuls8flMCTXWUaKyhe-rqebcsvgdHHhy/xqebynLoaUYXW X/tbofAuaIInr:
ztbvbyzlaBHyi/kEukplrwsHvqi_ylpeezJgbMtyl^fmqrnnuhuBIsd-kHfn}

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesueq=jqmbqkrhaECgv@xK"ubwGsfLtfr%frvpeyAvoLtnr!g
tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv rgIxtss:kp.bksrwbKNng;rms?byzlaIFfg^sqovbtxgpGaqm+k
imucntyBfLttr:ulujgeFluPIwo!gzebrfLypGMes#zmjpksygbvwjw|fFpbvmwgmBvwe/E
ozdtgfKpozFDd:nDpwimrspvuqd+kFxqtpKaavurt;ylogvBGylLnee+jlujge1uuxLsi:a
RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpaN1SUO"Ltje/ruftbxMnhxMym=tlujcyrDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLM
lGofcrwuutFeu;kEukqsKgpytsi:CAsmgirpoyIwq@zuppbnFgpKxjv!zAadwnDk
kzwkttFtfGNxd:nmubuhssfsCsd:nqakpkGyntNns+fEfpujrhtsQjp-fmtbksrAix
vtzukhssaLysw^a

RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpavjjrypEyes'fFigbqAistLDd|EEugoeszaMBjd@iofuueHvjGNem+zA
ztfbpfLppG.xd^rqdvttFpdswtp-koukqsKbas3rt-kyfpvfLppGttj!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGsayIwd*trptofLppGtwi:xufxcqrDpNFid_gwfbuzuoatwhi|ylqtchLpdtFee+j