     filmers or those preparing a book for photocopy).

     * The final step in the scanning process involved rescans, which
     happily were few and far between, representing well under 1 percent
     of the total pages scanned.

In addition to technician time, CXP costed out equipment, amortized over
four years, the cost of storing and refreshing the digital files every
four years, and the cost of printing and binding, book-cloth binding, a
paper reproduction.  The total amounted to a little under $65 per single
300-page volume, with 30 percent overhead included--a figure competitive
with the prices currently charged by photocopy vendors.

Of course, with scanning, in addition to the paper facsimile, one is left
with a digital file from which subsequent copies of the book can be
produced for a fraction of the cost of photocopy, with readers afforded
choices in the form of these copies.

KENNEY concluded that digital technology offers an electronic means for a
library preservation effort to pay for itself.  If a brittle-book program
included the means of disseminating reprints of books that are in demand
by libraries and researchers alike, the initial investment in capture
could be recovered and used to preserve additional but less popular
books.  She disclosed that an economic model for a self-sustaining
program could be developed for CXP's report to the Commission on
Preservation and Access (CPA).

KENNEY stressed that the focus of CXP has been on obtaining high quality
in a production environment.  The use of digital technology is viewed as
an affordable alternative to other reformatting options.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ANDRE * Overview and history of NATDP * Various agricultural CD-ROM
products created inhouse and by service bureaus * Pilot project on
Internet transmission * Additional products in progress *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Pamela ANDRE, associate director for automation, National Agricultural
Text Digitizing Program (NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL),
presented an overview of NATDP, which has been underway at NAL the last
four years, before Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ANDRE
defined agricultural information as a broad range of material going from
basic and applied research in the hard sciences to the one-page pamphlets
that are distributed by the cooperative state extension services on such
things as how to grow blueberries.

NATDP began in late 1986 with a meeting of representatives from the
land-grant library community to deal with the issue of electronic
information.  NAL and forty-five of these libraries banded together to
establish this project--to evaluate the technology for converting what
were then source documents in paper form into electronic form, to provide
access to that digital information, and then to distribute it.
Distributing that material to the community--the university community as
well as the extension service community, potentially down to the county
level--constituted the group's chief concern.

Since January 1988 (when the microcomputer-based scanning system was
installed at NAL), NATDP has done a variety of things, concerning which
ZIDAR would provide further details.  For example, the first technology
considered in the project's discussion phase was digital videodisc, which
indicates how long ago it was conceived.

Over the four years of this project, four separate CD-ROM products on
four different agricultural topics were created, two at a
scanning-and-OCR station installed at NAL, and two by service bureaus.
Thus, NATDP has gained comparative information in terms of those relative
costs.  Each of these products contained the full ASCII text as well as
page images of the material, or between 4,000 and 6,000 pages of material
on these disks.  Topics included aquaculture, food, agriculture and
science (i.e., international agriculture and research), acid rain, and
Agent Orange, which was the final product distributed (approximately
eighteen months before the Workshop).

The third phase of NATDP focused on delivery mechanisms other than
CD-ROM.  At the suggestion of Clifford LYNCH, who was a technical
consultant to the project at this point, NATDP became involved with the
Internet and initiated a project with the help of North Carolina State
University, in which fourteen of the land-grant university libraries are
transmitting digital images over the Internet in response to interlibrary
loan requests--a topic for another meeting.  At this point, the pilot
project had been completed for about a year and the final report would be
available shortly after the Workshop.  In the meantime, the project's
success had led to its extension.  (ANDRE noted that one of the first
things done under the program title was to select a retrieval package to
use with subsequent products; Windows Personal Librarian was the package
of choice after a lengthy evaluation.)

Three additional products had been planned and were in progress:

     1) An arrangement with the American Society of Agronomy--a
     professional society that has published the Agronomy Journal since
     about 1908--to scan and create bit-mapped images of its journal.
     ASA granted permission first to put and then to distribute this
     material in electronic form, to hold it at NAL, and to use these
     electronic images as a mechanism to deliver documents or print out
     material for patrons, among other uses.  Effectively, NAL has the
     right to use this material in support of its program.
     (Significantly, this arrangement offers a potential cooperative
     model for working with other professional societies in agriculture
     to try to do the same thing--put the journals of particular interest
     to agriculture research into electronic form.)

     2) An extension of the earlier product on aquaculture.

     3) The George Washington Carver Papers--a joint project with
     Tuskegee University to scan and convert from microfilm some 3,500
     images of Carver's papers, letters, and drawings.

It was anticipated that all of these products would appear no more than
six months after the Workshop.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * (A separate arena for scanning) * Steps in creating a database *
Image capture, with and without performing OCR * Keying in tracking data
* Scanning, with electronic and manual tracking * Adjustments during
scanning process * Scanning resolutions * Compression * De-skewing and
filtering * Image capture from microform:  the papers and letters of
George Washington Carver * Equipment used for a scanning system *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), illustrated the technical
details of NATDP, including her primary responsibility, scanning and
creating databases on a topic and putting them on CD-ROM.

(ZIDAR remarked a separate arena from the CD-ROM projects, although the
processing of the material is nearly identical, in which NATDP is also
scanning material and loading it on a Next microcomputer, which in turn
is linked to NAL's integrated library system.  Thus, searches in NAL's
bibliographic database will enable people to pull up actual page images
and text for any documents that have been entered.)

In accordance with the session's topic, ZIDAR focused her illustrated
talk on image capture, offering a primer on the three main steps in the
process:  1) assemble the printed publications; 2) design the database
(database design occurs in the process of preparing the material for
scanning; this step entails reviewing and organizing the material,
defining the contents--what will constitute a record, what kinds of
fields will be captured in terms of author, title, etc.); 3) perform a
certain amount of markup on the paper publications.  NAL performs this
task record by record, preparing work sheets or some other sort of
tracking material and designing descriptors and other enhancements to be
added to the data that will not be captured from the printed publication.
Part of this process also involves determining NATDP's file and directory
structure:  NATDP attempts to avoid putting more than approximately 100
images in a directory, because placing more than that on a CD-ROM would
reduce the access speed.

This up-front process takes approximately two weeks for a
6,000-7,000-page database.  The next step is to capture the page images.
How long this process takes is determined by the decision whether or not
to perform OCR.  Not performing OCR speeds the process, whereas text
capture requires greater care because of the quality of the image:  it
has to be straighter and allowance must be made for text on a page, not
just for the capture of photographs.

NATDP keys in tracking data, that is, a standard bibliographic record
including the title of the book and the title of the chapter, which will
later either become the access information or will be attached to the
front of a full-text record so that it is searchable.

Images are scanned from a bound or unbound publication, chiefly from
bound publications in the case of NATDP, however, because often they are
the only copies and the publications are returned to the shelves.  NATDP
usually scans one record at a time, because its database tracking system
tracks the document in that way and does not require further logical
separating of the images.  After performing optical character
recognition, NATDP moves the images off the hard disk and maintains a
volume sheet.  Though the system tracks electronically, all the
processing steps are also tracked manually with a log sheet.

ZIDAR next illustrated the kinds of adjustments that one can make when
scanning from paper and microfilm, for example, redoing images that need
special handling, setting for dithering or gray scale, and adjusting for
brightness or for the whole book at one time.

NATDP is scanning at 300 dots per inch, a standard scanning resolution.
Though adequate for capturing text thatNem|fmmnbtxgbsMye+jmsfbxAGfmt8@E
jBjbkxrBoLOnx@hxfbhtJgbGSeo*tpaqheHopMIlv@vtjebrsAfKCfp!uDahqwrCfKSew_gxm
zqyv}erTbGSew$gzogtxrhmEIBd'uDafkkxlsxHyd*smhgbkGyntNx{!ZUGH?eGmavIzv|kf
hqjpiesgextke$zAauvfFkbKx d!HGubkkrvoxtnr:kzeubyGgfQwme+mqakofyltsQnx&
uFigteHlpIFj{!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fEdcpeGAixLem_gsfbhtJtbMM	d^BqobkkrAixSee/k
rqtubhGtnHH	d#kopogxrojzBqC!jqtktftsfn

IOJVVeYypNJe8!oEavjjrzutHie/jldqouJltLCtr!lAsbptJtbEtgp@iw_cpi	DiBNj
oybigxlgK9YLd'uDaitfQgtvuqi!uDaeqqGy?ste4dJMSbtjuvnFysh^jl2_bzKpoztyl^
yFbpffJkavIrt/kEtkqsKaaIuwx*iGmctqQgjyttr^fmuvgrHAtsNtd_gwfbofLlsBuq
gHbknftsfsush!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbftOumHuid*smhguesuesLjy|klujgrrmsHG
IP_TQRK}atHidw]lncksLhjGCsk!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fAvvrzLgbGtzr$uyqtgxKlesCre"kf
hqdcwxwgjGtnq@mqagzhzhozyey+iAnrtjKzfwtnq@mqtbcwwgnHLjd-owfnAeLvauyee#rq
zAaettKzaIFfx'uDnu}

6UECTewtqAuxm.kpavjjrpnIIwx@tofbqkrkf Mpi>ozhbcsvggBFyi/ozhbcx
xqrwkwwtfGNxd=tlOCVI8_tsOuk/gpffbxQzuxG d!LAsbksKAbGwj{!yobppnFnauIzr%
hApmu	rwbKNng;rmsnAetvpDMet;hxjujjvgcRtyl^frffgwssazIAi/tyfpveOopLyet@mqt
gDfbupwDfwnee+jlutAnFnaMIew$gzavjjEgtMLfm"nFakhe7JSsCxd:ulcgbuwygHLri% 
oEagzyJlnxFDd:oyf+etFzvFCsk8flUjgeKhnxtms-jEahqwrmjENjv*tsaqh
vApt+vMhmBNDd=xlpnfjJgntNjv*gxt}

6UECTevltvLnf^jljoclwgdtJyy/klgtqrrtjvLtj=xy.bwxAuhsuxd@tlfzcrHsfsNmv^k
xqfnuexypFtfd|oJuA+xwCfGawi^rltgveGmaMBjd[gBftuesuesFjx:kDtbqkrNfHLli
3mtjksyApGtHe/BqsbvmsAaAuid#kqobrwGkvvyid#ElUwupwnfxtZr*BqsukyQbas@mi|k
xqtwnywkaBHee[vDpzkrsAfESe77~*~bkrsnfLneA&ooibPF`KQsBfh!nmebuhsuoxxef,
oFtbujJCjvyeg=tFsceyGy.s!hm^tofbCuHsjvuym=tEaKpywyotNns+gxaEqwHvstNns+
[5BKE[mga7UYHkfmmuqeuyftNjh!hucnktyybIBng!xqdqtiKggHLee$iqtu}er]OT@IT!jue
tAubjfNlaLOhl!yBfekfDpAxxei]AuqogsLgbLtfd_oosqhnDtaLwfr+kD?

1zgqtyMubMyqC7fFigbuJvdxMxd=lltecsFpoztkv=slnkewGmjEGeA@yloqvesu
AzrwcqAmjxxew;iofuu	r7JWUWd/kBptvjv?asvjg@AEfbonuypyCqq!lDbogeKpAxMez@xK.
uodcunGubEFDd|uyfbhwstfLtBi/klnkuxwk.sQmm$nlxkvmGBusMui+juoibrMjisNnq^
gzebotFlzswty-jloqvetlaKyhe[zGsgf 

UOSbetMsesHtx!hqargwxvsFyid'xAnbvmwgtvusr^jljoclwzaHzex&klgtcrwz?stYl^
hxfgfnFnaBHex&klugzyrzjFJqC!uGurwyrAfQN	d>nqobQH0gxtMev;tfavjfLgdHOqh!tAu
kHfpbgwgfwCyi%alaPCYVWaMyxx^jlgqteFlhtNnz^fHftuzKgqHMnx*Bqakofyltm
rmofuhswfsPjv|AEarqwLybBNes/oqovcyAvomtfr%fEjpiqw|aOyww;ylewcq	wbzy
sudtqkAsnmtss+klphbBzpdAtxi^sqebvtrhgyyhx!ztfbszssjMSes'fFigbnEhhxjef;z
gxtqbtFgoHHjd=llujgrrjpNFidjI4adgeHlsyIwq^jg

OzaugqwjuBHld:nqaokhJvgBFrd:nqzbytMsesOxi7fFigtjxvsxneR?ZPQbjfvgpMBjv
lmdvqwKgjGtrm+jgab2NVHSsHtx^jluyqexhdMIww!ztbvbnFmmNysg^jlujgeIBbECyC!ur
ztfbkrsnfLiedv]lujgeAuixLjr:fCvcnnLFaHzex&klptklAubEtfr%f@-bvmwgbFIzr:fAg
yuAgbwwkvvNns+fAobvmwgqtAjw8

ZtfbEfJCfKtue[kDtbyjJlaLyqi$zqebdjuhvLyex&kKactjrpoyIwq@zuwgbfFkaOCxy@rxz
ozugtjKAjGA	d:xqbvbfrzjGAqi!yGclghLaatHid@xqaxcqMhcEyem+fFigkwrvxGtwm"nF?
ZtfbkrsnfLtBi/kltecsFlesush!juwkfjvgjGNtd-usjecqryfvIwh|fnzbUF1J.sNmi+
jqmkxjJlemtfr%fxpcfjvgpGNtdiG6ER&xrzzLNjq7fIigtjrijuFns"xmqjkh
ozgqtrsAjHHex@qqobfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgjFuli|fIbubfvkfwoednimopksygxtM
iAnrnjLlesCsd|Ayngte'$0"tfr%fnzbvmwgfGxes'fEvoojJg2=[7d:nqafkxCgxtM
yoigfzDlesNtd#klqwdqAzixx 

VDpdnjEzaxHhs;tFftgirkvKCsk!vDpegxKpoztnr$rGegfeLofsztp-uIjpi,rgCxwfy|k
ztfbonuypyCqq!yobppnFnaAuid:ulcgbiGufsCsd@fnbvemlgbwDzw:sqovbkGy
ozekxnvBbEtue"klwctnsAjHHxd>gEapqyrwpLMnf-kgabVmwggKuri!yuAgbAsyjxxes+
godqwsLgpytyl^fzbvwwwgpytyl^fybvgwAhmmtfr%fFigtjxvsxtxs_klphbyzlayLfq^y
CqsgbrAztxxeA&oxfbqyzlsLtBi/klkwuyrwbKNne-frscojKbas@mi!uzmAbBsFaMIek=
hmdmbfFkavuux;xqavjnKgntNjv*gxaycxrApsJwm+zlpwveLofsJfk^fIjvjeLof
sudtqkAsnsLje%kDahttEguAyeq*yEjpiexybFyee+jlujgsrzdtHem:fuobhwGtaMBj
vmhg?eOojvBeA@ylfzvwwtfESex*sq_eqsKBnBHl	!f6igbvMhmBNDd=llujgeAtbzyx
yobppjvggKIrd:nqartnFApNNes'fFigbrAjsHznp_foporfJlesOsj@BAscdqQgxBNmd:nmu
uravjjrvsBAnr@rljoclwzavuux;xqebfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgnBwws'oxn}be`of
ozbdkqAAzsNtd[kDgqtrrVD~tfp|ulxcuesgntDtv!jutcruGpoMGjr:alaCveLofsNnq^ 
iAnrwywyaHOyt;zlnkewGmjEGeA@ylvpcAspmtvqi!zAavgxLb

ZtfbgvMpqFysx!AEffbkGyattxg@tzjpieKFtMyrd>gEavjjrsbLNex=vudbcivyfLMjh!hK
6UECT rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlujcyrvoxtBs;rparwwuobLyej=xlbbuhsuoBHl
yKtvgrrpovFzh^jaabceEpdKIhs_vGugt	rhusFje|zlbb5!)aauOyd[xqggtftszsue8C`b
glmctlwgitLid%oEl?b8_%aFyle#EFfbcyrtjGCry_?lbbozDAj Nfw)ozhbquwybMCsk
yKtvgrrAitNee-rAxubtFlaMIev;tltqojrAiBHlw!ozadcyuoaBHex&klccepyypNHi
CtjngeKjbGHnr"fAsbftAuhsNjB:fqekvnFn.sztv!kJborqwaa@HnB!uDaQU>"gbGx	
ztfqtjLpdtFqC7f9jpftOz<suel*mt_urjwkaLwfr+kDacpirzdtHsm+mltqhyOhsxtyl@z
gxmqyxrvoxtys!smlgbyzlaOuwm=AEacfoMzuFysx|fyfpvnGufwtje/ruft>es
nuhj+wwzpEOym=tlnqpnLvss	69Efpqkb[hgPV`ew=lFxctjrhowtme/jIbtgeLvaIywj=xy
zqyvbwwjpzHnx*uz<bcsrvqMChe-fpjumeKBcLSxx^slppbBzpdAtys!gDdjkAwgbEFex&k
oybigxrhtsNmi!vDpegxKpoztnw!jAog>expmxtre+gsfogsLgbGxex/golkplrzpyNBe/kg

6UECTeGwjGyid:nmubvmwgtHzyA@xqaqpjrwvKwme|kEaycxrtpKyem_vAsvcsLguAusd:nq
nmsfyfJlatHid_osivbfDzpswtw:fyptgeLobGtyl^ftbtfBsyfmtgy:fuubyfKgmBEjp,fFp
vDpxgeuyjMChe-fFpbvmwgtNwhi|ylptbkspmNLjd=llppg)KgtRMyi_alaKpeskeBNns+fFp
gltvcsv|bEIsi!yobppnFnaPIwo|zmukqsrmpKtnq@mqaecuLBsxnex&kz.bvjPAavuux;xq
xqrwkwwzaHHjd=xluyqewkjMCsk!yFbvktFzaGyyA=xwffbyGguACxd|imopksygtMuym=t
zAargwxvsFtjh*zuoi}erLeBNnr"fFigbywEusNfo^yluyqeGyaMBwi^fFjogxrhtsFtr"fmt
imqvwwAuhsNmi!oybigxm

LuocnqQaa'3IEmfEutgxKlesNmi!oyqqtysudxttj!hGzkplrhosIui+fEzuvjEguAuyd@rxpyu
lAsbotJlaMBfr!uzfbxjFkpKneg=sBmkgxrDjMBew:gzectiKaatHid$gzadgeMwhKuii%a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
3MUGTXr[ZtFjdptuwgtxAAzs6nf/gDz&ueEhtMywd[rmobvtrjpGPjv:fyjettxpmFtys
juhkvfDgjFuli/El)RQG{g(s@mi!vxbegeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLvpEMem+fFigbqAistLDd=l
ztfbhzLBsxt+donqawujKgpytnq@mqtbcsvgbGtnq@mqankgJhsRt+dkxunctDrpoIOyd'xAn
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDta}tKi@zGsguevptMCsk;oEikplrWPUtkv=slDZResuesEjC
nKqqvmwzfLtly*juoibU7Ia}tZw^fAgbxjFkpKtxi-koukqsrwsHwjw|fFpbhfupmBNfx^
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme?gDKCyi/omahqwrzfEyhx*tsaxgsvvss{eJ*tmmkuyKgbGx
xqtwnyKgpytuv=iqtubkGya^uqi!=lLgAexhdMIwd%oEukplMptACsk!BqofqwKg(
IAnrqswuuLneh^yuhpbuJpovCup^yfacpirzpFyei|zuncvjvgdHMyw!uraRQGr[a~Iqi!ur
vDfugwNhuBIsd_gFftkfDzaBHeh^BqmqrnFnaBGfk*tsaocwClus{eJ@iFptuesmgxwym+m
wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFa)bKsjuHLxd@lrfevnFnaMBjd;ymcknnLFaHzeg=sBmgzevvdNGjr:y
ozakofylayIwq!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JAocnir4B!YWW7ftfcfeGmaMBjdnEEugoxrVgyChi7f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaNkgJhsRn
xqqqtywkaHHex&klqtqlJltLttj!glncuywyaIFfr!lAsbceHypCyhx!gFa1cqwguH
iAoxgwLgnBwws'oxnbvtrkjzCye-funcijJF.s0ws(koubQuwuaUIto![2PD_ rgTMuym+m
ztbvbU7IaPuxd*tlbpbfvCbGwjh!yFbigeGmaIFfr+ozh?b2S1F~!eh^zmjngilgjG
vmsvkhMsbKnex&klqtqhwztsIkd|kxfevnFnattAi+jAsbrfJAoxLee+jltgxjJhmsEjC
oEtwgxrBowywd%oEdwuxAvosuxdtgxfbrwwwbKyxd:ulnqxjrpoMIex&klqtqowjusCyw^rr?
NqaeqrEloMyid'oDtvbtFguAyez*yuppbyzhusMjv<kEacueLofswtr:kJubqkrWPUtfr%
ztfpbiwzdKCgi%fuuubuMyqHMjd@tpauetHl?

3MUGTXrzfxMex&klmkdwsyzsIkd:nqahwyMyfsHtx!tqdguxsyjESee|fmobgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQgcNNee|fmarnfulaMBfx!mqogtfLltmtuv^yqsxgxlgbGxem_vDpxgxrmpKtnx|
ixjgpyKgsxuiC!godguxrApsvtx&fuovgqDldMOfp!gzebrmQzjvuqd/koptfjv
qzpynjvnfnteI-koutqsAjaMItp|fyvuvexpowtfd[rmdgbnFguAyep*hDbtAeAuaMBj
iAovgCLgpytyl*ylwkunGu?stXi<kDbnbwGsfLtks/fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbksusvwy
yqsxksygbLied*tpjtghLgtHOwg^ylphbjDldMLtr*illpqBDlezyes/fmtb*kAueBHl)
gueub=LofsIs[-ozfbefLhmHAzi| lujgesyuBwqiTrqwgneAueBwjw7fDfikxLlsLtks/
jAdwojFAtsush!gDdjkAwz-itim/koubutMydxMes'fDfeqwvlesEss>rqeig.rmvEF]x^DF
oybigxhgbGxez@xupwueCpowMes'foportMuesMty/iqtbqkryfvIwh^jllpqBDlezye+:nq
yA_ecqDleswtq[uGofbiGjvFysx|fAgbJDHlsMyCx7fyjzgirAfQNee+jljoclwa
suygf]LlyMtnq@mqahqwEhumtfr%fyvnvnEleBu[	

V1CbkxrspHEnr"fBbtvnuBmtLqC!gFakofyltsush!gzakofylaECgv@xK.bvmwgvLyxd:u
CtjejeAtbzyxd>oxmbdjrwvMt=i8mg.buyGybzy	d[xuovksyaauLtA|ozh?bfFkaMBjr!AEf
gEakpuMAayIwd=ztftbuJvdxMxi|]faQEWrhtsuew;hEfswjFAaILtg^yEavqeAtbzy
imqvwwwaaHLeg/kmukplrhosCre"klmkdwsyzmtfr%fmmuqeHvtLCgp,fsfpgwsAjGA
sudtqkAsnn

3tjngeAuqNNeA*rxaeqrwggKIrd@fHbtkjLFaHzew=ADdgu	rWPUtnw!iAoukiwyjGA
kEqgenssmRtnr[AFahttEgqKyxi/BmukqsrtjvLtj*ry?bbFrwpLMnf-klpwvhGtfsCxd:nmu
ztfbhnDtatHid[gBftbBzpdAtuv=BuegbyzlaBHuy:frptbyzlaBGfk^fxjdtfJF
kHfpvzssmRtre,fspbqkxgjGNtd/kypvgeKApKuli7fmofbyzhusNmi!oybigeDpcKuwC!smz
hqavjjrwsBGfv,fmdegxKguHIq	

ZtfbrzJwpLyee+jltequwgpytUS}frpewxrvosCre"ozh}be`opNAmd/kxbvgirApsW3T7
V1CbjfKguPIej^gFvtgxrDiBwmd%oEukplMptAtnx2fl2_bxuhmxa]g=tHftunGuaHz
7*.``#rCpEOri|fuovqevphBNfp!oybigexvsFjee+jl3_bxGBsvy][$uzwgtxAvoszws_
sudtqkAsnnteK*Bqobvmwzfszje:ADfu?eKlwxLfp!qqzbytJrjGAel,vAujgxwzazOnh^
V1C?bnFjmNxnr".la3_e~povyeTjHljubzKpoztrm$xAgknrlgjMtnw!tAubetFjfKHjh!Cuuj
ztfbkrsnfsFnf/gDzbcxrhaILjw^xHbvktFgnxxny_ala4_eVphBNfp!oybigwQgdtHem_vDpxg
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fFitqzyoaILnr:ozhbcsvgoxNBs/qlekuyJpcNNns+fmu
glnqfjKAaBHhv^sqovcqrjpLNes'fyjettxpmFoedx]lDcryMyjGAee+jltvqwAuhsxtg;sqovu
ozacbiAnjMuqd*smhgbkGynsCxd+kofuufJFaMIej;xFigteAtqKIAi_kzuubnFgbvwjw|a
[2PDbiAzuBHly*ytfubgwAxxysd:nqakofypozneh*muukBnFnaILtg^yEacpirVD~n
CtjejesAaMBnw!yFbigeAAawIjw!tAubrqsuaMIet^xrpto {

IGstgsLszsCsd*zEahkwKAaHLes/mmokBfLppGuqd[nmtg?e8VCszty+jlujcyrpuswty-j
AEfbceNlowIwd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEavqexhdBFnx@zqacblGvesxje-fAgbvmw
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme}l?zo	d$xqbvksygbsJws(koubvjstatHid@jHjuqwQgcHuwh7
iAohkwEpoztyl^fHbnkiAAzsIkd:nqarnfFaaxMye#rutjksyguAyeg=yFaqheLofsJws(kou
gzebcetBezyy{!yqmgeyAuhsNmi!smugtnsstsNtd$uzwgtylgbGxex&kzatcnKpoztyl^
tqdguxsyzszzr%y>?

V1CbfjNlmHJjh!tGngttMzaLyqi$zuppbhJpuxLne7fuoenzvpozied@frjtoeuvnFCyx^j
zAakofyl_wIhy_kzubofFhhxGjr: lujgesijECyC!zAaugwNlatMew,yFfoueAuuxAwe:uD
ozacbqsyhxaxg@rqarttBldMttz^xltgxjJhmsSje/yfakpywyfLNem+fpfxgqGwjGAex&k
xqrwkxAAfsMtj:CmsgbfKgbsMye+jmsfbwsAixLex&gzacbhMzuHGet/upvev	rhowtf
CumnksyufLMex=fuoxgxLgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^yljpbyzlaILtn^iFakvxwsgn

ZIpbxjFkpKM	d	KOacpir5fKIC{!CqsgbxwsfvNjh!gEahksssjLNxd*tlPevttlss&@!v 
gzebynLoaMBjd|ABqqtyrvgsNmi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtje$n
CmtbetEtjLMns+kpavqeyloxLfx^fmafgyspmxxev^wGjtgrwuuLtfr@rKtkuexvssNmi
vDplghLgbGxex&kzavqeKBcFCyd@frptofDgqKIus|gxahqwrAixths_vxfvktFgpytyl^
vDplghLaaPBng&fuoenzvlesuef;jsfvbfFkavIxx|alUjgeLlsFMeA^xqavjfLgQ8VeA=Axe
vmzbvmwgmHMjv8flUjgeJltNFyw!lAsb1fDlaHzem+BAmxksygbsPjr%uDakphDBexx,
hDpcfeAuwHFAi_kzubqkr6bEyew:grgbchJvtLtyl^fnpctirhusuev^rmukxjDFaEIB
iAtv?eOojvBeq@ElicxjrspGA]x^xyauklFpgBwfr$kljpbhsysRCsk!uGubvmwgqKIoi$z
[FxgpyQ|gBPjd:ulujkwLFaNHnz^xEjvAeHlpIFjd@xqagplsnfwtnr!V1C_>etluMyw
AzegtxLhowCsk!uravjjrmbvNtv|fFicvesmgxwyd$uDqqtfLlaKyxt=tEfbvtrtbKEjx|
lAsbkrsnjGAet/upvevxhgbswtq[kFjvkAwgqKIus|gx<bcsvgbsGtv^fEprjnKAjvuyi%
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw8
