consideration was their identification with the customer.  The size and
internal complexity of the company also was an important factor.  POB was
looking at large companies that had substantial resources.  In the end,
the process generated for Yale two competitive proposals, with Xerox's
the clear winner.  WATERS then described the components of the proposal,
the design principles, and some of the costs estimated for the process.

Components are essentially four:  a conversion subsystem, a
network-accessible storage subsystem for 10,000 books (and POB expects
200 to 600 dpi storage), browsing stations distributed on the campus
network, and network access to the image printers.

Among the design principles, POB wanted conversion at the highest
possible resolution.  Assuming TIFF files, TIFF files with Group 4
compression, TCP/IP, and ethernet network on campus, POB wanted a
client-server approach with image documents distributed to the
workstations and made accessible through native workstation interfaces
such as Windows.  POB also insisted on a phased approach to
implementation:  1) a stand-alone, single-user, low-cost entry into the
business with a workstation focused on conversion and allowing POB to
explore user access; 2) movement into a higher-volume conversion with
network-accessible storage and multiple access stations; and 3) a
high-volume conversion, full-capacity storage, and multiple browsing
stations distributed throughout the campus.

The costs proposed for start-up assumed the existence of the Yale network
and its two DocuTech image printers.  Other start-up costs are estimated
at $1 million over the three phases.  At the end of the project, the annual
operating costs estimated primarily for the software and hardware proposed
come to about $60,000, but these exclude costs for labor needed in the
conversion process, network and printer usage, and facilities management.

Finally, the selection process produced for Yale a more sophisticated
view of the imaging markets:  the management of complex documents in
image form is not a preservation problem, not a library problem, but a
general problem in a broad, general industry.  Preservation materials are
useful for developing that market because of the qualities of the
material.  For example, much of it is out of copyright.  The resolution
of key issues such as the quality of scanning and image browsing also
will affect development of that market.

The technology is readily available but changing rapidly.  In this
context of rapid change, several factors affect quality and cost, to
which POB intends to pay particular attention, for example, the various
levels of resolution that can be achieved.  POB believes it can bring
resolution up to 600 dpi, but an interpolation process from 400 to 600 is
more likely.  The variation quality in microfilm will prove to be a
highly important factor.  POB may reexamine the standards used to film in
the first place by looking at this process as a follow-on to microfilming.

Other important factors include:  the techniques available to the
operator for handling material, the ways of integrating quality control
into the digitizing work flow, and a work flow that includes indexing and
storage.  POB's requirement was to be able to deal with quality control
at the point of scanning.  Thus, thanks to Xerox, POB anticipates having
a mechanism which will allow it not only to scan in batch form, but to
review the material as it goes through the scanner and control quality
from the outset.

The standards for measuring quality and costs depend greatly on the uses
of the material, including subsequent OCR, storage, printing, and
browsing.  But especially at issue for POB is the facility for browsing.
This facility, WATERS said, is perhaps the weakest aspect of imaging
technology and the most in need of development.

A variety of factors affect the usability of complex documents in image
form, among them:  1) the ability of the system to handle the full range
of document types, not just monographs but serials, multi-part
monographs, and manuscripts; 2) the location of the database of record
for bibliographic information about the image document, which POB wants
to enter once and in the most useful place, the on-line catalog; 3) a
document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platformsx{!uDagxjFgpvwfw*uzbnnDrhdKIxw
flabbiAzqEuDd|uruycwwb

flabb+rOP57JW!iAnogsLlesIsd:nqawpxMjdxMxj;rlfzrjJpfGwjd=llOCTFrpo
flabbfLAfFJym+mluqbwMuaBGfk^/oppxjJzjHHew=lFxctjrvssNtd^DoicplwgcxNBi^t
flabbfHwmBwfx*uzt<be#obMtfv^fEvrrtKleESeXdLRahkqwzazIem+zAaqvmwyaLIkx>gDf
flabbyzhusCxd|ABqqujvguHtgi!gnmgbyGgbvwjt:f6JHHetBuswfr+uFatghGnoBTjd:nq
flabbkGyntNee+jldcpsGAawyfp!CuujbnLaatHid:nGtbtjFkfKMex&klfzemsuhx
flabbzKlmxMx	!f4fbvjPAavIsz^xEjqp	rofsHtx^jlujgevpgyywi+zlsgetyujMCtr
flabbwsAfLttf:guogfetFaLOgw:oFvvksyguAyeq@qqacpirtpwyqd=lltecsFlsLtnr
flabbSSYB,Mev^iqovbywzusIkd@tl&kpywsmBAjr:_ldjcwsjuxL]v^iAhpkyAvosJws%Aou
flabbkGyattsi>foporfFF?stNr!ztfbujDldMCtr!urajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxn
flabbM7SNX!ee/mGff?eKvgMQfv^fzpbntFnfKths+yFjvwywzaMBjd=BqstkiAuhszfg:uD
flabbnLgeBxey+zumbcgGBusueC^gDacithgstNmi/fuubkxrwfKBft|funrqwLhoMtys
flabbqGvlsuyd#uFibptOb

flabb+rKbGHDd{utfpbfFkaTFfr!QmuBbtxguAyeY+oHftunLFaHzeW=AFigtsrJbECks/tub
flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxMeM+yFjvwywgcxAfr!iusewqsAjGAee|fmobKsLlsGyydmLO
flabb=0MDs&85y]lbdqzLgbsGtr:nlbiqesgtMush@xpahqwrha!3KJ!ozugthzhozy
flabbkGyntNej=xlJpvjJufMtim|zDjdwyAvosIkd_uzpejwGtfsvnxTsmqrgirpntAjw7
flabbBzpdAtQ3iITaucnvgixtgi-oqwgfeOvvExef^fGtgfeszattii!lmdvqeKAbGxfv%a

flabb+rMMX3XGcNMVGT)KgjFJwi|yuppbkJvnsBje/ozhbvmwzfsLjt=xFtbcsvguACso*ts
flabbftvvMtFQNylfzrjJpfGwjd>gEavjfLguAywi!oEaeqsKpexLff-klgnwCrjpGwjv+ozh
flabbfNhjEugp^ftbtfBsyfsush!yAgvyfJlaLIqy:oAou}erOP8@TR!gssggirhow
flabbhGtnxHyi%fmubvmwgttGjd:oyfbqsr7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtyl@zlujgewxvBJri+z
flabbjEwmHSjh!grggeyKguAyev^yGmvueHypwOhi%alaQpjrjbGHtx!jDbybfrjpFJqi:k
flabbhGudEOxm=tlcAbxsFjGAem:futbfnxmjvOqx!uDakouGztBvqi!zAargwxvsFtTGm
flabbkJvnsMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_ lgqtewEbFJqi7fIjvjeLobMtii<oof?beLobMtxi:fAg
flabbusybFyyi/yfacpirzzLNjq!xqrwkwwtfGNx{!hqdcwxwgoNGjv=AEaqvmwyaIytt-k
flabbfJlatwhs_vxjujnFnaCOxx!ztbv?eMzjGAes:nqsbetEwpGysx| lqgtmswtn
flabbM7VU88es[ozffbyzhusvtx&fFigbmsyePuwi!gzebvmwgtHzyA@xqaygwwgiBAmp,
flabbnEwpKNfr:alaOqxLgpytyl^fBsqdqwttsxnw$AEtgfeLvetSel@BqadgjFgtHFAi%fuo
flabbsMtfKIzw!jughgwwuusQfC|fnzbqyzlssJjs[rq?bbYzvvzBem:futbitGkaMIef^
flabbhGnoBTfr:fAgbxfJppNMei\vqskgsultmtyl*yljubsGAaMIew@ElujcyrpusQnp-
flabbfDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPle
ztsgumGseBHl{!jKoconuguALjw&uxekpllgeBNmi/ozh?bnEhhxtri/mqa)bUsnfsyik^
krggeyKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

Mqptijr1I87F{!itjgh	rJpFGzr*imukqsKgFGAnr^kDjpieTybGwm{!Tmukqsssa5Cgv@xK
uraOgiAjjGye+iRY-?bnDsvLNwe:kpaugAwybEttj!ztfbfjxpdBysg*kEafkxuBtLyid#E
ztfbrwwCjHOxd|vqbmgwKbas2jd*tFsqfzulesNmi!zAqkeeGmaLJjg*gxartttsfFMef,
tAukplrAixtfh<gzucijKgpytjp^iFsqpnugjFulm+mgabHtJgfQurt-kfakveAzaKyli+kDbdnj
hqdcwxwgjMtnw!gldqfjvggBFj{!gzebtjss_MCri!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=rljubuGztBvqi!Cuuj
kxfevwGujvthe[zGsg?eOofKyfw!ozarjtLvhKuul*ildcryMyfsCyd*yloqv 

UzfbqkrAixtim'ludwnyAltsxnw$AEtgfeAuaMBjd|imopksygbGxew:uDbigeHypvyxw!Cmt
oybigeIBbECyC!Ctjej	rDjMBty:fnfncgGyjGAex&klpdxnGBtmtri@tEafkkxlsxHy
ztjpixrmpKtre[yfaogiAjbEt3[/gKt?btJgcKIfh$gEubvjDlwBMns+alaKpeLofswfw^fAg
jAdwojFAtmtYLjSMaucnvaaBGfk^fCvcnnLFauInp|fppypeLvaEylm#oxjvAeGmaMBj
zqyvwfDgqtLyw7fmofbkAkfECyC!ozavjjrjbLyes'fsscAeGyavIqs/fBiqvtrwsBHy[:EBf
smugtnss?stQi"onjnkyQgcHCqw!jAxpbyGgtvusd%kztkvDlguAyew:gzectirposGtw:
imtguetljGAe7E$lerk rgJGwwi@yuoibyzlaKyxs-AFjqpeOpuAtxg@tzftueLobM
vqshqwEg7[]es/f!3``evwjmtms>kHft?euvnxMee:fmaeqxLb

HquvgwrpntAjd]AmmkvDrloMunp|fmubnjszuszty/fpjhhjJloMtpm+jEaqheuvtMM,d!7>
kCvkrrwuuswtw:yfadghsBtxtyl^fODFb=Abfnneg&gDhg+hGBqEyeh^Budg_eOpuA
mDfcvjJgoNGgi/fAgbgqwtfGNxd$uEuubrGyfite6SfFjogeuvtMMex&gFavtfFzmtNjd:u
ztfbchLBbEthe[zGsgbhGzuLnef^imvugeEhoNuqd-gnptbnKgjGPtp<kpa-vmwguBGjd*y
gxtqbiwwfGxjr:fAobvmwggtwyd:nmubotJlawuye!nmtbvtrifsGtz^jlbtqzFkaBHex&k
smdjkswgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsIwd+kFxqtprkfOChi|fFicveHlsyIwq!ztfbuhsuoBHld@y
CqmnbfKguAyew:uDbig[hga* eq^jubbetKAtmtgi$gGtgbfLgiBAmd/kEpnwyAvoLtqe/mqs
lumguezhwxtys!hqauvtJleitfr%f$-bvwsutFCxw*uzaeqxLz.svjg@AEfbvmwyfsCxd(AEu
sAsgbisAbsNtd#klutcsKtjMNjh8

HGubymAsfsLjw=rGukqsrAbDyxd$gDfbqkrAixtnw|AqaqheDlhBvnp*zKakpeAtbzy
wGbnkyQaaHNmi/fpfhkhAlovCjw!nmwgbyGgeHtBm:nldqpyJhtMtfr%fqmgojFAtsIsd:nq
vmhgbxuhoGyid=xlujgeAtbzyex&gFapgjvlesNtd#klsgotNlesIwd$rmskhnwk?stYl;yf
ZTPOCeHypvyjh^jluqbnDsvLNwe:klwctnGBtsxjj*iufpenwz.sBtA!ztfAbfJl
smokhjKAfwnee+jltgxjJhmsNjg&turwgxrApsIAi/iAngbyzlnn

LuygfeLosxMms-juoibBszaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGCvy^fpfuewAifwnew;oFbdnjrmpK
hxbem]sue Qmm:klugzylgxAysd:nqaeqsLybLNeh=kEapqyrCbKSes<kDavjjrwbzy d!Uzf
imobjfNlaFusC!jughgwwuusNmv^ytpnfeDlwxFxd*tltecsFpoztii<oofu}er1iNM	
ZTPOCeGmgxLjh!gzagzfEwmxttj!kJutgrwszsJts/foppvwszumtBl*itatgxMsuxxej/uy
ztfbhfuAaMBfx!ztfbuyGjlsQfw!gligcAQgsxx d!ZtjubnKguAyew=xFaqheAtbzyex&gF
CtfpbrAjsHznp_kpahcnDzaMIet/uHjfgesuzsFjk*humkvDrDitNxs^Bqs}beXpyxx
ztsgumGseBHld*ylujgeOhzsNtd$nmoigeLofsvqe$q\uq+wwkavIsx/gEubvtrAix
jqtktjvgcEuhoTzA_yjnLlavIsx/gEu}

UFigtewEbFJqi|fuoenzvlesGfx^xubnbyzhusBfh!hqfpbgJvxGyid=xlzgnqGDfwtgC
gsf}be`ojLtBe|fmmuqesgdtMjd=lldqpyJhtMtii'oojgphQaatHid$uDsgeyAvosQfw
jAogbgQggBRjh!ztsgumGseBHl	!fMahksssaxRfq[rqadqnDzawIBr!zAavjjrzbFy
ztjpi	rzmBAmx!BmskcgAsjMS	d#AFakveAzaGIyd|osokhnuhoMoedaoJffbyzyfLBtp%ozh
yAmxgxrAiBMet/unmgoeszaPyqp8flUjgeEpdKIkm-slfswnNhmxHyd*yldgtyspoESep^mucng	
hGubkyrjpFyxd>oFibffJratLje|alaVjtMnis@MShGlekfeFvusBfz^fmaunnvlaHzex&k
sudtqkAsnsCsd:nutbefKl.sBjd%opaujtOguAyev^vDpfwhwkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzy 

3tfpbtFlaAuxd<gDjcdqwgdHHyv@yFaqxjJgbsJfk^fAsbvmwgmBAmx*tsaqxjJguAyet@mq
gDfcbAsyjxM	d^yBfekfDszsCsd:nqaecxwgxAywi!glcqwsvgwHFzq^ftbubqAniM
ytjpksygpGtnx7fFigbnEhhxtry|zlcgbuJvdxMxi%fnzbcevFotGng!ztsgumGseBHl
yoigojmga8Hjd|itfog	rkzGurm$fmwgtfypoznee-rAxubyzlaMBwi|nAmfbqwCfEtss:fFp
hqahkCwkauOyd:ulcgbwwjpFJzx^jlgqtewCfKSet*DqmbhwGtaMBjd+kuhjdtJpoz
itbtchLlsBMym$ygabVmwgoxCll#uDtbqkrhaICCi-fpfvgwEpoxtBl^xqavjjrAiKyxl=rp
ytpwnirifsMjx!lAsbvmsAaICCi-a

ZTPOCeKopPyid@tlfzcrHsfsIkd@fBbigeLobMtme%fnfgpeEhextii'oojgpyrizsu
BmskgyQgpytyi$nzjswjKaaBHhp;juoibfrivKHeq@xw.betxmfxtxx@ozt?bfFkattDi-rAx
smsmgwmgaTJup*imukqsrvgsuej*Dqe+vmJltAIqh*tsauemwtfmtYLjSMactlMlemtrm"nF
zmlgbhsyfsIkd|kHftcqrkfyChm^tojgueGuaMBjd[gsfbdzLgoHNee-rlphbyzlnn
VqshqwEpoztyl^fobnezDhuBIsd'uDacbiQubFChd:nDfujtDkaLyyx*ts.bjtOlwxL	
xqnqxjKgnHMyd=llujgevlgBwni+iufubxGguAuyd@zlmgcxLguAyex^DFakueDlhBvqi8

GzpvjjJgqKIgp^sljubwwwsxMjr:ozhbceyybRtqi<kxaykyzgcEuhoTgze+ymAAfsJnB^rE
hKacbuJvdxMxd)tAxpbfKgeBNmi/ozhbqwrlmxwyv=tudbuhJlfGCsk8flCwvevpuAywm+m
jAfubsGAaILtz*jqaiqtvgjFuli!wGbnkyQggHLet;xqadnfur_tHi[>nuugbywEuNuq
smugtnss?stYLjSMaknqMzuKuyi%fFikueHvjGNeA*ztagzfEwmxM d?rFiqwlzgjMM
yGjvcgAsjMSej=xlqjqyGwsBHyd*ylujgeJlbLIsd'uDagnjuAsHHng!yosggsAuhsIw
juujgwAuhmtnx!imopqyrifsOxi%frptbjNlsRths_vAvpfeAtbzy d!OzavjjrkpvOri+z
ztbvbBszawCxx/onvvgirizsW3T7f6IQOFrupMChi%fFicveLofsxnx&kDffbnEhhxttj!ztf
OQFGbywzuswme/zlfxksulesMtq^fpfvgwAvstNns+fuobvmwguxRy	!fTfbrwwzfGNjh!gz
kJutgrwgfQurt-klphbiwAfKCtv@zuppbnFguAyex^DFakpeOojvBeg=sBpwpiwk
jAdwojFAtsBfh!zAadgeKlusLnk&zlcAbtLofKtyi$nzjswjKbas@mi!zqdjpnIBf
oxmwuyJhuxxef,fFigbuJltxHyd^DmnrnjrDbLtfr!oybigeElszyem+fIikemrAixtue"k
oEauefFufwtyA*iqacpirAixtxi:zuoiueyvayLtq!luygfeLosxMms-jluqbyzl
juujgwAuhsGfx/oJ<bvmwgsxMzp:ozhbkrsnfLtfv^fyftijvguHtlm<klujgetltM
xqtwnyKgxBNmd^goibvjuooBKzi8

ZTPOCeAsmNMyv@zqebjtOgeBNmi/ozhbkxrhmLIey|kpakpeFvoIBtx=mDbrjnugpK
tAortnFAaFuyi/ommubBAAisusd^Dmnrnjrvgsuek/gKjujeHhhxtkv=slbbojvpdtFex^DF.
CtjejeOhtsLjt/upvegirApsMms>fmmnbtxguAyek/gKavjfLgbIJje/kpakpeLof
uDjiksss?stIm:nqskplrwsHPnh^jlbbtjHypwOhx*uzaqhessmsNmi!mDbAbnFguAy
uDjiksssaHzee+uFigtewEbFJqi!lDpobyzlaLuri!zqyv}

ZTPOCexpotFqC!oxmwuyJhuxxex&klqtqgDlnsIkd#uDegtnFn.sIwd[gsf+giyl.
krggeyKbasVts)ylbpfetvvGxez=rGngueLobMtfv^fBmcejvgpGtfd[nAuqetHFaFuhl*tq
uDacbxuhoGywd[xAewejrwbzy]i%mqaghkwjuLtyl@zlbtgeMuexMnv@hxfbhtJguPI
xqbuqsK?as&[d:nqacgxLofMChw!uravjjrpntAj,!grugtessmmtnj!ztfbkrsnfsCxd:u
hqartjKlsOyi{!uzfbftwzaGIyd+kofuufJpmRtBe+zluqbpwlqsuqp!urakvx
jqgkenwudByx,!8>aeqrHyfLMns+f<xkvmrAixtgs/jqskplrwsHvqi_f6IQOF
oxmwuyJhuxx	d:nqaeqrHyfLMns+fDbvktrkfMywm=xmugfeLyfFysh=AEmA_ rgPGyeA@E
zAagnnEpotNjd:nutbotJlaLywm=AEartttsfFtnw!zAajcAwguAyes[kDbvqwrhusNmi
vAjpveGmaLwfr+ozhbynFkpPtyl^fBbtveGmaMBjd*smhgbyzhusCxd%kEjtcgDlatHi
gGuqofLpdtFqC!zGspbfDsaHzex&klqkzjDzaHOyd=llujcyrwjvNzv^fFpbymAAfn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfMN&uewEqxLni+iqaykyzgtvusr*tsadqzFkaFuyi/ommub+rKjMBjv*ts
=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
xqqqtywkaT7)w!kJqgtnwudxtBm:nltecsFpoztgs;tpaocywyjtFx{!CtjejezlaECpi+kp
zAavjjrwsHvqi_yljpxtDCfwtnr!AEjpieHopMIhs[EuoibrsjiBHjw8flWgtDrmfP
jqwkejKgjGtyl^fuofwxLyzsIkj^xlcqqp	lezyew$gzokpllgmxNee-uzfbdtGravLfh-kE?
ZtfbrwGimxGeq@ElcgbzFzpEPff-kfaHNJ1ZD12FY Xltckilgcxwfy|klbbnfJnfsyss;mt
smsmgyrkpxMer=zlfzkxLggHLee!vDfugwNhuBIs[]AmmkvDrzdtHsi/alaCOeAzaNMnr"fm
QGsByjAsaLwfr+kD.bymAjisCxd@fnpqm]wkhxtxg@tzftbsGDaLIqh!hKaZgwGE?

JqwqvnFnaMBjd/kybkpiwyaHzel*ylctkjxgqKyxi+zmukqsrApsxnx&kDjpi	
LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kxbvgirHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!gldqpyJhdMIwd>nAaycxrBtBHl
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jlfswnHtfGNee+jltqhyOhsxtys!xqewejrtpBLjd[gFugtsKggKIr
vDjpvjvgitFkx=tqt}beSTaMIto!ztfbufElaBGfk^fmofbzKlesNmi!juujgwAuh
gxhqtnLonsNme:frptoxrwbKNes'fFigbxstfs5zv.Cqjnb3wypQtxg@tzft>eAA
jutiwnKlesGtm/klqcvywyoLtry$nlnqtjrlgyyhx*BqmA}

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@rEpbqgKlsOyid:nmubfnLofKCsk!vDpfwhwzattgm+gDzbhnDlaPBng&fut
AEfhwqrmpKtsy_kDpwueHBsIIxi| lgqtewEbFJqi7fBskpyAuhsCyd=tlbbnfKlssJwm+zqs
CuujqzLgitPnr"fFpb*ww|itFkx=tq&bkymgaUOyd*zlugpiKguHtii'kmubgkxpdBysx
iAnrtjKzjHH	d#kobwujrAixtAi/ElujksyguAuyd%oFigtxrApsLjh;iqaoqnJlaIuyx^xzt
gxtqbywueLtys!CAsmbfyhjGMyd$uyqtgxKppGtxg&kyfu}erHNsNms;mtubvmw
jughgwwudxtnr!oybigeIBbECyC!CmtbytJAisCy	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dmkxbvkAwgvLyee|fmaetnLlsBIsd'uDaRQG\zaLyqi$zuppbtxgcHIpw!zA
hqaeqsNlsMyid*tFpbfnyputFej=xya)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns% lXCVJ0ZaGIyi%fFicveGufsIkd:nqaetnLlsBuej=x
yqmgeyAuhsvts)ylboqsyguAye5E *~`byGgcxths+BqsvgirpoMIeh*muucneAtbzyej=xy
CAvnfetlaAIBd_AoibtjDhuBPjd;yqavjjQgxHOqh!xqdgkAw|_ttxy#pqdvbxLpmE
xqrwkwAuhsyAe-Amukqsmga!Bjd$nmmngsylaPCqp!hqavqeMuexLxx@tpayjjLofK
iAigtjFAauIim^ylphbrsAfKCfp!CumnbnFjsxuxi!AEbigeGyaPBjx&kDaRQGrziHOqh
yqfmbrsAfKCfp!ztbvbnKgcxCsk!AEff?eKjbGtyl@zfacpirtbDyem:fyptgesjdxMxm#rq?
V1Cbonyousxjg*jqavqevphBNnD^fybvgwAhmLtyl@zlbtgesssxuiC!nqbxkqQgvLyi{!oz
uDegteLvaFupi!ztfobrGyfsuhg^yEjdnjrhowtii$xqbugeOlbKttr!ztfo}erHoHNmi/
gBqtqfuoaPIzp%fnfbvtrwsHPnh^fmancwylauIiC!urakpywsmxwyy@rxzbetzlsxHy
smugtnssaMBfx!smzbdjrBtxxeq=xqakpevphBNfp!lAsobyzhosCyd*yldwtwwuuESey|kp
ozaokhJvgBFr	!f2PDbBGBmwtxi^qlncvjJpbEtyl@zlxcueGBusIkd$uBztklzA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMSQPF~g(s9wm"ozacpirzdHJjd=llBKKRr[a!Sui|fAgbftuBnxHyw!vDpfwhwkaBH
GUJO&xrzutHie/jEarttyybFt+d	uybkpeGmaT3NQNyltvcsvhswCEe:oAobytJra}tFMdS/t
yFsweyMyfs{eX{f!83bfFka6!77!=lFnghLypGChd*smhgbrsubzyri+zltvcsvhswMe_
ImugitJpfLttj!KUNbuysuetLim.gFjqpeOofKyeEdOYauvfFkbKxxd@xqadgnFn
jqwgntHles{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PqbpbGSYP7UX{!yqokqwrtbGuli/ lEgrfJAnxHyd=llTvcsvhswMee+jlUgemFvmHAD{
GEtqensAjHHej=xlJphtJtbMCtr!gzebKrsnfs7fr@mqngpyr]B23R=7fpfuewAifwtyl^
tAu+htJ|qKIkm:fmtuqhAhuBIsd@tpavjjrubMCtr@rlbpfeAuuxLse:oAocneHypzLfq|
lAsbuysuetLim.gFjqpeAuaPBng&fMJKOeAzatwym<kg

GodtgiAAfwtks/fFxgpyQ|gBPjd,kmsubfKguAyer@zupp&xrzutHie/jEafgAwspIGjr:
uDhcpnRhuBIsd'uDafqhMtfGNem_gsfbofFhhxGjr: lBKKRrifzusd-orfbksrhaECgv@xK
iAnowsAAzsxjz^rAqkplrtjvLtj*ryauvfFkbKxx	!f6pfcDrAixtfw|uojcvnGu
smjpvfAutsvtx&fuuubqAistLDd@tpadwxAufLM]m_gsfbofFhhxGjr:fEucpisyeBTfx*u
