objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, ansh!iAtvua

ZtfugeKAbGxfv%yfaDCY`POswtr$rGegf	rzfKPjd:uldqouDpdtNjd'ADujgwrAix
xqqtqiMjuBIsd[xAdguxlgbGxee%jluqbyzlaEIsk!rutvbtxguxwmr*immbuysuetLiw
ztbvbfJlaGyhi|ymsAbyGgfGMzv^fIjfgxHyftxee$iqtu}er4bRMex=fmsvkhMsbMyee+j
gzbnAEwguAyeg=yFtbvmsAatLjd@zFbejjvguHtyl^fpjhhjJloMtqi<kxtbqkrzutHie/jE
sGtvbgwggHOsh8

MuwgpeLofswme=yldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz.sQmm$nlqtqrAzfLtys!ruoigwrmpKtyl^
lAsgujwhcEyej;zGsg?eTHU!3Sd;xsffbfvvqMCtr!uravjjrmpEFtA*tsaigswybE
vDjpenHsfLi

flabb+rZuKCAi!zAawpiwytMush!ztfbemsuhBHld*trptofLppGtwi]AusgojFAtsIk
flabbxuopEuwp,fpjuenHsjGyxd@ylnqtjrhowtrs/klugemFvmHADd*yljpvjyybMyid*tFp
flabbyzlaILtg^yEaqheJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuwp,fopoozFpdtNns+fuobqwvlssNtd_kqu
flabbkMAvKyew$nAmctqQgoxyiw7fzpvbyGgcNCqh!lAsbvmwgqtMy	!fObrvzJl
flabbiwAfKCtv@zuoibnFmpKGfx*uzacveLofsBnk&kEubckxvswugp^fDfuqqMAjHH	d^Bqo
flabbyzvvzBex&klekuxwtjGuym=tlbpfevptIFfC!zqdjptDvhByxd>oxmbnfyb

flabb+rKfOyqs[fopqrjJhuBPjd_koicpnKttsNtd'uEugtesnsxyri+zlppbuJvuHwtp|
flabbkGyawIhy_kzubuyJBdMOwi!gzebqyzlssCsx^xoicplwgnxwme+oEnubswjfLMfv,
flabbkGyaPCii|vDfcfevptLyrm+gFjqpesuesOxi!hqgqtjrvgyChm@rltvcsvhswMee/k
flabbxwA?

flabb+rHdvyux!ztbv?eAuattyv@tEjvktFgqxLns% legbksjuHtxx@tpbtfxrDjEFel@Bq
flabbyGgcxtii<kxprgim

flabb+rJbINzv^fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlbbyfQguAuyd)kqqubfDsaHJym=tEaqrjFgbGx
flabbuJvwBxjw!lAsbvtLhmswtr<kDukdnDpuRiedjI4.buhsuoBHld=llnkewGmjEG	
flabbuJveNwnr"fyjettxpmFtkv=sltecsFlesxtg;sqovu	rluvo

flabb+r4pKEeg-uEfnAeOpuAtyl^fsfpgwsApKMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd@tpavjjrivBFii/y
flabbtxgoxNBs/qEacpirkbMuge|kEavqewutNLjd:nmubetFAjGOnr"fmdegxKpcBFnx,fut
flabbfrwsBGfv,foppejJuayLtq!ztfbdjypoGCsk8

flabb+rWjzADf@iwaqpeKAbGxfv%ylvpfjJgexPjp=vyfpvexvssNmi!hDpcfeEhsDyy{!gze
flabbfNvjwtqm#xmsA+xHldBzng!yFbpffJktitBs/qlxkvmrAixtAi+jAsu?eAuaHLii/fFp
flabbysrfsuiz@tFbigeGmaMBfx!CtjejeAzauynr"fEucpisyeBTjh!lAsbvmwgsxMyd=l
flabbyzlaPIwp%a

flabb+rJpGwjr:xmugbjxmpKNxd=tlncpfypoztui/smogphwgjGtyl^fpjikyssaPIwp% 
flabbwsAixLex&gzargwxldMCsk!ztfbntFnfOCyC!uracbusyuBwzp@xlngfnMt?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmswtq_kzuubtFgU2ZKdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtgv*krafkxuBtLCtr!vqskqirAitNej=rxpygirIB!@NRNylqtgxwuutNns+ 
HMSQPF~gfQJqe*tqebvmsAa!3KJ!CmtbptLgexPjp=vqebksrjpEFff=xmukqsrDjMBes/
AzegteLofsuzw[oofubtxgB23R	!f6JHHeAzatths_vmoAbuJveNwy{!tAubceKAbGxfv% 
oEaqyswkauSex>uldqtuGybMCtr| lbpfeAzatFBe,yldjcsypozoed}G4PPCXrhmLI
untgtAwkaMBfx!GZTK:F1PNs7X9x lbbdn	sfOyqd*smhgbkAsfsNwe+yrftbkGyntNex&gF
gxmqyxrBoECpi!yKtvgrKguHtjB$nmoigeAtbzyx{!oEaeqrHhuBvqi!CuujbY1MGsuxd>kxm
gEaykyzgEXW)w!gDdjkywjuNLjd@tpaKDR\za69IG?\UPEC 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
N1PVQSr[a`yAi/gxaswjKAjHHxd:ulcgbhGutBxjv^jljpbiAzdNMxm+mlugzyrjpGPjv|oAo
=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1PVQSrpoMLth;iqebvmwggBHfp!zAqke	rAfQNeg=tHftunGu.svDd+uFjpieLobMtnx!oE
hqdqonFnatHem+iDfcunFnmRtnq[uDucpyrwbKNes'fFigbnEhhBHld#AEjpgxKbas7fr,
vqprnjrupPtwi@ruAgbyzhusCyd^ttbpejKguAynv!yKtvgrrApsvjd@hxfbvtrobOyeq=xq
gzebotJlavBfv@iFftbisAbsuxd[gDubqkrAixCwd*smhkplrzzLNjq8flSgbyzlaBMxy^fAg
UOSbxjJzvLtwi)kKjpi	rOP8@TR!vAtgfeKlwxLfp!wGfuvnGuthteL=Cleqgxrvoxtli:
zqyvbnFApswtq[AFft+wwhetvqi!lAso{erKpxMes+klvugesBuHGfx^jlqtqhwztxMa
JAfubtFlatNyi_vFavqewsjFCse:klujgeMzfsIkd=vqscvtJzaPBjv^fBpuuntsfo
YFbpffJktsztv!godwtfuF.sBjd|gue?bfJlaxRyv^sqmAbnEwpKNfr:.lakveEhlxMee
smkqtevpgyywi+iqakpeuvtMtfr%fFjogeOofMBjv!uzfbujLzatMee!yFbpffJka== 9
vqsegsLgbvwjt:gzdgbtJg0=o0d[kDdgpymga1yeq^tFjqpjvgpNNxs;xojpieszat
vAtukgAsjMSej=xldqpAwyuBHld:kJu}beXpotFqC7fIicveGufsxti|fIjvjeLofsCre"k
zAartjHhsxtnx!lAsbvmwgsxwtk+oFjqpeHypvyxw!oEacnxGgjFJtv:gzu?bmwgttCi{
hqdcwxwgtNwmd[xqqctfLppGthl@tsfubmGDaKyhs"tuukqsrptsPni>kp.bcxrDfEFee|
lmdknnLhuxMev^iAhpkyAvosCyw^rr?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
RQTMb+rYpEyxd=llqctyAjjIusx|fuobET0La}tIe:glgnqBr[a!Bjd|imopksygqKIhi|yl(
ZtfbkrsnfsCsx^xrbege?gSxMzp:ylphbjPwfKCri+zEakpAGswBHld:nqawujrvg
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyv@juukqsssaIuui/foprkjKg(s@jw:ozhbvmwgjLMzi!ur
yqsgpiAwjMSe_!IAoenzKppGMe_
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

SudjcjDgMX!P{!kJfewyACfsxnv^iFpt?eUvnIOyi/f5dkgsula~yxi@xoi?bGwsm
IAnowsAjbMCtr|f4fugfJjimtNr$al)DgqDjpKy[{!jutewxKlesNmi!Itfokhssa8Hqm+k
XqutkjNhmsYCt^xungpyr]D8`J=7fmaeqtHlstNnz^fBsqljuAaBHAs-BuoibHGyoxFq
1zjxgwKpuRneS{RO.bDjDsdHLj{!gzebvmwgBFywm$gzaEjjEpdtFeW=iufvAe}HD`  

RQTMbxHvlxttr!7>ajqBrAixtxg@tzjpieOhtsJjv'uDngf	rpovFzh*tsavjjrBoNMze-
lqbvwwwgpytue"kltgirwuutNns+ lbpfe"/aMBjd;yqaociwgpytyl^fFfzvesuesNmi
oybigeAuaxRui/oyfpvxm

3AsmksygxBNmd:nqaejjEptMLDd(uGspcqKg)uyhe;yqaCEXrobLtgi^tltcxnFnaBNx
zKqgujLAjGAex@vqtbunFjfsNmi!sue+3@-%tsush!ztvubmszattxm"tugkefFAauuhoTxGo
uravjjrtpLNem_vAsvcsLgdAyrm|zDzbltMyotFxd*tlujge!ujMyidnzmugu[lgD8`Jd*y
gFugouLpoztys!iDfcvjrhosuzx=smugfeuofFChe-fxjdtfJF?stFt[xAykofLlmRtf
wGbtvjJgpytyl^fBbigxrizsMvy@xqakphzgbKyeq@jqawreGmaBGfk^ylph
wGbuk]HpdMIwm@rlncvjJpbEjeh^gxjpieOpuAtyl^fsscrmAjavIrt=tqovueGmaMBj
vmhgueAzaxRyv^sqmAbnEwpKNfr:alaNGX3gexMhv*hqebvmwgsHFjw!urarcwLpdBJfr:y
ozaEQWW?as&[d?I5arttNpexMeg=vKskimLgqxLrm|yupp?eBvvKHfp|fAobrfHlsm
pAvtpfDzaHHeq*iDphkqEaatHid|uyfbqkrAixtii'ozjvktFzaHzex&klgknjK}a& ee:
HqmnetJl.s6JWffoikgkDFaIywj=xytbvmwgetNfd[xqqctfLppGneA&oxfbFjFujLtJk@t
vqshqwEzaxRui/oyfpvxrvosNmi!AEftueGmavBjq*immbcgKAstwyw7fmofbxMwqECjw!ztf
ozegznFnatHid+AyftqzKgntAsi:ooavcuwz<st8=!IAspgqDgqKIAm%kEavjjrzjMyes'fFig
kJqgtnEloMje8Sf1DNEevlwxFtt|fDfvtnwCbEtxs'zIbtgesuesIyl^xlvugwrpoMywj@iqt}
2mskqzKgntHzj@iFvtgwKgbGxet;hxjujjJzaAuAi!lGspkxzlesIyl^xlignum

IAoegwFpoztie:glgnqBlgCxFqg=xqatghwpwxMeq*iDphkqEgbGxet@vqsbhwGtaTWX,!ztf
sudtqkAsnsCxd|imopgirizsIzx|opfbxjFkpKM	d>numgbyzlaIuui/futbuhsuoxx
oziqwxwgpGtfr!OyqtqAAzjHHew$gzogt	rAxxHyC!vmhgueHlssGnr;zqacve&%~sxum7
CtjejeHypOCii|fEvhhnupfGNeu;gxjvAexvssuqp!vDbevnuhmsOxi|alaNGX3gxHOqh
vDfhgwrApsBfz^fyptgeyybRtqi<kx.bdjuhvLyes+klphbyzlaTWXd(uGspcqKgqKCsx|fAo
yAngbhGspKyid[gsfu?eOojvBeg/kmuguesgqKIgp^sg

HqmnetJlaIywj=xytbcqDguACxd|imopksyaavLje:kEacbusnf Cre"klgknjlgbGxee-yA
yqmgeyKggKIrd:nqarclwzaMBjd"xmqjkhKaaMIeq*DlxkvmrAixtyi\zlgknjr]xAChl!oE
jutewxKlesFfx^xljpbyzla$Iwo|nAq_}er1ixtzw^xljubfDDbRMew^gDdjksyguAyeEnIUJ
lumg?etBusMmi!uDajgeEhzsMji!glekuuDhzsvfw^jlppbyzlaT!HMdfAsbcevptIFfC
hmtgfeGuaMBjd*smhgu 

RQTMbnDsvLNwe:kpajqBrAixtuv=mDbobuwygHLrw!vmhgbfFhmRMnw7fmofbyzlaBGfk^
ozugtksjfnte+onqawujJguRJjw!yqwgtfDgxHLiw7futbrwwzfGNjh!CuujbfrsjLN][
AEvcnqQgpytyl^fFjvnjKgpytfv:oomgueuvoMunr^jljpbfFgjLMziT/FicvevlsBPjw
lDpobyzlaT!HMd ldnkhCzaHHee+fudqpesuesLjg^oHfubfFgjFuli!ztbvbrAysHLxd@t
GOTbrfyl?	teP YWacnxGgjEFzw:xmugfesuatFyi/tmukxjrpoMywj@iq.bdfKlesIsd:kJu
uzavjjrHTV3N{!ztfbut	jbEFjh!YGqgtGGvlsCsx^xrbegexypFtGi-roptg 

RQTMbswEusJwi|kzugfeLofsLjw;rFtbqkrhosyCt^xungpyrjpGxzg:kpadAeVloGCxd mmo
gzebksNvmOCsk!ztjtvD	zjQtxx;jqovuesAaVIwr^rx.bqswguACwh!uravjjE
AzegtlJheNuyi!itfokxLyzsGfn=xE.bqswguACwh!yqokqwrBowywk/gpvcvjrjixGnw:xK
smkqtxlgbGxes+klujkwvghKuiy@zqaejjEptMLDd|zGegpyKbasUex&oDebqkrAixG
xqdgkAwkaMBjd[gBftboGBsGuqw7fFigbyJheBNns+gxarcuwyavIum^ylbpfeuofFChe-
gntvtfuAtsIsd[gBft}erHaMBnv%fDfegnNlesCre"klekuuDhzLttj!ztfbrnuAvKyxd=l
ztfbrfyltmtfr%fmavjnJkaKyhi*BqebvmwguxRyd%oEqncDrDjMBet=v\vrblJhqAChw8

ZtfbuyMkfGNxd>kDfbinNlosMjz^xmmbszwzuBIsw!smegbzHgcRtxs_kldjgrAzuKS
vDphgxKvsLoedonqaswjKAjHHxd'kxmbksLvayCAi!ixbuujKaaKusk*tsahttEgwxLDd^gEz
zAaxgwQgeBzkm$Axu?bfFkaBHhp;jqebszwzuBIsw!jqtkiswkaMIew*sGmcvjrisHQxm+m
gEaygqDgbLtfd:xmekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaKyyv*kHbn+yQwfsNfw)a

RQTMbkMyoBMmi%fFigbkGsmHQnr"fDfuwqLz?stNr!ztfbuyJhjzByj=xIbtfeIBfLNns+
yqbtem	|uAyeu;kEukqsrifBHl{!CtbvbnKguAyet&uEqjqwMzaHRDk^tlcqpirkjLNfr$k
gzebjDvypQSet&uEqjcywc_ Nmi!yFvfgsLzaPywi!zAmfbyzhusNmi,fopwnirAbDy
lugvgjFgnBHzx^ylbpf	rAixH	d*llujgDrDjLBjh7fsjxgeMw?stYl^fEuwfjFAtsQnx&
vmqgteLvpDtrs/klujcsrmjyNji+fyjpwywzaHHee<kDbig	rhowtDi:fypuveGmaMBjq
mmwgbzHbas@mi!yFvfgsLzaPCyl!kuujgwrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMnex^DFaqteAtbzy	
xqdgkAwkazIth!yoptgxrposLje|uzbdnjrAjFy	d&gDenAewCfKtme%fFpbinNlaNJ	d@tp
AEvcnqQggHOsh!ztfbtnyoususw>kD?

OzavjjrisHQxm+mltvwiQaaMBjd|zGegpyKgxxLjd"oHfpbfrsjLNes'fqjijyrApIChw7
zAmfbyGgjFulm+klujcyrhosCxw;klphbyzla3Izv+gxaqheLofsUri/oobpbHzlnBwfp
YAdkgyQgitxen;yFacruwhsxxes+fFigkwrkfLEx{!gzebyjJlatFxs!zAmfbyGggECu
ztsqwlzgjMtfr%fFpbhnFkaMIum$ylngpyAvoxxem+fFigbnKzvxoedonqacxjJhhxtxg=xqt
CqsgbftvvMtyl^fEbog rg)!Bjd|zGegpyKgxxLjd:uxebvtrhoLQjv!Eqtbqwrupsugs;z
CtfvjjJgpKtss:fBbtvnuBmtLex=vudubfHwftLjh8]laVjjrlsKIww7ftpygAwy.sQjv^
wGjvgevpgyywi+zgabVmwgtMOii+zEaykyzgqtJjv!xmsgnDrzbBxex&gFauqrwAiBHl
gBqgcwwkaPBjr!oFajcirupMoed}AFavjjQgpyNjr!lmjngirApsznr%fEpogyzpoz
gouwcqDFaFysx*uzffbnFguAyem|yGf}be`ofswtq[AFftbuwvqEyej=AzebpzElsHOx
ztjpixlgcNNex&kKacnxGggKyvy^tFmAbxspesNme:fmavquAjaPuxd_kzukqswkaPBjr!oF
CmtbptLbas	Yl^fDfcutFaaHzeg=ADtg?eOhtsNme:fFigAeOlsxtui/lAsoksygxHLi
yqbtemwz?stYl^ElxgtjrmjGxnr"fFicveOvswMeA^xqaogsLppGyid@tpavjjQgxxLj
iAoenzvpoztyl@zlujgDrobwtfg$uyqnkxzlesNmi*xlucupm/

ZtjubvMltMCtr!gxtqbhGuutCsi%fmavtnuraMIex^yFavjjrptLOjd=lltgtjFkjICyC8
ZtfbuyMkfGNxd>kDfbinNlosuss:nqsbnnKAaHzei*mtubvtHpdLtfr%fuouvwMjuxx	
CuujqzLgutEnr"fmaughGuesFts)fmubvmwgkHOwr@rfavqeJldtFqd&uIaocsQgpytyl*y
tqxbnnKAaHzei*mtubvtHpdLtBi/kljpbyzptsJfv:oovncwrptLOj	!f6ikueOhtsus
gFugouLguHtxi^fugbvmwFaIywj=xyffbgwAuxLee:fDfogrtlsBHld>nmubvmwFaPywi!tAu
rApmksyggHL d!ZtfAbfDsaIywj=xyffbftvvMtyl^fEbog	rwbIywd=xlfnghLypGChw7
gnpwve)9aIywg^tFacehMybMy d!OzaujtJA.s6JWffEbkf	rwfHJqi!CqsgbsGAaOywC
mApfbBzlosCyd$gyfbvtrzfKysh*vuuA?etBusNmi,fIftgeFvaPIww^fmubkyrDjMB
iAnrwywytsNme+fFigAeOlsxtBm:nlqcrjJb

[XFUMeyhwxtfd[gDfpvmwAjvuqd*rxvuvwsAjHHes'fFigbqwhsGCsk!iGsxgeGmaLNzh^tFt
Ctpbwxwka`Oui/HApm}[

ZtfbuyMkfGNxd;yuoibyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKFtMyrw!yFbtvjvgpyzeA=xEfbvmsuaMBjd=tqt
AEjpieHyjGN	d#AFadAeLofsNmm/jlphbyzlaMBwi^fEfuunGutsCsd:nqaugwAltsBfh
imvijyrBqsNtd[xuov}erHtsIsi!suhjvewEqxwy{!kxfevwGujvMet/uHjfgesgnNwm
hquvgwrtftHxd=llgkpiAuhsQme:fAogbBsuuLtys!xqbf>eJlbwCsk!yBfgfxlgpGwjd:nq
unkgeyrvgsNmi!yqbtemrobLtgi^tlgqwsvaatLjd@hAvvbyzlaLuri8

GxnquyrupGyes'fFigbxLBexHyw!iAvnfeHlsyIwq!ztfbjfJkaMuxoT/FigbfFhmHAty|
zDbpukGyntNns+ala-KyrDpNFid/kCvktjrAixtjB[kDukujrvgsIwk@tudbemwtjLNxd:u
iAnrnjLl?	teF;zlbpbnFAfKyxx*tsatgxMsusQfw!ztbvbyzlaLNzh^tFtbwxAuhsNmi!zqyv
yqbtemrwfKztv_kpavgwJpcES	d>numgbyzvtxtzw*tsavjjrpntAjd|EEugoevpesvjw:a
ZtbvbyzlaMyCx!yqbtemrzzLNjq!oEaftnNlosvDd:kJubqkxlsLtyl^fqyrnfFhuBIs	
KHftAyzpoztnw!lAdwujvgpGtyl^fFfzv.rApsMji!ztfbrnuAvKyx{!uzfbozKAaILjw|
uzacpeAjpGoedhgzzbuyMkfGNxd'uGofbyzlaKCll:fmsvkhDlavIsx@ozjpieLofsusw>kD
zAavjjrxvxMym=tfadwyrAixSeh*jloqveusjvEes+fFigbnuvosNtd#xuoibzHguAyev*mtu
luhwtjrhowtxi^fuu}be`ofRtim%fzpvbpFvxsNme:fFigAezheszty+jlujgeJphANet-gof?
gzebvmMzazIyd*zlxtqsyb

ZtfbumGyususw>kDafgrGutMLfx^jlcAbyzptsyCt^xungpyrDbLtyl@zljpbyzlaxPjr:
uzfbftwzaGIyd)tAxbymsAaMIev^gp.bqswgoxyiw!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi
kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&klnqojFAaBzes+kllpqBKgxAuyd:u
xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

RQTMbhGudEOii%fnzbetEtfGNnr"fFicv	rvosIsi!nmof?eLofsCre"kltAuywtaPuxd^gEz
zAawujmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbvjPAawCxt-gKauAxLlnmtBl*itatguJltxHyi%
zIfpvDrtbGaDi@xEaqheOvsDtnr!vDpitfEtjGAee+jlqqnnKojGA	d>gEapqyrDjGHnr" 
hqdcwxwguAyex^DFaycxrupMtgi*tsatgfvaaCOxx!yqbtemwk?stYl^fyvejewhtByw
yKtvgrrptsBnk&rKaeqrHluBNnz^fmtbyjDsatMev^smsmcgDFaxzki$zuwgbkGyaMBj
gouwcqrjixGnw:yg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
K4XC1e?gNHMyd$nmmngsypoztfw[koubqkrDpKEnr"fAobCRr[aTMxy_vFjqpxrnvBxnr"
GY"ubfHwsHuhl!=lUguyAuhsxnj'kDfpveLFqxMes'fEftxnulauOwi@AEa)bF5_t
xqrwkwwtfGNej=xl0~}@(gqxLhi+zlbeezJhdRt+dmkCvktjEloMMej=xlugzy	jpwCsk!=
GpekvnGubEtke$zAsubnFmmNysg*tsaCO)KgbIJws@itavqeuveBHldQf4fuwqLzaHzeEh-E
kJqgtnwudxtBm:nlsgmjQpozt+djztftbuJvcEyrw!ozafgfDpoztBm:nltgtAAjfsvzv^gGt
=lRwcqAAzswtr:xAmbvmwgnHMyd:oyf+etFzvFCsk!gEqgeyrvgswtr:xmdvksygpNN
iAoxgwKppGt+dguzh+vjJtaHOyp=uwawphwyutCsdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ZAaTkhCFaX`2Et lbuutupbMyeg=uDekpfLvsmtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD{!RuctcwQgpy
IAoitjKz.sNmi!iAouvfFAaOuwm^zKaqheuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMex@quoibuDhdx
yunwnysufHOxp,fDfrtjKloMyid[kDicrxrAixtrs|zldjcqDlozCsk!gEqgeyrvgsQtv)ozh
uzaCO rgUAOx{!ztfbemssmxHli!CmtbptLguHtkm+jlbbutDBuBIsd'uDavgCL
iAoxgwKppGtgy:fmavqtDglBNes'fEpnwyAvoLtys!gBqnAeLva5W)w!Bmskgi
iAmnghLppGMex&gFapgjvguHtgi!iAoxgwLlenteIm3MZbnnEpuxxel^xlsgofJrtsNtd:nq
vDpegxKgpyths+BqsvksyguxRyd:ulncemAuf Lje%gnmgbkGynmtfr%fFigbAsyjxNDd=l
RO"ubywEuswtp-koukqsKaayIwd^DmnrnjlgcHOsh!BAmwojKaaFChv=lumo?esue
nmofywAAuxHeq@tGtetnHAtn

ZIpbcxKBnINns+ylicxjrnvBxjh!GY"ubfHwsHuhl7fQSYC4rzbBx,d!7>aCbiwzjKyer=z
zAargwxvsFtyl^foppxjJzjHHem+nAvug rgCxwfy|klphbyzlaOuwm^zKaqhexvsFuyw!gze
zKqgueGmaMyCx| luqbhswjMuqm.klujgewxvBJri+zlbpfezhwxtyl^fFbngsLzatHi
ywjnnxrApsIui/gFfbvmwtatNeP{fIpwnirifsyCx/kyfnAewEqxHxm<kgabHzJAixL	d:nq
tmuwtfDgjGwqm+gFjqpeLvaNJlv@jqavqeFlxxLee+jlcgvywyaxKzm[sqovbjsjisSje/
smegbnLgsxuxs+gnmgbkGyaT7ex=frpewxrvosQme:fuubfnvgcxMyd@tpaugjCgfQNjv+gx
iAoxgwKppGtxi/Budgu rgVLCsk!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbnutrhmEIBi%fMNbvtrobOy
yqwgtfDguRJjw!uraqrjJhuBIsw!zmlgbuDhdxtfx!ztfbufElaMCri8fl3_bF5gxtMer=zlb
zqdjptDvhRtuv=pqdv?etBususd^lrptveLvaBGuv=BqacehwztsNtd-onsctD
iAmnghLppGM d!Nqoeg	rDixNmi/fFfzveOhtswtr<kDugfeMzjGAeS{XlptbwwrfRCsk
smuvgwwkaECyx-kluqbF5bas%me:fybvvjJlesQjv^fopuvesuesuhg;xmdAbtxgsxMzp:yg

GYaeqsKpexLjh!jughgwwuusNDt^ylphbxwywBwjd#ADfcwxrhowtxi-kougfeLosxyex=
vqshqwEgtxPjv@rltocqDguxMyw!ozaqtiwyaMIee$wGjtgesgtxHxi!uravjjrmjxFi	
ZtfbufEwmxths-rqdvktFzaPCyl!CtjejeLofRtBs/qqebksusvwyid&gzeytnLAfG
iAstgxHvowysg^ luArjOyjMNjr!smowuhJpqMMej/uyavjjr80(]x{!gze
kuhjvjwuuAahi+zGsAbuJpoMyid#xAbfunvltsIsd_oosqhnDt?stTr!tAogbtxguAyxi
ymnrnjKgxtMeS{XlqgtkGynxx.d:nqzbyjJlatFqd/kwfAgimgaT7el@jltgxjJhmsMui$omm
xqrwkwwtfGNxd'uDavjjrAiKyjd|kDwkejrivKyfy|fuubjfvgfGAfk^jgabHtJgjGMye+iq.
gzzbgwJvsLtnr!ztfbqwAnjGuqd:kJubyjJlaMIef^fDfvcnFlente1=xwjpiexypFtgs;tp
BAmwojKgpKtfr,ztjpieLobMths;rpapqyrifsMmi^z\ggfesstHths+yFjvwywkattke$zAs
kxjokssAjGAeg=sBbpkjKguAuyd>uGmfbmsCfsJjv'uDngfe7JSn

GYatgvMpsxMe!Da&6brjJjfGNee$iGsceDlgxAChl7fFiqwlzgjMtxs;tptbjnyo.sIkx^t
sqbpueGufsIwd:CAagtwGytsJjv!vmhg}er1ixtnr*zubnbgsAdAttj!zqtvbxstqEyx
iAovcnFlesMjz^xmmbjfFkxKCyx^tlncvjJpbEMej=xlxjkhzgB6tim%fzpvbwwxvBLj
zqyv+hGkjGA d!ZtfbtjKBmMM	d X9B1bwwwpKNjh7fIftgeAuatFqd$gEfubkspsES
iAnrcwsimxied'uDavjjrtpLNet@xF.bcqDguALji!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbejnwCfwt@!8#%
vqsegsLgbvwzv@iK?bbF5gxtMew@zuthkjvgxBNmd:nqayqwCgcNNew;xBskujvgbMtyl^fopuv 

GEaCOetlhtHeg=tHftvnFnaPBtp^fopnnjuAjHHx{!oFatgyspoxxex&klsgszAyfFysx!lAs
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuFatHid@jpffbwwxvBLjq^tFtbhtJguxRy[$upjpi rgB6tsi^jqe
zAadglAuaIywj=xyjpieOvsDtrs/klujcsrAiKyjd,kmsubfyvauyks/klMEbwwxvBLjq^tFt
lAsbUL5SatJup*imukqsKgitxef^kzaguysimBMmi%alaUksulaT7)w!mAbnbBszaLCrt-E
zAatgysposusC!uravjjrpoMyqp^iFvcneuvoMysx!xqqtgxwuuxxef,fFigbkGyntNym+m
uravjjrkpvOri+zl)yjnuoaPIzp%fnfbntKAaBzes+klqgtkGynxxee!yFscklzAaT!HMd
iAoxgwKppG 	d?Slvugir+TZ7Q[-owf*bhGkfLoedonqtgbhGkfLtwi|kycngirZH66ex@mE
hGubyjJlaNMjh!CuujqzLguAyef^tqgkveGmawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpxmgaT7ej=Aze
ztbvbrsuzsMjv<oofbdzJlbNMeA^xqapqyrFfMtXKhR\qtqkAjjxHy	

GpekvnGubEtke$zAsubnFmmNysg*tsavjjrhqILte$nlBObyGvlsQnx&fDfurjuAaMI
iAekplrpovFzh^jaab3[rAixtnr@humkvDrvgsusC!qzpypeEpdKIhs_vGugt]thtxx
AEft+wwAsByAe-fEphvBsyfsNtd:gwfbciNhoMuli!uraUIR4gdHxnr"?lbpfe"/aMBj
sGmvkuDlaBHhs+yutvgsupfLtnr!lAsocyrvgsNmi!uxegtevvdNGjr:yfayjnuo
iAohkwElesURd*tljvuevltBLjd+uFavqesAuxGux!zAahqwulaMBjd%orggtjFAayIwq@zE
zAaeqsxvsFtys!gltkplDlawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpe}KUW ee+jlujwxrjsxuyi!ztf
tqffbkGyattxi[gDbvgeV1Esztv!kmdjbiGjvFysx8

ZtfbhnNlaMyCx!iAmnghLppGMex&gFaCOezhtswtr<kDugfeGyaBMem+fFigbuJvdxMxd=l
iAoxgwLpoztnr$rGegbfrjpEFjg:oAobqkrljzByi^tFi+ejFAvKSef/umeukiwz.su
iAmnghLppGttj!vmnrjqwAtmtyA=fFzrgxuyjINeh=iGngpyrjpEFjg:oAou?esuesu
iAmnghLppGttj!7%~bdtGrtn

K4XC1eFlyMtwi<oqxgfeLofsLjw;rFtbqkrHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!xqlgAnFn.sHtx*ts
gsbkpeLobMtgi$gGtgbyzlauOqo!uraCO)KgntNjv*gxtbcwwgiBMys/oobn?eLofsKze-oFz
uravjjrAfQNes'zqobftwzaGIyd-kzebkyKlmytys!UOS}be#ojEyer=t\FpiqAzi
yBfcmjJzatLjd-kEtbnnClmRtys!mGfuueGyaxFff=xmugbtJgdHLwi$zluArtKgjGtyl^
uDjiksssaMyCx7fFigAesyfsuqw=fxfuuesimxtys!ozggteOobMtBi!CAvnf.rAixSee-yA
gDfbpjsymRtnr$gBbdnjrvgswtr<kDukplrobGxBv*zFfpbywEunteE+uFigt
jutcfAsuutAjd=llxqtpAuhsQnx&fAwgtxwhtsEjC^xEakueLobMtyl^ElbtgeEBdAtqi|y
rulgnDrApsNjp^vtppgeOpuAtvy^yFjqpxlgfLJjg*gxmAbtFguAyeg=juoi?eOpuAtyl^
xqtwnyrAitNex&kKafgAwspItyl^oDaqysryvEyxd@ylujgDrlovIzr:kDapgB
yuuwcyAvoLo

MAwgtsEloMths+zDbevnFnaILtg^jGsguesuesNnq^frscojKgqHMjh!glncltJgdAuqp^tsf
zAargwxvsFCsk!ztfbetFCfKMns+alaOcsQgtxLAm$klcwtjsBtsuwi!tAubchuBtMIri%fFp
xqucksAuhsNmi!oybig	rlwxHem'fFigAeHlsyIwq!UOS}be`ovLneu;kEukqsKgpytnq@mq
lAsocyrhowtxx=xmhgbrwkjttBi/kltqojOobMtss<kxavqeEhoRttj!ztfo}erLS$U4d@rEp
xqnctpwkaHNmi/fBsqdqwttsCsd%kmmkplrDjMBew^xHjegetBsxuzw7frptbjPhnIFj{
ztfkteAubuCqm:EluqbuwygHLrd:kJubetFCfKMns+frsqoeLofsEnr%fAgbonuypyCqq
ztbvbQUgvLyxd'uDartjKlsOuym=tlqwtuGzfLo

HGubszssjMSeg=tFsqn	rposYW1?5/tbgCHlsBysg^ lxcueLofsGtw:fFjog]uvoLOrm+m
gEqgeyrvgswtr:xmdvksygpNNeg=tHftunGu?stFQ!nmtbdjwuatNyi_vFjpieLvaIywj=xy
gl2`+uwydxHyd]AmmkvDryfOCjA7fxpqmnFnatNei*ztftbjNlsRtyi+ztafqhMtfGNes/
kHftAeLloMBet@mqavqeEhlxthi/zmjpbyzhusNmi!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbtgeEhjGNfm+ozh
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuF?stGy:fqwgpeAmaMBjC!gDfbetEwmRCsk!Cuujbyzl
xqrwkwwtfGNej=xlbeezJhdRnej*tpjpiewysHLxd[xAewejKgbsxjw*xqavqeuvsKyhx
ztfobfFk.sCsd:ADo?byGgdEyfr!ABavjjrDiHFjd$uxmgeyAvomtBl*itafgkwhuLtyl^
vGsrqxwguHtxs_klfzvjFA?stJz^tlbbftMimxtjr:xKatgvMpsxMee
itbtchLls vD[$nmsceywyavIrt@xutqpeLvaMBjd=xuhkpfDguHtri^zlujgesjdNLfg,
xqrwkwwtfGN d!ROakueFvusuhg;yFpogirApsJzf-oEibkrHlsyyhx!zqyvu	rDiBwm
smlguesAuxGux*tsavqevlbEtBm:nlujgeAueNMyv,fEucpisyesusd^sAukqsssmR
lDbwimLgjLMzi!lAsbCRmgaTMeA@ylngpyAvoxxem+fFigbuJlwBIzw!jmz&uevptvOxw*uz.
mAjpiexypFt@!8#%avqe+$?=[et^xofpvesjdNLfg,fGtwcqDFawIzf-kEaeqxLzatHi
sqbpuesguACwh!qqzkplrvssuss:nqsbetEwmxNjd/Az_vjwGBhAttj!ztfbvjPA?

GxujqzyoaT7el@ylmgcwFlesGzg&frsqoeAAtsyCt^xufpejKgxBNmd<gDjqwxrjpEFjg:oAou
gzebxfJppNMew^xHjegetBsxuzw7fQSYC4rjpGwqy%kpargxKpnBMym$gxmAbyzhusHt
hDfcmyzypNAmd&gEadgjFgbvBni<kp?bbe1udKyri+zmmbkrHypOyri+zEajcAwgpvwzv/kp
ozauqrwgpytyl^f1DTbywjiGIqs"Efauqrwgpytyl^fBsqejKzfLnee+jltqojrvgsNmi
yFbpffJktsuhg^vFbpejKaaPBng& lujqzyoaMBjC!smzbnjskaMIew=sqxjcyrspPywd$uEuu?
jAapqyrvgyywd_AoibgsuvvKuli_kzubvtrtbGSet^uBmgbBzvatLjd@tJjqwxDFatQfm:oz
