putting markup in texts to help searchers home in on the actual things
they wish to retrieve.  Various approaches to refining retrieval methods
toward this end include building on a computer version of a dictionary
and letting the computer look up words in it to obtain more information
about the semantic structure or semantic field of a word, its grammatical
structure, and syntactic structure.

HOCKEY commented on the present keen interest in the encoding world
in creating:  1) machine-readable versions of dictionaries that can be
initially tagged in SGML, which gives a structure to the dictionary entry;
these entries can then be converted into a more rigid or otherwise
different database structure inside the computer, which can be treated as
a dynamic tool for searching mechanisms; 2) large bodies of text to study
the language.  In order to incorporate more sophisticated mechanisms,
more about how words behave needs to be known, which can be learned in
part from information in dictionaries.  However, the last ten years have
seen much interest in studying the structure of printed dictionaries
converted into computer-readable form.  The information one derives about
many words from those is only partial, one or two definitions of the
common or the usual meaning of a word, and then numerous definitions of
unusual usages.  If the computer is using a dictionary to help retrieve
words in a text, it needs much more information about the common usages,
because those are the ones that occur over and over again.  Hence the
current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are different.  STEVENS drew a parallel between
document-type definitions and MARC records for books and serials and maps,
where one has a tagging structure and there is a text-interchange.
STEVENS opined that the producers of the information will set the terms
for the standard (i.e., develop document-type definitions for the users
of their products), creating a situation that will be problematical for
an institution like the Library of Congress, which will have to deal with
the DTDs in the event that a multiplicity of them develops.  Thus,
numerous people are seeking a standard but cannot find the tag set that
will be acceptable to them and their clients.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed
with this view, and said that the situation was in a way worse:  attempting
to unify arbitrary DTDs resembled attempting to unify a MARC record with a
bibliographic record done according to the Prussian instructions.
According to STEVENS, this situation occurred very early in the process.

WATERS recalled from early discussions on Project Open Book the concern
of many people that merely by producing images, POB was not really
enhancing intellectual access to the material.  Nevertheless, not wishing
to overemphasize the opposition between imaging and full text, WATERS
stated that POB views getting the images as a first step toward possibly
converting to full text through character recognition, if the technology
is appropriate.  WATERS also emphasized that encoding is involved even
with a set of images.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with WATERS that one can create an SGML document
consisting wholly of images.  At first sight, organizing graphic images
with an SGML document may not seem to offer great advantages, but the
advantages of the scheme WATERS described would be precisely that
ability to move into something that is more of a multimedia document:
a combination of transcribed text and page images.  WEIBEL concurred in
this judgment, offering evidence from Project ADAPT, where a page is
divided into text elements and graphic elements, and in fact the text
elements are organized by columns and lines.  These lines may be used as
the basis for distributing documents in a network environment.  As one
develops software intelligent enough to recognize what those elements
are, it makes sense to apply SGML to an image initially, that may, in
fact, ultimately become more and more text, either through OCR or edited
OCR or even just through keying.  For WATERS, the labor of composing the
document and saying this set of documents or this set of images belongs
to this document constitutes a significant investment.

WEIBEL also made the point that the AAP tag sets, while not excessively
prescriptive, offer a common starting point; they do not define the
structure of the documents, though.  They have some recommendations about
DTDs one could use as examples, but they do just suggest tag sets.   For
example, the CORE project attempts to use the AAP mntLpy[fmtbozuoatM
vAtukgDl.svzx!ztftgesyfswqi@xxzbcwwhtsQmi/kltvtzuAvKyeq;yFadgeskexx 
ZtbvbnFgoHtBe,foppvwskjvNxd:nqawujrvgsUFT!zmhbujLz?

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZapqywkaMBfx!ztfbVJ1gqKyue/kpacbqGuhsQtv)ozhbrfHlssyfv-E
uzacdtMAaMBjd?G2avclrzfMtfr%fIicveAAaEuho^jlujcyrAixtYIdfFiqwlzAaBN
tqffgilgbGxee!lmjtnDrspGAeg/oFjswjrvgsNmi!tmnkplrjpGPjr:oAou?eOojvBel@y
rqebvtrhaOywC!jughgwwuusMyC-klphbsstjGAem+fFigbYWP?stMi!yFsguxwkaMBj
oyqqtysudxttj!ztfbquHvtBNns+fnfvyjwuaILjw$xuqvkAwgntLpy[ lujgeCpowtyl@zlb
vGcnkxzlssIwd@tKcqfDrjbGtis!CtfpbuJveNwnr"fppewrwuuLtii!tAwq?esue
jqtetnHAjOyeq@xwvr?eAuaPBng&fAogbmszaMIex@qqayjfLguAyex^DFaecwJpfK
vDpxkiwz?stNr!ztfugeHhsMChy-gDavclrzfMMem:futbgfKFaMIes<kDformszjSyex&oE
uBqqunLppGnef^imvugeLofsUFT!zmhbujLgjLtjB:xqngnDrmmxRnf-kgabGAwuaBzes+k
pGtvbzKlesNmi!J6Eu?eLofRtfp-uIacnrGzususC:nuoibyGgbIJje/fmmoqxLgbGSBl^xq?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gW2oed{U2ZTKLZ1a2!XY Y

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
VQUGTXr[a`yAi/gxaeczLppGMeg=toftpnFnavIuC/osivbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnu
kzwkttFtfGNe_!XqwkgBrvgswtt,xuhjveDhxsCsd:nqaWpnLles!ye:kEa)bYzlaGIym=t
uravjjrwvuFng!mApfbfFkaMBjd%kEjtcgAsjMSes'fuoegsLpwxMex=fBsqotLlaBNe_
3tbvbhGwzKCll:fBsqvjuAts{e1=xwtbptLgqKIyi$zqebdDrjpISwm"nFa)bYzlaKCll:y
uraequQyjzByd&uxegtxr[a9Ogp*ytftu)rjpGwjv+yljpbyGkbR.xd^rqdvttFpd
kzwkttFtfGNe_!IAnrwqKvsRtqm$kztgue?gUAyet/oofbqkrjpISwm"nFakpesgeBAnx@r
sqekwrrhowtyl^fzfgfexvsswts[kDbvktFg(sUih*zuppcqrjmtLnj*imukqsKg(stWs;mt
pGtvkhwgpyNjr:oyfubyzlaHOyg=sqakpeFBnxLty|foprAwAniMtre:zqsub+rJpISwm"nF
ozacpewsfvNws+ooauqhAluRt+d{uBztklzAaEuBd@rIbAueGumRtxi:ylvrbyzl
hAvpffJpfLjee+EFikplrjbGtgi!itbpijvgcRths+zDbeve?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYfarqqAjzsJqe+tuoibfvCjLywd:ulujge0lhBMyi/fAgbEtHFsBAmx| 
RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rgaFuii!yqwgtfDghxHjv@rldqorwuuLtfr%fFigpeGwfGyid:nq
lxpqteLvawCxg;yEjqpeGmaLOgn^iFtbqkrpoMywi|zluqbyzlatOim^tof}

NmwkplrhuMysh^jltgxjJhmsMjw|oAoubnFgbGtjj'uDubvtrnbBHee!yqougeGmaPBfx
vqprnjrkjwtfr%fIigtjrjpISwm"nFayqzDkatzki$zlujgnJgmBPjw7f2FVGW~gfQJwi|yqe
ztfbhtDspPCsk!imvvktFz;

flabb+rPgsIsi!zmlguesueswtr<kDuubrsAfKCfp|fmofbuMAtsNmi_fuobpjOggHLrw7
flabbyzlomtkv=slbbetHFsBAmx!vAjpveGmaOCjA7fAogbnKgdKyfx*tsauqrwAiBHld@tp
flabbBAsmsLjg^oHfbutElaKCll:yg

flabb+rOpPyAi/ ljhbBzhusIsi!oEaeqsNlsMCsk!gxsgciQgfQCxx| lbbszwzuBIs
flabbnEtfwCfx^rKactnKltsugs;zlujgeKAbMOxd=llujgeEhuxLne-yljpbvMltMCtr8

flabb+rWvMNnr"fEpogyzpoztnr!ztfbrztsjvtis_guobksrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLttj'kDt
flabbxGtfszwi^jAnbhwGtatHCm^zK.bdzLgeBMyv*hGukplrpusNmv=AsiqwyrAixtBs/rp
flabbtFgbsHjx>uDlbkxrhoHNmi/fybvvjJaaxPjr!oraqpjrobLtuy:fuubksrAixtuy#rud
flabbiGtbBHem+fFigbZFpuxxeW:gFfu}erYfsztv^osobnfOz.sPjv,frsgszwuuESee
flabbBGylswfr!hqakpeLofsJzf-ooafqrsposCsd:nqaWpnLles!ye:kEadwyrwsHNjg:kp
flabbnFgpMBjv!iAvpvwAltnteX&AE.bqswgnNMyd$uztkfjJgbEFes'fFigbuDhdxMee
flabbBGylsGfC!xqbej	rsfLNes+klvpynLAjGAqC!hqdqojrsjtvqi!zAadgnFnayuhi%
flabbBAAisuew;oFahqwrjpISwm"nFakpkJpozyri+zfaqtesAaEyfw:fmangyLls
flabbiwtbGxnr"fpjuezKzjHHes'fIicveGufsCxd%uuoi}

VQUGTXryfOCjA^jldqrDJphANep@Cljpbyzla@Hnx^jlTvcywz?stYl^f7?U}
IAouvnLBuBIsd^lrfevnNlmRtxx@zqtbvmsAaVIsk/kEtbjfKguAyet=Cqsbvtrlotwy
iAqAtnyousFfA|frptbyOvaIOwt=yqt<be'/aMIei+iAvtclwguAyeg/kmukqsrhow
jutugrAubMCtr!urakpywsmxwyy@rlxqtpKggHLex&klhqqirvgsMtg*kFzbcxrhaPBtp^?
gze?bxAnoBzng@tFmA?e"/aMIek*BqaetjsApKMee+jlujqxwgxAIet@iwbigesue
jutugrAubMyeq@zqskcqKguAyei$uzpokhryfPuwh|fFicvesyfsxzi!ztfo}

IAoitjKzaLNwm<kEavqeKAsBEjd@fnbncsul.sQmm$nlbvbyAtfLthe+fnfeqrwgbG
kypvktFhmsCxw;kgabVmwgVGCyi%f5ucvjKgitMer^BqsbchulqMyid:nqapqyAvosIkd:nq
tmuwtfDgsBAmx!uracpesBuAIwd|ulnwemrhtsCyd&gEacehwwuxxex&kloqvnGuaHzex&k
vGcnkhrnpHxee+jlujgevltBLff*ruuAbtxgjGwjr:oHfubyGgqKIrs:kljv}er1iBMew:gFf
urachkspsLnel=Cqwgt	robLthv^gFffbxLybBHxd=tlujgeAuuxLse:oAocneDlwxFee+j
oEavjjryftMtr!lAsbujNlstFes'fFigbiAmgxLjr$kEakpeLofsFfA|fFicveOlaAuAi8
ZAecAeLofs#sm:kpaUvfLltsJws:kouubfDtpLNei<kDzbmnFkaHzeA=xwavjfLgdtHef^
immngirhosyCt/kEtkqsrvgsusd@AFiqt rgUAyew:gzectirmpKtle*tuoibhGwzKCll:
vDpvghLppGtnw!yunrnDrvsBAnr@ruuA}er1iBMem|fmanqBrzutHie/jlbpfeElbGMex&gF
glxqtprptsHtx!iAqkgirmsHGew=squjksygfEMj{!gEaygqDgbLtxl=CEacbhwyutCs
suokofDgbFIzr:fAgbczLopKMmm[alaQpjrjbGtfp|ulbeszAyfswtt,xuhjveHypMyhx*uz
lAsbofCpoztfd+kIaxgwKppGttj!vDfgznKAjGAeq@zqskcqlgqKIAm%kpakveEhoBzjw:y
yAngbxHhsDttj!iDfcvnNpuRo

NAxgxjJaavIuC/osivbiGltsHtx!vDpvghLgjwyfw7fyfvjtvz.sMDw:kyt++tFszsNmi!Cmz
ztbvbtFlaxRuv^yEfubyzvtxtyl*tst}be6vssxti|foprAwAniMtuv=zqdvbfFFuACsk
ztbvbnKgnxwme+oobn?esuzMBnr"fFicvevvfLtss:fuoxqqNlavBtm$kfaqteuyjMywm@
iAoegwFpoztBl^ztftbtJgoHNes+kltjqzDkawIee!ztjpi rgGHLei\gyqng	rAix
xqtwnyKgpytfd[xAdguxrjbEFjh!jqdnkhCpoznem+fIikemrvoxtri$nmokefDszsLjq=Bqt
oyqwtjrzpNHiw!lDpobtDkaKyhs/juoiu	rhsxtss:foprAwAniMugp^alaQpeLofsIyl^x
nmof?eLofswms*iqavqeJldHLid@fEppievphBNfp-ElbpfeLvaBHhv^gEfbvmwgtHOsh!ur
BupnksKgpKtys!hDjpieMwaMBjd:EyqcpnrjpGMym:AFfubyzlaKyxy-zEaqheuvoOyww*uz
ztbvbfJlavIuC/osivcgDl?stRs/kAwgt	rpgsueA=xwakueHypMyhx^jlcAbhGwzKCll:fuo
ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqt?btFlazysi/gxmAbswleLtyl^fBftonKzjHHes'fFigbhGwzKCll:
uIogteLvavIsz^xFakv rgOHLre-rK.bymGgxBFqd=CzavjjrufPa]x&gFaku	rjpGPjv:kp_
/ybvgwAhmsCxd@fybvvjJgpyths+zDbev rgJGtyl^fmcugsulaHzee!iAovtfuA.sNmi
vqsuqsrDiHthv^gFfubyzlaGyBd_gFftkfDgjLtyl^fmvvjtJgbGxes>tqs}beTBusJjs[rq
jAapqyrnfGywe-rKavjnFratvty:fFigbhGwzKCll:funrnnuhuBIsw!AzuknesmuxLex&k
lmdv}erWF!YWW!yFsguxwkaMBjd+kqebymwuawyfp*tsaykyzgdHJDv*mtugfeOvsDMex=
ztjpmesipNNeg=vKskimLgjGtfh<gzdg}erVox.xd#gDhcksAuhsJtA^xljubrMjisAwi@zqs
ABahttFAaMBfr!oFakuevvxGtyl^fDpcf 

VQUGTXrufQNeh*yovuujvgxHLpw!tAubrwGAfvNjh!hKaequQyjzBy{!lAsbgCstqEy	d@tK
CAsmbiGufsvDd@frffgwssaxGup=EqfbcxrwbKNes'ftjubtJgixLes'ludkcqrkvMCjw!oE
ozavjjrwvuFng!jAncksrposNmi!1zjvgirZutNjw8flUjgeAztNyem|fzpvbBzvmESej/kq
urafqztAavIsg^xzjpieOofMBjv!uDapqyrAixtBs/qljubnFguAyet;hxjebiGtbBH
uGuukiwguAyeY+oFffbXLhuxM d!UFigteEhuxLne-yljpbyzlaIOgp*ileqofAuaBHhp;jq;
gzzbytJrtsJzf-oEigfeEvsxtyl@tltgxjFAz znz^fKfctxrhhHnee+jlbpAeOvsD
vGcnkxzlesCsd:nqaWpnLles!ye:kEaoqwwguAusd:CqovA]wphANeC^gDtbclGaaPBtw^
iAqAtnyousQfw!tAubtjFlxxx d!OzavcqCpoztff=AFavjjrufPtyi$nzpnqlQgbGx
vGuvksygntNjv*gxakpesgeBAnx@rlgqtrrApsMjr%fmmnbtNlssNmi!CAsnf	rWF!YWW
imvvktFlemttr^fyvuveClfItnr!suofbyzhusQmm-klujgeJphANxd_gKapqyrifsus
oEtwgeAuaMBjdptuugfe~AbMyx{!ztfAbrsFauyem+fpjhhjJloMtue/zEaqheLofsQtv-jf
CtftgeEvtMths;tFskgxrwsxPns;yxzbgrHspRyid@foprAwAniMtyi/slphbyzlaECki!ur
ztfbczLopKtup;ylgkhyQgzxuww8

VQUGTXrufQNev^BufygirAixtjg=tAnkexrvgswtt,xuhjvezvmwCsk8flTkouDF.
koppqrAjaKCll:ylbtgeLofsLnk&zEavqeuvoMLtp!ztfbtjHypwOhx*uzaqhesgxHLpd*t
gzzbhtJt?stYl^ElcgntFnaMIex&klbwvmGy.sIwd*tlujgeuhtxttj!glxqtprtbwyej=x
nusg?eLofsyrt-uKft}er1ixtxi$uzebtnyoumtBl*itakueuyjMChe-fFpbetFCfKMns+ 
oEavjjryjzByd:uldjcsylattBs/qgabVmwgsBAmx!zAaocpwgoxQez^xEjqpxrptsJjv&gBt
uzfbqkrAixtrs|zltkisAmjvusx!xuhjvxrvgsuzx&uDt?busyuBwzp@xxzbksrho
kxfevwGujvtBs/rp?bbYzlaMBnv%fDjijyrptsNmi!xuhjveLvaIOgp*ytavjjrDpKEee+j
ztfbtnyousNtd%oEtgonFhuxtnx7fEpogyzpoztyl@zlfxgwQvoxtBl=fpfcnxrposus
kxfevwGujvtri%oGnbpjwktsNtd)tAx}be`ofsvfw*ilswnjrptsCkd@foprAeAzaLIqh7
gxmbtnyouLttj!jutvtntBuBIsd@xqagzyAuhNCxl^jlxkvmrAixtxe-klphbyzhuswtt,a
ZtfbmjQgjLtyl@zljvbrMzusvjd|uxe}beSgoNGgi/fAgbetEwbGCjw!uHftetElaMBnw
untvchDlauSep^gEjpieGyaKysx*tsavjjAyaILth;iF?bbYzltxths_vmokgxrhszOjd:nmu
oravjjrtbMywm@rljubwwuuxxes/fxfcujvgbGxer=zltqnilguAyDd$uzutqqrAixtzw^y
uracbBGylnteX&klgqwwLoaKCll: lbpfeGufsPjv,funrqwLhoMtnr!glekinLhmsQtv-jf
oEacbwAniMttj!vGcnkhrwfKztv_gzdg?eOojvBeq^gztbvmwgsBAmx!zAaujtOguAyeA=xw
yqrwgsLpbEFD	!fRptbjPhnIFj{!iAqAtnyousIBr^xEaeqsLypEtyl^fEiqynFnaHzee
IP_TQRrwsHxzg:fuobceHBcEChd[rmdgbxMjisuxd@fBvdnnugmBvwe/EgabVmwgsxPjv|k
yuegbtxgqNvqm$fBfthtJtbGwjd*yltqojLojGAeg@rxffbyzlaKCll:fAgbrztsjv
jutrnfQbas7tv@rlskimLzatFxs!kJjuv	rDiBwmd@zlujgexlexLfp!rqwgneswqESes+rK
zAaxgwQgmBGnx^jlwkuzssaPIwo|fAgbcwLaauOyd*tlujgtJFaFuDd@vBmAbzFkfK
iAovtfuAatHid=ztftbuJpovCup^ygabOtJhmsLnk&zEaocDrpovFzh^fFigbwAniMttj!gz
gGujqwrApsBfz^ftjubtJgixLer@sqaqpesgxHLp{!ztfbtnyousIkd@zFskdzLppGnee+j
ztfbtnyousNtd=hvfeveLvawCxx=xFjqpeGyaFOym-gFjqp]	Aixtwm"nFaqheAuuxAwm:Eg

ZtfbyfQgdHJDv*mtubnfOgjLtBs/jqebinNltsGzg&fxbvkyMkfsNtd@iFjxkyAltsMzg&fmt
vDfugwNhuBIs,!zAawujrvgsGfx^xubnbkGyaLwms-gDmAbfFkaKyxi@xoibrzJwpLyxd>nqo
ztfbwxwyawIjw!tAubofClaFOqx*vxfbetHpfLjee+jluqbyzlazysi/gFjqpeGm
lmdukrAsfswtt*kEaqheMuqNvqm|nqebytJrtsvDd-onsctnwzayIwd:nqnugqNltsush
uFigteDpcKuwm^ygabDzLguAyep@CleqgxrupMtfp-uIacpDGufsNtd#kopogeLof
jutvtntBuHLes'fFigbuJveNwyd'uDavjjrloMCwi!CAsnf rgJGtys%gK"ubjDldMLtr*i
kzwkttFtfGN	d[Anmkumwytsuwi!kJutgrwszswtr$kDogfeLobMtyl^fqovkwwgxHLqh!oE
tquyqwClesush!imobqgLhjGtyl^fuohqwEhuBIsd%kEjtgirmsHGee!yuoinjrjpISem+fm
yuoinjrsjuLfv,alaJgsul.sCkd:nqsgbnKguHtgi!uzmAbtFlaLuqi7fIikemrwvuFnw&kDt
smzbemGvtxtys!ruwgbBAAimtyl^ElxknqrvcMunr!ztfkteEvoxSem+fAujgwrDbRM	d'uD
kJborqwaayLtq!godguxrhowtzw^alaJgsul.sNmi!jqwgntHtfGNes'fEjvgeDpdxHxi|
gzebqyzlssEnr%ylphbfyyfxGjr:yluqbhGCfKtBl@zlqwdqAzixLxd#kxjgxjrAixS
ytpwnirifswtq[kztcvjvggHL d!GzzbutDBuBIsd:nmubvmwgVGCyi%f5ucvjKgutEjw
zAecAezhtsNtd$uztkfjJguAyem+zqspcyAvotFee/kzb}

TAukplrAitNex&klVpkywka`Nfx^yljubfrtfFvjv!uravjjrIfKHjd{uzwgpyAvosush
yGcuewAifLtys!oFtbrwGCjLCtr| lQGVJ0Zawyxg/onffbyzlaIywq*yEjqpxrwsHwjw|a
YtfbcqKvawykm+kpaeqrHBmLIwC!rudgpxwz?stFd$uyqwnxGyzsFng^tEf?btxgxAChl!ztf
1zjvgirZutNjw!nmtbjfvgbszjA7fnvkniKgjGNtd:nqancBrAixtwm"nFavqeMzfsueA=xw
yGclghLguHthi/zmjpbywynLtfr%foppfnLppGM d!OzavjjrpoMywr@zuppcqrhsxHf{
nAxgxjJaaMBjd@humkvDrApsOxi!iAnrwqKvsRtqm$kztgueAzaxRyv^sqmAbqAtjMyi	
Ztvu?eusftLnr"nAvugxrhowttx&kDaeqqDldMCAi|foporwAzfsIsi!uBukqsrAitNel@y
yGdegjvlesCsd[xAwkfnFnayIwd;yqaqhesgxHLp	!f1gvgsrvwxLqs=qqebymwuaHHj
hqhkpxrApsOxi!iAqAtnyouxxeq@zqskcqrhowtuy:fBsqfzuAtsNtk^ztftbnKgiHQ
kJqgpxACfsNmi!vqsokxKppGMet/uofuuesuesGfr@muoibnLgjLoed?ioptfnFnaMI
VQUGTXlguAyet/oofbqkrjpISwm"nFakpesgeBAnx@rlngfnMt.sQme:kHftbxGsvMCtr!oE
CAsmgirvvMneA*rxakphDBextre+gsjpiesuesuxw^snmkplrAixtie:gnbug rgTAy
yFsqplDFaKyhs_sqofgirAitNet;hxjujjJzatHid-onsctnsutsIwd[kAqngeOpuA
BmskqzKgctwpk/uGofueuvpIywe:kluqbBGylsIzx!gpnkpnKAstNnz^rKahgfKpcEy
yKtvgrKaaBHes/jqsbvtrwsHxzg^fnfvvjJgsxMzp:yg

OzavjjrsfGAyl,fCvguyAvo ushTgztygwrwfKCth!ztbvbkGsmHQjh!VQUGTX\z
vDfugsLhuBIs{!ztfbhtDspPCsk!vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r1ixtHs[EDjijyrVgyChi!smjpvfAutsNme:fmoAvmAuhsGjg&gzjecqrhow
flabbyGAbEFDd^DtbwuyACfsJws#gnmAbnKgoHNet/uFfevjvbas3sd:nqagxjFAaMBfx
flabbBzhususd*tpjxkiMhmsxnh!ozafgAwspICsk!vAugpyAhmESeg=vKskimLhcEy
flabbrsAfKCfp!oEapqyrBowyww:uAe?byzlaVIuC/osivbTxmjvyeA*rxacuprhcHOyd:nq
flabbhJlbMCAi!itpkejKguAyee[vxjecsLgdAIxi!zAaocpwgpKtss:fFpbofCl?stFw!g
flabbuJhdMChe-fybvvjJaaBzes+klcgnnwCfLtxl^fAsbjjrobLtre%klfpqzyoaHzex&uEf
flabbhzvjvyx{!ztbvbuwytHHel@ylbbtnyousNtd@yEftvesgdHJDv*mtubcsvgtHGjs+k
flabbjDzfsGzw:fmtugwLguAuyd:nqayqwCgjLtss:foprAwAniMugp^alaVjjrtpKy
flabbrwjitHng@rfavjjrtpKyee;zAncvnuaattyl*tsaku	rAixtqi|ylmkmjDFaBNem|fFp
flabbgwgdHJDv*mtucdqwb

flabb+rUftLqC!gxmbrmGApzLft&ylbtgevlfFyid:ulcgbhGwzKCll:gnmg?etBusHtd=tq
flabbBGysByxd@hAvvbyzlnsGzg& lcgefMzfsyAi/EAogbnKggKyjd:ulucmjrAixtxe_k
flabbnEhhxoedonGt?bfrwiHNtk/gBikeeuvqRLnk&zlsgrwwzfGNxd>nmubkxrjbEFjh!g
flabb-LojG?eg=vKskimLbas@mi!vtpvqlJhqAtnx|kxgbozKAauyeh;vxjecywk.sCs
flabbtJkfKtks/foprAwAniMtys!hqaxktDhuxx 

flabb+r1ixtHs[EDjijyrVgyChi!zmlgueLofsJtw*zuppbyzhus^]v@EEactjrupM
flabbhGwzKCll:gnmgbgwjbNMjd:nqzbcwwgnxwme+oobn}erPusthe+fnfbcwyBfw
flabbBzluAywd=xloqveAtbzyei+nmoegrwuusCsd|imopksygdtHef^fBsqvjuAfwoedjtq
flabbrMzusyCi/iutgbhsyfsQnx&fybvgwAhmswwi@zqebynLoaIOgp*ilgwpiKgbGx
flabblwufKuqp,fuobvmwgqNvqm$fppocnFbasUsd@xFjenjrDsBNyi+fnzbcexlexLfp
flabbjEwmHSji7fugbywAAuxHee|fBbtveGmaHzkm$ommbfzLpfLnem|fzpv
flabbhGwzKCll:gnmg}erOpPyAi/ ldqpyJvmsIAi/fmauenwuuBzng!gDukeqwgxKCyx^t
flabbgQgbs8fx*uzbnbNFzuBNzx^ylphbMwhmMBek/gzugge}p?xo	d|uyfqpjrDiH
flabbwwjfBPjw!sAogAexypFtyl^f7?U}eyvwxLsq^tF-?biwwfGxxd=tlOKJeHvmBwD	!fUg
flabbyzlazIAi/tyfpvesnfGwDd&gEapqeHvmBwDdRgzebvmsAaIIqm$Eldcpetl
flabbhGuutCsi%fuobkyKgsxAzp@zuppu	rAixths+zDbev	rvssNmi!mDbpv[lguAy
flabbfMAiHLev^zmjpueuvqRLnk&zgabKkrhaILtz*yuppbtxguAyeg=tFsceylghKusx7fAs
flabbwwnvEuym=tltvcywzaMBfx!ztftgeOpmEtgi!tAaequQyjzBy{!ztfpbnLgeHyxd+uF
flabbjPptMoedrnqobceOvsDtnw!iDfcvjvaavIuC/osivbfMApFuym$gxmAbhGtfLtnr:u
flabbjPptMysg^fGongxKgtHGjx&ozhbgCAzuLtyl@zltcAxrpusxti|fzpv}

flabb+rHosysl@toffbjDldMLtr*ildqrDrvgsuet/ozubetHFaHzee+fAmfgwryfyywi+iq
flabbBGylsCsd:nqarwgDpdsxtq@ozavjfLgeHyxd+uFaeqsLhjGths[EDjijysimxtsi>
flabbrsAfKCfp!oEacbuMyfESeq^itbpkhssaKysh*zuppbtxguAyes/osjpcqrDpKE	d@tp
flabbnKgoHNeg=vKskimLhcEy 

flabb+r2tNuqp, lxjgsrhaPIwo!kzugtxrAixtuy#rudbftEhjGner=ztjpieuhosLjq=Bq
flabbnLbasZtv!kJborqwaaVIsk/kEtbtjuloMFDd[gEtgfeAuuHtqe>fFigbhGudxJyd=l
flabbfMApFuym$fDfpgBss.sQmm$nlngcsKguAuyd$uBztklzAaHHee+ElxqtprwvuFnw&kp
flabbgwAxxysd-#^5bcsvgm=+!d%uqtbptLgitPjd:ulcgbwwufPyid*tlptfjJguH
flabbwwjfBPjd@fEfxgsLF_yCAiTEqbtbywynnteF;zlbpAeOvsDtss:fDfpgBwkauyks/k
flabb6+!5sCxd*tlujgeHBcEChd%uybkp 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbymwAixLes/fzpvbyzla@Hnx^jlTvcywzaDyjt|fFsceprvgsQmi+
flabbfMAiHLxd%oq.bptLojGAeA@ylfxgwrkpGy	d+uDakuesuzMBnr"fnfkplrkpGyee:
flabbyzlaFIri+zlcAbyzlaVIuC/osivbTxmjvy 

flabb+rZpyNBe/klujcyrksBPjw!glngemsujvuqd[xAdguxrptsCyw^rraequQyjzBye#rq?
flabbNxgpGyeg&gzhgueHsbMztv_yfavjjrzpyNBe/kljvujDmaAuxd@foprAwAniMoedonq
flabb2GymwtNr:kxmgeyMhms0ws[kDuAbTJnbGCEe:oAobynDsaAIqh!gltAouGzjNGe6C
flabbRsydAtyl/uGhjb7rHqKCqd-#&4?bfLgItLAe/jlVpkAwytBND{!uzafklAAbE
flabbywjiGIqs"EfacpirDjEFew:ApzbvmAzaxHym/kljuuzwbas3kd=tqarwwuobLyxd@
flabbhGtqNNjv!yAgvyfJlaIuho@mq.buzuoatMeQ@i2bkpylgbGxeg/kmugueKvnxNmm+m
flabbswD.sIsi!xqdgkAwzaILtx^iFjqpeGumRtks/fFicveOojvBel@ylcggsrhewyi	

VQUGTXrhewyid:nmubqkLlosCsd$uBztklzAaFuyx^xE.bttMnisDzw:oofbkxrAix
uGueqrwaayIwd^DmnrnjlgjGths-rqdvkAwgmBwjr|ozh?bF~JB9t=m8kg.bCrwyjvus
YAdkgyQgpytHs_vAtgtxlgBNNms/yfacpirWvuFnw&kDt_?esuesVRM![u?g}	rIsHuig@yF
SGtke	rPovo[{!CtftgeAAaFuDd|kqnbvmsAaMBjd#osaiwDKgsxwjm<klnqtjrAitHex&kus
jGf}be7mavIzv|kfargtHsfsIzk&zloqveLvavIuC!gldtgfLpwxtuv=jGdvbBAAiHOy
vmzkplrmpKtnx3fFigtjrziHOqh!hqauqrwgdHGui+ymukqsmgaUOyd:nqavtzLoaHzex&k
CAsnf	rhowtnx!oEapqyrhazLje:fFswvmlgjLtyl@zlujgetphsAzC!mquubuDhzxxes+
ztfbtfvppsGtv^frsgszwuuESex&gzavjjrsjMNqi!mGz?bBzvaAuxd:uleqbrMjisGtv^
Azuknezlauyhs_kEacbgAnazOD	!f6icveAzaMLzi!uragxjJFatOyl=xfagxjJF
iAnrqxwy.syAi/EAog?esuemtzr'uDuwpfLlmRnem|fBbtveGmaECki8

IAqAtnyousuqA@EEaqtnypotNjw!CuujbyzlatOyl=xfagzhwwusCsd$gEfubtxgxHLpw
smegbkGyaACwi8fl)OqxLgtHzyA@xqahcqDzaBHys!ztjubhsAfzIwC8]laYjjFgbGtfy:nAs
yqofuezptsuwx*ixfbvtrhaCIzv+gx.bjjrobLtss:fDfnksIBjLBjh!iAqAtnyoumtyl=Asi
nqatgyspoLtyl^fDjijyrApsLjp*tCvkumrpunteX&klbwvmGyaKyhi*BqtbcgKvmNNjp,
kHftAyzpozoedonqangxKgqKIrm+kzubvmwgbNNms/ lujgeEvsxtqi<kDbigeLof
vGcnkxzlssQnp-ftbxgeAuavIsx/goubpjyvuBuym=tE?bbNFgpKxjv!zAavtfFzgxLex&k
xuhjvxlguAyee;ztptbrMzusMnk+fmobclJlfFysx!muwkplrAixGee>gK?

OzacpewsfvNws+ooauqhAluRnem:futbkrHvsMusx!zAadgesimxtys!rudgpxwgbsQwm:kD
gzebytJraHOyd%kmmu}er4jMBev^mmsfbyGgvLyes'fmayqwCaaBNey|AmmnAeAzaFOhl
kmtkgwrDixHee!vGcnkxzlssBtp%ylujgeJphANx	!fUobcsrlmxwyv=tudbgwsaattwi@r
vDpdnjEgbKCxi|fIigpeGufsCxd%osjvkEAuhsush!smlkplrpoyIwq@zuppbfNhjEugp^a
VQUGTXryfyywv^jlbicnFguHtjp^iFsqpnugmBwjr|ozhbeqwhsBHll=AEfu}erJpISwm"nF
uGhjveLvaKyre*tlxkvmrAixtfy:nAs?bgMAatMes+klnqxjKggHLBe/jlhnqgssmRtnr!ztf
kxfevwGujvtfv^tm.bceEpewFjq@tlxjqeuhosBfr%rqavjjrCbKCty|fDjijyKgcxwtq^y
ozdtgfKpozFDd+kofuufJF?

ZtfbptLppGttj!iAqAtnyousFfA!oEavjfLgjMtwi|opfubBAAisNmi!ozekxnvBbEnef;z
ozacpeGu_ECsi!kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbfrDpKEeg@tlcgbfvhqMyid@tpavksClsxxeA*zt
hKaocsQgjGxnz*jGbnu	rAixLjd*yldqphwyonteM'foicplwzatLjd@AFiqtnRlesush
ztftgeAzaGIee"xqfogsLguHtyl^foppvwsyzmtyl^fBftutFgxAIeg&gzhguesgxHLpd=Czt
ztfbemsuhxM d!ZAarwyrpususs:nqsbyfQaaMBjd[kDtqpeOopsuhu;oDfubuwynBMxm=t
zAaejfFnfsueA=xwavghzujvuqp,fIjnnetldHGjd:nqacwyzvssush!ztfbqBFlsmtzr-kEt
yAngbfyyfxGjr:fFpbvmwgdHHyv@xKajcxrifxHeq@jq?bbNLgjLtyC[oobnbkGyaMBj
uDjiksssaIOgp*ytftbyGguKSex=foppvwGsatFqd=llujgeNlsLCtr|fmofbfDsaHzex&k
AEfu}erJpISwm"nFancBrhmPuDw!uzmAbxwAtsOud:nqadqzFkbKCjw8flBpAyzpozthe+fn
