comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the texts and translations, or scholars may do
detailed morphological studies of word use by using the morphological
analyses of the texts.  Because these tools were not designed for any one
use, the same tools and the same data can be used by both students and
scholars.

NOTES:
     (5)  Perseus is based at Harvard University, with collaborators at
     several other universities.  The project has been funded primarily
     by the Annenberg/CPB Project, as well as by Harvard University,
     Apple Computer, and others.  It is published by Yale University
     Press.  Perseus runs on Macintosh computers, under the HyperCard
     program.

Eric CALALUCA

Chadwyck-Healey embarked last year on two distinct yet related full-text
humanities database projects.

The English Poetry Full-Text Database and the Patrologia Latina Database
represent new approaches to linguistic research resources.  The size and
complexity of the projects present problems for electronic publishers,
but surmountable ones if they remain abreast of the latest possibilities
in data capture and retrieval software techniques.

The issues which required address prior to the commencement of the
projects were legion:

     1.   Editorial selection (or exclusion) of materials in each
          database

     2.   Deciding whether or not to incorporate a normative encoding
          structure into the databases?
               A.  If one is selected, should it be SGML?
               B.  If SGML, then the TEI?

     3.   Deliver as CD-ROM, magnetic tape, or both?

     4.   Can one produce retrieval software advanced enough for the
          postdoctoral linguist, yet accessible enough for unattended
          general use?  Should one try?

     5.   Re fair and liberal networking policies, what are the risks to
          an electronic publisher?

     6.   How does the emergence of national and international education
          networks affect the use and viability of research projects
          requiring high investment?  Do the new European Community
          directives concerning database protection necessitate two
          distinct publishing projects, one for North America and one for
          overseas?

From new notions of "scholarly fair use" to the future of optical media,
virtually every issue related to electronic publishing was aired.  The
result is two projects which have been constructed to provide the quality
research resources with the fewest encumbrances to use by teachers and
private scholars.

Dorothy TWOHIG

In spring 1988 the editors of the papers of George Washington, John
Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Benjamin Franklin were
approached by classics scholar David Packard on behalf of the Packard
Humanities Foundation with a proposal to produce a CD-ROM edition of the
complete papers of each of the Founding Fathers.  This electronic edition
will supplement the published volumes, making the documents widely
available to students and researchers at reasonable cost.  We estimate
that our CD-ROM edition of Washington's Papers will be substantially
completed within the next two years and ready for publication.  Within
the next ten years or so, similar CD-ROM editions of the Franklin, Adams,
Jefferson, and Madison papers also will be available.  At the Library of
Congress's session on technology, I would like to discuss not only the
experience of the Washington Papers in producing the CD-ROM edition, but
the impact technology has had on these major editorial projects.
Already, we are editing our volumes with an eye to the material that will
be readily available in the CD-ROM edition.  The completed electronic
edition will provide immense possibilities for the searching of documents
for information in a way never possible before.  The kind of technical
innovations that are currently available and on the drawing board will
soon revolutionize historical research and the production of historical
documents.  Unfortunately, much of this new technology is not being used
in the planning stages of historical projects, simply because many
historians are aware only in the vaguest way of its existence.  At least
two major new historical editing projects are considering microfilm
editions, simply because they are not aware of the possibilities of
electronic alternatives and the advantages of the new technology in terms
of flexibility and research potential compared to microfilm.  In fact,
too many of us in history and literature are still at the stage of
struggling with our PCs.  There are many historical editorial projects in
progress presently, and an equal number of literary projects.  While the
two fields have somewhat different approaches to textual editing, there
are ways in which electronic technology can be of service to both.

Since few of the editors involved in the Founding Fathers CD-ROM editions
are technical experts in any sense, I hope to point out in my discussion
of our experience how many of these electronic innovations can be used
successfully by scholars who are novices in the world of new technology.
One of the major concerns of the sponsors of the multitude of new
scholarly editions is the limited audience reached by the published
volumes.  Most of these editions are being published in small quantities
and the publishers' price for them puts them out of the reach not only of
individual scholars but of most public libraries and all but the largest
educational institutions.  However, little attention is being given to
ways in which technology can bypass conventional publication to make
historical and literary documents more widely available.

WhabvbfLAstwyi%fGtbotKAaMIex&klDF+W7Taxxnx*uzaqhe`ofs0ft^xEaqheYlpKAj
3mtjksyApGtBe|fFigbksjusNme:fPbxkirWbvEfv%-EackrrDbLtys!smlgbfrjpFJqi:k
kpjvktFgpytfp-fAgbvmwg2*-	@E$leqezEloMMeA^ftbxgeuvmEyhx^jlbxcnDhcEyem+fmo
ozfzrjFzjOyej=xybvbyzhusQty-jlcgbuDhdxxem+fBvdnnugmBvwe/oqt?bxEhmE
iAmnglwz.sush!kHfpbmAnisMhl=uxt}be`ojLtBs;rparttNpextfr!gGekgsulayuw
hqzqpirvvKtuv^yqovb6l%~[ahs[Efa^60rwvuFnw&kpagfnLppGoednozdgbyzlaVX]VjS
kpjvktFgxBFqd$gDsAbsGufsIkd:nqagzuDhotNtv,fmopqysAjHHex&gFacruwhsLtnr!ztf
vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt?bBwgbEMtd'kqmbvmsAaMBjd;yqaqheLofsWI[mUYaykqDgmxuid_gzz
xqtgcwuofKMex=fEfgmeGBusNmi!vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt}

OzacfiAAjHHex=fuhpqwsudxttj!tqxbvjuooBwfp!gpwcphwz.s3el@BqahqzFkaMBfx!zAp
smoAbjvpuHLx[TgzebjnKApKCfr|fmofbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJz_ uwi!xqtkuysuusush
kHfpbmGzuBFjd:ultwilwzuBIsw!ztbvbjDldMLtr*ilugemFvmHADd_gKagpmsudxtyl^oD
CAsm}erPaBHyi+jluqbiAzdNMxd|uyfbqkrAixtfv"AyfpvxrAstxnx*uzbnkxLzatLj
gpwcphAuhsNtd/kEjuveLldAHtp=mK.btfFnjGAej/uyafkxLyvLNes'fFigbxHlfwtBm:n
CtjejeAAavBfr"kEa-yjrhsxtfp/kmeAbBGuexLnr"fIicveAzaHOyd:nqsgbyzhusCx
hquvgwrAitHeG	/4PO_eLvaLOxt*iuppbtxguAyex^itokefDgmtHly@mqawujvguH
jqtetntlaxFjg:xAokeevlwxFtt_kzuu}

Smskce4LC~9S

ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+zlDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bfrqpBHyd<kzuwtjrvgsNmi
GyftkhsuaTMxs$omukqsrmpKtyl^fMexcsulnxHyd=llTekjFjfs	FE?Y>acpirAixtTr-ozf
IAnrwywya5Cgv@xKaEgsLlsmtNr$al)QEQU/.sCxd:nqahkwKAaIyjvTxqwkgBwkaCIzv+gx
zAarttNpextky-rlugzylgutvzp@xlncvjJpbEnee+jlmkpjrpmEOxx/gFjqpxrvosFnr^a
ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobynDsawCxg;yEavjjrnfGyxm|fmofbxLhsMazt!vqskqirvgsNmi
pAvtpfDbas@tt*iEaqhevptvOxw*uzaykqDgjGwqy%klikuyGyjvuqd=BqsxkjOa
jmz+vt	kbRtre+gsfogsLgpytyl^fqekvtJpbEtui^xlsgxnwD.sush!smowuhJpqM
zmhiksygbGxet;hxjecyAvonteE!jqnqpxLybMCtr!uravjjrqpNLse-fmofbnLzayyfx;xqt
CumnbfujpFJfr,fFigbuJltxHye:oAo}

RKopge8LS`9SMpY

IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuAbQAistLD{!IAspgqDgJGztv_gFjqpe`ldAHtp=mufu?esues^jv=D
IAsrqwsAjHH	d>oFibvmwgtNJus/zlphbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbGx
GodguxlgbGxeW;tlNkewGzzLNjq| lJpe lgitPjd#kqobetDsbuIwe:ozhbksrhaILtn^iF
zAavgxLgbsJws:uFzrgeKFtMyrd'uDatghGyeBHld#xuuvnjripHExd@ylekinLhmsCre"kE
gzebrwGkvvCsk7fAobfjEhownel*mt_swfDpuRtfv$nuwcneHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLoedonq
vDplghLghHyxd#kKppfeLobMnel=Cqwgt	rApsCsz^yFjicywgtHGjd=llujgeAztNyx
yGstqzFkjGAew$gzokpllgtMIwm+mfatgyJpfOCsk7fmofbuJvwBxnr"fmdegxKguH
juhkvfDgjFuli|fuobceFluPIwo!kzwkttFtfGN 

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHef^mmobksrQbGOfv,f!0~` rgYxLtB
vDpxkiwkaMBjd{uxmgijrSjuLfv,fMdegxKgbGxeW:uDbige~FtMyrdRIXBUU[rzpyNBe/kf
glqtqyGAzIye0E$\eqvx	wfKanr$nl)frn{gtvusr^xfacpirAixtme/jIbtgeFldxMxe/E
zAauwuHvsMtsi:CAsmbuJpoMCsk!uzavjjrKpvOYi$nlqtksLlssBty|kpakpeUvsGyqpNy
IAnrwyAuhsush!IAnowsAjbMCtr|fOfpvjJg)VWH=8

ZtfbEtJufEFew:grgbwxAuhsNmi!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgcxwfq^fmobksLlhKuqd[gDu
uravjjrkfOyqs[sqovbfFkaMyxx*tsarttultLtks/fqojcsulnxHyw!zAavjjrJMT!X
yAgvyfJlaLSxx^sgabVmwgdHFqe#uDbvkAwgotNzv^fAgbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgjL
xqtwnyAuhsCsd@fEzuvjEguAuyd*yltrghAmjvuqp,fFbkntJlesNtd:nqartjKlsOuym=t
gBqnkhsAjHH 

GlekinLhmsFnf/gDzbqkr8.[]#d<uxvogxr]pKtft[xAykofLlmRt8@E *~`bnEhhxM[d&gE
hqfpbhJlbMyid@tpakueKApKyid=tlbpbtHAjvuqd(AwfdqCrAitNev^yuegueAuaVWH	
ZtfbnntybKSem+ixvfgxrhavIqp^iFjqpeGmaLyqi$zlncvmwtbMChw!sAoqiwswiLtyl@z
vDpxkiwzaFuyl^smukexrmbvOqx,fIjvjesuaHJus/zGokvDrApsOxi!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQbas@mi!xqncksAuhsPtp;sqtbyjJlavBtw^tlgqteLofsFnf/gDzbvtrAfLNex&k
BmskqzKgdtJff*ruukgxrvgsNmi!yobppnFnaLSxx^sg

UzfbrwGqfvNes#pqdvkAwgjLtys!vDpxkiwgvLyww!uravjjrJpKHjp-fxjdtfJFatHid:nq
ructcwQgtMukj!Cuujbyzlatvnp*zKavqeJlrNyxx!lmdukrAsfLttj!juhkvnRlesCre"kE
uDavqeJluKCjz^fFigbfuAvtFei-koutqsAjaBGfk^frptbgJvxLCsk8flBbrwGApMSui
BufyksygxHLpw:gFjqpezhtsvji+fosgcywkauSe2^xAy?bBAAisCst;zljpvtrAixtii|oso
hKacbhGtnBNyi^fAgbEtJufEFep*hDbtkfFzatHid$uyqwvjJgqKIki|yuppcqKbas@mm|
CumnbfDspPtzw!zAagzuwyjFysx!CuujbusAsHHee$iqtubyGguAyem_gsfubyzhusGfo^fGq
ztfbfnyputFep*hDbtA rgUAyez*kIjpieKAbMCtr!vDpxkiwzaLyfv$nfatgyJpfOuq{!gze
[GmvkrsAfES[d[xuovksyggNHhx*uztbynLoaxHme+iqngpyKguHtke$oxjvcyw
tmwkifLppGtyl/uGhjbrMsuBJqi!jAdwojFAtn

IAspgqDgdNLwi+zxzbkxrDpKEnr"fFpbgCLlowtfg$kEtbvtrAixtim"oFbnbqAistLDd:u
xqbfgwKgvLCsk!CAsmuysAjHHxd'xAnbvmwpssIkj*iqt}be`ojLtDi@xljubiwCpMyid:u
ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufMQtv)fDfukiwuusCre"kldqpAwytBIsd@tpafgqACfKS
yqsxgwlgbGxeg-oqovbxGmuPuwi!ztbvbBAsmsMzt[uDubtjskfKMeA&ulvugeSwqEy
SmdkpyGziswtq[AFftu	rPC6tBm+jAxubuDhuyIwq| lbpfe~BosQtv)yFbvktFz?
KCvkrrwuusztv!ztjubiwCfEIuq^tFaycxrwsHPnh^jlcAbXMua6Chv=yKtvgrKgxBNm
yGqrqwLggKIrd:nqaEqrEptLCtr!uzaRtjKlsOuym=tlbpfeSjdxMx	

JGskplrAixtxl=C\bpf]LlmEtxi|yuppbtxguAye1=xwtjqurvosYqi$zDppkhr1fQNx{!g
vDpvqyQwfsPni>fEucvnGuaPCqp!hqafgrGutMLfx^jgabKsrhewCym=tfacbiAzqEuDd=l
uDjiksssaECgv@xKadqtCzaMBfx!nmwgbgwlosxnk*zuAgfeOpmEtgi!gHbknftsfsztv
xqwkgBrDjMBee|yAdkcywkaILnr:kpaequAltsztv!iAnrcwAzpGoedonqahkkLlfGarm+AFf
uHftxnwDaHzex&klqtqowjusQnp-fuoenzvlattxp*jqartjKloMuym=tlujcy
iAouvnLBuxMee!_Fpwt-rvgsNmi!vDfugwNhuBIsd%osjvkEAuhsJws$kEt}

ZtfbhnFhmsHjx>uDl+etFufvNjh!BqsuktFgpytyl^fHjgynFnaLNfx*uzaykqDgqKIAm%k
ructcwQgvLyww!CuujbfFvuAywd_koicpnKtayIwd@iofuunFnaMBjd%osjvcqrsjuLfv, 
gzebynDsatFxs!vDpxkiwguAyeg@vmcknnLFaHzez*kIjpieAtbzyxd%oDfevqQbas@mm|
CumnbsGAaKyvy*xqaurjupbEtxs'zIbtg	rhmMBty"nlbbrtOlsyOqd$uyqwvjJgxBNmd"uAe
mDbrjnuzaPCqp!hqapgjvlen

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHel@ylhgpjJhuxxee!mDfcvevlbEttj
ozugtjKAaBHex&klmkdwsyzswtq_AzjvA rgVGztv:AzbvgqQaaHLet^xtbru
lAsvwssAfES	d:nutbrwGqfvNew^xHfubyGgstCxi!glwcuyruvFvjv!uraqvmwyaBMxy^y
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmawClm:gxavghzupEIlC!lAsbvmwgqKyxi/Bmukqsrhowtzw^fAg
jqugtnGybMCsk!ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bBzpdAtxy#yqrwgsLgqKIoi$zEaykqDgoxyid:u
kJbokswbas7zg&fIptmeJlntCsw8

YQTUKT6gJ23

NAxctirIF`!JV!flabbergasted!flabberUfMQtv)ozhbOzDAjFyim@fPbvcgszfL

3tbvbiGgxxtme<kluqbhGutBxjv!ozadwnDkjGAee+jlekuyJpcNNnr"fpbvcgszfLttj
ButwcqrtbMywm@rEakpesgnNFymTAEftbjFCjKIsq^tF}bbYzptsJwi|kzucvnGuaxRfq*tqt
glwctnwAzsIkd$uzdgtsKguAuyd+kqebvtrifsuih/kEtgfetlgHLjd@fyvnvnEleBu
jmucdfKlavusd#kltgveMwaBHee!tquyqwClesysz*xAoogsLb

OzavjjrwbLNem:ftbubsGAauyjr!lqbukgDlaMIem_vxfogsLgetNff@yqtbqkrCjLOfp
smugtnsstsCsd|nmsgf]MzfKtjr<oDppojFAtsvjg@AEfbqkrAfvBss-usjecqribKLni/yg
KmdjbtxguAyex>ulccunugnHxjp|frptbrMsuBazw^xlnwnyAtfwCfd%gFbdcxwzaAux
vAtgfeAAtsIBr!vDpdnjEbas@mi!gzbnqlrtvENnq^jubbuyGybzyeq=jqmb-wwwsxMjr:kp
hKaRttBldMtFx&kzb&ueHhstFqi-fmocntygbGxeh*muucneFluPIwo|]licueJlrNCwi%fmo
ozdtgiAimRths_vxfzb=suesyCt^tEjxg[rpoyLfw:xGdvwwwbas@mi!koppqrAltsIk
yobngeLobMtre)klnwnyA|vLywd|kFvrueuoftJjv!vqsbwxwyaLywz^jleqbsGAaHJjv@zq
ozacpewuwBLtr_kzubvmsAaKyvy*xqtbceuvnIOyi/fIptmxLhuBIs{!BuegqiAzdsJqe,kD.
gzebvBGgeBMup@Elegxnultsztv!kmdjbzKlsn

ZtfbfnyputFeq;rFjogiAhaLNtv@mqaoqiwsaAuxd/kCvktjvgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsMys/gsf
yBbege}htsGzg&fmtbqswghBAff,zqargwrAiBLyC!yFjnneAtbzyx=8flJpbyzlaIuxx!ztf
iAtvbtxgtNwmd@fxbtijrhnHOsx!urauvtJhhxtxt@iqaociwguACxd_upfnbf
vDpjkgAAjOyeg&uudgbfKgxxFq	!fNvvbuDBozCsk!yFptclwgdHMyw!gDfbhnFhmES
smlkplrAiBMew^iAofbfDAfKHfx*Bqaxkftsfn

OrauvtJhhxtss!rAoigwrwpLyxd|AoibcsrpnIyim_kzu?bBzhusxtd>kloggirAp
iAoukiwyaBHef;oxekplrkjzCye-rKauvtJlesGzp:o\vugwrkbMuge|kEaqheNptNuq
smugtnsstoteX&oEartjKloMuym=tlxknqrlytGnr^fFigbswAxHLpm+mlbpf
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAobetFzuKunr:ylujcyrtvLNef^fAwgthGtfsvjj=xqauwhzgetNff@yqt
imobdjuvnxths_sAornfulatHid;yqgwneLvattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[kAqng 

ZtfbmjQgqKIgp^sljubyzlaOuxx!yuAgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbiGjvFysx| lbpfezvxsNmm|
grggeyKgoHNes+rKauvtJhhxtgy:fFfnghGtnNHng@zuppueLybGMrm|yuppbyAtfn
GzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsr1_"txt^kpakueAtqKuhx*immbhtJggBFjw!ura3brwnbuSyi!uD
rmsigwr]xAChl!oEankpwszsNtd#kltocqDggHLee!sGmvkrwkjttis$Ayfpv[mgaYIw
oztvcsul.syAi+fAobce(!a4vep*tqakveOvvExex@qqavjwwlaFCsy:kEavqeLybGMki/fm
7\ngiftFuxtkm-kgabCsvguAyxi!luhwtjKgbLMzq^fuegcqrjjKwzq|zmoegxlgbGxeh=
tAubvfClaBHys!iAoukiwybMCtr!uFigteMzfKMeg=tFfpfnFnayIwd+kFxqtpribGxBm%zt.
jutmbfujfLMex*sq.bqwrAixtym_kloggiwkayIwd/kypvgevptIFfC8flDwtwwuuswtq_uz
zqmgrmGufsNwe+yyjuunGuaKuyi|fIpwnirifswtq[rqugnDrpnILfg:oobn>exlxsOxi/y
CAvnfetlaPCqp*tsavqeOhjMtyl^ftpwteFldxMxe/EluqbyJhoLGnx!gltkplDlaBGfk^fmu
8$~`bgsBen

ZtjubswjfLMnx@zqtbetEwsxMxm=tfayjnuoaBNxi-llsckxwzattsy_hqsbqkrvuAyw
oEtwgxmga2Hes/jqsbvtrkfvLje|klgknjrzjSyxd|osokhnuhoMFD{!CqaowxLgfFJqs,
rAtuAeuvnILjw|oAobcqyvsBNmq|alaDwyropPtry$nlrwcqAAzswfr!CqachkGyesNt
rAtg{er1psxfx^fFigtjrobLtgi^tlppnDrvoxtxm"tugkefFAaLNzh,fpppgeGm
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffuexvssuet@xFjewqsyaNMjv!mDpwr	rhowtyl*yltvwiQgeBxer=z
rApmbfLgmHMxd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!iAnrtjKzjHH d!UzmAbfxAfKtnh^tFjhAnFn
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffueuhosQjd#ksjpbyGgbwxwi|yltvqwsnfsush!tquyqwCgctHiA*jFi
tqffu 

KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlY+YnFkpPM]f@yqebcuHsjvuym=tEa-uzuoatMeM_gsfswjJF.sNmi
1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujttfx!HqsmgqwFaBGfk^fpbvcgszf	tii_uztvtfLltsNmi
AFjnkyQgpytfd$rufpv]KlsOywd:uBpnqlQaauOyd@rEpbrtAuuLtys!ztfbnnEputNns+fAg
iGstgsLgtHzyA@xqahqwrhawCxx/onvvgirloOCws+sqov}erMpKtjB@sBmg?
gBqnkhsAjHHxd-owfbKrsnfJOjv,fobpbnFjpKJtv@zqaeqrHyfLMns+ lcwveuBsKysx!4
oyqngrwuutNns+yleqbsGAaIywq*zlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaxHid;yqs&u
CAsmuysAjHH d!YGdjbiwjpFJwi|yuppbfLguAyel=yFaeqrHBuxLee-rqwkcywzaLNtv@mq
imqcenLFaILtf-kytbymAsfsxtm+mloqvmAuhsNtd@jpsguxrwsHvqi_ylph
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubgsuePCix&a

3qapgjvguHtjB@suogbyzlaxzki$zEaqpeFluPIwo!ztsqwlz|qNNes'fypxksy
sGmvkrwkjttis$AyfpvxrhsHOsh!uzacbswAxHLp	!f9fbpjwkaMIei\gyjpgeNhsBIzw
zAqqntypfLtyl@zlxknqrofEJey|fmwqkiripMNqi+kolubfJvvGxew^xHftuesue
mmugyfQz?stJB[kDjgphwgxBNmd@vBmkefLppGMew;itacueLofLyev@oEfbuyAsmsvws@jqs
wGfuvnGutntMs>fomqujDFaBMex&klnwnyAtfwCfd%uovogsLguByid:ulujgeKvgMQfv^
lAsbxnwDjGAem:blaEcsrpusvjd@iofuujvgbGxez*kIffbkJvnsIyl^xlbrrqAjbMCtr|b
KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlujge5HSVtks/smub-fFkaFIwi!xqdgpyDFaPCyl!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGst	txl=CEajqBrBtxzzp!oFaecsrifsNtd|zAsgbiGjvFysx|fuobcexvsFtnr
CtjejeLofRthe+fnfbchultLyid#ElbbxfJpfMSes'fmqrnnuhuBIsd|uruycwwb

LuocnqQaayLtq!gzakpywsmxwyy@r\beejKzaLNfr%vAjpv	rDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLMex&k
oEtwgeGmaILtz*juoibfujfLMex=fFigujrtvENnq^jubbftuBnxHyw!oz
ozugtiAzdBJqm+gDzbgsNpsHHri+zE?bb2wgoxyid:ulfzcrAufsNjv_ozpnqlQgbGx
ozegznFnaLNwe:ksjgueLobMtBm-rlbnntOgvLtys!vDpxkiwgbvwjw|fFpbvmAzaFuyi/omm
ozacbhJvtLaim|iuqnkssyzsQfC8

XAocnirSB~!JR!flabbergastIm/koukqsKgjGtMm"n\QgtkGyntHhi!TquyqwCpoztks/
flabbergasted!flabbergastQm#xmskgx

ZtfbrfulatNeA&ooibetEwvMCsk!zqdjptDvhRtme|fmexcsulesIAi/fFigbuszusztv:E
EqbtueKopPMer=fEjipeGmatvfx*ts?bbWGBhAFDd|vqbmksyaaxuhl!luwg+DwhssJjv*up
nmtbAnwsexxee+fAsfgw	vg Gfk+oFvfgeAtqKIAi_kzubksrwsBwjd@tpargwxvsFusg^fAg
iAnrwyAuhsyvy*vyfpv rgOHtky+jmngpyssaAOwh-kEactjrsjDyqC!zAartjNloMtyl*y
vmdgbkJvnswtr:ozvkplrmpKtfx!rqbuveLofsHjB:fpfeciwbas3yd*ylppnDrposNmi
vmtvbkACfsSje/yfavjtMnimtyl@zldqouMAjGAel@ylcgetElaNvnu;oFpwueAu
ructcwAltmtfj'koukplrhmEtxx@lracpirwbMLtr| lektjuAmRttv!ozektjuAmRo

JGskplrAixMjd|gyfbhnNlaRyfv| ldqorMujvuym=tEatcywzaHHex&klJpvjJufMnex&k
vDjpenHhmsuhe%kyjebhGtqNNnr"fzfvytJr.sBfz^fssqysrmsHGe9AfwcrueLva"o0
Snqu?esuesNmi!T5GPgyribvEgs+kljubsGDaKOsr*tsa67e5iqLoedjBqsbvmwgoxRyd'oHf
Eqbtu	rjpFGzr*imukqsrybMyxd=tlujgethdDvtr^fmsgbjPwfvNjh!zAagzhwles&eK#vE?
MDpyvmrposvtx&fFigbuGwvEuym=tlphbswAxHLpd;yqsubfFkaMBjd<uxvogeGmaGyyA=xw
zDbhhnugaAuxd$uzukpzwkaMIek/uIaigtEluKChe-rK.bcyrybMyxd@vBsqchzpozt69
vqsegsLgqxLeq=tFi}be`ojLtkp=upaqheuhqtwnx,fmofbzKl.sFno^tqebdDrzpFyex=
_pskppAuhszws_fmahkwwopLy	)!fosgcywzaBGri+yqaqruGyuNHnx*kEacpirjitFqi+mqt
lAsbnntybKCjw8flMkdwsyjxMeq;yFacpyAjjIuyi!ztfbhzLBsxtnq[rudcvnGutsIkd:nut
zqdjptDvhRnet@xFjekusAfsCsd*zEafgAwspIGjr: lbpfevlqEIDd*zluqbjFzvKy
godguxrApsNmi!CAsnf)KgjGztv_gFjqpeJltHOwg^yg

ZtfbksxybLNwy$zGsgbkGyaMBjd*trptofLppGtfk^futbdjAuhsJzx!ozarnful?
RuctcwAltszfg^fEutcywnjvtii$oEjqpxrhcHOyd:nqjtbwGsfsCsd:nqafgAwspIGjr: 
jqqnqDEloMnee+jlvugeGmaMBnw!ozgtcxLyvvNzv^alaVjjrlnxLlm+mljphwszuKOhx;xq
oEaowhzgnHLjd:nmobetEwvMyww!gzebetEtvGChe:oAobnnFltnteM:futbotJlaMBfr!ztf
gnjnkyQguHths_vGugbfLgbsLjq=zqaukywaaLysh!kxfevwGujvtre*rluqbfrwfxL
gosquxrAixths;tFsA?eGyaFIAi!glgknjrmsHGes+klmkdwsyzsNtd@tAujgwmga!Bjd+kJu
luwgbDwhsLtBm-rlxkvswztsMzf|zmovkfDgexPjp=vyfpveGmaMBjd*trptofLppG
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbvmwgoxNBs/qg

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeswqKIuv*gFfbnjskfKMmm[ lmkdwsyzsJws'kEtkqssstsGzw:
nmwgbfrmvGxfq^tFbnbzFkfKMye+juoibtxgbGxee[vDfekfLppGtks/foporzLls
tquyqwCpoznej/uyanqhssatLje!tquyqwCzaMIex&klOcvnGubEtWi|kmsejesue
KpvecyAvos8jx>uDlb-S0LO	oedonutbrwwzfGNfx*uzacfiJltLyxd:nqtg
lGofcrwuutFx{!gzebjtOguAyDd/kxbvgeLvaECgv@xufubyGkbRtfr%fuobvmwgoxuw
lGuwtjm

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMlabbergasted!flFnghLypGChdgonsctDr3jLCtr|fmofbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$zE
hmtgfeGua6yrVd-EatghGtnxHii%fpjtghLppGM 

ZtfbG]DpcKuwC!yFscvjyFaILtn^iFffbnFguACxd[rmobkxrhaOCxm=tmsAbtFlaMBfx!imo
kzbdnjrtbCIwd$nmoigxrhowtnq[xAwgojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaIOgp*ifacpirzqxwne-
ructcwQgtxLAm$kgabVmAzaOCxm=tlju?eLopNAm{!uzfbvmsAavusd#klsgcqAGfwtBm:n
zAecA)Kguxwmr=rAhA}erHusNmi!ymngbyAtfmtnx!CumnbhzhmEysk^fFigbuGsjMChe-
gzebutupbEtxx/AouwtjrDjMBnr!CtjejeDpcKuwm^ylprgwsAfhtem+fmdcfjEpd
ructcwAltmtyl^fFscfnLppGuqd^sBicunKgpGtqs$gxaeqqDldMCtr| lfzvjFkjGAex=
godtgiAAbMCtr!oEtwgxhgjGtuy#rudbnntybKCjw7fFigbuGAfGNne-fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
hDbpemrhowthi+zDbnbqAistLni|frvnnDrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofsJzf-oo<bcsvggHL
yBfekfDgmBvwe/oqt?bswDaHJus/zGokvnwzayIwd|nmsgfeuvmEyhx*uztbcsvgoxNBs/qE?

ZtfbgsNpsHHri+zljpbBzpdAtyl*yltvtfLlhBwet-gzajcxrifxHeh^BqmqrjvgjLnee:
ztfbotEloMneh=suocvjvgcRtfd|kztgbtxgmBvwe/ElmkonLz?stYl^foppvnFBfw
kJqcpxAvosush!xmqkfeyypPNmd=llmqefDgbvuii_ooankgJhsRths-rqdvktFzaBMer=C
ixfctqQgbMtfr!kze}beUvsIIwe:klmkdwsyjxM	d@tpagxjFgmtQep*hDbtkjKaatLj
lmdgfeOpuAttt^xmukplrDjMBnr!glekhkAjvENei$uzpokhrjmBGfx^ lbubBwsmsuxd>oFi
BqsAbfuAjOyeg=sBfvkyAvoszws_fopoojJjjtFem+lAsocyAvosMty/iqt}beXvs
kJborqwaaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeq@Elcgbxwlosuxd@fpfukwsimxtgy:fzpvbhJpuBwfp
sGokenHhmsMjv<oofbksrhaMCri!CtfpbyzlauOik^zEaqheKhgxNDd@tpajgfDAi
gsfpenwzatLjd#kuoibhMAauuho8

LGsvjjJaaECgv@xufubnFghxHjv@rlicxjrhaOywC!nuhjbqsipKaysTiAtvbwsAjHtnr
ztfktetBezyyw7fmofbqsipKths|zEactjrzuBFqd*tosgcxAuhmtss:CuujuysueBHl
gGuqofLppGtnr<kEuogsLz?stNx!oEafkkxpdNFyd'uDankgJhsByxd:ulpdvfAuavuum:gx.
yFbtvzHaaHLew^kpahwsvpoztks/fuopqAsAjOyee$zuwkvnwz.sush!ztpug
zqdjptDvhRanr:kztkxjrpoBNne:oHfubyzhusIkj^xlujgeHvuxHym@rlphbiwjsxuxi%
rmcqteuvtMMeg@tlqtqAGrfsNmi!uBqqunLppGttj!ructcwQgtMukj8

NAxgxjJaaECgv@xufubmsCfsuhl*kHffbxGtfswtr|opftcgDlaLOhg^yEfubnFguAyet@yF
zIpbfjuhexMef,funrttNpoztgs:nlujgnJgtxLAm$klbpfeLofBLeg/kpjdkqAAzsQnx&oz
ztfkteGyhtHnD@zuppu]	howtyl^yqarqxAAjOyeg&gzhguezhwxtgi^tlbeetEwmBMmi%
sAtvnDrDjMBen;judkqzKgvLyes'fuohqwEhuBIsd:koipqqGnjxM d!ZtfbciNhovyxd*t
iAnrwyAuhsush!ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaAuAi!hqfpbBwsm wmv=tudngiggaMBj
iAovksMpoztuv^iuqkvtMzawLtt!ozaeqrHBuBHld$uEuu?eLofsAws>ztaqheLof
OzugtswAatHid[xuwcvjrufMQtv)yfacpirAixtjB[rAtkxjrpovLje|kljpbuMimBwqC
gHbknftsfsCsj=xybvktFgetNff@yqt}

LAsbgCstqEy	djIXDbjfKgcxwtq^fAogbtxguAyep@xsfuveuvnIOyi/fzfvytJr
uDhcpnRhuBIsw!ozavjjrDpKFid#EldtgfLpoztfd$uAqgtfLpwxthe:gxpiksygoxNBs/q
uraoqwwguAusdA *~`bqAistLni|fIptniOpexoedjt\mkpjrwvuFng!godguxrjbMuqs"y
tAxbujJCfsGnp-oAoubtxgvLyww!uzaoqwwguAusdz$f~``evleBwfx^jlugtrAubEMem+
ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcqGufnteX&klVpkAwytBNDd=llDcnnxvsGCfdhKXW1NeGu_ECsi
imucntygtRMyi_ftbubsGDaxRue+jqebksLvatHem+jqybffLhctMjd/krftgsulaLywz*iq
gzebuzHwpKNxd_uDfbvmsuaLCCd_oxmkqsrzftLhl^ylbbAjsy?stFr% lmkdwsyjxMel@Bq
hqdqojrAixtqe/mqtvblJvvIttj!iGtvqrwytsIkd{J\SQOeHBcECxl*tsavghzupEIlC3
sAsgbyzhos(#{E$*aqryAjbEtri%omarwgDpdtNns+yltwemrhtsNms|klphhjJlesvD
OzgqVwsjatHidnoxwgte8sbMNjv!gDfbuztzdKCgi%fFpbdDr2?`oep*hDbtkjKb

ZtjubrsydAttj!zqdjptDvhRths+zuowgxrhowtnr!ztfbpjPAawyhe%klxknqryfLOqx!oz
lGsvjjJgjGHtz@zuppueLobMtfv^fqyvtjElmRtim'ludwnyrApsJwi%oou}be#obMtnw
ixfcteAzaMBfx!ructcwAltswfr!tAxbitrifRIsh!gGuqofLppGttj!ztfkteGyexLej*rqt
gzebefLhmHAxd:ulbwvtEhuBIsd=llujgnJgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kE_+csvgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIeg*xovoxjFAaMBjd'oEdcneDpnBNfx*uztbvmsAatJui@xluqbttAbBH
zAecA 

ZtjubJDldMLtr*ilMkdwsyzs!yv@zqhkee8sbGtwi$uyngpiKgbsJfv@juhobxzpgMtnr
ructcwQgtxLAm$kfacpirkfFIsw:xmugueLofsMyi[ylogejKzbKSex=fBsqxnvlaBGuv=Bqe
ructcwQgtxLAm$kEaykyzgmBGnx^jldcrfupuByxd@tpaqrjJhuBHld*tHfuvrwuuLo

YQTUKT6gJ#aF

GzogbPWUOX'

ZtfbEtJufEF>2^xAybLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHev^yGmvgirposNmi
xqdqtiAuhsIkdv *~`bgJpuMFjd#uAlubfKg7[]]h[olekinLhmsCre"kEacpirAix
vDpfwhLppGnes+fpfocsvaaHzel*mt_swfDpuRtfr%fmsejnNhmESew=AzebrfHls
xqqnchwtfGNx	!f6igbuJvkxwy{!CtjejeOhtsMzt[uDugfetFaMBjd{uynkuxAvosIs
VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtfp|uljpxjKAjzuyi%fEpogeGmaMBjd*yEvgueKBsKIzr%ozh
yobppnFn.sMys/ozh?bwwAsByAm+mfacpirwsHPnh*tsacehwztsNtd%osjvcqrpntAjw!oz
glogvBGylsysz*xAoogsLb

GzogbPwuoxSeA*rxahqhMzaHHew=sqaqheLofsCxw;kEauwwJvvGxnr"fpjtghLgtvusr*ts
gEakfjFAjyCjh!ozavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:alaCotFnaMBtw^fFpbdjrkjLwzw|kp
gDf<beAtbzyez^xEvubywEuswft:ADf>bnFkfQCsk!gzebchultLjem_gsf+efHAvKy
imqcdnDpuByx,!gldqousyjLIsd:ulqjqyGjpISee+jlnkewGmjEG.d[xAeweyAvosush
iAtvbfFhmRMnw3fEuqtfylayIwq@zE.brwGApvIqw7fmofbxLhowuwh|?lbpfeLofsOxi!ur
ztjubxuhoGCsk!zqdjptDvhRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!vGsrqxwz?

Ztfb8#=|eICeh*muucneAtbzyxd[xAewejvgjGtyl^fOptpjDsa%yws\f2sqljuAaILtz^j
nuhjnDrhdvyux@hxfbhtJgdKyfx*tsarcuwyaKyup@iqngpyKgpytii:kDjqtfLpoz
uDjikssstnteX&kl2?`#=gtvusr^jlwqnzEltsJws<opffbfFgbKLfC!urakofyl_vuux;xq
itbnnjFnfLtyl@zlbtgeuvnFIsd:ulokpjLlfGNm[$kzuwtDrwsBHym+mlugemFprNyxd@tp
kyctkyLsfwtre:kDjcn	rhowtyl@zleghDrAixtzw^fAgbvjPA_vIsz^xEjqpeHypvyxw^yg
ZtfugeuobEFjr"kEakphDBextim_ozjujjvgdHHyv@yFadgyOlfGtyi\zlbpfethdDAws;tp.
lDbikqwgbGxeh^zqskqwsAfwtue"kE.bwswCfGtuv*tFjpi	rlmtvtv@zqavAuwggtwjw7
lmjpvesuesvtp%fFfzveskktwjr$EfajcsvDsBNyi+fFfzvesuesusr=zmukqsKaaGIsV=smo
rmoiwfyltmtfr%fmarttDpgxLfx*uzaqheAsmNMyv@zqebofLlsBuqd^snfffjvgjGtyi\zg
ZtfbnfLAfKthe:ksptAeAudEOii%ftjij]xyfJOjr$ElbpfeDvx zwi]AqoeAezhmyNtr^yf
iAovksMvvLtys+klqjqyGnstJmw7fuovtnuhuxtre:nqncvnuhmsxwe>ozhu?eEhqLn
kFdjksyz.sLjz^xEf+rtDhsBNDd%xmxkplKaatHid^tsscxnFntn

ZtfbZjJvysJws:uFzrgeKjbGHnr"fEzuvjEgqKIAm%kpacbsMtcxLes'funrqwLhoM
lqbvwwwzayIwd$gBuwtnFnaMBnw!juwgtxwgntNjv*gx?bbYwjiGChm@tEawujvgnNFym[rq
ztsgumGsesMjx:ozhu?expmMyww7fxjpgesyusush!nmmhvtFlawykm+oFjqpxl
gGuqujytfGNfx*uz.bynFkpPCsk7fmofbxGmuPuwiTkpjvksygqKIlv@sEavqeGwuBGnD^
oybigeuhqMOwi8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?eLojLtuv=pqdvbkGjvLyid=tlqtqiMjuBIs	
ZtfbitssaPuxd:ulncmjrzdtHsm+mlbubfxmpKxff-klbpfesjdxJye#rqacu
vtpvqhGwzBHld@tpaokhJvgBFrm+mlgqteHyfLywz@zuppbwwmpKGfx:ozh}beS
zung+fFk_vIxx!yFvfAeuvowOhx^jlewtnFnaMBjd-gEubvmJlfsGtr:nEaqheLojL
vDplghLgdHHkm/sqebvmwgfvIss_ooaxkftpmBNDd=llekinLhmsMhe+tuoi?esuesNmi|k
luofksyzaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyid&kDf}

LDpobyzlaHOyw^zfavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:fIbubuJleBwfx^jlppbyzlaNMjd=l
tAorttHyjxNfv,fEucpisyeLtfr%fFigbzKlaHzeg=syppbuJvuHwtp|fIigpeKAbGxfv%y
juebptLgfQCxx8flEkinLhmsznp^ylxgtjrjsxuyi%fmtbVNXMaBGfk^ylxjkhzgxxLj
iAnrtjKzfwtuv*uDavqeKApKuli!AEjpieYypNJe8!IOJVVeuvnILjw|oAo}be`ofs^jv=D
yAgvyfJlaBMeQnfPPUbgszfwtfr%fGuknnRltsIkjTztfbumwsgsJws"xmnubxMjisux
SudtqxGmus%nr%uItbcsvgXtHlddsmhgb2AGbKx d!ZtfbfnyputFep*hDbtAeAzawyxm"tqe
zAadgezhswQfv^/uofguwuexHyd@tpavqeHypOCii!ozugthzhozyff*ruuAbBAAisIyl^x
oztvkyMAjHHxd:nDpwimrufMQtv)fopppjuAjHHx	!fMdegxKguHtyl^fpjikyssayCqi|
ztfoujDCfLtnw!zIp+vnwyfwied}onmkqlJhqAChd/koptfxrmpKtyl^foporzLlssznp^y
gDfbewwhuxxem+f4MKPesuesWtv+kxm&ueDvdtFew,yFfobfFkatwhi|yljpvtrAixtfg:Amm
juhkvfDgjFuli|foporwAzjGAee!hApmbnKgqKIAm%kpavjwGBhAtfd%uovogsLgdHHyv=r
yFsweyMyfsush!glogvBGylxxem_gsfbhnDl_Lywz^xfadqyzgpytBl*itaykqDgcx
jqtetntlen

ZtfbrwwzfGNfx*uzaykqDgdHHhp;jqaykyzgbsxnw$AEtkqsrvgsMtq^fAgbvmwgjLMzi|
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmaMBnw!zqdjptDvhRtfw!glqtgxwywtNns+fFpqne}zuHLfk^ 
xqgtgxzpoznef@iwvr_ 

VmngnfrHOW`Jd@tpaLwiAAis"NH?X

ZtfbPfLppGuqd?mDjewqLBstFeP*hDbtAe}UB5 el@ylicfewEuxHxm<klfzrjJpfGwjd>oFi
xmtvgwrzdtHsm+mlphbuJpoMyid_gFftkfDz?stXm+iqa3~!-aaMBjdgonsctDrobL
vmsvkhAwbMyid*tlujge6huBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!ZqyvbIAnjMCEm+mlQtqowjus	SEoJ2-
gldqquwybMCAi!krgqtyrifMQji+fZBNbfFkayIwx,/rjxgeDhowtlv@tFawpnNlsLCyC
ructcwAltnteE+fAwgtAAlxsIkd:nqarttBldMtBm-rlcgbuJltxHyi% lhkxnFnaBNx
nutvqwQgbGxeR?R/tbuyJhuxADd'uDavjjrmvMOwi8

Gzakp]vlqMBeh*yovuunGuaHzeR?ZPQbynDsayIqp=CfakphDBeBHld@fpfuewAwuBIsd=l
ztfbuhsuoBHld[xAdguxlggKIrd:nqaicyzlsBHld=llujgeHyjGNjh!smugtnsstsNtd:nq
gDdjkAAuhsIkd:nqagnjuAsHHng!vmhgu rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlsgszAyfwtks/fm
yFbpf]sspGyew$gzokplrDpKExx@zuppbfFkaMBjd*sBptvfFjfsIkd'oxfbofFhhxGjr:
yAgvyfJlaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyi	!fUtuwjKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaBGfk^ylujgrKlmOyxd>oxm
hqacfiJltLyid#xufhnDlgtNwmd@yljoclwggHLre:?lcnchCgbGxeA&oFfbxjJzvLths-uD
