
Also described will be a study currently in progress by NAL to evaluate
the usefulness of converting microfilm to electronic images in order to
improve access.  With the cooperation of Tuskegee University, NAL has
selected three reels of microfilm from a collection of sixty-seven reels
containing the papers, letters, and drawings of George Washington Carver.
The three reels were converted into 3,500 electronic images using a
specialized microfilm scanner.  The selection, filming, and indexing of
this material will be discussed.

Donald WATERS

Project Open Book, the Yale University Library's effort to convert 10,
000 books from microfilm to digital imagery, is currently in an advanced
state of planning and organization.  The Yale Library has selected a
major vendor to serve as a partner in the project and as systems
integrator.  In its proposal, the successful vendor helped isolate areas
of risk and uncertainty as well as key issues to be addressed during the
life of the project.  The Yale Library is now poised to decide what
material it will convert to digital image form and to seek funding,
initially for the first phase and then for the entire project.

The proposal that Yale accepted for the implementation of Project Open
Book will provide at the end of three phases a conversion subsystem,
browsing stations distributed on the campus network within the Yale
Library, a subsystem for storing 10,000 books at 200 and 600 dots per
inch, and network access to the image printers.  Pricing for the system
implementation assumes the existence of Yale's campus ethernet network
and its high-speed image printers, and includes other requisite hardware
and software, as well as system integration services.  Proposed operating
costs include hardware and software maintenance, but do not include
estimates for the facilities management of the storage devices and image
servers.

Yale selected its vendor partner in a formal process, partly funded by
the Commission for Preservation and Access.  Following a request for
proposal, the Yale Library selected two vendors as finalists to work with
Yale staff to generate a detailed analysis of requirements for Project
Open Book.  Each vendor used the results of the requirements analysis to
generate and submit a formal proposal for the entire project.  This
competitive process not only enabled the Yale Library to select its
primary vendor partner but also revealed much about the state of the
imaging industry, about the varying, corporate commitments to the markets
for imaging technology, and about the varying organizational dynamics
through which major companies are responding to and seeking to develop
these markets.

Project Open Book is focused specifically on the conversion of images
from microfilm to digital form.  The technology for scanning microfilm is
readily available but is changing rapidly.  In its project requirements,
the Yale Library emphasized features of the technology that affect the
technical quality of digital image production and the costs of creating
and storing the image library:  What levels of digital resolution can be
achieved by scanning microfilm?  How does variation in the quality of
microfilm, particularly in film produced to preservation standards,
affect the quality of the digital images?  What technologies can an
operator effectively and economically apply when scanning film to
separate two-up images and to control for and correct image
imperfections?  How can quality control best be integrated into
digitizing work flow that includes document indexing and storage?

The actual and expected uses of digital images--storage, browsing,
printing, and OCR--help determine the standards for measuring their
quality.  Browsing is especially important, but the facilities available
for readers to browse image documents is perhaps the weakest aspect of
imaging technology and most in need of development.  As it defined its
requirements, the Yale Library concentrated on some fundamental aspects
of usability for image documents:  Does the system have sufficient
flexibility to handle the full range of document types, including
monographs, multi-part and multivolume sets, and serials, as well as
manuscript collections?  What conventions are necessary to identify a
document uniquely for storage and retrieval?  Where is the database of
record for storing bibliographic information about the image document?
How are basic internal structures of documents, such as pagination, made
accessible to the reader?  How are the image documents physically
presented on the screen to the reader?

The Yale Library designed Project Open Book on the assumption that
microfilm is more than adequate as a medium for preserving the content of
deteriorated library materials.  As planning in the project has advanced,
it is increasingly clear that the challenge of digital image technology
and the key to the success of efforts like Project Open Book is to
provide a means of both preserving and improving access to those
deteriorated materials.

SESSION IV-B

George THOMA

In the use of electronic imaging for document preservation, there are
several issues to consider, such as:  ensuring adequate image quality,
maintaining substantial conversion rates (through-put), providing unique
identification for automated access and retrieval, and accommodating
bound volumes and fragile material.

To maintain high image quality, image processing functions are required
to correct the deficiencies in the scanned image.  Some commercially
available systems include these functions, while some do not.  The
scanned raw image must be processed to correct contrast deficiencies--
both poor overall contrast resulting from light print and/or dark
background, and variable contrast resulting from stains and
bleed-through.  Furthermore, the scan density must be adequate to allow
legibility of print and sufficient fidelity in the pseudo-halftoned gray
material.  Borders or page-edge effects must be removed for both
compactibility and aesthetics.  Page skew must be corrected for aesthetic
reasons and to enable accurate character recognition if desired.
Compound images consisting of both two-toned text and gray-scale
illustrations must be processed appropriately to retain the quality of
each.

SESSION IV-C

Jean BARONAS

Standards publications being developed by scientists, engineers, and
business managers in Association for Information and Image Management
(AIIM) standards committees can be applied to electronic image management
(EIM) processes including:  document (image) transfer, retrieval and
evaluation; optical disk and document scanning; and document design and
conversion.  When combined with EIM system planning and operations,
standards can assist in generating image databases that are
interchangeable among a variety of systems.  The applications of
different approaches for image-tagging, indexing, compression, and
transfer often cause uncertainty concerning EIM system compatibility,
calibration, performance, and upward compatibility, until standard
implementation parameters are established.  The AIIM standards that are
being developed for these applications can be used to decrease the
uncertainty, successfully integrate imaging processes, and promote "open
systems."  AIIM is an accredited American National Standards Institute
(ANSI) standards developer with more than twenty committees comprised of
300 volunteers representing users, vendors, and manufacturers.  The
standards publications that are developed in these committees have
national acceptance and provide the basis for international harmonization
in the development of new International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) standards.

This presentation describes the development of AIIM's EIM standards and a
new effort at AIIM, a database on standards projects in a wide framework
of imaging industries including capture, recording, processing,
duplication, distribution, display, evaluation, and preservation.  The
AIIM Imagery Database will cover imaging standards being developed by
many organizations in many different countries.  It will contain
standards publications' dates, origins, related national and
international projects, status, key words, and abstracts.  The ANSI Image
Technology Standards Board requested that such a database be established,
as did the ISO/International Electrotechnical Commission Joint Task Force
on Imagery.  AIIM will take on the leadership role for the database and
coordinate its development with several stanzectiKgexPjp=vqsu}

VmutkhAhaUUYXdT

flabbHzhstwyi/oEukexrvgsMye+jmsfuexvssxnk*zmmbkrsnfKS,

flabbergas{eR@zGsgbtxgeBAnx@rlugemFvmHADd*sBmkgxrjpGNnr;ozhbxtDhuBFnx,a

flabbergas{eT/kojrkyGBtsMye+jmsf+xwAuBHld+uFarqxKpcEyee+jlqtqgsimRtss:
flabbergasxjw*xmcng 

flabbergas{eW:gzectiKgbKyee!iAnrnjPgjLMzi!ozwqnAAuhsNmi!sqekwrlguAy
flabbergasBfv%Cmsg?eLofsMtj:Cmsg?esuesNmi!zqdjpnuhmswft@iuuAbkGy
flabbergasLjt/upvevnNlayCii-oFzbcsvgdEuwm:Eg

flabbergas{eX&klqtqlFvtBMej=xlsgnnsimxtfv$nuwcneKAbGxfv%yl)cuevlgBHjh!hK
flabbergasFnf/gDjcpx{gjGtyl^frptgxwlbuFjd'AFvtgeAzaIItv8

flabbXAnoBzng@tFarqywuuBuqd@tpacvyJhdMCAi+kEtbqkrkjzCye-fFfejsGspzSee|fm
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobojvpvFtfr%fmdegxKgnxwme+oEn}

flabbUJveNwym<klvugeGmawClm:gxakofylsRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!xqrwkwwzat
flabbwwjpGwjt:AmmkBnFnaHzet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKgjGtfd<uxbvkqwa
flabbxLhowuwh-kEtbytJsen

flabbHGudxJyd=llncpfypozths+zuowksygbvwjw|fuobvmwgeBAnx@rlfpxnJvoFysx
flabbwsAixLex&gzahqhMzjGAes+fFigbuwyntHjr$klphbyzlaFyim;slbpfeDvozayi/s
flabbfJjiBPfp!yFbpffJktsxjz^rAqgfexvssNmi!gzbnqlrDpKFi	

flabbYJhoLCym=tlqgtnGk;stMs>fxppiesuesQme:fFpbftn

flabbergas{edmkpfhkswg&tLhl*Bmm}*

flabbergas{edmkypxgeLofsvzv%kzaqhe,hsvBnz@rldqrD,ggKIrd[gBftbfJAjyuhx|a

flabbergas{edpyqafklAAbEtyi$nzpnqlQggHLew:uDbig	rkfOyqs[fybpclwtfGN
flabbergasMyv@zqhkgxrmpKtwi'xqtjksygnxxny_ lictiOhsxtfr%fEphvBsyfn

flabbergas{ed{xqbvgesjjwakv^klqcrjJgdHJni|frptbyJhoLCym=tlqgtnGkauuho;v
flabbergasOsx*rlxgbiwCfEIud/kxjcdqwgqKIhi%ADfubkGyaxHxy/ozhbetFAjGOnr"
flabbergasuhg^yEavqevphBNfp!lumgu 

YQTUKT6gJ#aI

YFvctyr4F2VJP!flabbergastYl^f4pngeGma`1RP!SmsmwurposNmi!I1SGbUJvkxwydR`>

ZtfbgrwyhxHhi!urajklz|tIyjh!zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubswAxHLpw!gEacbgszjv
lqbvwwwgpytyl^fEdjqqsymRtBs/qBmcejrptsxwm<ozhbvmwgexGfr%frptbjDldMLtr*i
jAdwojFAawyqm<kDz}be`osxyeh*yFjpeyrjbMyls/oqtbqkrlmxwyv=tud
vGcnkxzpozgwi[AnmkumAuhsuwi!tqdguxsyzsNtd|ABqqtyrhdvyxw!jqncpiKgjGtyl*y
kyftinFnaxHAm/uzngpyg

flabb6m/asWtr<kDtkqsrvgsJft^xlptbrAjsHznp_fmsejnNltsNtd^rqdvttFpdsztv_gF
flabb7m/asWtr<kDtkqsrvgsyqi$zDppkhrmjEyxd:ulgqtrsAtsNfm-uDffbyG
flabbergasyqi$zDppkhryfMLni<gxacpirkjLJqe,
flabb8m/as0wm_gDzbgqwjuKIsm$fBvdnnKojGAe+_gFftkfDzayIwd>nudjbyzl
flabbergasyqi$zDppkhrCfKMns+futbvmwgqKCre/ElgqtrsA-

UOMEbmszaxRui/oyfpvfDgpKtuv=jGdvbiwCfEIuq^tFaceyACjMCjw!ozagchzgpytyl^yq
gDfcu rgBFIsk!ztfbemssmxHli|fFicveDpfsumi@jljubyzlaBHyi"xmukqsrvgsNmi|k
ztsggeLFqxMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd|zAsgueAuavImi/kzubfnKAsBvzx^jltAuywttn

ZtfbET0La{Wmi_oEutAe7umBHjdmkFskgAssaXRui/oyfpv[rWsHDjg:futbceEvexFej=x
ztfbetFCfKMns+fAgbnfJnfsNjB:fmofblJhqAChw!iAmnghLppGMej=xlxjkhz
kxfevwGujvtyC[kEfvvnFnayCqi|fmsgbfNhjEugp^f<dcvjyvsRt7=8flUjgeStfKChe+
Itfokhssa`Ihm^zKajcxrtbwyee<gumcdqwgdHGuy:kDavAuGnstJmC!lumguevhuBHld'xAn
7&9`bkGyaBNxd:CqovAeBvvKHfp|alaVjnKgdHFqi$zuppbtxgtHGjdw~*alqzJubEaDi@xE
oEadgnFnavIsz^xFffbyGgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLre:fFicveOpmEtgi!godguxAimx
ztsqwlzgtxPjv@rlfpf]MzfKtft[rudcvnGutn

ZtfbwxwgpytXx@tpbtfeYloxLfp*FqebOfJrvItQe+mGbige}ZH66[d=lrftueLofsGje+y
zAaecuLBsxtyl^fEutwhLBstFev*itoguxrvgsNmi!uDjiksssatLym$rqtbksrhaPuDd:nmu
CumnbxMwqHLyd@fHbtkjLFaHzev^zDjgxfDaaGuAm"gFjqp	rhowtim|vxbAbtHAjHHx
tqdguxsyzsNtd+gHjicywgfyzjg:oHfnAeAuaOywC!rmsigeLlyMtie:gnbugxm

GzaUIR4geHwzq^tFaeqsKptMMes'fFfzveLobMtnw!smsmgirBqsQnx&fpfuewAwuBPjd:gst
ztbvbxHldBzDd:nqahwsuAjHHes'fmaikAwuaxFjq^tFaykyzposNmi!jAdwojFA?stFw!g
lAsocqrsbGAze"kldqpxLyvvN	d@tlTIOQrkpvOri+zldcpetlaIuww^jlbicnFzusu
jAdwojFA_MSui!jqgkpnLppGt=HoJ>avjfLgvGurf*mGpwuqQgexznr^ylxjcyrlmxGjr:y
gDfbcqDvxxxee+jlxjgwwgjGtyl^fppewrwuusNmi,fobpb=GyaFOxxSfAdewwmga!Bnw
lAsocqAGfwtre[fAgbcwLpdEyew:xGdvwwwgbEFtA|fFigbzKlssCsx^xrbegevltBAsd:u
hqawphGBqEyid'xAnbvmwgvGxjv-EuoibisAbuuxi!yKtvgrlgbGtnq[uDucpyrzuxJ
zAxctirpoMyws[kDbdkqAAznteH^sAouvwsAjHHes'fFikueKlqtLff*ruuAbnKgbsJfv:fAg
ztfbET0LaILtn^iF.bymwyfBHey|kDakpywygtwjd%kEjipxripKHes'fHftAevpgyywi+z
vtjnqxGwiByxd>oxmbchultLtyl^fEbogevhutvfw^a

T1UGU,
flabb=)/as@mi!I1SGbuJvkxwyd*ylbbetDsbuIwe:oAobcrGuhsWtv+kxmbWsACfKMnx,-E
flabbRsuos6nf/gDz?bGwsmsWtq_AzjecyAvoLtWi|kmseje}IfEFhs/k>.bvmwgBFywm$gz
flabbHzlnBwfp!YAdkgyQg)TWX=7fFigbHzlnBwfp!GntvtfuAts!jv<oofb-HSZ-mtfr%
flabbTUSDn

SudjcjDgMX!Pd!flabbergasted!flUjgeUVSXtJp^iFsqpnugDAyrm|zDzbNntybKS

GlncltJgpGaqm+klgknjrvgswmi_oobnboGBsGuqd-oFftcyMyfswtq[rqugbBAAi
mDbrjnuzaBMef^ozhbfjNlmHJjh!zAavgxLguAyey|gnjnkyQgpytky-rKagnjuAsHHng
godguxrApsxtg;sqovu	rhtsuen=ozubrwGqfvNes'fOptpjDsa@Hnz^xEjvA	rAix
GyftkhsuaVBjq*immbUtupfMS	d:nqaEjjEpdtFeE#yFsceyKgTxLAm$kfaQEQUaatHi
HqmnetJla{Qnx&fmefkyAvotFew;vBptvexypFtXy+fYjettKFtMyrw7f5qtksyls $jv-gs.
Juhkvf1gFJOnt_kzubEtJwpKuym=tfaUqsQgDHLus/gFjqpeGmaTGjv*im.bcsvgBIJqi
IAnrwywyt	oedjADahkqwgdHHye*tEavjjrHnxLng@tlDjgrAjbEtXs$oquA&xrvo Fnr^
pAvtpfDz.sMzt[rqngpywkaPCyl!ztfbiwswiBwxd'xAnbvmwgqtJjv!vGcnkhsAjHH d!Ztf
ozegznFnaHzex&klbtvnusfLtkv=slDjgrAjbEtFf|zDbevxrKpvOri+zEakuesCbBFff-k
ozadqyzgjFuli!gzebvjPAayIwq@zfacpirzfOywe-fpjhhjJloMtnr:kDgcejKgdtHef^
AEff}erVvKtls@rEactjr]2	tys!gEtguxrAixtjj'koukxjFltLtfr%fmdeguLhcBFnx,fAg
kxfevwGujvtfg$kEtbvtrwsBGfv,fvpwtssstsuxd$uyqctjvgxBNmd[gBft?esues	7=!zA
opfpvnxFaMBjd_uEubfjKpstvqi!lGoevnGutsIkd:nqawujJgjGNjv'gofbvtrho
kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnbqkrqpNLse-yfakphDBeBHld*tlqctyAjvEuwd@foporfJptHHes'
vmhg+nEhhxtim|vxbAbBAAisUXGdOlekuuDhzsCsx^xrbegxmgaXuwp,fqyrgwAtfGNxd>oFi
itfokxLyzsMyy%kzuubtFgbsPfv*kFzbqkrAbLExd|AshguyrAitNew^gDdjksygutMpw!gDf
iAnrnjLlesGzg&frbuvjJgxBNmd@tKagnjuAsHHng!yKtvgrrAitHeA*ztarcuwy.svzx
ztbvbkGyaKyfh*tsacnqrCfKMns+ylphbyzlatLym$rqtbcwwgsHOll-ElfswnNhmxHy	

VmngnfrHOW`Jd@tpaLwiAAis"NH?X

ZqyvbhGuwxLxm=tljubksyaFIwi!kJqgpxACfsush!zung+hGutNGnr"fFicpeAtbzy
imqvwwwgbEIsi8flOCN)KgfQJjv*kzdgbBAAisIux*immbemsybvNjv!xqdqisAAjHHe+jI4-
CumnbgwgsxFfx^jlbpfeuvnIuwi%fIjvjeLofsyCt^xufpejrvgsBfz*tsavgCLgsxEjC^jg
3tbvbksjuHLxd@lrfeve7JSsuhg;xmdA{erOpPtfg$ADbvgevvfLtky-rlugzyrobOyex=fnf
ozaqtiwyaMIef^fGtghzDcas2tA!jAafkkxlsxHyd;yqsubwwhdMtys!oyqgtkwjusNjB:b
ZtfugesyfsKzi|zuppueLobMtBm-rlcgbjPwmHLjh8flGqteEhoRnee!yqsxkhwgcNLje;
smzbdjrhauyyx^xltqnzLppGtyl@tlqgtkGynBHld:nqayqwCgjGBty|kbavjnKgxBFqd@rEp
hqafkxuBtLyi	

YQTUKT6gW2

SmsAdjLoa9YYImY

IAqAtnyousFfA!vDpvghLzavLje:oHfbytJrtnteT/uFfevnGuazLfr:kpadAeLofsFfA!zA
gGujqwKgbGxeh*yEfokssApKMes'fIptmxrpovFzh^ylujgeJphANex=fppbqwrhvMBtv*Fq
ztfbhtDspPCsk2flsgrwGkvvyex&klxqtplgqKyue/klegtnNhuBPjd>uDlu?evptMLnf;zq
ztfbytJraMIex&klqwdqAj.sush!vGcnkhDFaIywj=xyaqtevptIFfC!ztfbytJr?stNr
gpekvnGu.swtt,xuhjveGDoxLxd=lltqwsvgsxwtv%ozhubfFkavIrt;zqsbrwGnstGxd&gHf
ztfbtnyousNtd$uzutqqryfGNfp!uravjjAyaPIwo|alaVjjKlaKCll:ylbtgeFvu
AzmkonLleityl^xqactjrhaGOrf^xlphbjPjfINns+ylbpfeDpnBNfx*uzt}

GzagnjuAsHHng!kzwkttFtfGNet-gofubxLybBHxd=tlujgeuvqRLnk&zltAuywt?
IAqAtnyousIBr^xEaycsLguHths+zDpnbzKltsIkd:nqjtbBGylsush!hqarcnvggHLee+E
AEf>byzlaIOgp*ilxcpyKgrNCho!gzebgfKFatwhi|ylbvbqAAuEyes/fzpbetKA?stYl^
smsmgyHsbvyem|fIptmnFnaBHex&oEactjsbasWtr:xmdvu	rnvBxjp*tqtbqsrlmxwyv=tud
AEf?bfFkavIqp^iFjxgeDpdxHxm+mlbtgeAuaNMjd@tpadgnFnaKykm+kp?

OEtwgxrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgbuCqm:EluqbhzhozyeA=xwtbynLopNNeh^zqdvktFgbKyeq=xq
jughkhMsusNtd%kmmbynLo?stVy^yFjqpxrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgjGNjk/oFzbqkrAixtBs/q
gzebvmwgtMuyy|fAgbvmwgdAusk^jlwgtxAvosOsh^xlujgeuvqRLnk&zlmcyesyfsNtd#k
gpetgxKlenteX&kEfbcwwgqNvqm$fBpnkhQgjLMzi|fIikemryfJOnv^fuohqwEle
jubnqlMl?


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flBrrjFkjQtNMd.laFKWWJU8`4djLlQCTY1JJ9USXn


V4FUGS`LS`i

flabbUstfEueU8PgaCpiJl
flabbFKzpvCfx^fPjtghLvsmtFy:uybvktF
flabbSsAjHHfp!GsskezDAvKuqdgonsctD
flabb6=0~"tGe-zunqtjrIpNFjz@xp
flabbGwsuLPnp-kfaOFe"%8[-]6x~!
flabbUzvoxiedR9*2_b0=~_-=67
flabbKsE;st=7E7>a7`9	@5_(
flabbJ	tbBF,d!OZUGTSW1;stUEiJ4F$CX0Y?T`XYnJM?IQ1

flabbOwhosVfv=tmt?bXwujHLeQ@tmhgt
flabbIwwbKNri+zlphbXLhowuwh|fmofbYwjiGIqs"E
flabbFKzpvCfx*uzahqwrPoyIwq@zuppbfFka2Gfk^fYbpclwtfGNe+?OUN_
flabb6'%~s%fC+klBxgsMl.s!zm:kl23`#
flabbXAswxLeW[xuoi?e5Ka&]@5E
flabbUzvoxiedR9*2_b0_@_+*#6
flabbKsE;st=7E7>a70`	98"&

flabbUsAsBwne!HmuvkslgQKyxm%kzu
flabbYzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbGxeE$iqtu
flabb6*%~s&~x&f5utgjLaa7o2	
flabbXMpuxt`8E
flabb2sziBHlx=tfaFEe"%~*_]6w7'
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b@&$_*)#@
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a~5@	05[+
flabbJ	tbBF,d!I2B$I2!3NnVNXiK6

flabbMGDbKxeF^yEft
flabbHwuuKyeG@tmekgsrk"TLhl*zqdvwww
flabb=Uhotxne+fOfpvjJggHLeE/itjvghLBsx 
flabb6+9~mtwy^fNbknj
flabbRGuuKyfp7f3vgdjugI*2e6n`
flabbHSUBWU
flabbUzvoxiedR~!5_b@&$__]#5
flabbKsE;st=9v0>a~5@	@~&]
flabbJ	tbBF,d!nAxcti|sjLoum:zgffw

flabbJvDjGtG	!HDpypwAnhmtJB^iGukxjrKjKyhx=x
flabbRwtfQtWi|kmseje1utMCyy:k
flabb9"9aUIsm:glBxgsMl
flabbWGzfOCqp^ lDCb@(!8+
flabbUzvoxiedR#!7_b`_~_&*@`
flabbKsE;st=!v`>a90~	@6)[
flabbJ	tbBF,d!HUUPGYgga6YRIs"OBNUYS1Fn*

flabbJJpds7 d{gxbnwhsaa#Chi!VDfukiwuu
flabbHzhePShoTNqbngDlgJGw 
flabb6'%2s5nr"f5utgjL
flabbFDlytHiv*gfaXCe"94E)
flabbUzvoxiedR@*~_b`(9_[-q9
flabbKsE;st=~E9>a808	@6+[

flabbOstfLtIe-E
flabb9=86sXji[CApfbWGhe
flabbGssuBGtv^ lNFb7'92+a68E0
flabbUzvoxiedR0!~_b7&`_[+~7

flabbWAjlRtJv>gK.bCxKvdBuyi!IAptfnFhuHL
flabbFElsBwfr!SqnqtD
flabbQAistLDd=llDqplJltL
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b`=@_-*87
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a9``	08-)

flabbHsymsZqi*yoijczwy.sWts/juocvtJ
flabbFElsBwfr!SqnqtD
flabbQAistLDd=llDqplJltL
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b`=@_-*87
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a9``	08-)

flabbOGhoGyeJ/kqncp
flabb7=%~s4jj'kDtqpe8hsDtFz^tGf?bSGba_
flabbHzhsEIyx^yHjnnjlgWTte6w#*4

flabbUJvtLywdborgqti
flabbIAyfvNtv!lAsbUhzvmtLqC!VDpitfEz
flabbQAistLDd=llDqplJltL
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b`=@_"-6~
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a9``	$9==
flabbJ	tbBF,d!vsjh$xwx2nFtg8mAw

flabbOsjrNyqm+klIguxlgEBLjg:uD
flabbSsAjHHfp!JqnqpxLybMCtr!RmcqtfLvsR
flabbermpKtNr:kDbevnNla2Hks/smukqsr1fvBss-usjgu
flabbQAistLDd=llDqplJltL
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b`=@_(&0~
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a9``	99&[

flabbXMzbGtMs$qqz?bIAyfvNtv
flabbHwuuxLej=xlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFguAyeL;smokvnwza{WJXc]
flabbFDlytHii/fXjdtfJF
flabbWMAhxLxdptuwgtxAAz
flabb6)$aVIqp^mqaCxjFBf
flabbSwDaULzr|Cudm?e6Qa[=@@x
flabbUzvoxiedR#*9_b@&9_"(!8
flabbKsE;st=!E@>a~57	84+_
flabbJ	tbBF,d!nAdmgD|GpwCfg8xGuigwKbfwO

flabb2AsmBurdgalIqqyGu.s$ng^f2sgunvloM
flabbGMzjGyxw!+lUgemFpdtFeH^Bqmqrrwuu
flabberPntAnr"f:aKpkGyntNns+f5zuvjEzaZLty[
flabbN	UF!
flabb~*0~s`tg)rqeigeVyjOy	dnAuugb9=%
flabbGwAixMie7fYEb4#_s8
flabbUzvoxiedR9*2_b0)~_-+0@
flabbKsE;st=9v9>a789	!9-+

flabbFFufs` dfkzogA	rHtLIhm@zqaFkwwjuHL
flabbIwwbKNri+zlphbUJltxLAe:oAobcsvgDHHxi/Bmukqs
flabb`=8a8Fnr!RuctcwQ
flabbHGyoxFqdptuwgtxAAz
flabbNLobvu	di5l2600&
flabbUzvoxiedR`*8_b7(`_-=`9
flabbKsE;st=0E!>a470	$4(_
flabbJ	tbBF,d!R~E1$H7YOX6QE8HUUPGY

flabbWGubExeP8fXbtujF
flabbFKzpvCfx^fPjtghLvssztv!OzgqtrsAjHHeX^itoqntyF
flabbZFpwxLxm:ElphbRsyzEush!gFaEqqDlhxtUe/q
flabbWGvnsV#6w0faOePwseBHeP*hDbtA
flabbHGsmxAjdkgDl?bRVg3[+96T!*23
flabbUzvoxiedR9*2_b9=`_=&@8
flabbKsE;st=7E7>a539	$9--
flabbJ	tbBF,d!xxbtujF&mBvw	;sp?gfz

flabbRsyjttQ	!RqctqslgNtHfk*tsaGfnLvs
flabbYzla8Hqm+klKqwwFhmsIkd{ADsgpyrJmBHng@rlUtkfDz
flabbq&04s2eW:xqfv?e6bXn
flabb2sziBHlx=tfaFEe"%~[-
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b8"!_-+89
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a067	99-=
flabbJ	tbBF,d!V7CUCFSZ#Z%ZZhaNJVPJ`

flabbRAjityqdgkEl?bJPldNNnz^fPjtghLvs
flabbHGtqNNjv!YojgphwgSxMje/it
flabbGwsmsWtq_AzjecyAvoLtWi|kmsej	rPovo
flabbWEg3Ta8`z
flabb9*`a`Izx&f5utgjL
flabbRGysBMys>tfaPLe=@0-]]pDr*
flabbUzvoxiedR8*2_b!"$_(]`@
flabbKsE;st=6E7>a04@	`0+&
flabbJ	tbBF,d!rqtm$gwsmvIwi8iAnb-NFAfKHjxSfAsbdjDsdHLj%-kElb-zMjq	

flabbHDpgyIwh!GgaNAsuo
flabbIAyfvNtv7fXjdtfJFaTOys_gFjqp
flabbZFpwxLxm:ElphbHssjyIwr*gf
flabbergPyzng^fAgbvmwgQKyxm%kzu
flabb8=%a5upi|opfbFwACfmt!x&fRmqqw
flabbTsrmtHi{!IMa~6~'9_*(0@
flabbUzvoxiedR~!~_b@_@_[-76
flabbKsE;st=9v$>a05@	06_(
flabbJ	tbBF,d!immwt'MjdFPxe

flabbFNybs7ng&kxtqp
flabbSsAjHHfp!GDdjkAwzatHidmkoptfxrHeFCsm|zDbvktF
flabbS~7a~G dv0Z
flabb`Loa?tUi+tEznxfFpbmtS	ra
flabb2sziBHlx=tfaF}Hmg3[)#`
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b0=8_)-98
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a7`6	`6*(
flabbJ	tbBF,d!zyj$ezmujAols<

flabbJDsjs7Dp=tmt?bRsubzCsk!Kpjvqw
flabbUwytxOxdkxAkgey
flabbIwwbKNri+zlphbyzlaVFfw|oot
flabbMsywtLidptuwgtxAAz
flabb8'$aUIDp|zAobJfDs
flabbHstcKCik^ lNCb#"84+
flabbUzvoxiedR`!8_b9+`_=]797f<739[r~0)a#8z`l)fkwwju	
flabbKsE;st=0v!>a6~~	#9+_
flabbJ	tbBF,d!Kxmk$N3HS8! L@xHbtf WKVsIwd^rxj$yoz83nBfv<gDe}giM

flabbIsCjwt2s=jxfAbUsjltLi
flabbUsjltLidcAybpkyAlts3sw:oFvvg
flabb8=%a`yhs+jlTvtjwA.s!zm:kl3`3
flabbQGzaTFys| lDCb@*%~&
flabbUzvoxiedR0!6_b@*#_[&0@![2IK_
flabbKsE;st=8v~>a~6!	`8=(

flabbQQuoxtP	!VqsuqsABtmtFw|oEucpyrKjKyhx=x
flabbHGyoxFqddtrptofLppGtYi$nzpnqlAltsztv
flabbe~jiHFfv-ElJphtJtbMCtr!YAvtejK
flabb0=9a8Fnr!RuctcwQ
flabbHGyoxFqdptuwgtxAAz
flabbNLobvu	di5l2600&
flabbUzvoxiedR`*8_b7(`_*(@7
flabbKsE;st=0E!>a470	$4(_
flabbJ	tbBF,d!P4O$ET0UF56H	}O6OGV

flabbRsyzuyyl!Vqugtx
flabbUGsjvSeT-gzokplrHeOCxi/fFpbvmw
flabberYfzCxx^xlphbHGwzKCll:y
flabbQAistLDd=llDqplJltL
flabbTxmjvyePhf$~5
flabbUzvoxiedR8*3_b`=@_+(0@
flabbKsE;st=6E8>a9``	#4-_

flabbHmgNBwme^rlTrgwtlszaRglAqfp
flabbJvpuHL	dokJubGsuveBHlddtuukcyACf
flabbHGtqNNjv!Iqovgwr]NfWe5x~>
flabbZFpwxLxm:ElphbNDsjGInw!gFaEjnuhhH
flabbGGEa-[@`
flabbHzpdtAt{!OXa8`~_%
flabbUzvoxiedR9!3_b9'0_[(6~
flabbKsE;st=7v8>a~~~	!9*)
flabbJ	tbBF,d!A#65~0|BjvPr	8io?wkhmleNttv!A#65~0|BjvPr	#oFog
