anxiously fixed on it, for she felt sure she would catch a bad
cold if she did not get dry very soon.

  `Ahem!' said the Mouse with an important air, `are you all ready?
This is the driest thing I know.  Silence all round, if you please!
"William the Conqueror, whose cause was favoured by the pope, was
soon submitted to by the English, who wanted leaders, and had been
of late much accustomed to usurpation and conquest.  Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria--"'

  `Ugh!' said the Lory, with a shiver.

  `I beg your pardon!' said the Mouse, frowning, but very
politely:  `Did you speak?'

  `Not I!' said the Lory hastily.

  `I thought you did,' said the Mouse.  `--I proceed.  "Edwin and
Morcar, the earls of Mercia and Northumbria, declared for him:
and even Stigand, the patriotic archbishop of Canterbury, found
it advisable--"'

  `Found WHAT?' said the Duck.

  `Found IT,' the Mouse replied rather crossly:  `of course you
know what "it" means.'

  `I know what "it" means well enough, when I find a thing,' said
the Duck:  `it's generally a frog or a worm.  The question is,
what did the archbishop find?'

  The Mouse did not notice this question, but hurriedly went on,
`"--found it advisable to go with Edgar Atheling to meet William
and offer him the crown.  William's conduct at first was
moderate.  But the insolence of his Normans--"  How are you
getting on now, my dear?' it continued, turning to Alice as it
spoke.

  `As wet as ever,' said Alice in a melancholy tone:  `it doesn't
seem to dry me at all.'

  `In that case,' said the Dodo solemnly, rising to its feet, `I
move that the meeting adjourn, for the immediate adoption of more
energetic remedies--'

  `Speak English!' said the Eaglet.  `I don't know the meaning of
half those long words, and, what's more, I don't believe you do
either!'  And the Eaglet bent down its head to hide a smile:
some of the other birds tittered audibly.

  `What I was going to say,' said the Dodo in an offended tone,
`was, that the best thing to get us dry would be a Caucus-race.'

  `What IS a Caucus-race?' said Alice; not that she wanted much
to know, but the Dodo had paused as if it thought that SOMEBODY
ought to speak, and no one else seemed inclined to say anything.

  `Why,' said the Dodo, `the best way to explain it is to do it.'
(And, as you might like to try the thing yourself, some winter
day, I will tell you how the Dodo managed it.)

  First it marked out a race-course, in a sort of circle, (`the
exact shape doesn't matter,' it said,) and then all the party
were placed along the course, here and there.  There was no `One,
two, three, and away,' but they began running when they liked,
and left off when they liked, so that it was not easy to know
when the race was over.  However, when they had been running half
an hour or so, and were quite dry again, the Dodo suddenly called
out `The race is over!' and they all crowded round it, panting,
and asking, `But who has won?'

  This question the Dodo could not answer without a great deal of
thought, and it sat for a long time with one finger pressed upon
its forehead (the position in which you usually see Shakespeare,
in the pictures of him), while the rest waited in silence.  At
last the Dodo said, `EVERYBODY has won, and all must have
prizes.'

  `But who is to give the prizes?' quite a chorus of voices
asked.

  `Why, SHE, of course,' said the Dodo, pointing to Alice with
one finger; and the whole party at once crowded round her,
calling out in a confused way, `Prizes! Prizes!'

  Alice had no idea what to do, and in despair she put her hand
in her pocket, and pulled out a box of comfits, (luckily the salt
water had not got into it), and handed them round as prizes.
There was exactly one a-piece all round.

  `But she must have a prize herself, you know,' said the Mouse.

  `Of course,' the Dodo replied very gravely.  `What else have
you got in your pocket?' he went on, turning to Alice.

  `Only a thimble,' said Alice sadly.

  `Hand it over here,' said the Dodo.

  Then they all crowded round her once more, while the Dodo
solemnly presented the thimble, saying `We beg your acceptance of
this elegant thimble'; and, when it had finished this short
speech, they all cheered.

  Alice thought the whole thing very absurd, but they all looked
so grave that she did not dare to laugh; and, as she could not
think of anything to say, she simply bowed, and took the thimble,
looking as solemn as she could.

  The next thing was to eat the comfits:  this caused some noise
and confusion, as the large birds complained that they could not
taste theirs, and the small ones choked and had to be patted on
the back.  However, it was over at last, and they sat down again
in a ring, and begged the Mouse to tell them something more.

  `You promised to tell me your history, you know,' said Alice,
`and why it is you hate--C and D,' she added in a whisper, half
afraid that it would be offended again.

  `Mine is a long and a sad tale!' said the Mouse, turning to
Alice, and sighing.

  `It IS a long tail, certainly,' said Alice, looking down with
wonder at the Mouse's tail; `but why do you call it sad?'  And
she kept on puzzling about it while the Mouse was speaking, so
that her idea of the tale was something like this:--

                    `Fury said to a
                   mouse, That he
                 met in the
               house,
            "Let us
              both go to
                law:  I will
                  prosecute
                    YOU.  --Come,
                       I'll take no
                        denial; We
                     must have a
                 trial:  For
              really this
           morning I've
          nothing
         to do."
           Said the
             mouse to the
               cur, "Such
                 a trial,
                   dear Sir,
                         With
                     no jury
                  or judge,
                would be
              wasting
             our
              breath."
               "I'll be
                 judge, I'll
                   be jury,"
                         Said
                    cunning
                      old Fury:
                     "I'll
                      try the
                         whole
                          cause,
                             and
                        condemn
                       you
                      to
                       death."'


  `You are not attending!' said the Mouse to Alice severely.
`What are you thinking of?'

  `I beg your pardon,' said Alice very humbly:  `you had got to
the fifth bend, I think?'

  `I had NOT!' cried the Mouse, sharply and very angrily.

  `A knot!' said Alice, always ready to make herself useful, and
looking anxiously about her.  `Oh, do let me help to undo it!'

  `I shall do nothing of the sort,' said the Mouse, getting up
and walking away.  `You insult me by talking such nonsense!'

  `I didn't mean it!' pleaded poor Alice.  `But you're so easily
offended, you know!'

  The Mouse only growled in reply.

  `Please come back and finish your story!' Alice called after
it; and the others all joined in chorus, `Yes, please do!' but
the Mouse only shook its head impatiently, and walked a little
quicker.

  `What a pity it wouldn't stay!' sighed the Lory, as soon as it
was quite out of sight; and an old Crab took the opportunity of
saying to her daughter `Ah, my dear!  Let this be a lesson to you
never to lose YOUR temper!'  `Hold your tongue, Ma!' said the
young Crab, a little snappishly.  `You're enough to try the
patience of an oyster!'

  `I wish I had our Dinah here, I know I do!' said Alice aloud,
addressing nobody in particular.  `She'd soon fetch it back!'

  `And who is Dinah, if I might venture to ask the question?'
said the Lory.

  Alice replied eagerly, for she was always ready to talk about
her pet:  `Dinah's our cat.  And she's such a capital one for
catching mice you can't think!  And oh, I wish you could see her
after the birds!  Why, she'll eat a little bird as soon as look
at it!'

  This speech caused a remarkable sensation among the party.
Some of the birds hurried off at once:  one the old Magpie began
wrapping itself up very carefully, remarking, `I really must be
getting home; the night-air doesn't suit my throat!' and a Canary
called out in a trembling voice to its children, `Come away, my
dears!  It's high time you were all in bed!'  On various pretexts
they all moved off, and Alice was soon left alone.

  `I wish I hadn't mentioned Dinah!' she said to herself in a
melancholy tone.  `Nobody seems to like her, down here, and I'm
sure she's the best cat in the world!  Oh, my dear Dinah!  I
wonder if I shall ever see you any more!'  And here poor Alice
began to cry again, for she felt very lonely and low-spirited.
In a little while, however, she again heard a little pattering of
footsteps in the distance, and she looked up eagerly, half hoping
that the Mouse had changed his mind, and was coming back to
finish his story.



                           CHAPTER IV

                The Rabbit Sends in a Little Bill


  It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and
looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something;
and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess!  The Duchess!
Oh my dear paws!  Oh my fur and whiskers!  She'll get me
executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets!  Where CAN I have
dropped them, I wonder?'  Alice guessed in a moment that it was
looking for the fan and the pair of white kid gloves, and she
very good-naturedly began hunting about for them, but they were
nowhere to be seen--everything seemed to have changed since her
swim in the pool, and the great hall, with the glass table and
the little door, had vanished completely.

  Very soon the Rabbit noticed Alice, as she went hunting about,
and called out to her in an angry tone, `Why, Mary Ann, what ARE
you doing out here?  Run home this moment, and fetch me a pair of
gloves and a fan!  Quick, now!'  And Alice was so much frightened
that she ran off at once in the direction it pointed to, without
trying to explain the mistake it had made.

  `He took me for his housemaid,' she said to herself as she ran.
`How surprised he'll be when he finds out who I am!  But I'd
better take him his fan and gloves--that is, if I can find them.'
As she said this, she came upon a neat little house, on the door
of which was a bright brass plate with the name `W. RABBIT'
engraved upon it.  She went in without tpr=iwjpi	rhowtmy/xuff
ABtvcnJz.sCsd"xqbvbkwhssFjw:fEigbxzvvExeq^kFavjjryftFeQ@xKaCpsl
gzebdjrAvKHjh!uGubqkrAixtms;yqadgkGyfsMmi!nmebhtMuesNmi!lmobcsv
mxpxgxm

fl!JqBrxvxywd*zltggrKa"sUqm$kltckirApsBjv|kxg?b%Lvauyek=ozh
sqtuclwzayIwd@fDbddnL"as3ew;vBpugeVpotB)p-fnfbujFkjGAeq^fAo
sqtuclwzaGyCxH-laCpirzixtgi"gzahcsuFjGAex&kltqtyrvgsNmm+mlujcy
CAvnfezhqIys\!f)&OkxKgBEChiHflDqojrofKyeh*xqdvnDlgbGxek^zlsgciQ
lAsbAtMyaPuqoH_l&EqrAuhsCsd@fyjpwywaaGOww^'laDwyrP"Oyek=zluqbxwl
ztbvbyzlaFIzw^fppgus\Aazyyd=AF?*be7umRtNd%uz"vbyzpoDn)d?rudgbBwuu
uz.b@yzhusNmi,-pangyrKjGumd|zAqbksrAixtms;yqakheAAauyle+fAsfgwAuh
vqprnjrhcHOyd-owfbvmsA@,

flCAbyzptsNnq^fEigbmskayIzr%ftftbBsFaBHys!glukfDrsjMNqi!xApobBAAi
glucdqwgjGtyl^fIjpftOaatHid=tljvb=szaLBjd&gpajquwk-suej@tlbpfeLDp
uDavjwwlaIunv|fAgbvnFFaPBnx^fwjfblDvwxM,d!ytfbvtGraNJex&klgcpesue
glqckwrvgsNmi!mxpxgxlgbGxeA@ylkwuyrnpBHld:ulmgcAwguAyev=uy.bymwu
nqsbgDwggxFqd;vAobceDpuMFjd#uFungeLobMtxx=upapgfJguAyep=uwjpi]
mxbuu rgUAywi!Cmtbptrsbuyqd:nutbvnElaPCyl!ztfbytJkts|IVdTWaOG	\
hGubpjNlsMBjp^yEaujjrBovIwo^jljvbfFkaIOyd*zluqbmwyaECuw8fl!KbpFvx
Y1NGVM1UHsCsx^xqtvksygjLtxy/kluqbmswqxH	(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	
^IigpjNlss3ei@zlptbiJpoDtfr,ztjpi.rzps3)p-fvvuveKlfsQme:fFiku
hAuvnjrkpxM d!OleqbmGwfsCy(-rlncmjrtfsAws>fxbtijrhhtCs{!lAs
xqbnnDrP"Ftvy*zqavkwwkaHzef^ozhbuzuoattym+ElmkvyDlaMBnr"'/

flJvbiAkaLIem+jqff?esuesGzg&fEpqpjJguAusd|nqajcirlyIyhx^ja
hqgqtjrzixtme%fpswpprobEzex&klcqvyDl.sMmi!lAvpfezlssBje%fBsguxAuh
gsbkpxLguAyeg^oxjpi	rhowtme%fFpbuyGvqsNtd|gHfbjjJgoxwpd'xAnbdjAuh
hDpmgsmga`Bjd&gEuknDrwvMtis>tlujgetvuMFj{!ymzkplrApsBjv|kxg
^6icv)KgrNCyi!kzpwim	|JsBtt^fUaujfF_usAws>fmoAbrGyf aFw!oFaku	rP
imo&veylusIzx!gFavjjrkpHL][dfppbynKoa2tme%t/ubfwMulsKzm:kltq
sGdj#)

flBncx/gjMtBe|fFpqbqsAfsNtd>oEibvmsA@stXl^fIfpveGuazLtA*ts.bcsv
mDpyksyaatHid<kDzbutGuaAuid:ullpgjDgeHQsd=tlujgexspHL,d!oz
gzpvjjJgnBHzx^fFigtjrDbLtss:fqwgpeJvpFtks/fFiku	rhowtxl^fFskgi
ztfbgkxldMttj!rKjpievvxGtBm:nlppgewscHQee"guouveLofsxts/ lbpfeLof
uFigtesynswzv-kpatqzFkaAywd&kme}be~AjEFew&klxgpyrvosAws>ozh?bfFk.
gEacbqszusLjw=ADdg?eKofsJzx!uzfbcwEgpNNes'fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpaqpj
lApvbzHguAyeg&oyogA	rhowtxe*jluqbmwytxFkdGTAxbKeuhosxtd+ulnqtjl
CtbvgAwyaAuut^tE?bb2zhus%NPgfnfeqrwgpytri9-

flMwepAszsztv!Gxjeg	rAixtqm:zxfbofypdsvtx:rqajcirupPtme%fuuubkMsm
krggeylgbGxew&klhtgBrupsFfv"kD;bbxLpmEtnx!CmtbxjJFaNHhs_lAsvcgDl.
gze?bfKguAywi!yqfogirApsvjd+ultqtyrvgswme+iqaqhezlssyAi/fsfvvnFn
uGubqkrAixtws=slbicnFaaGIeA=tpftbxzlayyqx!AzicruQb

fl!KveOhtsGzg&fBmgcxsuuxLee:ftpog	\guAIzk&zlqqqwrHmBwj{!^IigpeGuf
Cmtp&yrhmPuDw!mDpyksygmtLli/fmofbxEhmEyw{!gzebdjAuhsIwh^xqebcgGBu
hKaokhwgbGxev@hnjvu rgJsuqq=yFaykxzgJsBfh+-FaiqswgeHQsd:nmu
xmcdky	opEy][@tpaAgy	|bGxeC^z\_kv)KgstNmi/fovtktMz.sSty!qzpy?
ztjubxGyusIkd-orf#be1geHtBs+jqsbymsAaVUSd&gHfbjfHwfGyid:ulng#
3tfpbNrBtxxex=fDfcfexhjKS]x@rqt?bNrmbGwni%fFicveCpowttj!ztjpi
tqwgtezhqIysi% lbpfeFvxsBjv^fUacoeAuaMBjd_opengeGmaHHj%!f6igtj
uGhjveLvauyee!hApmbBJpuMysd@hAvvbrwaaMBfx!ztftgeGBhAN^d!Gzebymwu
OlhtqBrBqmtN(-rlxtkywgpGy][#AFaK&rrnsHQsd;vloqy	\gtAyee%jqebksrh
yAstqBxBmsNtr^?l!cveDlbLNex&kDf&ueFvaKItq!zAaittOgvItfr,fyptg
NQSG})

fl!DwyrAixH	(!ztpwimLgBEChi7f)tjcqDgJs8JZ XlhgvesuzsIqh^xlujcsrP
gyapqBnga!BfxNrxadgesgdHGks/zfaqpjrDbRa]r^Bqsbvtrifsusd=rpayqrsu_
/nvvbyzlo afp>gKtbvtrobOyep^yEppueLvaEyfv+'laQj	rPaLBty-jz"vbqArf
ZTBV#)

fl!Qj	rFpNtks=rutjbFDpdx:)d|nqacpxOlsxxel^xEfnh rg!1IBd$gzaAqz
rqbtpeDltLIsw!ozajgwwcas%mC7fFigtj\zaAuwh-ElsqqrrmpKt4Sp lbpfeFv
xApobfLgbEFej=xlbpAeDltLIs[#uAlu#)

flBpfeKvaLBjd>kzubqslgutEnr"frjtuyrvoxtxm%klbpfeLofGtyl^fAujgwl
gzebofCpoztvy*zqacbhGuwxLxe:oAobqkrpusuqx=mqujgwhgcNNee'zqsbcexlx
suowvjKgtAyel^gDebceNvjvyes;zEjfg	rhowtxx=vBffbyGgmBMyi+a

fl!OcwQgBGH^d!SmsAbFFu@,txe*jlujgeNvjvy d!^RfvemrtfsGDd"rAwgu
ztjubrGtfGN^(!f6igpeuhnxtfd-oFungeHhuMywm+mlphbkwlusIsd:nq
yFbktxmgaTFng^fwogyeAAaPuxd:nqaTcgtpuswtq*tsavqeDvpDtks/ftft?esue
ytfbvwwtcEyid:oxmbumwgtAIto!ztfbjtMzfmtvy*zqahqwyluMCsk!ztbvbxzl
CmtbptOgbuIzx!glujqzKhowtym_kEacueDhszyee|fFigbWsicBN	d@tpajcirup
xqbuqsrApsvjd@lDbkfeGmaBN 

flQtgxwuuESex&klScdgAAavuri!ABavqeLofsxts/ lbpfeLyjxxex=fAqgpeAA<
hGu?bfKguAyeh=uDaqrjFlesCsA@xpt?bfFkaTFng^-EagngGDaPuxd[xqtugi
nmsfbfyhjGMyd*zfavjfLgbMNjq[zlqtqAwkattke*rGsg}erHmBwjd&kmsfbnL
ymzbvtrpuLyqj!^6igpe1_mEtls!xAvpfesuesAjx!ozacveLofsQnr%uI?&

fl!VJF`gzHOeA=t/u&byzvvzByd?rudg?esuemtfj:kDaycnLpoztym-rltjg
lmoekjvgtAyel^gDebvmwgStvgm:fvvuveMuexLex&klxkpiGD.sMmi!yGefgsDF
yBsgcirvvMtmi/ftbpf	rhowtre%klbbussAdAtnr!ztfbcnJbas!mi!juebptL
mqubjtDkaHzee+EFikpllgcNNew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqaujwAllsush!glgcnql
gzebceuybLBes'fnsqmjFghEuxw7frsqoeOojvBew&kldqphDBexxex&gFakveOht
pGtvbuGztBvqi!oFajcirmbEFjr!ozuqbfrjvvOrf^x\gtcrwaaHLew=squjksy
uravjjrzpKN 

flOgzyrjbFyee+fmoitDrCpBwj[TztfbTftijM.x[T^2bv#e8hu|te1&kDfbcww
EAv{&erHowtyl^tlbbxtAjfsMmi!nmebpjNlssBje/jlcghtJl.s|Xy/klujgs
O/nbjjJl@stIm"muoibkGyatJup^yfaAgwropGIzvH-

fl!Fklypoztks/fmqrnjKaaBHii^j-"bufAkaMBjdmgnckvesuhKCqC8fl!Jgww"
IAngbfFkaAyqt!sqaqwyrvgs@MMn'/ab-XGBowMes'fyptgetypDysd"rmtu}[

fl!PqBrAfEFeq^ lQcv	rDitN)w!ztbvbnFguAyeA*tppy{)

fl!UwwwaaBN)w!gzactrlgzxLel=tAvt#)rg)1yet/uzpwphwkaBNe$@xDvo}){

fl!CpesynmtDs;fspquj/gas%ms!kHftbxsDaHHjd:nmubunRl}st2l, ljv
lumnueLofsQms-klxkpiGD@,

fl!UwwwaaBNeh=kE.bAjJgiHHty/.ladwyrpu,Mee+fmsobkGyatFqd:nmu}&

fl!YgqDaaBN)w!mAubptrivLCsi|ylujgwwaatNee+ElscvjggazIee+jlucmjrpu
gIbA#)

flUjgwwgxtMee!rAoibxAsfGwjd@lFftbyzptmtfr%fMmkejrjpNFid=txzbjjsy
CtjurjJzaGIBd@tpavjjF}aLOhl!gE.b@XMyfmtNd%uz"vbqArfsCy{!Eqs
nAoqwwlgbMtfp- lbvbfDs@,te$	ulbubNrAfEFeC=AfaAqzrjpPuwhH-lbpfesA
rmtvbxzlaLJwi@jlpwvezlssBfr%fmhckslgbGxeq@jqacptLofKtxr@zoibks
ztfbcnJbas@mm|fFjogeLofKyeA^xqaVYTrsjMNqi!ytskgpKaatHid_uDf
yAvpfxrvgsvws)kzainfKz?st%1&gFacbsMtcxLes'fovewrtls zwe_kEavjjJl
sGtvbgw""sNms;mtubCqAjfnte$dfIppfjJgxAuyd:nqz&nqrkpsHjB:'laCuexvs
vGmnksygnxtty:fAgbvmwgxBHis> lJbqsDFaPCxl!ztfAbH72MW:edd-yauwwwgJ
jAo&veOhoMtys!yFbAbnFgixLjd@tKanqsyls|.

flTjgeOhjMyid'uDauqrwguBGjd>oFiqwyroftLnr"fmoAvmAuhsGtv^.lacv
rmtvbhstfsuev;snmkplrvgsFnx:rqaecwLDixyqw7fmofbyzlaLIzr%fAgbc
mApfbrsuzsPtm$klbnneLhmDCsk!zAhgvmwy;stxl^fybfgeGBusNmi!CAsfu,
^9igtj\zaMBjd=ztftbqskexLa[T3tz?bNrobwH)x!zAadtnFnauOyd=tq<
Humn&xrnpMtyl^fAujgw	|CBFq%!lquejeAAaAywi7fxbf#]	OfKy	d[AFa&grrBq
gFavjnKgdHLsi//\Oq?eLpfs.jq!zAhgvmwyayCww:/\ujgDrkpG.yd/kmdjbmssg
nuhjbjFvvzBeC^z\_Qj^rAixS)p-fppbyjDsaxHty"nbafqs\Aauyet@xFjewqsy_
/Tftg	rIjEF^d$gFdjbmGsesIkd:nutbttHl_ %np-fFigbwGvgsvje/b\_Oksv
ztbvbqGvtxtxp@zq_+QmlgjM.xd$uyjpievvxG:edckmeubgwspP:)dRglmqwi
iDbuj[	|!7IB{!CtpbfnvguAuy T/UubyfKgCBFq{!OlgcphQ|_$Bt(|fFpbit
jAxpbyzlavBnq+kK}++SsF.s3ew&gz"v#e%VVsxtd*z-_+VmsAa2tBs+-F.
ztfp#]	IjEF)w!zAaiqevvxGa]L^xq.bDnDs@sNmi!smtvgwrzbRMeC=A/sgbyG
mAafqBFguAyeg&oyogA^\

fl!Qj^rZpsVnp--EaiqyrApswtq^fppypeLofswmm_tqz?bmszaAya(!ymjf
GxjegeLvaAyww^rr?bb%~ozmtyl^EltggrrApsJzx!kHftAyzpoztzt=tlCknq/
Olxqwqvu"Mtgi!ozaDkqD_tsJqe$klgqtesghHIid%kmm<beLojLtkm/kBmcejrpt
tmstqBlguHtgi!yGsg>etBus3eXcOZLbKeuhosEng)fmankyLsf|.

flTjgevyfPtmi/frpqveszayuwd%uIobvmwgdACrr^ElbubxzlavIzp% lbpf
CmjvgirAjEFew&kligcwvgbsFnx:rqacpnEhms	xl^fopwniF_usAzi|ylphbBzhu
yAsvbnLgxtM[d|iDbvemAuhsush!yoscogDpoztff=AFakpeLofswmm_tqzbeqGzf
gnpxgezlshtex&kz.bufQpoztys!nqsugqxg!!Bnw!oEaDkqDa"sMmi!mmwgbtFl
ytbtreCpdDnee+jlxckywkaMIew^klxjcyrDpNFid&gBqgpeFlyMo

flUjgexpsLNex&ozhbumwgixuwh!CmtbceyloxLfp!itptwxrvgs|Yl^xqaiqjK
Humn#)rAixHex&klScdgAA"LtAs*iqacntFn_ |He:itajkrlgzHOef,fFig
nqeig^\guAysd|oxfpejlgbGxex&kzacptLofKths+lGtkqsrvgsPtm$kE_+@MGse
ABajkxroftx][}xmofAeFvx aIs+-FaejtClaACr[TNAxbyfKgjMnes-jlggnqGD}
3tbvbmswqxHjh!zAaAqznga!yqp!AEacnqrhcHOyd*z-"

flMcuyrjbFyee!ruuvnjrmfxvqi7fErwgfCpoztAs*iq.b-%`obM.xd}oxm?&
ztpwimLgBEChi7]l!YgqDaa2tme/jxzbmsGD_ 8td_uDf?byzhoDtDi3fU"o
hquvgwrupPa]f;zlJ&oesgexuqd:uAahnzKAfKyid:ulugnqrFpNa]e-rlJbmsGD
oE.butEluACsk!iAnguesAaFyep*qqacbOsjl Cs[:nq_dqClgbGxey[fUaiqjK
rulgbfrzlRaws$qqu#&

fl!UqeQvvsxnh7fAmfbkwsmHQ^(!ymjfbyzlaHNmi/yg

fl!YgeEBtMtgy/tlujgezvvLyeh=Cz@&bxspesNmi!Xmcdky\zaOIng^?lbpf
GxjegeuhmEyid=AFacueDvvwtfw!ytfbetMsemt%M'fKpwbiGbas3)p-fEfv
JuocjesAaRIz%N

flUjgwwgxtMee!jqbfbxAsfGwjd*tEucpyDF.sush!GxjegeLopNAmx!zA
nqsugqxaa/3eA=tpftbBzhusNmi,f9JNNevvaGyCxHflJhbyzlzsBfh!gzz
yqoug	rAixS)h!zmlgbyzlaKItj!urg}&erHgMywd@fyjpwywgpKtyA= lujgD
hqhcpeEvwBHld@hAvvbfyhjGnee+jlBnkhwgixuwh!ztfbTftijMtxe, l!C
hmstqBxBmsQnp-fpp?byGgcxAnr!Cuuj})

fl!CbgsysHQky-fAgbYMS1},tyl=AsivbFDpdxjef;zltjgezhesHtx!rAoibyG
jAvdv	rmpKtyl^fzfzveEvnxHyd@fEiqyjJgpytqm:zxfbrjtimxMeg@sq
xmuvnnFnaBHee:fFigbBAueHQ	d@tpauqrwgpytyl^slikvezlssCsd:nqahchwb
^U"nneHBusuew:uBavqeLojLn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh?esuesMms;zqebqzLa
^~pw&irifMNjv!tAubftrAitNee"guo#&eOojvBet/upvegirhoHNmi/fpfcf
yumgphwb

flBnkhwgoHNng^jlxkvmrzpFyew;xBskujrAitNex&klqgdgDltsQjv^fmmn
zGspksygjGNtd-oFungeuhlxMee|fFigAeDhzsIsd:nqahntGy.sush!glctklzA
opfcbhstfsCsx=ftftbmwhente$dllJbgfLgpGyes'fFigujrjbDyx{NfEig
ztpwimLaa/Cy(|fEvtgeLvaFupi!Y1NGbhzhozyem+fyzbunRl<sush!gEakv
imo&veHvtLCgp,fybmgeElaEuwk^xfakveEBtMtre)klngbxEhmEyw{!O
yGqrqxwb"

flTqbxzlaLQfp-uIffbtFlaHzex&kldcmjKaatHid>gEafgqAniMyid:ulgkpi
ztbvbxzlauyle+fEitksCpoztim/kounA rgBLtxs=tlbubxzlaPuxd|smmn
kzpwimrApsAjx!ztsqwlzguAyeh=uD.bumwgstHes;zlphbyzlaAIzw^ lbpf
lAvpfeIBjMyee!iDpyfeGmaECyx-klbpkrsstsush!husfueOhjMCsk!uGuukiwb
ZtfbrtGyaECyx-klMkBfJk.sVnp- lxcueAuaMBjd_openg	rifBHld&kxebwuriz
zIpbizAuftaum"yfayjtrDfKyek*BuoibnLgtHGjx&ozhbqzLgpytfd#uFung 
ZtfAbfDsaFuii!glswumrhusUqm$klujgeEvnxHyd|nqacruwhsxx.d#AFaujj
xmobqkxgbLtme/jlbubxzlavIzp% lbpfeKvpGtks;tpajgwKlmytxe'kljpbf
ztjemeOvpwo

fl!VjjrmjKMyd:nuoibN\CfsAtx!zAafq	\gttCid?rudgbyGgixLxi-lfacueKof
Cmofgwwkatvty:fuobvmwgxHIi{!^utbvtrnsHQex=fyzbtnyousMnD^fmhcksh
gzebvmwgtxwtr%fFikplrptsNtd'ozeboDrDbRtnr:ulujcyrspOyqC!mmsfgsm
OlujksCguAuyd>oxmbdjrAixtgi|zlqncsm_

flJvbxGBowyid@tlfzejDsfGNet-gz.bptrkpNvy{!gzebxjJFaGyfx-Elbpf
yunrnDrhsKusk^jbavjjrvoESeh*lrjewqLFaPux{!ztbvbxzlaAuid+uFavjj
yybnnjKAaBxje!nAxbvtrzfMtff=AFakv.rhowtBl*rqaujjrDbLtui^xuoi
gnpwvesuyBIzw-ElboqsyguAyex/kqt?bfrsjMNqi!ytbtrethsDtoy|zlpxgw
nqsbjjskaFuii!nqsbntGraNJem+fmaitjsAaAOwv,a

flBpbjFvsFIzw!vGqrAeOhtsFts)ozhbftOuatNel^xlxkvmrsbKAjd/uGof
kKfu?esueszji#rKauvwwAdACsk!uGubqswgqtQ	d:xKjpieLvaMIzg&ftft}
^2pqteDpuMFjd:nuoi#)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgbswte\ozhbvtFl.sush!ytfbvwAle
nmsfbyGgxACxx-kluqbnL}auOyd|nqaycxrAfKLnf-ElgtklzAfGyid@rxavjj
zungbfLguAyex&uGhjveLobMtnx!suhjvetlaAOsk/EfakpeOojvBeg@yqakv
CAvnfetlaOywC!rulgnDrApsyfx!nqsbwurposMum:klphbfDsaAywd$umykplm

flIctiDFaDHtA*tsayjfLgtAyeh*jfaujjrwjvEjh!ABacbqAAuEyef*zlph
yFjem	rhowtmi-jljvbtMAaMIex&klqwruQ}aPBjv^ABppbyzlaIOut,fvvorjv
ozuqbyzlatCwd=lracnqrpuLtki^zlbvbtFjfmtBm:nlbbAjDwaHzeh^ruhjv	
gzebtzKofwtfx!ztfbuyAjlmtfr%fybfgetlmByAi!zAayqwJFaBN.d:nqobCqAjf
jAeigirifACsh!glhtgfLguACxx-kfavqeClfItmi/yqmhbkJvnsvjm+mlswp
uHft>esuesNmi!sAngpyrzixtft[kmsgfeGuaMBjd=ztftbxAkfmtyl^fBvrrD
smegbfFvuAywd/AEibcyrAixtxx*iw.bcsvguNGgp^jligcirvwxLel^kxtbks
oFtbjzJyzsNtd"kFajqqvgpytnx3fFigpeSsjvy	d:nuomksygjMtBe|fHftA
rulgbmsCjGAee!mmngbtxgqEuDd>oFibceuhsMams/yq.bcsvgfQJjg:ozhbgAwyz
sAngpyrApsvjd:xmnrnjvgvGxjv!oFtbhjwA.sLfr!xAvpfeLofsNmm|zxf
gsbkp.rAixHex&klqwruQgcxAfr!gltgtnwzaHzew&uDubemsyhxMee:fFig
yFjem	ryvGHnr"fmaxgwQgmBNyp^fIbAbkGyxtLiw!kmdjbyAtfsush!glmqpl
Cmzbdfur.sush!hmsmksygiHuww^rKacnqrAixtBl*rq.bvnDsatNep@yFakveKhu
jAxpbfrnpHxeA@Elphh	rwbGNnr" lxkvmrpuLtys+mGfbjfFnjGAes;zlphbnLz
sAvvj	rhowtnx|fssgcyrlzxMel@rraujzLb

flUjkxrzfxGjh!zAaCnnulattls=jlprrtJAvGCyC!lAsbofCpoztmi/fqtecuw}
yAaujjrzfMttj'fmubqsul.sush!xmobvnDsaLBjd>gEaswnLlaMCwi%fmofbtMA
uradtjsAimtfr%fFjnneLofsJzt[E/tbdfJraLIzr%kpaswnLlayunr:fuobvmw
jutvcsul?

fl!CpirFfMtBl@zlbbfjsyaECyx-klqwruQgjMtBe|'/aucnvgBEChi7fmtbumw
rqbpvesnbBHxx!glcwvywydNJex=fDfuvezlsLyqj7fmofbksuoxxel^xEfnh
CuujbtFlaHzex&klmgcAwz;st%M!ytpwnirobOyep*qqebvjsjiBHld*zlutkhCz
BqsAbrMjimtnjT/ugbK)vgpGFDd#kqobvmwgsBAmx!yuAgbyGgeHtnxHflPj
jqbt#erP"wtsi@xxzbhtJnpMNjr!ztbvbN\CfsAtx!zAaittOgvItfk@oz@bbQwA
sqaugj	|iHQeMnfuubvtrifsGfr@mqe{be1gtNJus|klJbqzyousNtd^gFaqt
jDjpmeKvnxNmm+mlptbtLofKjef;zlujgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrptmtBl@zh"

flUjgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrjfKNfm+rKaycxlgxAuy !fMmkejrspHEjh!gxmbttMue
nqsbcyrAixtkp=CqsubfFkaMBjd#rmegueGmazLfw| lcwveKofsxnh!tAubujw
gzzvjnFnaMBfx!rApmgirsjDyex&klskimLguACsk!zAagcyrvssxwm+qlvpfjJ
ztfbenJjvFMye+iqt}be`ofKyeA@ylbbnfJnfsGzw&xApoblJvxBHld+kmsbjjJa
gnpwveLofsMfq^ftfkimLgbLtmi/yqmh>esuesQmi+fEigbmskaEIto^jlvpfjJ
oF.bcsvgpGtgs:nltkfjKgpytnx7fmofbgwojGxem: ljvbtujvKLjh!zAajgw
ztbvbxzlaFCll:fmtbyjDsaEIto!gzebujwgxAuyd>gEaqpeLofsNtt!urakv 

flTjgeKAsxNhl^jligtxwsgsOud=tlukryGl.sush!vqfrgirvwxLex&klffijrvg
ztfbozKosHIr{!gzebjjJgfRyxd*syffkfLlmRtri:fFiqujrvgsuep@xsf
imugtuAsmtL	d:nmubyfKgtBNym+mlppbyzlaMIud>oFibkyKgbKGxd'uxegf	
wGjgvqQgtFIpm+mlbbntFnaAIto@nfacpirAbDCsk!tAubvmwgtFuqp^yFapqyAjf
urajgwrvssIkd@tKujksygfEMj	



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gW

flabbergasted!flabbeSkwBwjd'xAnbceUhuxLum-rms


flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbcsvgBEChi!rApmgirhusyfg&fAujgwrmpKtxs_klukojrpo
yumgphw?asuyd-gEubvmwgDtNjv[oxmcteLvpDtyl^ftpqmfzgpNNes'fuuu
sAvvj	rhowtfh%xqtugirofKtnr!glmcplMpemtxp^kBzbxtAjfn

fl!Yjtrhsxt4Spb/aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

flUjkxrDbLtss:fmobgsuvvKulm+mlprgsAuhsztv!gldqpAwyttNns+alaCnnul
xqqnkjvaaKuyl^xltjAqQaa/3][dftbtfqQglGIB{!yus?boMzusuyd[xqtgpy	|
gFangfKAa2tpr=Clxjqe1gXT!eA&kzaKblGAaNJex&oEaoqwFpoznef;zlJbvmAul
OlnwuyrobOyef^kzaejfFnfwtxi<kDbnbyAtfLtxm+iqavjjFb"

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fyfcpetFaMBfx9-ltckirAixtHe:kDqknqsyaLNjv+rK?
^QyrnfAuaRIzv|kxg#&

fl!Kbhsu"MtjB[rmjpbR%ZF5Z	dd-yachwspemtxm/-ltckirHmBwj{!^nfeczKl
O/nbptLgnRMjp' lzqweKlfn.

fl!KbiGu"Mtxi^ /aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oldcp)LgqNNem:fyptgeusftLqC7-lBnkhwgsxJqm^jlwgtD
vAmkvjDF.s|ks/fUaecs\AaNHii/yFbpfeAAaFSxi-lluqbgwnjGtBm:nbacpi
hqjpieKvaFusC!jughgwwuusMnD^yljpbfrkbRtnw!BqsAbhGugNMnr"a/

fl!KveAzo,N	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzrobOys(:frpwpirpusMtd,kF.&bxspesUqm$kba@dzL
CtfpbDGBaAuAi!zAavwwFgjGNtd@foitAxssjLa]C=AlxknqrzpFyeh@EfaAqz
qzpy+]suesNmi+fmgvgwrAitNem+zAacbgMAuxLkp, lJbumGBmwtyl*twaAqz\sm
lqfnbnLgbsFnx:rqaswjwy.sQtrNzlzqwa\

fl!PqyrhauCy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzJggxyqm+mEaocDrifsxnj'kDfpv	\gttCid?rudg>
^mmnbNrroHQem| ljvbBGBmwtki^rlwgtDrxvxywd:ulNG})

fl!1qz/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xldqpywtqMOty|rK?bb%#opsuwi!51V{&

flXjkhzgcKIzk&zlujgrribvEee"guobvtrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!fMmkejrmfENee!ruuvnjrpsKCye:kpacveLofsWfx^xBjnnfJ_t
smlkplrzvvBeZ X~aujtJAaKyre/qE.bcsvgtAyeh/kIajgwKlmytzt!gzebufAk.
BqsAblJhwxFD{!^UavjnFr.sSty!uGhjveLvaMyqp!sqayjtr6P@tfv^ lgktxLb"

fl!YjDn_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xg

flIgtjrDbLtfr=ztftbuMGAECsk!wGfuvnGu<sush!gEaCnnulavIzp%fzpv
ztjpmeGmatHDd"uAebtjszpGnee+jlbubyzlaVuyi/vumncwrzfxGjh!zAadgeAu
glWGT4rBoIFje|gzubuysAfsIkd_oze?bxzlaMOwr^jlbycDm

fl!Eqrwgctwp%NfFigbHsAfKJnp-gDaecqDlesukx^xligt rg!2.Ai!yAngvmAuh
oyqqtysuusNtd|gK@&

flUjkxrzpNHii%fBsqonKpozneg^xFbkpqQ?asUqm$kluwtswkatHid$gyfbdfur
gsbkp 

fl!MgjHgzHOwd:kyqgt	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

fl!KueLobMtfp-b/aucnvgBEChi7fExcnqGDjGAeh=Czajgwrhozywd@ylxgnqrht
ytfbetMsen

fl!Pq	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneOhjMnee|fEigbmskaGIyl*tsagnxw
zAafq	rhowtui/nmqubfxAfKtfp-fuubonyousNjp-ftftbxGtfMBnr"fIptvm
nqbtksybasZtv!yAngbrAuvMyxd*zlqwhkwkatQfC!CuujqzLgtIyfo*ts.bdzL
gFancxLgjMtzr'uxegfeAAtsuwq| luqqprAixtms=qmibqzLgpytnx|fypwvm
gsbkp	rhowtxe*jfa@UtrFpNtyl*twaAqz\yfswme+mqe?biGgzHOa(

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Olbo?eKpsm.ew@opaCnnul<s|Nd$gz"vbwwtfFvjv!ztjpixrht
Olvugi	|bGxeM!jAo&veClfItyl^fEbogeKpAxtks/fFfpbrAuvMyxd:usfvjjJ""

fl!Ecs\AaKyri_hqsbYMS1aMBnr"yh"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

fl!YgqDaa2.Ai!zDjgfeLvaLuDdON1XbFT`Oa!2JdgO6UNGeT2T^tGI  |adwyrpu
gxmbefElawCkj^xqov#)rHmBwjd/kBmkgirposuez^xKaogqsudAIqC!BAjeg 

fl!Tguwhumt-3j1lBTGe7SEmtKEoNQSbYN4SJT7	)NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

flBnkhwggHFii%ftftbmsueLnee+jlcgifF?_ 

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.bHfLofKt2m-rubo?)rAixtDs;tsaocsrzbBx	
flabbe]HowtDs;xlickwrobLtgi$uyfbxjJFaPBnx^?
flabCsvgzxNeC=AljpejKzbGNqC!yFbpfeGuaRIzv!nqbf+]
flabbeVvaRIzd:nuom?esAaRIzv!gsf?bnLgjLtwm"nF}&

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bKsAixLe1*rxjcoeJlqECjh!zAajkxrzpGn
flabbe]Payyfv^jljvbrAniMtnr(ADfbvmwgcKunr3
flabDzLaaGIBd:nmubK)EgqxLki$zxzbuzJla2tme<kloqpjl
flabbe#ozmtNd%uljvbfyhjGtfr%fmhcksm_

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bLtNd_kzukqswkauyks/kf
flabbeSuesBfz^fssqysrtpLNey+iAnoqsDFayuy,
flab1jLgzHOex;xzffbfribvE]w=sqsuczDAaBHee:fFigbiGvs a
flabbe8ybRneA&gFakueLofsLje|uzaqheLobMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesNmi!ymhg?eszaAyew&uAlbjnKghKyDd-uolu?
flabbe]PaDyux!gxmboDrsjFvxd<kDzbuzHwmx
flabDDrAixtzw^fAgbvmAzaHCsx_kzu++tFlaLBnp-ozhbvmwgcHR][
flabbeSsmHQeq^fFpbujDsaRIzd@fopwrqwc"

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bGxeC=ADalcBKgbKyex=ulxgcp
flabbeXvssusC:nuoibyGBhAywd:nmobuzwA<
flab1jLgzHOej*tutjgirAixtls=yq.bynLoaMBjd#uzfubfFkaMBjd#kml++
flabbe8ybRtms>fpjfbDGBaFuse"kluqbiGgjMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesBnw!lmujgwlg!2tys=qluqbyzlaEuB{
flabbeSuesuwk;kpagchzgdtMjd>oFiboDrDjyy.
flabCsvguAyeq;yovncwrzuKysk:nfayjnuoaBNek@BqavqeEFaCuB{
flabbeZhtsFfw:kpavjjryfLNes'fyzbnnxl?,

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'pGyeA=AxebjfJkmRtxy[vAtg
flabbe`obMtDs;xlfAgeOhtsuxd|zqbfAeszaxPjv3
flab1jLgzHOef@rmoegirhosyjp!uzavjjrlowttj!EAvtbsGzf a
flabbe#obMtre%klzqweKvatQky-rKaenjNlso.

flab@NrobOyee+yIftgirAiKyjd]AqtvktFz.sush!ztbvbnKgfGIzk& /
flabbe~hjwtmm|frbvjjJ}a/xtrNzlhkxjrFpNLxi-llbktx/
flabFtrFpNtyl*twaKbhsuaECxx^tlbnnevhzsNtd|AoibuyMmgo
flabbeTlaHzk{!uDaK&qDglBwpd,uGafqBFgtMunv|'/


fl!VjfLgjLtss:fEbkfeJphAN	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!PqyrXV2@Jd/osiv?e1_nsukv@op.&bxspesUqm$kfavkrAkmRje$|uyfbqkrAix
CAsfuezhwxtls:fmmvgwwk?,

fl!KveAzaPLtr"frsqoetlhBHsm+mluqbjFk.,txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms
jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFigtjrDbLtxm-kzdgbkGyaLIri!suowvjKb

flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbyfKguAyej*xEubvtrzqxup	

fl!YjfLgtBTjd%ulzqweOhoMtys!hq}&bnLgbLEjh8

fl!Qj	rP"Ftss:fBbtvnuBmtLee|fFpbunRl.,tFp*iqajcxLpmRtwi[ruff>
^AonAeGufsxti|t/ubnnClavBfr"ozhbutrvgMys{!EAvbmsGD?,

fl!KbI7U"!tpr=Cf"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplggaLBjd&gpapgAwyauyjr!yAaowhzgdHHyv@judvgirpo
nqsbnnxlauyks/kfacpirzixtki-zlujcyrzixtBe|fxpuksygixLex^sBft}

fl!CtjrFpNths+zqovbsGD},txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms}

fl!YgqDaa2txl=AxebnnClaMIef^fmaNKY`SFsFfv"kD.bunJaaBzeC=A
CAvnfs\AaFCsh7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)ujtjwgjGwmi|futbuzuoattBv^zoigf
nqjijyrApsvj	N

fl!KveAzattAi/ElhqqirofBAmx!ozeggi/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@x
gzhtkqQaaKyfv*tsakvxwsgsOuv*mtubcxrpusMus)kl)kveOhtsyCe$zxzbvmJlf
ozdjgxrojzB[	

fl!DwyrP"Ftss:fGtgfeLvaBN^(!vxfcfjvgqHIwd?rudgbnFgbsJnx^uGtbvtFl?
GzebumwguAIzk&zlphbmwytxFk{!^UaykxzguAyeg/kmuwtjKgxHOqh+-FadgeKv
kmtknDrvgyysh^j-"

fl!1qz\smsAjx!AEffbyGgjMtnr!zung?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv3fmofbnL
vGubvmwgiHIpe&fuovqeAAtsGty:nlbpfetlhtHew_uwjpiesnbBH 

flUjkxrAjFyeE-oofbyfAAfwtue:oqovnDrBoMCqd*zldjqxwguHtxt^gwacifAu?
OzacbrAuvMyes/fFxqbyzlaVuyi/vumncwrApHEex&kliqqpsoaHOyd=lljvu
sAvvjesuesSfA+kpaqphwgpKtyA*iq.bcsvgtAIto!oFtgnkmga!Bjr!oFaiqy
jAxpbtxmaMBjd_AEitqtEaatHid$xmxngirhxtSem+fFigblJhtLneq^xqmA
xqnctpAuhsuxd*zlxgpylg!8Hjd|opfbynDsaFupi!EAvbiwGDaMuqp^xfacpi
ztfbqyzlssMnh^fIjnneEhlxtDs;fssqyeKopKNjv8-

fl!Qpjrzjwyes'f9ICVargUAyes:nqsbunvlaHze1cG6}&byzvvzByd?rudgbyG
nqsugqxb

fl!QheLofsGzw&xApo?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv7fvvuveszaBzew&klicf
gElgfeAAatFty%?lbpfeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuusCyd>gEaqwyrvgsMnk&zg

flBnkhwgsxGfm+kpanqtCpoztyl=AsivhzDszsuyd:nqaowxzypHGej=xlb
suowvjlguKSnr"fFpbofClaHOyd>nudjbBwyfsNmi!zIpbunvltsIkd*zbacpirht
oFaycxrwfKzjg:rKatqzFk.sMmi!lAvpfeLojLtfd<kDzbfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGu?
NAxgxjJaatNep@yFaujjrzuKyyg&kpajgwrhsFMev=Azebkyrhtszfv!gEavjjQ
CAvnfeyv.sush!hDpmgeGmgsuef*zlphbyzlaxxli!CuujbjsjisBfr%a

fl!CpirupPtBl*itakueOojvBa(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	rhowtsm#hxffbf
ruuvnjrvgsNmi!xuhjv]zhowtgm:fFpbvwQguAyei'lqdv<erAixtsi\zlnqojFA
ytfbhjDAattAm=rqovbgDvxsOsh^xzfcvmrofKthl*taabkyrobwtxx/AolbjjJ
lApv#

flTjgeOhtsuek=upafgfDggKCll:kzffbgQguACxd<kDzbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMA
ytfbhjDAaMBfx!ztftgeOhtsHtd:oyfbvtrifsFtw: lbubxzlaPuxd|nDjpmnFn
xmqkfqQ}aLIew&kltgveLvaPIwo!gFaqphwguHtje:fEpogeGmaMBjd=ztftbgAA?
NqsbemAuaPuxd[xqtugirzpswqs|kxzbclspoLNel^xlgqqylguAuyd:nqsgbBs
