
  `Of course they were', said the Dormouse; `--well in.'

  This answer so confused poor Alice, that she let the Dormouse
go on for some time without interrupting it.

  `They were learning to draw,' the Dormouse went on, yawning and
rubbing its eyes, for it was getting very sleepy; `and they drew
all manner of things--everything that begins with an M--'

  `Why with an M?' said Alice.

  `Why not?' said the March Hare.

  Alice was silent.

  The Dormouse had closed its eyes by this time, and was going
off into a doze; but, on being pinched by the Hatter, it woke up
again with a little shriek, and went on:  `--that begins with an
M, such as mouse-traps, and the moon, and memory, and muchness--
you know you say things are "much of a muchness"--did you ever
see such a thing as a drawing of a muchness?'

  `Really, now you ask me,' said Alice, very much confused, `I
don't think--'

  `Then you shouldn't talk,' said the Hatter.

  This piece of rudeness was more than Alice could bear:  she got
up in great disgust, and walked off; the Dormouse fell asleep
instantly, and neither of the others took the least notice of her
going, though she looked back once or twice, half hoping that
they would call after her:  the last time she saw them, they were
trying to put the Dormouse into the teapot.

  `At any rate I'll never go THERE again!' said Alice as she
picked her way through the wood.  `It's the stupidest tea-party I
ever was at in all my life!'

  Just as she said this, she noticed that one of the trees had a
door leading right into it.  `That's very curious!' she thought.
`But everything's curious today.  I think I may as well go in at
once.'  And in she went.

  Once more she found herself in the long hall, and close to the
little glass table.  `Now, I'll manage better this time,' she
said to herself, and began by taking the little golden key, and
unlocking the door that led into byzlazuwh^tgabVmwuaLBjd>kzubvt
CAsmbsAicECsk!gFavjjrtvLBws=sl)ujjrobwtpi[zlbbrnwjfsIkd*zljpbmwy
vAdmgi{guBFqd|nqaycxrhcHOyd@frpqvezphAied:nqobumwgxtFpi%fppypeLof
ruuvnjrwbLMfk^.lacpir1IX8][|nqahqzFkaAyww^rracveDhtMtnr!ztf
hqbwvnxBmsAfv%kz.bcrGuhsNmi!hDjijyrmmHQjvThqeubfFkaMBjd$uAm
lAvpvfAutn



flabbergasted!flabbergasteGcG2UGTe@PJ2

flabbergasted!flabbYzla0Oji+-EaEttIBfMaLv=Aze


flBbnfJnfsLtw^/FsggeKApHxer^gDavjjrloMLfr$klphbyzlazuwh^taabvmw
xAtgueyypPCsk!uzakveOlsxtBl*zq.bdzLguAywi!Cqsgbyzyfxtle/jqogtxrhu
oF.bdzKpmRtue*tFjpieLofFtwi%alaCnnulaMBty"nFavjnKgbsPjv,fovtktMz
ztjpi	rhowtxl^fIfpveFlbKywd:ulxcvhzguAyr{!gzeblzKAatMew&kldcojrBq
zAavjjEgtAyel^gDebqswgpytyl^sltcA	r'MHIpd=AFapqBlgGBPj%!fPpp&yrnp
yBmcumAuhsJfm+zlpxgwrtfsFno^fFicv^\

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!nqmrbnLa"sMfm%fRjxg	rposuew;rwzbvtFl<s|Xi<kzalqlyle
sKagngGD?,

flPpbBzpdAtXi<kzanqtClesOud@tpaucnvaa/@me:-EatklzA.sZnz^'laCnBsFt
rmzbvmwgcEuri!uzaqvmwyt|.

fl!1QZ\Kauyyx^xloqveLhmD:)d|guebHnNl?st%M!nqbtfeLofs~zi^tltcAeGumR
EqtvgwvhzsSty!jqtgtAwkaMIef^fnfjgfvle|.

fl!YjfLggHLa(!ymjfbyzlaHHjd>nAajcirzqHEjr!lusuv 

fl!VjfL_tsHtr^fAgb1T!YauOxm+kEt?bYOv@,txe*jlTgxjFb

fl!1gxlgjMtNW!nutbdzKpoxMx%NfEbkfeXpwxne$@tpaK&qDguxFqd&oy_+ky
CmtbhtJgcKCsk*tsavjjrjpHEex;ruq+ttGAtsCsw:kmebqkrvoBIsw8-

flTgxjFggEOsk!jAxpbmAzauLzw& lbpfezhesDzw:fnfiwsr'XxFq{!uracnq
ztfbwsBBtMtyl*tst++)rDixHel*ylfAgeuobGwjh!zAahcqDgvIIsd?rudg?esz
ytfbuyGvesQfx$nuoibyzlnmtfr%ftfbemwjlxxel*sEfnheKBewysp,.lavjj
uFigtxrspHEjh!xAvpfesstHnee+jlbnneGmaMBjq!hAxgfeDvxn

fl!YqzDkaRIzd:kxmbojl_aLunh!Gxjeg	rhaECyx-klukonvszmt%A&Elzqwesyf
vmjpvnFnaMBtw^fDpugxn_

flGkxjrhowtXi<kzaucnvgoHNmm+mfadwyrspHEjh!gFaVytmga!Qtd#ksbpbnFgb
rAxbxtAjfmt%1&ElujgexhdMtnw7fKpwbxwl.s7nw| lujkxrofKyes;mtubvt
nmwgbgwlosueV Jlsquj	Asxy	d@tpaygeHBusueA&oFfbqswgjGtgC!sutvcpw}
gzebkkrAixtVy^kzaycxrApsznr%fuubqzLaaPyew&uGmfbfDsaAuAi!uGsbjjskt
iGubqkxaaRIzd)tAx}be~vaRIzd|kq.bOnKz.sQj(/kleqksygpNLef^yF.bckGy
