  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
djDfcfkMsmRtuy.FxffbgQguAyeA&uxfbvmAuhmtfr%fxppijvguHthl@tsfbvmw
yGclghLb

fl!IqeGuaPCyl!ztfbpjPAaOyww^ /avjjrNsRJms+fDfrgfLlesCrt@zufpvqQ?
^uubdjypoLt-M!vmtugirizsBnw!mmsfgsm+"

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlectjrApsxnw=hqz?byzvvzBew&klggnyrzvKyem:fIpwni
gxmbetElaPLtr" lbpfeKofsQjr:fAobksrhaMLjq#ruoibAGpdxi][

flab@NrwbLMjh!hKajkxrnbKxjr7fmofbrsylxx	d>oFibqswgfRy	
flabJtOguAyeS>rlbpfeLofs0fr:nqsbyjJlaLBfv*tsacbuAl_ .

flabberg]Euyi/fqekvnGutswtr:ozvgfeszayIqp=CE
flabVmwgQtHyl^xluqqprwjxahv;yF.bcsvghKuAC7fmofbrwhum
flabYmAsfsNmi!UImbjfvguAyeh*ytacueAAtsMme/klphbyzlaMLje:a
flabYmwuaMBjd[oqaycxrhmEtkm+oEigf	rAixtTA- lbubfripHH	
flabYfKglBHip,fBftonLAfwtys!vAdmgyrAixtxt=uz;
flabYmAsfsNmi!VmovjjJgsxwjm<kpampnxlatHid'uDlbynLoattlv=Cx.
flabCsvgdHHhp;jqebvmwgctHvy^z\_|

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^fGtgbtxgsxJje:ozhbcqDguAuyd|zGgh?)rAixtRs$qlUwtyDl
ozugtwMwuxx	dGoraAqzrkpG.yd^DBmcksrpusuxd,uGaiqeGu}stNxNylcAbksy
ztfbotKAavIsj;yuoibyzpoztNd^Bqsbjjsye|.

fl!1gxlgJsNmm+qlzqw)vgcxNyi/fxfcxjrvgyn)d|guebvmwgHKSul=taabcsv
GxjegeOhtsIsp,fFpqblDhesNtd%ultq}

fl!UjfDsaPyex/Elbpqyzlssznk;xqaqheLofs6tf|zqsbSzsksBFqi9-lujg
MDzrjtFgxxHyd=tgab@TJgxHOqh!EAvbnnClaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtys!yuoibDGB
gltqpln_

fl!Qj	rhaLIsk7fBmgcxwaaBzex&klNqepr1vKNqi!CAvnfetlaLIeo*tp.&
GxjegeJlqECjh7fEpbgfylsESex&gFavjjrNsRJms+fEbkf	rposuev@ztft
urggpiwkaMIsi7f)Io#e6vatwhs;tFjpiexvssNfw:kE@bbXAuhsBjv!_6vtvqw
YAvr?-rDjEFeC=AfaqnirmfEFtA9-

flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkauyle+ ljpbfrCpBwjd|uyfvkrwz
itpmgirDjMBew=hE.bvtrzjGAex&oE;++


flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr	rzpsLng&fmofblJlfGn
flabYfAAjGAem+fmajqyrAvKyjrH
flabYmGggHLew;itafcnFAjxMeA=AxebptLgtMItt9
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabUtMwaHzex&klfxgsAuhmtgi@AFjhwqrZpNJ^
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^

flab@GwhvMCky-f5pwr^rgXAIeg@xqtbhtJggBMm{
flabIfEl.sIwd@tKaqvmwyawCxl9
flabYmGgxHOqh!tAubinNlatFqd^rEfbhtJguPIet
flabgsFFxHLyl!uzmAbtxgcxuzx*lGmbUtMw}
flabRjFuzPIwx&fAonAeGmauyfy:orvnbXGBqo
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabbergCxuz[TuAukhzDgTHI][=uB@
flabUtG|_HIud=llujgew|_xa]i<kzjpi	
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMC][a1XaUQZ8""

fl!EjtJBtsule*t-"bewAlesNmi!MDzrjtFaatHid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^ftbf
pGtvbgwnvGtys!xqqgcyrpumtBl^tlbbewQgpyt%X&klutkfD_tsvjk*tzjpi^\
CmtbjjsyesCsd:nqafkxLhovy 

fl!EqrwgpG:)d$xuffbyzlaZLDt&uz.bcsvaaMupm+mlBnkhwgcRtyl^ftbpf	
oFajwwJpfwttj' lxkvmGBusQfm:ozhbhtJguAyei+jlphbyzlaLIsk8

fl!YjfLguKCfp!oEakva\gBEChi!vmovgirhtsMmi!xmo>bgMAaMBjdbxKqjqs
uzmAbfFzxxLjh!^OpogeGu@,tfr%fDbpbyzlayuxx^xfayjnDlaFIwi!gzebotJl
lmjpvqQgdtGj{!imstkjvgpGtyl^fnsggEwguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyr{!ztf
sqmcphzvmRtBs/jE;++

flab@XGv_ Itt!uravjjrl_ y][^Bqokpll
flabbergCxuzx*lGm?bgwhvMCky-f5pwr^\



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J

flabbergasted!flabbergXAIeW:uxfbvmwgUtLyw9


flUjge3poztfr%f3vggsrvgs2je/zEaygwwgtxuyi%fAobvmwpssNmv=tqayjjF
ztfAbfJyjOyi{!Cuujbfrnsxuyd$xAxfbfKzfFvqi%fmcqwyrAixG][@rxauqwLz
urankyLsfsvnv%ylbpfetlbLNx{!gEaygqDgbLtyl^fIiqnjrwbvEes'fobtfxg
ztfbMssCfsQfw!yFbpfnFnauyks/klujgrlgjGthl@ozt?bBAAisuew=rpjgteGu
kmdjbxAkfsNtd"AmsfbmAt<sush!tqbtbyzla4Csk!CmtbvmwgXACyi!Xmcdkyl
CuujbfrAsNGui:fuobqswgitHi{!gzebceKjsHFqd=llqcthztfGNem+fFig
uFigt rgJGtyl^fHftAeEpewFjd=llujgeuvvKNeA@ylbbvftsfmtBm:nlbbnfJnf
jutjbtxgutLyw!ABppbnL?asNmi,fxpqmjvgtHtls=jfavjfLgjMtre%klBnkhw
wGjvgezBozLDd:ulmqqprhusNmi_/\!KbBAzisNmi,-paigyrAixtyv*gxafqswa"
ytfbvmGBhAN	dGgzebjfFkaKIzr%fFigbwwmsxMmq^tFt#&erIvMtyl^xqaugjEle
zAadgeFvavBfr$klphbyzptmtxs!ytfbdjyhosFts)ozhbcyrlwxLDx&ozhbcgGBu
nqs?byGgqtMxd@CmzbvmwguBGj	

flBnkhwgitxer^BqsbdjwuaBHee!iAvtveGmaCOxx*iqadgkGyfmtgy:fEigbmsk
xqbfbftvvMtyl^sljpbgGvlLnee+jltjgeOhtsKzm:klqngfKlesNtd'ozebvmsA
ytfbmswDaMBjd+gyfbqkruftLqC!kHftAyzpoztyl^xq?bb%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk?

fl!HkkLlfGNm{NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!UkCLlfGNm{NfmefgirAixtIs/sAvug 

fl!YtnLlaMBfx!jAxp?)rAixtPm+mltckirApsNmi!pGsA?esuesNmi!pGsA
kmhgtqQgxKIyi!jAxpbfDsaMBwi^fpbvgxrvosNmi*xltncywz.sush!ztfp
gpegfeLofFtzt7fmofbwwkvvyid:nqacpxOlssNtd|numnksyzatHid[kzdg}

fl!VcpwgpyzeC=ADajcyl_aMBjdfozhbufAkaMIex&klIcvywy?

fl!KveAzo,Neq*tq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwm

fl!UvtDlo|.ex&klLkplrlyvFfm_kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigboMyzmtBl=
oztvcsLszsGfh^fmaogrGybGxzq!uravjjrmbvN 

fl!KbpwlqsNmi_fFpbujDs.,tyl^fTbvvjJgbwxjh!gEacpewEqEuse:oAo>
^U"xgeFvoxttj!sKaqysmga2.rd@ftbvvjJb"

flIgtjrAixtVy^kzarwyrvosBjv!yBfevfusfLnee+jlcgifFgtMuwm+mlbvbyzl
NmuvgwlgxAIex;xzffbussfsush!lueigywk?

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhit%e+jleqp)Lgcxtsi/BAvu?eGy
O/mnbmsCfsSty!kJfewywkaHHex&kltrqym_

flUjkxrkjwtss:fEfgoeLvaxHhs;xmhgbyzlaPCyr^yEacvessmhtel^fwfrv
ytjhvnFnayLtq!uzfbhtGAaMIex&klpvjjJaaEIto*tsawpjszjESee:fFig
WGfgp	rhowtnr!nutbetFmvLCtr!nqadkyrhaEuwk^fBjgejrvvMttj!nut
zqbewurpoLNje%fAgbvmwgcKyfhTgze+dzLAfKo

flKwuyrhusNmm|fypogsLgBEChi!lqmvbfrCfKSeg;xupwueKloLuym=tfayjnuo
vGABnjvgixLee!mApfbiwhmsOsx*rltjgeEhextty:fIicveAAaPux\!fEigbBsz
hqhkpsAuhsNtd"xAxbnfJnfKtfk@oz.bcsvgtAyex&uGhjvesAayCww:fEig
CAvnfeylusOud@tpangfNlaMBjd$uGsv>etBusIsd|koppfeLopNAmx|fEig
jqdkfjvguHtwi_guobymwyfsMmi!CmtbcxrspGAee|fFigtjrDbLtws=slgqt
nqs}

fl!KbBAzisSty!CAvnfs\AaLKzi^Fqauq \gttCid:nqaFqwEvvLy	d>nAaycx
yuuvksygoxRyd:uligt rg!2the+ftbtfqQgcKyfx&kg"

fl!Kbhsu"Mtmi-vljv?)rzbBxeE-oofbxjJFaFyjo-Eaab@N\tazLtA*ts?&

fl!1qz\CfsHtd/osivbyGghKIBd&kDf?&eKhjwtyl^fPptotMzfn

fl!Fqs\AaMuqo!tAougsKl.,txe*jlBnkhwgnHLjd#uxenA,rg!RIzd)tAx
EAv&tjrnsHQnr"fFpq})

fl!1gxlgcNNeM!mDpybfLgbsLje|uzbdnjrwbvy	(!ymjfbyzlaWIwq=AEf<
^zpvbnFguAuyd/opjewqGBtszfw&oAo}&erHowtmi!mAubwurCfKSew;rwjnA
gzebewGztxxes<kDavqeLofsIyl^xltkfjrvgsNmi!iAvtv 

flBnneLojLtym_klujge9BfxHel@jlogxjJgmxzyd=lrauvfJpoztfx!ztf
NmuvgwlgbGx	d(AEubcxrAixtIs/sAvugeuypLMjh!ztfbetMyumtxl^fEbkfeLv
uzfbqkrAixttj'ooftueGmaMBjd$uGsv?e]IsBHld_klujgeDptMttj!ztf
yuoigwKgjGtyl^fxbuveuvovywxH-lppbBzpdAtyl^fIsgvhzles2fx:kD
zDfodqwkaLI	d:nmubjjrziHIpd#uFibjnKgtAIjw!urg}

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sNmi!QuoibwwwftNjh!gzhtkqQaa/Iwdd-xmbjfNl
EAvbgCwjvMyi{!CtfvjjJgzHO)v^fzftxtMzaHLer=zg"

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?bDGBss7fn^yFz?&eLofs2fx:kDadglsu.sCsd@
zDfodqAuhsPtm$kfa@+]sues3el@jz"vbgwnvGtrC!zqb++sGAatvtz^fmaygjC
uDauq]	howtBl@zlxkvmrAixtgv^gp_cpi	ivMNjv!mquvksygtHtyl*t\_cpi
ztfbvBAulECsk!uravjjrAfta](

fl!VjjrAxBHpp*tsaqheLofsQme:b/aucnvguAyeO*ts?

fl!KvetlhtHeA*ztavjjrAftn)d:nqaJcyLlssLjt-oqe}

fl!QheuvvKMjd:CuomnnFnauylm+ylxkvmrha!:)d|guebvmwgLBHld|nmsrnDm
^PpbAtMgutEjd_klgqtesgeNHhi9flHqbtF""

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?&eLofs2fx:kDaygsLgpGne$@tpaoqxLguACsk|
zIjpmqwkatzyi/fFicv]	voESex&klNcthzgItLjd|gue++)

fl!KbiAko,N^(!ztfbOfJjis2fv^fuovgwJBqMyid*tlbbiwwhusBzv/Eg

fl!1qzrkjw:)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!KbiwuzsCy%NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!JgevloByxd*zf"bufAkaMBjdfozh<be]sftPjd=AFavjfLgqtLy	N

fl!YgqDaatNee+ElscvjlguAyeH=xypwujrzbBx][NfFigbMsAuxLeA^tFaqp	
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbttMuesNtd|kqakhezlaPIzp%fpfpAeAAaMIt\!fnvvbyzl
JAsoqzKlawysm^jloqvmAuhmtgi*tsahcxLgbLFji[a

fl!ChywyaMBfx7-ldqpyAuvxxex&klIcvywy.s|Nd$AFauqrwgnHLjd#xqbf+
gze+dzLAfKa](

fl!DwyrDitNeh*jlujgeVvsFIzw^fEbA{)rvoxttj!ztfblzJFatMpi%a

fl!VjfLgJswfrNzlsgojEifKn)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!1qzrTV`@ev^sqndgwl_aKyre/qqebvmwgLBHl{!^AsbK)DsaAuAi!EAv
kJfewywk?,

flUjgeEptxLff-klIcvywyawLtt[kpajkxrAftwzt!gzebdwwhe ushThGuvgwl
gzebyjFAawIBr!uzaqpjrroxy d!^U"obfrwpHLeq@tfaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bjj
hqhcp 

fl!1qz\yfsuez^xKarqtJgtIyfo^xf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}

flIgtjrvoxttj!ztfbizAuftaum"yldjgjJlemtfr%fIbubnEtfwCfx^rK
yGqrtjKzfwtgC!ztfbqkxpdxLxd=llujgeuvvKN d![MtbvmsAaBMev@ztftbf
nmsfbBGyemtNd>oxmblzKAaxRup@ozavqeQvvsBtA!oFaycxrkpGy d!ZtfAbmsk
glmctlwgdtHAe|fnbi?eOojvBex*kpawresAaMBjd_uGujbBAAisMyv*tst<
ozuqbyzptsNmi,fEmkruwkaMBjd"Auogc]Hphmtmi@jlgktxLaatHid:nqobufL
ABppbnLb-

fl!K&rrnmtxeMNBqaugjFguAuyd%uzf?&eLopNAmx!Gxjeg rg!2.Ai!yAaqhywu
xqbfbnFguAyer^CEqcrjJz.suyd:nqagpirvgsNwm@rE.b*YzlsxtBe|fEpog
gFugouLzatNee[vxbwujlgxAChl!CmtbkrEleBuyi-EltwruJltLyid#Elujg
urgkejJzaHzex&kldqwwLa&sush!OlogxjJgvGxjv|zApfbBzhusCyd_kmov
zumnbsGD?,

fl!KheLobM.xd@rxaAqzrroHQee#uGubkylgzHOeq@EltvcsvgeHQs{N
iAovksMlesNmi!Quoi}

fl!Kbhsu"Mtls!tAanqBwy.,txe*jlujgeZhuMyw\!f)J&oeGuaMBjd'rApt?esz
oFaku \

fl!VjjFgzHOeq@ElTKVevvxGn)d:nqaMksygsxJqm^jg

flIgtjrAixttx&kDaiwnFlb Jnk!itfgtjvaatHid>gEauwuHyfLMjh8

fl!EqrwaaMBfx!luokumwkaMBjd"Auogc]HphL:)d:nAvijyrHmBwj	!f)OqyeOl
ytbnneylusIsd#kFugt \

fl!K&irybMBjv!luokumrtzsNje7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs?bBAAisusd@tJjqwx
rApmbfLguAyeU;kqo?bBzvaPuxd/kmekplrAixtqm|zlphbxAuhxLx	

fl!1qzrtbRtls7-ltckirAixtPm+mfacpirAixtMe:zqsbjzJyjxxqC!rqgvbyzl
iAvtv	rDjMBty:fqwgpeOhjMCsk!zAarwyrojLtxl=kEaqp 

fl!++fFkaCOxx!zmlgbmAzaAyfh!urgbqzLzjwy	(!ztfbSzwlosuih^jluqbtFl
uravjjrvgyChi/yaabdzLguAyeL@zFftbBszaHOyd=lltkimLgcxztv^fFig
urgkejJgdHOqh!mqubvtrAixtis=xg

fl!EcqDguAyer^DFaykyFltL:)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

flUjgeFlyMtBm:tqtubBszaMBjd	Aoigux\zavIto8flTjgeuhsKCjh!ztf
vqqrgw	ipQtnr!nqsbjfFk.sush!GxjegeyBfLMjh!CtpbkyrDbLnei<kzadgkGyf
ytfbitLgjGNtd:nqaeqzJA.svDd:nqaycDrAixtui=vxfbpjsyaMBjd%uAsbdjyho
yzfgBnFnatFqd@zlppejm

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!UjfF_um.ew@opavjjrjpHE 

flUjge3poztqs=qqebcsPppNMqC!gFavjjr4iBNjdmgnckv	rDiHtxe*jljpbf
rAxbxtAjfmt%3=ADaOcowzuRtry|zldtqxK|fQurm+klUJKXrDjMHjw|a/

fl!YgqDaaBzeM!sGtv?e1gnNMy{NfFigbPAuhsMfm% lxkvmrhaFyqe+itpnA
gus?bfFk.sukx^xlgqniAuhsBnw!gDnubfFkayLtA+ozhbcyrAixths=qluknq
nutbgDwzaPywi!tqbtnDrvvMttj!yuhjv	rofsMfm%fuobcevlfItAs*iq.b@2zhu
gDfbvfJAtsGfh^fAg{&

fl!RguHlsmtrs|zxz?&eKhjwtyl^fopqm 

fl!Vtjsjmxn)d|guebceKsfxJDd<uudgbgwojGxel^xg

fl!EqqDhssNme:fPptotMzfm.ex&klRwgjFgtALni)kpaqwymga/Vjl^gpavjfL
JAsoqzKl@stYy/tlujcyrKpKGty|klpwveGmavIzv:'laUwuHyfLMel*s-abRnFji
nun#be7mgsQnx&ftjubBzptDywwH-

flGqteKvnxtrm+AFfubyzlaPBtp^fopwtyrDbLtnr!iAohwxAvomtli:zuoibyzl
JAsoqzKlaMOwr^jlpwv	rhownef,fFigbyAtfsNmi,ftbfbxwAuEyid%uIo
gsbkp	rAixths=qlicfevpttJui@xqe}

fl!PgAwyaFCshH-ltckirAixtPm+mfaykyzgbGtfm/fAgbiwwhusLjp*kr?
^ObnneLofsHjB:fIjvpjKz?,teE+jligbfvkfwtnr!gzawpiwyuHHjd:ulujg
WGfgp	r'Sxuqp, lnAbiwhsmt4SpfyvuveuypLM]i\gyjpgeLofsHjB:fIjvpjKz?
OFaswnLlaFupi|fyzbhtJlixuid@itf#&

flBnkhwgxtNhl^jlujge#ojMyeV@hnjvbfKgixtky_hxffbtNlssNmi!rutv?
lqfnksygwxLDd$ADjqwxrApsMji!CtbvbyzlaGyCx!CuupgxKgxHOqh!hqankpwa
^\_hqwrAixSel@Bqo&veyvusGzg&fqwkfjFjfs'JX7-ltjgeKhjwtys!nqsugqxb
OybikswgixLew;xBskujlgxAysd:nqaYjnLla~ugf*zlsgcirvvMnee:fFigbyGw
urajkxrziKCqp!ruuvnjrCpBwj{!ztfbpfEla/Uqm$k-"



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr5J2

flabbergasted!flabbergasUqm$k/tbGAAkfGwj


fl!Jgww""swwm^jlBnkhwaaJOnx^frptijLAjGAem+fFigbkDBsKSes'fFig
sAngpyropPtqe/mqaujjrobwtlv=CzakpeLofsFfw:frfybrAuvMyx{!gzebumw
pGnrgirBqsCsd|AoibcezBsKSex&gFaujjrAjIJjh!uHftbyzlaCOwCThAybynLo
ztfbgiylaHzel^xltmkwLaaNJxi:zuoibfDsaMBjd(ADzogsrvosNtd:nqajgfvz
uravjjrjsHQid#kxpy?esuesNmi/klujgDrsbRtxt/gImkplrhcHOy{!xqnkpiAuh
nqsbxjJFaFOhl!uracblDvcxttj!mAmfhnKoaLBjd&gpacehAkfGNfp-ElvrujL
ztfbyjwrauyks/kg

fl!Qj	rPaUYLd,uGsbrfJkpG:)d|nqagzhDhjFyid*tlbbvtFlaHzek/kmu
jutocDlgbGxef^mmobrnurjGAex&kyawresnbBHee|fCvkepDFatMew&kldqwqva
lAsbvmwgbvwnh^tFaqheLofsAtp%lutjbpwwusLzr+ozhbksrofKtmi@jfacpi
ytfbjfvgbsPfk;kltqtyrvgsCii@fFicveLofRtry|zlcgbhGsmxwyi%fmubqsul
gzebrzLgctwpd*tFpbvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bqwrAixSeA=Axebfnwb

fl!VjjrAsBuqd$gzoqveHypvyjh7-ltckirAixtPm+mljpbfrCfKSek/gHf
BAjeg	r'vGNnp!gxmbvmwgkNLDq^tlbtgethdDtnr!ztfkteHypIywd[rmdgu]	
GXM?&ezlaKyui@zqebynLoazLje:fqnrjfKptmtqs=quoibmsyesuyd?rudgbfK
nqaucnvgeHo

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fmubvmwgkNLD[#uJ.bcsvgttQex&gF.bksrofKtme|zq.bumw
nmebrzLguAyeP*FmsfbnFgixuid%uIoycwvz.sush!ztfbrtGyaECyx-klujksy
CmtbyfNpoztnx|fFbknesipNNem+fmaogqsudAIqC!Cmz?bgwpoztvy*zqawpftsf
zAaoqAwbas!mi!yAppblGAaBNes;zlbicnFaatHid[AFakveJphAN.dGtAubvmsA
oFauklFpgByxd_Aoi?&eKofsMfm%fFpbjjJzfEz.dGOltjqzDkaMBnr)fuu
CAvnfetla0#NX fmtbozuoaNMjd*tlujgeLyjtFes+klxcAeMwatMex&klpvjjJb"

flBubxGvosuxd:nqalwwQgitxee!ruuvnjryfvIAi/kpahttEguAyew&uolbqk
hqjpieMwtxN	d@tpavjjAyaLFfx^ylbpfeHlovCqw!nmebdjwuayIzr%fmof
nmofgiribvEex=fFigo	rAixSew^zluqbBGylsPjv,fpjnklwuuESex=fIskvj
uGubcezptMIwC!uravjjrhdvCii+zfacnqrlyvyux!ztfbNnRhswneA&ultggrwk
zApbozuoaHPjv$uyfbvtrkpsusC:nuoibgMAaLCyd>oFibkyKgnHOyl!uBfp?
mmAkplrBqsCsx=fFigbwGvgsIkd:nqaeqzJA?

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fwoqyesipNNex&oEadwxAufLMa(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!zA
Gxjeg 

fl!Pqyzpozn)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!Pqyzpozt2L?ZQWGTa\gqxLxm|zqebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PqyzpoztBl@zqwgt	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!VjfL_tsPjv,funrqwLhoMn)d:nqaMksygttCi{!zGspksyguHtyl^fvvtA 
ZtfAbBwyfsDzw:fnfiksFpoztys!CDjvgeLojLtis>tlppbyzljKtxp@zqt?bBzlo
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oFakpywysNJyi%.la@WSAtqHLye+zfaAqzJgNtDjw:ElngcsKa
uraeqzJzfm.el^fEbkfeAuattAi/ElsguuwjuyOqd:uzf?bgMAayLtA+ozhbcsv
smlkplrmbvyxd@zlikoeszaAyew[uwf}

fl!WPnEwpKNfr: lphbhGBsLy	ddfyfcpyl_aMBjdfozhbjfKAjESew@op.bcsv
CqovbtFguHtmm_yqmhbnFgbGtzr%kDuqpjlg!BGus/zmov+]MujFJtv:gzu++
AzjortJAbGN][*sBptvfFA_ .ee|fugbjjrDfKyex/EuoibBzpdAtBs/j
yAvpfjvgcxMy	

flTqojrvgsNmi!pGsAbBJvuxtnx!jAxpb%AtqHLye+zf"bcsvgtHGj
^GokouGyutHy	NflBnkhwgdHOqh!yqfbvmAz.suxd|nqaycxruftLei+uGhjbyG
rApmbtNlssNmi*xltncywz<s|gy:fuubftwzo,Neq@zFftbfrijMn)d|nq
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh}

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrRjGA	d>nAajcirifxHej=xltqojrAjFyef;yumA
CDjvksygjGtmm|fzpvg]tvpDneg@iwmgfeGBus|Xm-kzdg#)rhowtwi@jlpwv
lDpobmAzauIto7f)SwnjrMpKND[:CA?bbF4Sa9YWWjT5aOQWWgU1USd?fYJNG
NUHJbY7gMXU1I!ZTFbET!YUn.

flFxgwQipwSep=uwffbfLgBEChi8

fl!K&RrupMtfd_oxfbjnyo.,txe*jlBnkhwb

fl!1qzrhsxn)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

fl!PgfJszsNBs!sumguezphAn)d@jpffbyzla0Oji+a

fl!YgqDaa2txl@t/ubitlgbMtfr,fDbvg	\gttCid?rudg<er'cxMnh^yf
ztbv&xrupMtfd/ksvncwryvEy,d!EAvbksNloMyid*zlkwuyrupPo)

fl!Kv)KguAyes-jqtvbwMsfsCsd:nqadqtCa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!VjjFgjMtty"nFavqetla7Orf^xlPpg	\gttCid?rudg}

flUjge3poztyy/tqebrfDl.sush!ytvvbmAzaGIyiThApmbmszuBFD	
^OppunvlssSty/fHftfnuA.,tmi!ymjfbyGguAyen;xK.bksrhaEIB{!zDfodqAuh
BAjeg 

fl!VjjJl"Ltrs/klfxkiwudxtys!iAngbDwA.sJqi@yqaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bufAk
ztfbYmAAfs`ff#oF.blzEwjGAey[fuobceyyftNel;xDz>b%LojLtue[kDajcx
pGtvbgwlosJng)kpawr \

fl!YjfL_tsCsd*zh"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp}

fl!KbmsCfG.yd=vqogfeAAaRyy{NfEbkfeLofs%mm:klScdgAA.s|gy:fuubujwtt
zAadgesgmxNyi/ lxtkyLlosvDd:nqartnKvoxLex=/\uqbxGtfuIiC8-

fl!KveEBtMtme<klcggsrAitN	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk7f)vpnjKzaBNeA@y
CDjvvjFguHtss#upz?bBzpdAtnw+-Fawuzss.sSty!qzpy})

fl!YjtrptsCyd%oDfevjvguHp)d|guebqswgpytyl^fvvtArwu?

fl!KveAzo,Neh*xqdvgirhusuqp7-ltckirAixt2l*zqaTcgtpuit%m+frbev	
ztftg)KgoHNmm+mlxtkyLlosIsd:nqaQWY~PEXo)d!NqawpkGsexxex&klqcrjJ
gEajgeKwpDy	d@tpacfiwka/3yd*yz"vbfrsfMNjv7fmgvgwrhmEied*z/tbceKlu
uraxgwKltn.

fl!CtjrAixSem+fFigbuJptHHjvNylicpiOyjMCsk9-lbumjvgbGIyl^xlph
ztfAboMyzFys	

fl!Pq	rAixS)v^fzpv?)rzbBxex&klXjkywgStvgm: l!cpirAitN)w!ztf
wGfgtjKAaMBnr"fmcqwyrpun.edRZtfblzJFatFqd-uAlgfeHBASFjh8]

fl!JgeEBtMtme<kljokysAfwtxs_knpfAewstx.xd&gze?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi 
[6igboMyzsuqp!hDjijywufwtzt!gsbkp {

fl!RnjszfsSty/fYblgxLF.,txe*jlujge3ubOy	dGOlekfs\AaPLnx^fuu?bfFk
ztfAbhsu"Mtuv=BqaKbiAk;styl^xq"ubsGgotGjd|osogfesAaMBjd^tp?&

fl!KheQvvsxnh+-FauklFgjMn)d|guebvmwgLBHl{!^FicveGumRtre)kEavjj
smuvgwrDpKMj	!f~pwbR!ZUsBfz^fyfcpyrzpFyeq*yoikgklgpKtjp|klzqw)v
nmwgbxAnoxxeC=ADapcrwgmBEjd@tliqpjKAaFus	N

flUjgwwgxtMee!mqogtfDgdEuut*tsaqhezhowMee:fFiku,rgjMtBe|fFig
lusuveJlbEFDd$rqwgteLojGAex&klLkplrobwtxe*jlujcyrkbRo

fl!VjfLgQ~91InftjublMpmMn)d|guebvmwgRNyjr8

fl!KveHypOyxd+uFikplrvgsNmi!yAsv#)rzbBxeE-oof}be]4iRneC=Aleqp)L
kHfpbpFvxsQme:fFigA)Jlatvty:'/

fl!TgfvguAyr{NfEbkfeLofs5nr"a

flUjge#ojMyeV@hnjvbuMAaHHel*yltrghLhdEyx	!f)XjgwwgtAuqp!OlcginFa
vxfcujrFpNLeQ@pqtvAa\gixtfw)kp?

fl!DglAuatNex&klcginFujGA	(!ztfbMnFnaLunh!mDbxgqQaa/ush!mAaqp
zumnbDGBavIri!zAavjjrlowied:nqobuyGw?,

flUjgxwgxxLjd:nqaxgwKltsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd/kme<+]

flabberg!!BjC!zAmfbrwgzHOel@jlcggsrApsBjv7
flabbergasUsh!sqovktFlesGjd:uliko,
flabbergTAyek@BqaogesghHIid$nmsceywy.
flabbergasVzx!ymjfbNrjpNFid+uFauynEb

flabbergIxtxi+zlujgrrDpKxeM!nmebptLghHHj
flabbergas	2i!qzpybnLguHtgi!zDvg_,
flabbergJytxl^fEiqwqvgqNMmd:nqaocyLlssIs{
flabbergas%me:fIpwnirifvIri!uraAqzn

flabbergJsAfz^ftftbtFl.sNmi,fsbxgezpnsNBs7
flabbergas'ty!mmwgbzKguALji!uDaoqww}
flabbergUAyDd@rxatgyMyoxxej/uyajkrrApsSty7
flabbergas@ms;mtavjjQgxxLjd_ozfbdjxvsxo

flabbergJytNd=xltjgeKopNFid$nmoegeLvauy
flabbergas3sz=rHffbnFguACxd@lrbkt	
flabbergIxtyv;yFtbvtrFpNtys!yqubvmwtayLji7
flabbergasYCe$zxzbcxrDfsQjv^a

flabbergNRtss:oAobyfKguAuyd,uGajcirifxH
flabbergas	Gi'uDfbumwgitxex&oEahky{
flabbergBGttf|zmdngeLobMthe_klcgvBwlo
flabbergas2nq7fmofbtMytxFAi| lbpfeAA?

flabbergEHH)x!rqubjnEglGIBd|nqankpwkaMBjq!hqtv?
flabbergasZtv!ztjubrMzusyAi/fnf
flabbergBsMjg/kF.bmjHAayLtq!gxmbvmwgsxMy{
flabbergasVjx>kqobAtMytxFkd@tpaog \

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!sAtvbnEwpKNfr:fBjgejrvgsyAm%kzdgbBw_wxtmi@xpaAgyl_
ymjfbyzla4Csk7fDvddnFnaACxd&gzeu>e]zpsHtA!rqubvmwgkNLD[T-

fl!KhesuzsIsi!uravjjEgdtHei\vxbkpeAA.,txe*jlBnkhwaa{Mmi!nme
mDpypeKvaEuwk^fuobvmwgmtMyd'kIaoksMAfLtyl@zltjgeOhtG.yd@fnjv
grsckirvgsCsx^xDvrvnFnaACr{Sf)J&nqrnjOyel*sltkzuwudxoedUO,afqs\A
hqmkgAwguAywiNylbpbfLvnsIkd_kmokplrposCy	N

flUjgeBBsRtfp-fIsqvjrkpPHes+fFigkwrzmtNjw7f)TJGevvfLH)x!hqmkgAw
ztftg)KgbGtfx=slphbrwhoBHld*tljv?)rivMtss+klphbyzlnsuyx^sBugfeLv
kJqncnFguAyet@vqs}

fl!KheLofKy)w!tAaogfFpoztnr!oF.&bxspesNmi!Quoi?e]AitNew@Bqtbc
CAsnfeGmaMLty#rq.bAtMglGIB{!gEaygeFlfwH)x!zDzbvtrmjGxee+EgabCsv
EqubKevvo,Neo+uI.&bmwgxxHyd=tfaurwwheBHld=AFavjjrCfKMjw!uzajkx
qzfg?esuesFts)ozhbcyrAixGeA*ztaqpjrlzxje$dfEfgoeLvaLyjd|uyf
sqbpksygjGtyl^sfachywyatFq	!f|_+UF1Ka2tHSpRPaPQYrZX27][OfKpw
imo&veKDjFneg@tlzqwa\gixtfh%kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigbPFhwxo

flUjge3ubOyew&uAlbjnKgixuid|gpmA}er'EHtNd-uAlbnnClaBNa(!nqaucnvb
[9ikemrofswjv:guonAevpes8TX7fnfkplrtbwyei+zusgnDrvgswfv%hAbtf {

fl!CnqryjzBy{!yAahcwl_aLunh!ztfbMnFn.sush!nqaygsLgpGtry:zqskpl
uHftbyzlaOyww^yluqbmAttxFk\!f)&YGe3UP$tNX!Z1aDGe`YVXa])!ztbv&x
ztfblzJF.sIkd$uGsug]	g&2tLEqKlIGTe7UFmtYL 5lHCXJrOJ6tY1j/\&bymQa
ztbvbrMzusvjd>nmubjjrkjwtBm:nlujgeLhsMM	d,uGamptO|_,

fl!DwylgjMtls^ylppb-`OF^tFPgf4FVWW6LEsZWShfTJObY7gZ8#	)NfEbkf
Gxjeg 

fl!YjDlguAywi!ztfAbfJl@,txe*jlujge3poztyv*AyqjcsLszmtus*tFjpieLv
ztfbvfJAtsIsd:nqavcgDl?st%R=ztjpieuhosvjd$rqbtgwrAitHeXcG6?
ZtfpbfyhjGa])}KRPTGe~OFs2FH!ZTJUbK11_ ?ed,uGapgAwyaAuid'oFt?brQ
jqbt?e1guACso9-ligbxspesNtd:nqaSwjwu?

fl!PgAwy@,txe*jlujge9BfxHej;xupwuqQaaMBws>ozhbcsrpoDMye+jlbvbyzl
RuActirhtsMmi!yBpmg rg)!Bjd;trptvzFhuxtqm:zxfbDnDsaAuid-krubqkx
CDjvksygpGtmm|fEmcvjrDjMBes+klgkplwy.suxd&klgqwsvgjMtre%kloq
smsm>etBusBjd+uIajcxLpmRtgi"gzacifAu.sOxm+mlujgeAulmtyl@zlxcu
zDjemqAuhsxtA+ftjubksjfmtfw!rAoibfKgjMtqe|zqe}_

fl!VjjFguAyeA=xptbftF_usZNX!EAv?&eKhjwtyl^fWjpi	rspHEnr"fDpwpi
ztfbetMyusQnx&fmauonDl?stYl^xqaycxrhawyfh!yumgphwb

fl!Kv)KgbsJzrH-lujge3poztfh%kpakpesuaHzki+jqebvtFl.sush
kHftAgGkzsFfy"nqe?b%4lusNmi!pGsAbhGutBxjv!ztfkteNlswChx7-lujg
Quoibxspemtks/fmcqwyrAixtyA^tFjgvmrAjFyex&gFafcDm

fl!Pq	rup|.ew@opavjjrXvxys	!f)Tgpywudxtkm/yF_+xjJkjvNee'zqsycwvz?,

fl!UvzxmatHid+uztgpxw""sMfm%fMmkejrspNxqC8fl!Vjjrpexues'ftbxksy
ztfbujFAfGwjd'oDtv#)

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gttCid:nqaSwjwu.sNzv+ozhbrzJwmxo

fl!KbBGu"M:)d|guebCqAjfn

fl!QhkrDjMBel^xligci/_aMBjdlAqfpbxzvvMyid@zlujgeLvqsIkd&kDaxqnul?
TAcqfDrtpOyi	

fl!YjtrjbKyxd'uDaAqzn_aLunh!Gxjeg	r]tAyel@jlhtqBFguHtmi/frvnn
yuAgbgQguACxd:oyf}_er'ZHO)v^fzpvjnFnauOyd@fBbemeGmavuwh|'/

flBvbyzptsNmi!CtpngeHhdDtws|klvrbnFApsNmi!gus?bfFkavuri!lxzkpl
jAxpbzHvosBjv2fltjgeyhwxtfd-oFungeKjsxur{!nmmhbtxggKCll:fmofbmssg
uracplwy.sush!zDjgfeLvauyfx!ztfobtxm.sush!lAvpfezlsLyqj!rKjpieGu
ztfbdfFr.sQnx&ftftbmwhesCsd:nqancurvgsBjv!yutvgwlgxAIeA@ylhgpyDF
hDvujnFnatQfC!yAngbiwhesFje<kEavjfLgitxej-AFugtjvgeHQsd'xAnbvmw
zDfgueMwpGtmi/frbeg 

fl!YcpwgvIneE-oofbfjsy@,txe*jligteKptMyw,!^9iA?eOobMtfd-uzh
yxfgreQvv,Pjd&gp@&

fl!Qj	rP"Oyel@jltwemrhavOwm=AEaftjst@,txe*jlBnkhwaatHid|nqavqqv
nqsbunKAfKnee|fIfnneszaLBjd$uGmfbwwtfFvjv!ztfo?essmsNmi|kltvtfFnf
GpwgpyMyfLttj!nqsubyzhusSty!nmwgboMzusvji+fDfcfnFnatvty:?lbpf
CtfpbxzlaAuid'ozjujjvaaAywd|oEugteCptLyid&kD.bcsvgttCi{!^UubYF~gb
iGskqzKgeKyfq7fpfct	rjfKNfm+rK;bbgMAaGIBd/AzakpeLvaRIzv!zqb>bnL_t
mquvksygmtNj	NflTqbFDpdxtls:fGqbcsvgstHes'lfavjnFrjGAeA&oxfbumw
xmo?bfKgxxFqd|nqaoklzA.sQme:fmayqsvlsyOqd%xqbobnLgitxef^kz?

flCwvezlssMnw:kDaucyrzuBFqd(AEubcxrzixtqi'zligt	rsftHnr"ftft
nqbfbtFgixLel@tp.byfLjiBHld:nqaugyLpoztxy+ lbpfeLojGEnr"fAg
ruuvnjrHmBwjd@tpacnqrofKtBs+jqshwqrHeOysx;xqt?byAsmsMmi!zApbdjyho
jDfconFnatzyi/fmahcxzppGnee+jlujkxrDbLtmi/fpsgcrg|_

flGktxLaaLBjd%xqbogirvgsFnx:rqaCnnulaAyww^rr.bcsvgpGwjd@mmjpbyzl
zuoAbmsueLtBi/kldncxHlesOus+ftftbpFlfmtfr%fFigbgJphANei@mqsbgDwz
CqsgbqGvlBHld;vljpvtrofKM][|nqaeqzDkaAyfv!ztfbxjJFaMIsi|fAgbjjJ
BAjeg	rhowtxi^fFicveIBfxLep*zFmgbyGztsIkd&kDajgfvguHtpi^vlccep
ztfbyfFkfKCsk!nmjtbyzhus%TYgJlbnyfQzazyyd*tFpbjjJgfRyx[Tgze
yFjnneszaLBjd-oEugpjvaaHLew^kyffbyGgmBMyi+ lujgeOopEyet-gof
gDpwpirofKtgi$gyfbcqACfsNmi!yFscplwgdKyfx;xqtbqkrofKtqm:zxf
yutvgw\zawLje_a

flUjgeDvoztlv@yEatwxLsfwtfx!nqsbhjwAatMex&klXjkywgStvgm:ftvttnwk
hK_+vmwggKCll:kzffbRGBtxtxt-gEigfezptsQfC!ztsqwlzguAy
tqjijgGBsBHld[uAm++xzlavIzp%ftfcteLofsLfx:rqaqheLofsNje$ABtbcx
ztfbOfJjis2fv^fmofbmAzayLni+jEaujfJlesNmi*xlogxjJ|fGxnr"fyfcn	
gzebvmwgtALnp-fHpkejrvgsNmi!WGfgpeGyexLnr"fAghbmwyaNHks/zGocvj
mGfuvxrApsyCi$AFjqp]	vovyeq=xqavjjrwjzage#ElxcueKufxTnr"fAobvmw
JGdjgxK_tsEsi^ lxjkqwgqEuyi|fmofbiAzixMeg/gEigfesypNHid*z\_qph
