interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON described on-line conferences that
represent a vigorous and important intellectual forum for certain
disciplines.  Internet now carries more than 700 conferences, with about
80 percent of these devoted to topics in the social sciences and the
humanities.  Other scholars use on-line networks for "distance learning."
Meanwhile, there has been a tremendous growth in end-user computing;
professors today are less likely than their predecessors to ask the
campus computer center to process their data.  Electronic texts are one
key to these sophisticated applications, MICHELSON reported, and more and
more scholars in the humanities now work in an on-line environment.
Toward the end of the Workshop, Michael LESK presented a corollary to
MICHELSON's talk, reporting the results of an experiment that compared
the work of one group of chemistry students using traditional printed
texts and two groups using electronic sources.  The experiment
demonstrated that in the event one does not know what to read, one needs
the electronic systems; the electronic systems hold no advantage at the
moment if one knows what to read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

DALY provided an anecdotal account of the revolutionizing impact of the
new technology on his previous methods of research in the field of classics.
His account, by extrapolation, served to illustrate in part the arguments
made by MICHELSON concerning the positive effects of the sudden and radical
transformation being wrought in the ways scholars work.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN delineated the use of electronic
materials outside the university.  The most interesting aspect of their
use, FREEMAN said, could be seen as a paradox:  teachers in elementary
and secondary schools requested access to primary source materials but,
at the same time, found that "primariness" itself made these materials
difficult for their students to use.


OTHER TOPICS

Marybeth PETERS reviewed copyright law in the United States and offered
advice during a lively discussion of this subject.  But uncertainty
remains concerning the price of copyright in a digital medium, because a
solution remains to be worked out concerning management and synthesis of
copyrighted and out-of-copyright pieces of a database.

As moderator of the final session of the Workshop, Prosser GIFFORD directed
discussion to future courses of action and the potential role of LC in
advancing them.  Among the recommendations that emerged were the following:

     * Workshop participants should 1) begin to think about working
     with image material, but structure and digitize it in such a
     way that at a later stage it can be interpreted into text, and
     2) find a common way to build text and images together so that
     they can be used jointly at some stage in the future, with
     appropriate network support, because that is how users will want
     to access these materials.  The Library might encourage attempts
     to bring together people who are working on texts and images.

     * A network version of American Memory should be developed or
     consideration should be given to making the data in it
     available to people interested in doing network multimedia.
     Given the current dearth of digital data that is appealing and
     unencumbered by extremely complex rights problems, developing a
     network version of American Memory could do much to help make
     network multimedia a reality.

     * Concerning the thorny issue of electronic deposit, LC should
     initiate a catalytic process in terms of distributed
     responsibility, that is, bring together the distributed
     organizations and set up a study group to look at all the
     issues related to electronic deposit and see where we as a
     nation should move.  For example, LC might attempt to persuade
     one major library in each state to deal with its state
     equivalent publisher, which might produce a cooperative project
     that would be equitably distributed around the country, and one
     in which LC would be dealing with a minimal number of publishers
     and minimal copyright problems.  LC must also deal with the
     concept of on-line publishing, determining, among other things,
     how serials such as OJCCT might be deposited for copyright.

     * Since a number of projects are planning to carry out
     preservation by creating digital images that will end up in
     on-line or near-line storage at some institution, LC might play
     a helpful role, at least in the near term, by accelerating how
     to catalog that information into the Research Library Information
     Network (RLIN) and then into OCLC, so that it would be accessible.
     This would reduce the possibility of multiple institutions digitizing
     the same work.


CONCLUSION

The Workshop was valuable because it brought together partisans from
various groups and provided an occasion to compare goals and methods.
The more committed partisans frequently communicate with others in their
groups, but less often across group boundaries.  The Workshop was also
valuable to attendees--including those involved with American Memory--who
came less committed to particular approaches or concepts.  These
attendees learned a great deal, and plan to select and employ elements of
imaging, text-coding, and networked distribution that suit their
respective projects and purposes.

Still, reality rears its ugly head:  no breakthrough has been achieved.
On the imaging side, one confronts a proliferation of competing
data-interchange standards and a lack of consensus on the role of digital
facsimiles in preservation.  In the realm of machine-readable texts, one
encounters a reasonably mature standard but methodological difficulties
and high costs.  These latter problems, of course, represent a special
impediment to the desire, as it is sometimes expressed in the popular
press, "to put the [contents of the] Library of Congress on line."  In
the words of one participant, there was "no solution to the economic
problems--the projects that are out there are surviving, but it is going
to be a lot of work to transform the information industry, and so far the
investment to do that is not forthcoming" (LESK, per litteras).


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                               PROCEEDINGS


WELCOME

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
GIFFORD * Origin of Workshop in current Librarian's desire to make LC's
collections more widely available * Desiderata arising from the prospect
of greater interconnectedness *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

After welcoming participants on behalf of the Library of Congress,
American Memory (AM), and the National Demonstration Lab, Prosser
GIFFORD, director for scholarly programs, Library of Congress, located
the origin of the Workshop on Electronic Texts in a conversation he had
had considerably more than a year ago with Carl FLEISCHHAUER concerning
some of the issues faced by AM.  On the assumption that numerous other
people were asking the same questions, the decision was made to bring
together as many of these people as possible to ask the same questions
together.  In a deeper sense, GIFFORD said, the origin of the Workshop
lay in the desire of the current Librarian of Congress, James H.
Billington, to make the collections of the Library, especially those
offering unique or unusual testimony on aspects of the American
experience, available to a much wider circle of users than those few
people who can come to Washington to use them.  This meant that the
emphasis of AM, from the outset, has been on archival collections of the
basic material, and on making these collections themselves available,
rather than selected or heavily edited products.

From AM's emphasis followed the questions with which the Workshop began:
who will use these materials, and in what form will they wish to use
them.  But an even larger issue deserving mention, in GIFFORD's view, was
the phenomenal growth in Internet connectivity.  He expressed the hope
that the prospect of greater interconnectedness than ever before would
lead to:  1) much more cooperative and mutually supportive endeavors; 2)
development of systems of shared and distributed responsibilities to
avoid duplication and to ensure accuracy and preservation of unique
materials; and 3) agreement on the necessary standards and development of
the appropriate directories and indices to make navigation
straightforward among the varied resources that are, and increasingly
will be, available.  In this connection, GIFFORD requested that
participants reflect from the outset upon the sorts of outcomes they
thought the Workshop might have.  Did those present constitute a group
with sufficient common interests to propose a next step or next steps,
and if so, whatzlnkimLguAIxi!hq}bbYzlzsQty-jlsgvzJuaMIex&kEfbszwzuBIsw!ztf
lAmnqBAuhsukx^xzpqp 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfOptgeGma$Iwo|nAqbetFjfKHxd[xqqctfLppGtfr%fBsqfzuAjHHes'
smugtnssts{eW[kojcneuobEFjr"kljpbhGuwxLxm=tlphbywEuNuqd_gFftkfDza}
WGbnkyQgwxLxy|fCvcpyAAzs{eH=fFigbxwCfKuqd"xAvrueJlqKyxi+zqebumsyfswtq_uz
ozugtjKAtot+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
kyqjcxAGfwtyl@zligbBGBmwtfx:kyqvbyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgqxIup^fIiqbuwygHLrd|uyf
uravjjrDpKEes'foppxjJAjGAes/fBsgrfJpozteq@zqskcqKgbGxex&gFavjjrjpKyes'
ztfbYtJrtAIud&gpavqevvaPCyl!vDfrcwsAjHHee+jlqtqiMjuBIs	!fRMGKXUOIT#JV
ztfpbiJlxsueh*yFjpeyAvosvjx>kqobvmwgmHHld:kDn?bBzlosGfr,fFikplKgxHOqh!hq
gHbknftsfsush!iAopghLlesCsd:nqaycDKguAuydbORGQTIrkfLwwm#kp.bcsvguAyew&uDu
zqso?eAuaPBng&fMNbptLgpGFDd&gEaytjKAmxxeA*ztavjjrptLOjd=llxjcyrptsNmi
hqtvbhGBsLyex=fBvtuzwgcNNee-yAajcxrmbvyid@fHbtkjLFaHzex^itokefD
itbnnjFnfLo

LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kybtmjvgB6.xd^tpfcxtJzaMIeh^gxaykyzgbsQnh^fDbpijrvgsFnf/gDz
lAsocyKaaLOhl!gEaoqyAvosJng:ADfbetDsfvNns+yfauqzFk_Kyhs/juoibhGsmxwym=tE.
gzebrnuApKCfp!iAmnghLppGMes'fHbtktMzaLIwx| lfurjupbEFDd$uxmgeyAvoLttj
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzavjjrjpNLxi!uravjjKlaxzks/zE.bCRrrfINeg=suoibgsjlsNt
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt++rsuvLwwm[zEaqteJhsxtuv*tFffbrsAuxL	d#uGofbrsAfKCfp| 
kFd}be`lyMtus|kpavjjrnsxuyi|zldqpAwytBIsd$nmmngsylaHzee-rgabVmMz.sNmi
mqogunKgpytyl^f9ptmxzvqmtBl*itatgkDldMMex&klqtqgDlnLtke$kpadAeST?stYl^yq
vDpdnjEzaBHhp;jqarjDKpdtFet/unmgoxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlguAIxi!ozavjjrsjuLfv,
gzebcwuojOyef;yuoguxrkftFeA*ztaeqqDldMCtr|fybfgeMwaHzej/gsjngesuesLfv^
smowuhJpqMtnx^sE.bdtMuesGfx^xubnu	rltIyhm@rxzbvmwgoHNtv*uGtnAetyjMNqi
hAvpfeEhuxLne-ylphbyzlaEuyi!tuogvjwuuAthi+zGsA}er1ixMjd@xqartjuppNM
iGmvwwssatLym'gouu?ezvxxPjv7fmtbyjDsatMem+zqsguyAuhsMty/iqtbqk
ozgqtrsAjHH	d@tpaNEevltBLjw!zAatgysposush!iAougwNlaMBjq8flBObswleLtys
nmofnjrAiBHlw!CuujqzLgetGfk*tsavjjEbas1zm-rAukpnFnattgs=qluqbwMuaBN
ztsqwlzgbsMmi^zlgggiwyaFOxx!hqacxtAkfwtfx!gxmbetKAtn

HqzqpirwiRMng@rlqtqgDlnLnem|yGfubuwyutCsm+mluqbvMhmBNDd@xAtg}erMpK
kJborqwaaMBjd%kEjtgeLvaILtz*jqawujJzaPCyl!gltgcwuobuFjd:kJubkxrhgyyhx^j
hKavjjrxvxMym=tlphbfujfINff-klmgxjDgpytfg$ADbeA rgPGyel;tpsgfeHlsvysx
godwtfuFaBMex/kyfpftMzmRtjB[kztkxjmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbqzLwvMttj
uBukefDgdAuwe$zqsbtjuvhGCym=tl)QEW{gdtHef^fFsgojFkpNMqC!ozbeezJhuxo
GxujqzyoaT7el@ylbvvjEwuxxex=frjpfesgnBxip^fssqwsvaaNHhi/zmjpvDrwfKMnw:y
gEavqeOofMBjv!uDapqyrpusBfw!juteqAwyfwtyl^fDjijyrzpEOym=tg

WGfuvnGutsIkd]AmmkvDrhsHMjd$uzdgtsAuhsCre"kEacueOlmEoedaRQJUEMZHVX`
iAovtfKAfwtyl^fqyvtjElmRtmm"nlmgxjDgpytvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyxd*t
ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybRwGqfvNeA*ztaCO)Kgfyztv:yluqbuJvwBxjd@fnsqyxw|rNuqm:E
uDacehwzt Kze-oFzbkrsnfmtfw!uBqqujvguHtfr!gDdjkAssaHLet/kEftxfLppGtnq@mq?
LXFKUHZOB@YWd:nqsghtJlaPyqg=sqebvmwgpIJtv:AzjvAeLvavIrt@xqapqywz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd=hEftxjvgjGtue|yuoibyzhuswtr<kDtcvnGutsBjd&gpajcirhcHOy
tquyqwCzaAuAi!hqhwpeLvaLClr@rlujcyrmpKtAe/oAvubkGynLttj!sqekces
jqugtrAubMCtr!smzbdjrtbwyex&gFavjjJlaBMee!hDpyuj	xvtFnx,fuugo	rvssu
jutvtntBuBIs[@tp_cehwzt Kze-oFzbkywtaMBfx!smzbetwEjLNem+fEpogeKFtMyrw
CuujbfrojzBjv!wGbnkyQgbKwmm<gxakvjEguAuyd>uGmfbgwgjGwtr<kzjgpyrApsMjr%
ztsqwlzguAyer^zIptmetldtOxi!urakvxrzjSy d!LXFKUHZOB@YWd/krfttjvaaHz
iAvtujlguHtnq@mqtbotJlaMBfr!zAaugfJjitvqi!zqyv}

GEaCOeuvoLCii/kpavjtKlaJOjw:oAou?eKlwxLfp!iAoeguLBbEtnw|AqtbcwGzfhtes;mtu
GYaqehszjHHfp-EluqbwwwsHxzg^fybvgwAhmLtjr:oDfnAeLosHOll!gzakofylaLyy{!gF
uFigteLpnxM	d^tFjtgqQguALty"nlbbvjPAaLyy{!gzebksrzpFyeg@yqt?bfrtjQp
ZtftgeHypuugp,fIpwnirifsNnq^ylxjgsrAixtmm|zAskefDgbNNmi+zudkvDrvgsus
gDukhfuAaPIzp%fDfswnJlaMBfx!oFtbkrsnfsvjd;yqe}beSuaBGfk^fyjijyrif
jqtktftsfsuxd@fDfeqzJzfsztv!AEftueAmaHHjd$uGmfbsGAaILtz*jqa3`#	wfKwjr:
godwtfLlaMyCx8flBicnFaaT7eA=tpftgilgbLtfd[xmdvkhssaFuyx^xfakhes
jutvksuAjHHeg=AxebdjrkstQsd#kFxggsrybKyet/ozugfeEhuMywd:nmubonyousyCm|z
ozaowqLpqEyeg=rxfevnGut ayl@zlju?eAuaMysd=xlgkhywlosFnf/gDjgu rgJGtxy$n
imtgu	rAixtsi^jlgqteHlsyyhx!xqqtqiMjuBIsd>uGmfbgwgmxMxd:nmobhtJgvGCvy^
oFfou rgJFJqm$oFakpezptsLjq@xwt?bK4LJ`WML?1QSbetFjfwyi{!CmtbvmwgbwGnw|oAo
ztbvbF5gitMef^kzavkqLpoztxx/uzhnAeLvxtLiw!wGbpvnLFatHid%xmxkplribvEee
ruuvnjrmsHGet^xrfeveIBbECyC8flUjcyrptmtnx!yqfogirApsURd:nmubutupfMSeA=Axe
hqadgyLlssMjv<kpakheEvsxtyl*tstbyjJlawCxx/onvvgirizs6H[TkHfpbnxguAyDd>kDf
tAubszAAfsJjv'kou++yzhosCkd'kIftbyzpozM	d[kDggeyDFaKyuv^yqovgilgxxLj
jutvtntBuxx d!ZtjubBszaLNfx^jlbubfrwsHJtw*zuppbyGgcxtyi|zqe?bBAAi
xqtrqsKltsNtd#klhcvmwyfwtkv=slvugwKb

OzavjnFrjGAee#uGubkxKBfLtwi-gFffbyGgsxJws%AoukqsrvgsGfx^xubnuesuesMji*ts
uFigteHlpIFjd^tsbigirposJfv@rxfnbfuAjOCym^yfaCOevlfFyid*zlvugkMsaMI
iAoxgswgbswtr'kDfpejmga1ysg^ lujge#vsDMms[alaHNJ1ZD12FY XlujgwwBqHH
yGsxgDwkaMBjd|kHftcqrnsHOuw!xqqtgxwuuxx,d!7>avjjrDpKFid=lljoclwza{Cre"k
AEftuesuesCre"klncmjJz-it7=!ztfbytJsesIkd:kJubcsvgtvBtp@xEikresuemtBm:nuo
ztjublJvvInex&uEfbetFjfKHjh!CuujbqsuhNuliT/RMGKXUOIT#JV!iAohgxKlesNtd'ozekpl
jqmkimLmvEtnv=tKakpeLofszfg:fFicveKvnxttj!ztfbotKAatxAe+iqebvmAulxLxd=t
iAnrwywyjSyid:kJuubfJlaMBtw^fpfcnnFnaPCyl!gzdkgsLgHKyjo!gzebTtEhosGfx^xubnu.
9>avjjrufMQtv)fIptnihgbGxe8SfFigblwufKuqd>uDmfbtxgmBvwe/EltekjFjfmtBl*it
ozdnwiwzaIytt-kljpvjJltMyid*tlqtgxwywtNns+fmofbhsAbEIlm+mg

LXFKUHZOB@YWd$uzdnwiwkaACxd/kybtmxrDjMBew[kojcneLobGExd:ulujgeVhwBxee+j
RGdknjrWbvEfv%fRpwpisAjHHej=xljvueKBqIIwx!uravjjrtfxNnr" lujgeStfKChe+
SqnqtDrnsHOu{!ztfbQkxpdxtks/f5djqqsymRtUv=mDbou	rAixtSe:oAocn
JqnqpxLybMCtr!Rmc?bfFkaMBjdjlrjegeGma`Jjg*gxaGxjFAtnteL^fqyrtjKzfwtyl^
nAqgbyzhusXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDebonyousvjd@hxfbvtrhuMysh7fzpvksyguAuy
Vmdmcwv_tsQtv)fmofbyzlaPIwo!uravjjrmpNHie:oAobjfvgtIIsw=xqebceFBnuywd=l
vDplghLzaBHex&klugzyrhsxu 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJnteGjT6FPVe1UaTtSIrfRPTO,rga$2TdrOXMbWXWgJ!tFR	f9ICVe#PM5tYL 5lEQ{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JMM1b+rHdDHtA-kphgojFAts{eE!tqxbNfLposuzx&uDtbfnKra}teI'lqdvueGmaMBjd+kI
zqdjptDvhRttr!vDfxktMzaFyyl=jEaqheJltxuwg&f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqsxksygbLtrs%kDbvqwlgKtGjw!JMM1bfuroHQqi%mqebvmwghxHjv=yuuAbtxgbEFex&k
vDfugsLlsLtks/fsjxksygpytyl^oDavkrwaavIzr|kx.bcsvgqtNni+iqakpeHsbGHnr"
ztfbYtJrtAIu{!gEaygqDgbLttj!sqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKarttBldMtfr%
uFigte4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMew:grg?bfFkaMBjd	gHjfbfFka5Ohm-klQcepsye
LAvpffLppGtfr%fuuubjPldNNnz^fpjtghLvsmtHs-hGspbXmgXBFgy/a

JMM1byzlosLjg=AzugfezptsPnw*zljpbRsydAtys!ztfbEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
ozavjjrOvFusm:oqtb-HW1I	tfr%fFigbIwwbKNri+zlphbHDhtLChw!gFaTwyylsL
1zjxgwKpuRneA&kDfbcsrvmwtkv*kze?bQGDfEFeI%sGofu	rpoMLth;iqebjnEguHtyl^
jqqctyEloM.xddH~DWUeKjiHFfv-ElqgtxGubEths_vGugt	rhownem+fBbtvnuBmtL	d:nq
tqxbNfLposWI[mUY.betFAbBHnr" lboqsygpMBjv!ztjpixlgbEGtw:fmmnbhDhtLChe-
RmukpeDpuxLfv,fFfzvxrAiKIzk&fM?F}e"%~nteT@iwbtfeZBntHnx*kEaKpxLpuNNj
[2IK_	rSpLtFp:uE.bEfDpgHLsm@ lsgnjszfwtyl*ylekuprsbMyem+f!0~3	rDjMBee
tAnkpfDguKCjr+ommbnnuloLCsk!lqf}

VxbAksygxBNmd:nqafkxCggHLee+ftpwteGyaLIee:f4vvijJzauLty"nFajqrwguHtIEg5
gFaqphwguAyev^BAmwvnGujSCsk!oyqceyrvgsNmi!tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AE
squjqiKgpytwi|kmsej rgItxex&oEafkxCgcxysd@BmjncgDlaMQtd=xlujtjwgzxuww
kmsnkjJaaWUQ3!iAovgsvlemtBl^tligbBszaxHle"kpakpeHyfIuwm+mlbbetEtfGNfv,fAo
HApmb6=gpyt1m/mum&ueSloxCid'uDaEcrtyjwAjdptuwgtxAAzs0wi|yfajgeOvvExer=z
nmwgbwwxvBLjh!glgqtyQ|fBAmxTyCvctj	mpHNex@hxfbqsrDiBwmd:ultrtjskaMBj
tGngttMz.sGtw:frsgszwuuESeg=tEvnvjvgjMyrw7fuoenzvpoztxs_klugpeGyaMQjp<k
iAoeqwvhovyxd:ullgAe4huBHee;ztptu	rhosuqq=yFagszssaGOrf^xlphbqwEjvuex=
gGujqwKgxAIep@iwffbhGudHLie+iqt?bfFkaPBjv^fqjvjjJgmxRng@fAsbetFjpKxfr$kE
CqsgbqsjlBHl{!tGngttMzaxxnx*uztbqkrhvMBtv|fmovgisAjGAee+jlqquyvhuBHldqoDhkn 

TAs?bBzloswmi$quoibjsjisIkd:nqacxjJhhxtxm\fFpbujNlosQtv%yldqpyspoxxem+
ztfbXnJnjECfr!nqycojLlssztv!oFtbwxsnfsyqw^CtftgeAua#Cwk*r/tbytJrtsIw
uFigte4huBHee;ztptu	rDpNFid	GXZbjfNlaAuid:ulncksLhjGtyl^fxbdqwAvvL
sqdjcsAjbEtuv=iqtubtxggECut*tsavjwGBhAtyl^yqaeqsuvswusg^yfangCAjbmtfr%
kpjvktFzaxuhl!zung}erUpKtBs;rpajgezhwxtme%fFpbhwwxvxHyd@ylphvjFguAy
SumvqsrZ?sYnw^ttpygwrSjuLfv,fmubvmwgKHBsw!NAqmksKgVGCAi/yuuAbyGgdHHxy-z
ztfbVmwzbNLzw!RuoiwfwgMtNnr@kgabKsKAftxes'fpfxqyAuhswty+zxfuuezvvKM	d=x
ztfbdzDraHzel*ylsgujsydAtym_kfavqeyhuAywm+mlecvfrjpGwjv+ozhbXnJnjE.xd;yq
urayqwvz.sXFPt/\oqyexyfxxef,f2IK&xrSbMCsd@AFiqtxrkjLEej/uyavjj
zKscpsAjbEneC^zljpbxGtfsQfC|fBbtciGEjvuqp,ftbrrDrzdAIqe/rKaftzvnfKS][
CAvnfezhwxtgi^tlbdnjrApsxjz=zqavjfLgttGjd#AxlbqkrAjFyex=fmocnDRpoztfr%
ozugtuJluBHldqoDhknnsuaOywf@rlvuclwb

Iuukplr1ixIis/klCtwsFlsmtLv^mAsAbHJhoxneI-ruaO1Q7UB`nee+jlBxtfrTJV2JPnUZ.
JMM1bfJnvxxex&gFavjnKgsxPjv|gxakpezptsMyC-klphbBGylmtre%klqquxAimxtgC!ztf
tqxbvjuooHFtk, lxqwqvgqxLme[ylicxjryfLOqx^jljpbgwAuxL	d_uDfbrwGkvvNnz^
xqtgcwuo?stNr%kqe?bjNlosCsd:nqaeqzJzfsIkd&oEadttOzjGAex&klMcvnFgbNNms/y
jutmbfLgSNNli/yfakvxrwpPywj;rltgcwuo.sLjx/oqwcn	rhowtmm"nxjijyAuh
imqcdnDpuByxd|AshguywkaMIel*sltgxjJhmsHjA!gHfpwjKgpytwi|kmsejeAuuH
2usikq\zaNMjd=lltqwsvgfyzjg:ygabVmAzatHjg%uFbnbfujpNHy{!JMM1brspoMunr^jf
smzbujJCfsNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgtNxii+fmofbwskjvuqd:xmouhtJtbMCtr
hqjpieOypNAmx!ozavjjrDbRMew$nAmctxrDpKE 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.
SUDJGQ~VOs{eI-kyfpvxryfEuyi%fFpbuhzvmtLxl*vlbpfeLldAHtp=mKa)bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvueOpuACsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!hDpcfjJguKysh|fIjvjnFgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mK
gzebuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!=lFxcqMhuBIsd=llujgeHypLJjg:ylgqteLofsOxi!ur
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWwsbMCtr|nuqbqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsNtd[xAdguxwzaHz
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosCsd&AybpkyAltsLjw^gDdjb+rUfPtjB$nmoigexvsFuyw
iDfcvjvgcRtxg&uxbtue?gQKIoi$zEakpnLpbMyid:uljpewwhtxtxg&uxbtnDrhdvyxw!zA
iAoxgwLlesNjB:f;aVtjFkaMIBe/jlncmnFnaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEy
ztsqwlzgsxMje/itacpirleNwfx*uzapgyOvsDMe_!ItbpijKgutEnr"fBmcejrpo
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosurs+mliwofFpuByxd|itpncwKg(s8jx>uDl+ojvpbMyi
yoiqnfJziBJex/gzthqwEpoztyv@juukqsssaLwms-gDmAbuJhdMChi|f;aMgD
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaMLjr%ylbhhjuAjGAex&kldqpiMjusIkd|itpncwDF
iAnowsAjbMCtr!uHftbyzlaGyCx!jqdcfjr[a!Bjd:xqofbyGDbKxei+j\vugwrjpFJzx*ts
=lUjgeLyfGxex=CmsfblJlbMywd$uzogeyACjMSe_!KrggeyKgpytyl^yqavtjFkts{eO^E
zDbpukGyntNns+ylucmnFnaIFfg^f;aUwrEhsRttj!vDjpenHhmsuwk;sqovue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.

GHscbR1JIX6XSi lBtemACbEtWi|kmsejesuesYAe-AmukqsrZutzk{!TmukqsssaTLhl*Bqt
gzebTjuvswMeE%suokuyJhuBIsdRTMSC_	rhszOjh!ztbvbjKAbuFnw&ozhbymGgxBFqd;yq
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEacpirDitNex&kKaykqDgvLyex&kyahqwrpoOIqz^ylbbetFzjwywe:oAo
uradqyzgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mKacpirzdAIqe/ytjrbyJlowM d!Ztju
iAoukiwybMCtr!ozdnwiwzaLyAi/gxagnjEloMMev^rmugfeLvaLwms-gDtjkurhow
zqdjptDvhRiedv]lujgeClzsNwi+jEakpeAugHLre:oAobvjuooHFtk,fFicvesyfsGtw:
xqmgxfFAaMIew$nAmctxzpqit7=!ztfbmjQguKysh|fuobvmwgvLyes'fovttjFAmR
gHbknftsfsNjg&tAmqiDrizsMhl=rmsubnFguAyer=tEdkgsLpgBweg=syvpkyQ}atHidx]
ztfbtjDhuBIsw&oBadgyOlfGtyl^yqavytrCfKSeh*yFjpeyrivMtnr:kDsgnfLlesNwi+jE?
ZtfbksNltMGjr:fuobwsvlsLNfr%ozhbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgcxCsk!smegbgQ
ozgqtrsAjHHet/uHjfgwKaaMyhl+uxpikxLz.sush!vGcnkhrwpEChC!jqwgntHlsLnee|
CqmnbfKgcRtxg&uxbtueLofFMjp<kE.bujwttsNtd#klqgtAszjOyee+jlhtqBAuhm
SUDJGQ~VOswtr:kzegf rgTAyeh/kIaqpeuvmEugs/gFjxgeOvsDtBm:nlKghkrYpMBjr#kDh
uzavjjrzdAIqe/rKawujrvgsNjg&tAmqiDm

SUDJGQ~VOsMty"nFavqeHsbvyex&klqjgsGtfGIsd=llfnghLypGChd:kJuubBAAiBHex&k
iAovgCLgpytgv=gpftbyJlowMeA*ztjpbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!gzebuhzvmtLqC
iAnowsAjbMCtr8flTjgesyhNyid:nmubgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrhsxttj!sAtvbzKlaMI
xqtgcwuofKMex=fFigbjPAfGNex&gFavjjryfLyfv$nqsu&eOvsDCsk!iAovgCLg)Boj	7
ztfkteJlmxPfr:fnjdnnGnstJmm$fEpwthwz.swtp-ksjcnexlfwvfg) lbpcqQAjvtys=rE.
tAugu	rkstzyw7fque}[lgbEIsk!CuujbyzljKtkm^rp"ubuJpntLDd@tpaughGuetLD
yAvtejKaatFxs!oEacehwztBvqi!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAsobfFkavusd#kljpvjyybMyid*t
Cmzubyzhusuwi!AzjswjrApsNmi!uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpv 

KHbnwfLppGttj!ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbvmwgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbksusvwyxd:CA
kxfogsLz;st6=!gzagzfEpotNns+fAgbvmwgxtSxd*tlxjkhzgsxMje/itftueuBsKysx-E
gDfbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNxd@rAoibBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.sush!8>
gzacpfDFtBMes'fwfAbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!zDfpfxrAitNee/klbhhjuAjGAex&k
rAoi+ywynswtr%AoubqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uz?bbR1JIX6XSifxjokywkaAyw
jutewxKppGttj!ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnuguxRyw!zAavjjrwstwym$kEaqhezBntHnw:y
gzebptLlesNme:fFigbxupfGNnj*ildqorMujMSeA@ylpwvxAkfsNmi!vmogn)KgpOywz*kI?

SUDJGQ~VOsyCe_ozffbyzlaGuyy/klphbyzlavOwv^tFatgqsAjHHxl*vlphbjDldMLtr*i
zqyvueAuaIuwx*iGmct	rhowtjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbksrnfGywe- luqbBzhusMmi
smjpvfAufwtBi/kfaguxwuuBuqp, lgkxjrwsHwjw|kEaqheKjiHFfv-EldqorMujvuym=t
ozajwrsujMCjw!xqtgcwuo?stWi|kmsejjJza" em%kzukhDrzpNLhi| l3_bhGtnNHng@zq
CuujbyzljKths-rqbiwjKaa* em+zqsrtjLgbGxee+gxzBgevhutne8SfpjuujEpotNj
ztfkteJltxuwg&frjpfnFntmtfr%f%-brwwwbKyeg;xDjewqsguHtnr|zDveveLofsHjB:
mqogtfLppGttj!yoiqnfJzatHid|zGegpyKbas@mm|fqyconFhuBIsd>uGmfbuJveNwjd@
ixfctjJgvGxjv|zmofksygpytyl^fEzpgwyFatGtr"fFigujrmjOyet/uofuujKguAuy
lGfnueLofsNjr%kzdAbtxguAyey|klphbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMej=xlppgeHypvyxw!zA
yFjowqsAfsCyw!AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?

LAsbvmwggBLxx!vDpegxKgpytxg&uxbtnDrjpFGzr*imukqslguAyem%kzukhnuhuBIsd=l
yAvtejKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbquHvsMOsm:EltejtDhsLtss>fqolqDrAp
yGqrnjEloMtyv@juukqsssaPIwhTur_oqzLoaLyfv$nqtbhtJgtHOwg^ylboqsyguAynv
iAmngfyBfLtBm:nlogyexvsFMes'fqmgeyJvoBwew^gDdjksybas!t{!lAsbgCstqEy	
oztvgfvgpytme<ozhbvtrCjLCyd:nqankgJhsRnev^yqbtemwytsuwi!gnmgbyGgfQJqs/k
jqtetnHAjHHxd=lliqniAuhLtnr!ztfkteGmgBwjw8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fugbvmwpssIBr
oztvkyMAjHHx(!nAmfksyzaILtz^fuouwkxpdBysx7fEdjqqsytswfr!godguxrtpKyex&gz
8*~bofBvssUri/oobpbqAistLDd$gFbnqlMltsIAi/fUovgwFlumtnr$rGekplrAix
AzjxgwKpuByxd=llDcnnxvsGCf{!Sudjklsu.s0jr+yKmxcsAh.sush!3uteqsKpon
Jusgeyrhdvyxw!zAavjjrijuFns"xmqjkhrkbMuge|kEaqhkwytsCsx^rxfevzss
kyqqyjJtfGNex=fEdjqqsytsvDd[xqtgpyAuhsueg=sBsgjjFzjOyeq^gztbqkrisHQxm+m
ztsqwlzgmBvwe/oqtbhwGtaMBjm/ftpogxrhowttj'oofubfLguAynv!iAoxgsAlovy 

Ztfbujuvowtuv=iqtubtxgdHGry+oobvktFgjGPtp<kEaeqrEBoBwfx*uzacotFn
yoiqnfJz?stGi,uzebvmwgnHMyd$uynqpeEluAIiw!uraeqrEBoBwfx*uz.buhzvmtLxd@xq
AEjpieW|ntCqd@tpacbAsyjxNDd=llogyewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uztbhtJtbMM
jqskxjvggKIrd*zlgqtexBsMBjv!gobfgrAjaBHyi/itbpijmgaXare*rlfzemsuhxMee/k
mDpyksygbMtfr!gEuqpnKojGAev@zq.btjHvsMyip,f!6brjJjfGNee!sAovj rgUAyD
iGstgsLszswtr|zuuwvjrhqILtB*smugnDrobEzex&klutckxpdsIsd/kEfcthzgbGx
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlu}erTpKytz^xfavjjrnmHvfp!yBsgcirvgsY]q@oxajcxrifxHew=
xmqkfeLobMtnx!oEapqBrwpLMnf-klgqteStfKChe+fEdjqqsytsNtd;yqakveLv
iAnowsAjbMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw!ozaentKlaMIe5y$lpvjjJgdHOsx/oqt}

UFigteFlxsyCg&gzhgbkGyntNxd$xqbvgirizsMhl=rmsubfFkaHJjv@zuoibtFgJGNjv+kF
ozdnwiwgnHLjd:nmob9#=gdHHki/kzdgu	rDjMBee#uGub0#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmwzfsxjz=zqe
zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaAOre+oFjgu rgUAyev@zqaqheyypPNmd=l
ztfugeKjiHFfv-ElfnghLypGChd$uzggtjFjfLtfp|uljubfKApGCxl*ts?bbKJvnsF@!EfFp
r&03?e"%~sHjA!iAohgwwudxMeA^xqakfjFAjyCjh!uzaKpywyoxN d!LDpobTuApuywdv#&2
zAaLwswg2=[7{!gzacfiAAjHHfp!7%~betFmfKysg^yljpbyzlaLIhm@rltekjFjfLtfr%
nGncpnLpfLtBi/klbffjvguHtyl*ylektjuApKSes'fxjuvnFntnteW$nAmctxrobOy
kEucdqAzixxeg=trftgsultsCsd<oDuwcqDFaxPjv,frjgnilgxBNmm+fqwgtDrkjyzjv^tF
jutekuDpoxoedauDagzfEwmxnex&kDfbcwwgdNLwi+zxzbeqGzfsNtdA$*aceyACfsMtg*gx
yojgphwgbGxel;smokvnwzaswtr'kDfpejKgpGtys[ootbuzuoatMee/zlbpf
gDdjkywjuNLj{!kFipqrMzjvIqs"EfahqqCspKy	degBbpgxwgdNFyy/kfaogiAjbE
kpvecyAvomtfr%fsjhvjvgbGxex@rqovgirleNwfx*uz?bbYzlatJui@rluqbxuopEuww!ur
iAnowsAjbMCsk!ztsqwlzguAyxi!iAohgwwudxMem|fFicv	rBoECpi!gzzbqyzlssGjh*Ay.
kxfevwGujvths+lqsgphwzaMIie,fBsqxnvlattks/AyahqwrnmHvfp!iAnowsAjbMCtr
CuujbuwlsLtfx!ztfbhwGuusysh!uravjjryfLyfv$nlqtqhwztn

OzugtuJlutNns+fmofbfFhmRMnw!urauqzJjfLths+yFjvwywzaMBjd:nusfbuJvdxMxd=l
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosNme:fYJEJJ4ZP7tim|iGtugirposNjv_ylphbywEuLtfr%
zqyvwfDgsxMty/iqt}be`ofsGjx&uptbwxwkaMIee+gxzBgeKvvKwjw!lmmnbxGtfPBjv^fAo
gldqpyAuvNGej/uyaswfFAjMuym<klbpcqQzjLtys!wGbnkysAjOyee+gxzukxm
ZKqkefDszmtjz*jqoegeAzavOqp^jlbpfewCbEOfx^jlvuksygnxNms%yletcBFggKIrd#uFi
kzeubtxguACxd$uzukpzMt?stFx!uzfbgsvaaJOfr:oFbvkAwgbGuqC|oEakpAGswxMex&k
AEfbqkrtbMBjq@zudcneHypvyxw^yltwemrhtsueg=AzubqkrmsxKzi+iufubfFk
jutvtntBuBIsw!uraqehMysxHhi|fAs?btFgbsBnk&kDangAws.sLjk/kEtkqsrhotFDw*yg
GFavjjrvuAywd^tpaqheLofswtr:ozvwo	rxvtFnx@zuwgbfFhmRMnw!zKqkefDsz
ozwqnAwzaGIsq@ztfocyAjbEtuv=iqtugxrvsBysx^jluqyfJkaEusk;gsf
ozugtuJlutNns+fAsbvmwgcNCqh*tsaqheLofHLD	!fMtrghLzaHzex&oEayqwCgjGPtp<k
ztfbrwGjfLMnr"/\fkvmwyaFusy@rlptbhGtqNNfx*uzbn+]GmaEuwk^fmofbxGtfMCri|
smtukAwgbFIzr:ylphbywEuNuqd|uGsegxlgbENms;mtavjjrBtxttj!tAovgCLBbE
yAvtejKgbLtjz*jqoeg	rzvvBee|fBiqvtyybIBx{!yAvpfeJldHLim+mE.bhnDtayItx@mq.
gzebcwLpgtwyw7futbunyujyChe+zlbubBwsmn

YoiqnfJzaAuAi!juteqAwyfwtyl@zlncpDrvgsNmi!squjqiKgpytnr:kDqtgysAjHHee+j
gzbnAxAzaMBfx!gDfbtjDhuxxex=fnpvjeIBbGNnx@zuwgbfFkaJOfp*zmukxjrtfMBth|
gDfbrwGjfLMjw!ztbvbhsuauyet^xrptojvgcRths_vGugtxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlgdHGuy:kDt
imobetMuunteX&kKaecsrjpNHyd#xGtjbxLypDyxd;yqebksrha~yrf/gzevbuspoMCsk!uD
vqshqwEgsxAwi|yuppbfFhmRMnw!lAsbwsvlsLNfr%ozhbefMzfsush!krggeymgaUSeq^gzt
uracfAsudxxex^itoqntypfLneg=sBvvgwKgdtHev^iAhpkEwgqtNyi/tE.bcssszSyex^DF.
gzebotvlmswtr$kBuu}erMvKNmi/sAsg?euvnIOyi/yldcpeuvnIFjx^fFigujrwsHwjw|kE
lmtvgwrDjMBeq=xqauqzJjfLtfr%fIjvjeyyftNjv!vDfekxAvosNme+fEdjqqsytsQms
sGtvbwwszsIsd_gzvcneAuuxLuv^zmukqsrvgsxfx@alaDwyrpgsMhl=rmsubfJlaMIey|k
iAnrwywytsztv!ztfugeHypvyxw^yfauqzJjfsGfx^xubnueEBtMtgi!ozacbkGyn
gyfpcgDlaMIeg=sBvvgw	htLCxx^jlbpcqQzjLoedauDavjnKgsxuxs+fybpAeKjiHFfv| 
uzdgbyzlzsBfz^fuegpyAmjxxex&kltqwwultsNme:fmsgbpwFaMIex&kusbtjKlbKwm{!gDf
iAoxgwLpoztyl^sluqbrsjiBHj[/kmecdqwggHLr	!f6iwu	rhaKyuv^yqovcyACfsyCe_vxf
uravjjruvFyws;ylugzyMhmswtr<kDtkqsrwsHDjg:ylptifFpAxxef,fEdjqqsytsuws;tp
ztfbytJsesCsd/kofpveQlbKMex=fEvrrtJAavIrt;zmukqsssaMyCx!gzbnAxAzaBMex&k
ZXH?byzla!Bjw@ADvubQAuhNujdbxmfecjmga!Bnw!vDplghLgjLtii<uFffbyG
iAoxgwLpoztyl^fqyvcsLgbGwni+zlugzyKgpythp@yEjecqrNsxyhi8fl)GfnLvs,Mer=zq;
godqtiAuhsNtd:nqaVNLrUfPMqi:zqsbqkrTbRtq!D8faVNLrDbLtnr!AEfbksrAiBLyCTzIp
jughgwwuuswty+zDjgu rgUACxd'osvtgeMwetNjw!SUDJGQ~VO,Met/kHjqwxrjpNHyd#Elppg {

ZtfbuhzvmtLxd[kDgqtrAuhsNmi|kldqpAwytBIsw!nmwgbgwlosuxo^jluqbwwjpzHnD^
ztbvbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKvvKwjw!ztfAbfJlavIsz^xFjpiexvssIsi!AEfbrtKzfLMez@rGf
lAsbqyzlssLjw^gDdjbuMyqHMjw!gEaygqDbasUxd@fDfuwqLaawOwm+mlujgeHhtMtki>
Eqbtu	rovFusm:oqtbuhzvmtLxd&gHfbksAAjtNjh!glowogwyaHzet/uvfevxrAp
ozdtgfKlaLwms-gDmAbfujfLMex=foppxjJAfwtyi\zgabUtlggHLei\gyqng	rAixtYi\z
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2 	d@hAvvbBzpdAtrs/kljubxspesFfx^xljpbyzlaILtk/gy.
CmtbgxLhcECxl^jlbubfFgfyztv:fnzbuhzvmtLxd:ulegvjJtjGyew:gzectirlmxGjr:y
gzebojLopwMej=xlfpetvpoztre$nuog+wwhetvqi!zqyvbkGyaxFjg:xAokeewEdAusk^a
OzacbxwjpGxei'lAsvbyGggtwnp*zmugbyzlaLBfv*tsaqheuvoOywx^jlugzylgtvBtp@xE
nmwgbhJlbMyid@fzfybnFzuBNzx*uz.bvmwgDxHyi/frptbJDldMLtr*ilUgzyKgjGtyl^
NGncpnLpfLt=G ZT-}be`ofswjr:kDaguyAtbMyxd:nmubvmwyfsuwi!@f~``eKlsByxd=l
yAvtejrAfQNxd*tlujgezBntHnx*kEavjfLgitPjd#kqobetFCfKNjh!zA
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgxHLqh>opf}beULU1tnw!AzegtysrjGAee+fuovgwFhuBIse-
yqbtemrmpKths+BqsvgirAfQNem+fFigbmMtbGCym^yfaeqrHpmBHld*zljpvtrho
kxfevwGujvtqm#xmsA?esuesJwi[gDjpietpcECtk/gBikeevltvLnt:oAoubtxguAy
yAvtejKggHLex&klSgujsydAtQm#xmskgxrPoyIwq@zuppbSwAxHLp(|f<SNKS{
smdjksw|sxuie#rqafcysggBFj	!f6igbqAistLDd[xAgguxAvosBfw!hqhwpeLvaBHnx*gFf
rmsigeuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMee|fIfnn	rzvvBee|fMngtnuhos7jq=xK?

3tjngeKjiHFfv|ftbxgetlfGtre)ozhbetFCfKNjh!zqyvbfNhjEugp^fFpbqswgbGIyl^xf
zKqkefDszsIsd%oElbqwrvosWI[mUY.bvmwgdEyfv!zDfpfeAzaMIBe/jlncmnFnaMBjw^
xqtqwwultsuAe*rmcngeLosHOll!xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwt}be`ovLnex&k
GyftkhsuatHidaxqoeje0ltxuwg&fAobvmwgUKyfw;xKaqheLofsZwi+itaNcsyBbzy
[MSVHQ{gbGxex&klEcpywgQKIoi$zlbtgesssxuiC!gHbknftsfsIsddtFftpjLb
SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpeGuaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosush!gzbnAxAzauS
tAukplrAitN,d!7>akphJlbLCsk!tGndgwKgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEakpeLofsFnf/gDz
iAnowsAAzsuwi!xqdqisAGjGAex&kljortJAbGwjd:ulujgeskwtHhi_kzubqk
yoiqnfJziBJes'fDfvttKwfvNnz^foppxjJzjHHes'fEpwthwgntNjv*gxtbksrAixtfv:y
gzebjzEhoBNni|?lbpfe"/aMBjv^futbceyypPCsk!xqbnkEsAjHHex&gFaocpAuhsNmi
yAvtejKgbOunp@hxfbqsryfLyfv$nlbpfewkvvuym=tlogvBGylLtre\oyjBgxrAixCw
AEfhwqFltLtks/fFigbfFhmRMnw!vqshqwElesvDd&AybpkyAltsMhl=rmsu}

ZtfbhtMyuAtuv=iqtubtxgtvBtp@xxzbetEtvGChe:oAobkxrkjLMjq*tmukqsrvg
xqtgcwuoayCsh*tst?byzhusCx{!vGcnkhsAjHH d!YoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibjPptMCsk
xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwtbvtrlozCsi^xlbbpjOguRJjd=llqwdqAjbMCtr2
yoiqnfJsz wtr:xAmngirqpNLse-ylujcyrhsxtjp^iFsqpnuhmESet/upvegirhow
jutugrAubMyi	!fMmvjtMnisMzg&fvpwtssstsuwi!yFjnnewtfKAnr"fmtbc
iAnowsAjbMCtr!lAsocylguAynv!tGndgwrobLtlv=Cz.bhwGtatJuv=DuncvjDFaMQjp<k
zAavjnJAz MnB!jGskplrAixtue|zlzgcwr]KNFDdv#&2bvtrQvGye5D#@-}be5vtMttj
ztfugewsfvNws+ooauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKgbKyeh^BAugfeLvaMIum$yljpbyzl
nGncpnLpfLoed?ylxkvmrufMQtv)fopphjJlovyx{!yoiqnfJszsysx&AEjcurrmpKtyl^yq
kxfevwGujvtos;xzbnueKAfFMej/uyavjjrtfwCzqNylvpkvMlatvnp*zKavqeskwtHhi
yoiqnfJziBJem+fmaycDrAitNer=fAujgwrtfwCzq!imobftrizsMzt[uDukplrnmHvfp
lqffdfuratHid*tFftemsuhxnet/goukefDszsCsd/kmmbvnEl.syfv-EljpbyzlaKyxi@xoi
vDpegxKbasVjC=tpauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbfjDpwxLDd=l
iAnogwupbEtky-r\ugzyrwsHxzg:yfauwhzgbLtfv:oomgueAuaILtj^yEjqpfDgkHOwr@rE.
tqxunjLAfKM	d_gsbBkswz.sQnv^fEftxnultmtfr%fDfhgwwudxtxs;xofu}er1ixMjd@xq
hqjpievlmBPjv^jlwkceGu_ECsi!rAdcneDpcKuwC!imucntyBfLnei|vqdkcqDFaMBws;mt
IP_TQRKbasZzv:nqsoqwwaatwhs/juoibyGgN2WMIgY1O?byzlsxtnw!mqogtfDgpINnq*yy
ztbvbyzlavIuC/osivbfFkayyjw!oEtwgxrpnIyim+mlujgevlmBPjv,fAgbhzDsaMyCx!uz
kJjuvnFnaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd|uAobynDsauyev^yAmxgim

ZtfbhnFhmsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uzakueuBsKChy-AyafgAwspIGjr:
gzebksKAsNwym=tfacpirAiBMem+BAmxgxrAixtzw^fAgbetEwvMywd*trptofLppG
zqdjptDvhByxd*tluyqesyftM d!ZtfbhnJzusCxd:nqafgAwspIGjr:fAg
iAnrwywy_HLni+zqebksKAsNwym=tmmbvtGstmtBl*itakphDBexMew*sGmcvnGutm
sGmvkrwkjttft[rudcvnGutmtfr%foporzLlssNts-ylujcyrhsxtzw^jluqbfKzjLNem+
ztfbcssszLCxd=lltqwwultsCsd:nqaenfKzsHIr{!kFd}be`ofs0jv|kGtbRwGqfvN	d@
jmucdfKlaMBfx!vDpxkiwzattry-zungfnsgdNLwm$AxvobtFgdEuxw*immbIwwll
iuwknnRhuBIs{!oEacblGvesyCe_vxfbqkrAixtBe,fuobymAjisysx*xqaewwJpdNFfd@xq
hqjpieJldtMyd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlm^ygabKyrptsusx*iuqcvjvguAuyd:nq
iGstgsLgeBzkm$AxuAbnFgfQwme+muoibjDldMLtr*immnAeuvnIOyi//nbugi
oztvtzuAjHHfp!yAgvyfJl.sQmm$nljpbyMyosGfo^yljvbiAmgBwzp:frptbtFlaLwms-gD
zAadwnDkaNJtr!ztfbytJraHzes:nqsu?eOpmEtgi!xqtqnAwkauyks/kluqqeDvozo
YFbpf]sspGyeg;xDjewqsyatJup*imukqsKguAuyd*tHpnxjrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaPCqp!hq
ytbtcgDlaMBws;mtapgyOvsDM	d/kuohqwupoztyl^oDauklFpgBwfr$klbubnFAfEFjg:Amm
vDpfwhLzatMeA^rxacueAutMLzg:oAocneLvpEM 

Ztfbujuvowtfw[koubqkrlmxwyv=tudbnjsyoBHld*tHpnxjKguAyey|klphbwwzftLhl!gze
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlubkGyawCxx@tofbgiMjbMCtr!vDpitfEz?stXy$nlqtqlJhnL
ozugtfuAjOyqC!ruombywhdAyww!CuujbxLBexHyw!ozaigtyybIBng@rxzbuhsAuxLjh
rAdcvnGutsush!xqmAbtFguAyee<gumcdnDpuRttj!kxfevwGujvtnr|zDvevnGubE
xqtqwwultnteH*yFbpejrleNwfx*uzarttyybFMee/klhcksAuhsQnh^fmqrgfDgbFIsk
yFbvgevlqtLyq^tFtbqkrleNwfx*uzadghsBtxttj!ztfktevlnHHxx/gFffbhswbvCyC!zA
hDjpieskwtHhi%fEqgenssjSyid$uGsugeOvsDtfr%fmobcwJhzsIkd^DBftvxrApsGfr,
ixbuuwGvnLoed?fDfegsLgsxJtv:frpwpirAitNee:fxfcuyr03sMye:kEaqrjJhuxxee:
rqbuveGufsMye:kIjfgeFluPIwo!lAsbgiMjbMCtr!oza3~@'aaPCyl!tquyqwCzaNHii/
jqwgntHtfGNem+fybpAeGmaMBjd/kybkpnFnaLNfx^yg

SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpetFaGIym+mluyqeKAsBEnr"foicplwzaMupm+m
vxbegeAuaLwms-gDmAbhGtnNHng@zuppbfEvoztmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xE?bbKAytMtnw!ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nlfnghLypGChd:kJubksrwbKNng;rms?bfFkaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^y
ozaigswybEnee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrlbvBes'fFigbkACfsJws$kEtguevltvLnf^j
gnpxg rgBLtri+zuppgirlbKFni/ lujgwwgjLtfd$kDucksrzzGywk,fmubytJraAywi8
Ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbhtJgpGyet/uofuueLlowMex=fEukozDhuxtnx|
AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltmtgi$gGtgbyzlavBni'fopwtxwgpytrs<kyfpveAzaMIBe/jlb
iAnrtjzloLCAi!uz_nkswgxHLpm+mldqpywEusztv!nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueLobM
ozdnwiwzaHH]p*tqacxfAsbuCqm:ElphbpwFauCgp*usscrmAltmtxg&uxbtnDrmfxxge$qf
yAvtejKaatHfp,zudcneLvpEM	d@tparwgDpdtNns+ygabONUOF5!TR!tAugfexBsMBjv
ztbvbyzlaFIAi_kzubvtOhswtfd$uyqtgmwutBPjd=t\mkpjrDpKEnr"foppvjPAayIw
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueAzaGIyd+kI?bbNFggtwy{!oFajcxrifxHey+jqsycDrmpKtrs/k
ztbpbkGyuRtDi@xEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxlgtBHhi!LmujgwrYpuywx=fNvucetlhtH
jqwgntHpoztfr!kxfevwGujvths+iAsfcsulaHzex&klxqtpKgpytXe*tFaVjtEhtsUvy*tmt
oza3~9+bas%me:fIfbcwwgxBNsi|yuoibyGkbRneQdITFNUT6gdHHyi+jqe?bnKgoHNex&k
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nutbqs	sjGyex/gztkvnGuauOy{!lAsbcyrsftMyd|uyfbjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJz.sNmi!zGspksygqHCsx!ozavjjrAstHxm:oAobhwGtattuv*tFavqesu
kxfevwGujvtBs/quoibhGuuxRy	!fOpkphAkjGAeA*ztavjjrvo Fnr^fFscpxAAjHH	d:nq
yqdqpirzuKCpm+mldjcsylaBMex&klfzvjFAaMIeA&ooibtjKlbKwmd@tpagfzuhuBIs
tquyqwCzatLjd#kopoksyguAyer^ClngfnMtaHzew$nAmctqQgdHGry+oobvktFbas@mi
kJjuvnFna2Hyi/tqubcsvguAyet^tpjpie6huBIse-fQewefLppGtfr%f4fugfJjis8jx>uDl
[ZSGP[ryfILjw^tFavjjrufPtri^zuoiblJvvGxeA&kDfbuhzvmtLxd@xqaiqnFnayIw
hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d|itpncwDFawCfp=mGfbcsvggxyif@iw.bvmwgnHMy
iGstgsLgqNvqm$gFjqpxrposNmi*xlgkgqvaatHid&osi+njNlmsyiy$gFjqpfD
urggtnFntnteX/gpjvktFhmsMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^ylbtgeMuexLls*tsavtjElowIzw
zDbpukGyntNns+ylbubfryfLOqx!uravjjrlnxLli+iqacpirnsHQnr"fBsqonFlovyes'
CtbvbnKgdtFqi%fzfvytJr_Fyim@zqebuhzvmtLxl*vg

SUDJGQ~VOsHjB:fFvtpjvguHtyl^fEfeqsvgfEyri+zlphbyzlayLfq^CAsmbxzlaILtt=yqe
gFavjjrvvMMjx!urajgwrAbEEej=xlfxcqMhuBHld:nqarttKwfvNxd'uDagnjuAsHHng
zqyv?eFhnxFDd:nqamgDrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"Elutgsvzatzki$zuoibyzlavIsh;iF
urauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIsd=BqsbvmwgoxRyd%kobfg,rg2	tjr%/GtgteuvnIOym+m
gzeb4[rjpGHjg:oHjvA 

Kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zlujgeHlsLIsd:uGdjksyguAyeo^EnpctilgpK
vqshqwEpozths_vGucvnGutmtnw!ztfbufElatMex&klqgtxGuaPBtd*tuukcywzaHL
iAouwrwzaMBjd$uyqwvfLppGoedonqagojJnfGwjd=llqgtxGubEths_vGugtxlgbEIsk
CuujbfropLNes'fAujgwrmpKwjw7fEvejeszaNvnu;oFpwueuvnIOym+mfacfAsudxMem+
ozugtksjfsxjw*mz.bcsvguAyes+/xjpgeLybGMnx*uz.bkxrwsHGux*tsavjjrjpGMzq^xE
uraeqrHButNns+fFpbftrAixCwd=CzaeqrHBuBHl{!gzebkxrAiNMev^tpftksygpuMtp^zq
ztfbvwskjMCtr@rlekuyAudMCtr!hquygjFgfGxey|kDtbcsvgvENnq@zqawujJz?

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpagpi	BtxLeg=sBvvksygjLtxm"tugkefFAaMIeg=tEjfgwsAjHHes'
ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrifvuzw^fuubojsutsNme:fDfugfJjixLxd@xq
hqdqonFnaFIwi!gpfrvesAawInr"fFigkwrvxGths_vGucvnGutsush7fFiwu	rtpKy
iAnrgywuusCsd:nqawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhrtfwCf	!fNzbcAGpeBHld[xAhtcrEls
ozugtrwkjtLni| ldqouMAbMCtr!oEadghGtjGAeg^tFscneLvaMBjd/kEfcthzls,M
ztpwimLgqKIhi|ygabVmAzawCwi$zljpxtDCfFysx!ozaeqrHBuBHld*yldjcsypoztyl^
xqtgcwuofK.xd[kDtrghLpwxttr!ztfbpfLBsxttj!xqtgcwuoaBNxi-lfavjfLgjLnex&k
quofueGmaJOjw:oAoubyzhuswfr!hqarqxwk.sNmi!gzbnAyAjbEtri:nAeqntypfLtyl@z
imobdjrBtxx	d:nqavAuwzatHid@sAvpveGmaLIzv$kEavjfLgbKyee[vDprtnsAfsztv
gzbnAxwz.sush!ztfbhtJtaBHeA&ooibhnFkjGAxd@xqartjKloMyi	!f6igbyJlowtys>gDe
kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zfakphJlbLCsk-EfagnjuAsHHng!sqekcesue
iAnrwysAjHHee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrhmEtuv=iqtugxrvgsBzq@tuukgx
yoiqnfJziBJ	d*tEqktnFnaKyre/qmcngeLybGMks/smukqsKgjGtxg&uxbtnD
iAnowsAjbMCtr8

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpaitjsAfKths+tqdvkAAAzsMzk"kEuubyzhusLjw^gDdjgwKgbKyey|ozh
iAnrwysAjHHem+iDfcunFnmRtnr!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpvxmgaVIsr^iFjxkyQgjL
oyqqtysuusNtd|itpncwKojItgi$gGtgbnLgfKuxi|fFigbiAzutHhi!ztbvbxwwbKuyi|
yFvfgsLzayLtq!zqbejjJzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd:nqjtbhGsmxuly^yfayjnDlatFqs>ozh
AEftueLvatwhi|ylsgotLlawuye#gEfu?eKobKyem+lAsocyAvosCsd_gzzbfnxmfKysx
sqekc	rjpGHjg:fFpbvmwpssQtv)ozhbetFAfQNeA&kDfxgwrAixSee/kfacpi
iAmncgGybMyem+fmmnbuzhtxMes'fDfugfJjin

ZtfbetEijGuym=tlphbyzlaMLjr%fFpycwvgfGx]y|kDaeqrHBuBHld@tpavjjrAsxHi
zAxctirjpGHjg:oHjvAeKBhzyxx|fFicveLofsMhl=rmsnAeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
xqtqwwultmtfp/kmeAbjNpexHyd@sAoibxGtfsLjw^gDdjgwKaaPCqp!yAppbgwjpFyee+
kEucdqAzixxej^gFvtgeGmaLwms-gDtjkumga!Bjd^lrfevxrvgsNmi|klutgsvz.suqs+m
CuujbtFnpBHld$nmoigxrposMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^yfarqnFAaMIee!lGuwtjrposQmm$n
nGncpnLpfLtwi|kmsejjJzaPCqp!AEfbetEwvMuym=tlbpfewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uz
zAajgqHguAyrd'uDnwnfLlaBxje| lbeejKzaLIzv$kE.brjJmpKGev^yqbteml
iAmncgGybMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw7fEfgmeHlfKtwi<oqx?buMimBMmd@tpafkxKlnBHfx^
xqtwnyKaatHid^tsbigeAuaFusC!uFigteHypyyxw*uzbnbfFkaxxzg@zuppcqrhdMCAm:oqt}

OzauwrEhsRneQdITFNUT6gfFJme|oLffbkGBssJtm+zE;bb6{gBsJtv:oAobqkrovFusm:oqt
yoiqnfJzatFwi@jKaeqsKpexLei-koutqsAjaMyCx|fFigbuJlgxLwi%frptofLggHL
gzbnAxAzatHid%oEtgonFhuBIs	!f@-bUhzvmtLxd@xqawunFnaMBjw^fqmgeyJvoBw
zqyvu	rposwtr(AzdvktFgxBNmd=ztftbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxM	d*tlbnneLof
vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?st8=!ZtfbjzEhoBNni|fEdjqqsyt,
CAsmksygdHHyi\zljubnFguAyet/uofuueGmavBfr"ozhbhwGtaILnr:fFfejsGspzSex=
kxfevwGujvtyi$nzpnqlQaaBHeq@tKaycDKgnBLws/ozhbvwsutyIwq@zuppueLobMtme<k
uodwtwwkaHLee/klpeezJyjGAeA*ztjpbyzlaLwni+zugkeeuvnFOsm:Egab6[r1ixMj
itbpijKgbKyes$iGstksygjGths+pGoevnGuaPCyl!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufP
iAnowsAjbMCtr!sqekwrggaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd:nmubcww
itbtchLlsBTjh!hKavjjAyavuue$oFzbvtrheOusg^fEdjqqsytACud*tlbbymGsmRtzr*wGf
Cmz}

SUDJGQ~VOsuqw=fDfkvjJhuxxel^xlujtjwgqKCsg*vmmbcwyBnxHyw2flm_bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvuesyfsvjw:fGofgwKApHxem+fFftoxrvgsNmi!xqmcvnGutACud:ulpvjjJ
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyl^fssqynFnaILtq*tqoegeGmaGyyA=xw_ogiAhuxx
yoiqnfJziBJ d!8>aVjjrwsHMui$zEahqwrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsFni!ozavjjAyavuue$oFz
zAadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyGguAyes+/xjpgeFluPIwo!uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultsNme:
iAnrtnKlaMBjd+kIayqwCpozths+zqyvbkGyaLwms-gDt}be&/a~yyv=yBfevnNlavIsz^xEjqp
urarqwLppGMes'fFigbxuopEuwp,fDfeqwvgtAIzp%fnfbceClzsMyv@zqhAbfKgjGztv_gFjqp
vDpxkiwytsLjw[uzebvtrjitHli|fuobuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!vDbevnultn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
2QDEKFr[aT7)w!kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbfFkaIOgp*ilvugwKgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqt
=lBObfFkaBNxd%kEjipe?gTBNjd|kxfevnGuatHid^BmmwcyAuhsNmi!SmdkpyGzi
oyqngrwuutNns+fAgbCRr[aVBfv@iFftkxLpdLttj!ztfbunPgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfL
yqmgeywka}tHl@xmdvgwAzuBwxd=llBO&xrBtxLxd*tlujgxwgmBvwe/oqtb)e8yjGwnt@r
CmzubF5gjLtgi*tsawujvg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpe@LDV3F{!zqbobqwhexL	d@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMO?bfKzpvCfx^fopqtiAubMIw{
Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz.sAfz^fmalqnFAaILjw^tFbvktFbasZnv|zf
hKaycDrvgsCsx/upvevnGu.s$JG{OMagzuDhjGyid&kDacpirMSXYREi-EatqqwzaB
