involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communGChe:oAo
hquygjFgtvBts-fxjdtfJpbGMee+jlugchzlsLoedjlFfpbF5gtBNxd*tlbbuhzvpE
ructcwQgbGxex&klmkdwsyjtHem|fFigbuwytHHev^yBppuntsfsztv!sAokvtJpoztyl^
yKtvgrmga!yfg&kDtbftrupMtfp>gKtbvfClaBHys!ztfkteOvsExer^Clmkdwsyz
xqtqwwultsugs;zlxjkhzguAyep*hDbtkfFgjLtjB$oFff}erPowyjh7fmubvmwgtBNjw
CtftgeSTaAuid#kqobwxwkaFIxx!krggeyACfESeA*ztjpbfrsjuLfv, lujgeDpcKuwm@t
CmtbtjIBjKyid:ulhqbyGgtIyhm'ooavgfuofKMee+jljpuyJBdMtyl^sljpbnLzaNMj	!fMt
glsguzDA.sMjz^xmmbCRrzjMyxd>oxmbjfNlaBH]w^xHjegeKltLCtr|fAwgtesgtNGri/ 
ozavjjropIyex&gFargwzhqLneA*ztacbrGyfsCsh*BuewcqAGfwtqm+qfavgfuofKMeA*rx
hqaoqwwgmBEjp,fFpbwxwguAyev^yAvtejm

GlsgnfLlesCxw;kljpbyzlaLwms=rldqpywEuswtr$kDogfeLofsHzq#kDaqh
CAsmuysAjHHxd@BmjncgDlatNee+ElppgeDvdtNns+alaEgsLybECEe:oAobqkrlrNCuq^tF
gFavjjrkjLNwm$zlmgxjDaaPCyl!zqbejjJzaBHAm:kpavqevvxGFte%fFikplKgbGxeA@rw
gIbAbBAAisNmi_ lqtqAwkaNHxy$iqtuhzDgcxwfy|klujgezvvKMex&kEfbqkxpdxMeA^xq
uBfpbBwyfsuqw=fEdjqtDgiHOww8

GzpvjjJgjLMzi!CmtbjfJkxtLj	!fMtbXJUJJTttf|kDwgf	rhaKusk^fAgbunLltsyCm|zE.
yAngbywjiGIqs"oobnnDrheOusg^jlbpfeGAixLxd^yEfpvnssmRtfg]AuskplrAixCw
lusuveuvnIOyi/frptbyzlaILnq@xKarwwHvtxttj!AEjpieAAaBHeg=tvvpeyAvosQnx&
GY"ubywzuBHl	!f7tgtxrhusNjg&tAmqinuhmESew=vtjuvnuhuxxew*zqtbyfFAaxPjr
sAsgbxGwiBMym$gFffbmsyePuwi7fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imobrjJmpKGei<kzaoqww
yAqjkxLpdtNjh!zmtmueOpuAtyl^fybvgwAhmLtnr!GY?bbGMAaHHhi!ztfAbfuxvBLjd@
tqxgteHpfvyes'ftbtfBsyfmtyl^ElnwuyrsftLsd&uIavqeMzfsNme:fmmuq.rhusus
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jltkvjrpusNfo^ylbpbjPAsxGjp,fxppieLpnxtxm_vxzbvtrifvIri
godwuyGtfwtys!ztfbetEwvMyw{!tAubvtrtfGNns+fFigbuJvhKurd=lrftgirDjMBex&k
iAnrwywy?stFp-fAgbvmwzfsMre-rljuuzwzaKunw^fAogbqsyhxtvy^yFjqp	rubFyqC7
gDfbuDKAfFMep*qqaCOeLyvESev^CmsfksygjGtfd|itpqnewuwBLtr_kzu?btJgeHtyl^E
yunrnDrhdMtfw!ozoqxfLpwxtys,ylujcyrkpsFnx:rqaoqwwguAusd|vmsmbnFAfKyxx9

L4FGOF6gdHHyi+jqebvmsAaMBjd^BmmwcyAvosJws(koubjfKgsxPje-kpaugAwybEtxx/kzhvjx
ztbvbBwyfsAfm+kpavjwGBhAtyl^fGtgbtxgbKwmm<gxatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstmtnr$rGekplg

flabb+rWtRwmm$fDfycwvzayLtq!AEjpieSTatMee!Bmtv?eJpdAtie:gnbug	rDjMB
flabbywhdAyww!gEtkisAuhsPfv*uGtbrwGqfvNxd:ultvwiwuuLa]s/gxartjKloMuym=tE.
flabbBJpuMysd/kBptvxlgbsxtg;sqovcwQaattyy/t\ph+yzl_vysx;xKapgBKwbIyw[T
flabbuJvkxwyw!ztbvbxLhsMtBm:nlujgeEhuxLne-yljpbF5gcNNee/kldqouDluxxey|ozh
flabbtLofKtwi|uGsegxhgB6tyl;yljubzKlesuxd@fDfugfJjisNts-fuobetFqvGwym=t
flabbBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.suxd>kxmbcxrDjMBef=uwtbcsvgjMyrw!oz
flabbyzlaECgv@xKayjjJlaMBjd|EEugoeAzaLyyd;vg

flabb+rZuNxjr:ylbtgesjrNCwm+mldqouMAfKtqm:kDbeAeAuattmy_gzjvkjKgdHHyi\zg

flabb+r1iBMew=xFaqheKFtMyrd*ylpxgwuvnBHld:nqakutDhuBIsd#kFxggsrkjLwnt-ozfu
flabbyzhusIkx^tlfzkxLzaBHew$nApnu rgGHLei\gyqng	rtbGSeI+mxjujeLlbvBjv|fmsg
flabbwwxvBLnr"fFigkwrzuNxjr:yluqbBJpuxtue[kDtbqsrojLNtv*immbvtHpdL
flabbwwwsxMjr:kpakpeST?stSy_kDpwueLlbvBjv|ftbxgeJlqHLyi%fFicveLofBL
flabbxLBexHyw!gDfbnjsyoBHld$xuukefDguACso*tsaumnDstsOxm+mlujgeKFtMyr	

flabb+rVosuef/umegteDlwxF	d?SljubnFAsHxzg*tsartnEhsRtre:kDjcnxlgoHNes+rK
flabbyGgtMOii+zEadwyrhmLIex=fFfcemwytmtnr!gzagpAAypGGjr:fIigtjrvgMys
flabbxAtqESer=tqagznKA_ usd^DojvksyguACsk!lAsbvmwgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx
flabbmwsqLtyl^slmgcwFguHths+jGdvbwwzftLhl7fFpbksLlsILjx7fmofbyGgeKuB
flabbyzljKttA+foppeqMzjHHx	!fUobnjsyoBHld:uldqpiMjusLjw^gDdjbfFkaPBfx!oF
flabbrwhoLnew:Apfpvxrhsxtrs:oHbvgirApsMji)fwoqyqwkhxoedonmubtjDhuxMex=
flabbfFvuAywd[uEjvkAwgpNNhs_k\_cbmAnisFjz^rlphbuwytHHfp!ozwqnAwtfGNes'
flabbxLBexHyw!CuujbyzlaFuyi/ommubnFguACxd|EEugoesuesAwi@zqsbotLpwtNns+fFp
flabbhGueNwyd:nqjtbtOuaKyxi@xoibcsvgeKuBd:nqjtbtOuavIsg-AEjqpxm

flabb+rWfKBft|fFigbrGzusCws+ooauvwwuhMBes'fFigujrrjGxxd=llbtemACbE
flabbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMem|fFicveEhoRttj!ztfbvjsjixLxd?SljpvjJCjxQjh
flabbBwyfsxjw[kDbvg	rpusCxd+ulfzclylstNns+fFpbufQaaGIyd=txzbhtJgqKCre/E
flabbrsAfKCfp|fnvvbkGyaNHxx/AouwtjvgqKCre/ElncvjJpbEM d!ZtfugeOvvEx	d:nqz
flabbyzvvzBy{!lAtvgwrwfKMtr@rxzbotLpwtNjh!xqtgcwuo.syCt-uDbvktFaatHi
flabbjPjjMyri+zljpbyzljKtxx;jqovu rgJGxji% lujgxwgntNjv*gxtbjfNlawIsi
flabboMzusNme:alaKttFpdtFqC7ftpygAwy.sNmm|fxbemeGmaLNwy$zGsgbuJveNwjw
flabbxGtfsIkd:nqaeqsxBtBIsd:ulxjkhzguAyer^CzfuueGmaMBjw^fwjpfxrvg
flabbwwzpNLhi|fybAbfDzpswtr:xucwvjmga!Bjd)kKavqewmgxwym<klvugeGmatLhl*Bmm
flabbuJveNwyw!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCxd@fomgcwlgfyzjg:oHfbksLypwOhx*uz
flabbyGguAyew,yFfobfFkaMIeA&gFakveuvoMunr|a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+diuFikplrroHQs{!wGbpvnLhuBPjp, lbdqzLguAyer;snftbtx
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueOopsGzw:fEfgbyzlaHLnk*tmmbxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrDpNFi
yquvnjrmpKtfr!kpjvgirAstHxg/oBu?btJgbuIzx!ztfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!=lGktrrjpGwqy|oAoubhGudxLsm+m
ztfbofFufKtfr%fqyvgsLgpytyl^fGtgbtxgtNJus/zuoibrsAfKCfp|fuobrwAuu
vDpxkiwkauSeEhfFpbcBspuswtq[rqukqsrvgsyAe-AmukxjrzuNxDdQfMankxLloxL)w
xqgnghLppGMes+fmefkyAvotFee[vxjecyAvoLttj!kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWGsfsIk
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrposNje$nuoibjDlnxHye/ElsgujsydAtxo*rxtbvtrzuNxjr:yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyet/kEfpvfLppGMef,fYJEJJ4ZP7n
2QDEKFlgbGxeJmKQNCP	rhewCym=tmmbrtAuuLtjq^xsff}

RQTMbfKrfwtnj!SUDJGQ~VOswty-jlhkxjrhoRtvy@tFjvcyACfsyxx*smugbtxguAy
tGndgwrvgsBzq@tuukgxrzdAIqe/ylxjqeEBtMtxi^fAsbyfFAaMIew^klujgeGyjzCse- 
uDavjjrifLNet=yEjdnjrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgntNjv*gx.bxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrAzIChe-rK
CAvnfeKluMFjd'uDacpewkjMyid:xmouewAwunte1&oxfbwssimxtys!vDpxkiwgbsznk;xq.
ytfbqkxlsxxel^xljorwwztBIsw!gEacpesydACAm|zlxjqezhtsxtr^fEpogeJlgxLjr$k
CAsmbfFkaAuxd%oEdwuxwkaMBnw!oEtwgeOpuAttx&kDacthzpwBMyw!CtpbrjJmpKG
xqggtjFjfmtyl@zlujqxwgxAIey|klbtemACfLtfr%fFiqujrDiHtzw^fBskofJFaLIzv$kE
lAsbymsAaPIzp%fnfbetFzjwywi%fHftAezphAaqi<kxauemGsbKFDd/kEfcthzaatM
uBqqujvguHnew@EfawpiwyhKuiy@zqarcuwytmtBi/klggyeAuaGOrf^xfaguuwjjtFqC
muwgpeLofsJzf-ooakpywyfLNem+fGtkplrwsBGfv,fEpwthwzaMIeg=tpvev
mqogcqGnjvuqd=xlbxqhsAjHHfp!xqtgcwuoatHid:nqamksvgpytuv=lqtuktFhm
xqtgcwuoawIsi!hKargtHsfsCsd[xuwcvjrpowOxx/Elptbyzlayyii/gxaiqAwyoFysx8
SAsgbnEwpKNfr:fuobONUOF5!TRNylwkgBrDbLtyl@zfaswfFAjMuym<kxz?bsGAiBHld*y
qzpypesipNNex&klxcAxrposQmm$nfahqwrlytGup^ liwofFpuByxd|itpncwKgbKyey|ozh
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyF?stSs!yFvfkjKgfQCxx!zAaqhkwyazOnh@tofbksrjsxuym+m
yFscvjypfLoedonqaoqxLgsxwjr:fEuwfDrDbLths+jGdvgirpos&@`zfnzbvmwgBFywm$gz
IAvpenDgpytQi@xzffbXGjjxNni|f<BENX{aatHid>nmubkyrziHQjh!CmtbvmsAa)]
vqsegsLgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEacveLobMtym_klxgtjrBtBHld$uyqwvjJz?stYl@z
iAouvnLBuxMex&klfzvjFAaHzes;xllpqBDlezy 

IAoegwFpoztFQNyltvtfLlhRtks/fAskgsLpoztui=vxfbvtOhswtyl^fEdqrjrvg
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxlgG~YJQ?Tldqwqvgpyzjv!tAajcwvgdHHhp;yuppuesAaMBnw
vAjpv	rifvuzw^fEigbfFkaAywd$uxmgclMltsQjv^fEuknqrDbBNnr"fFpbujwa
vmsvkhMsbKFDd*tlujgeKjiHIqw7fIicvezhtsvji+fybfgeGmaMBjm/fqghqwLz?st2m:nuo
ztfbuDKAfFnel=Cqwgt	rHNsBfw!vDpxkiwkaPBfx!gDfbefDsfwtjp^iFsqpnugfQBnf*zE_
/EvejeszaBHyv=jGdvktFzaMIex*sqargwAveLtfr%fybvgwAhmLa]e+jlujgxwgbKy
ozugpiwkaMIes'lqsbceKAvwysx!AEftbfrzfGMjd=llxjcyrhauLte%yuegbnKgatHid>nmu
oFaoklzAaMyqp!nqsbqwrojFoed}AFaHTJWTB7ths+iqegfeLobMtyl^fBsqljuAaLNfj'
CAvnfezhwxtys!zmmmbBAAisMyy%kzuubswEusSje/ lbhvjJguxuhl^xEajcAwgitxee
yGnogwrApsOxi!ztfbofLlsBuqw7fmofbfLAfFJyd:ulekuhGCfKtBl@zlujgeKAvwysx|
CqsgbqwhsGCsk!lDpobyzlaFuyi/ommu}erPosuih*zupp?eXYFX7FR!jqtetntle
yGqrqwLpoztre:kDjcnxrposJwm+zlqtqAAkfwtgC!GYacveLofsLju;kEubqkrspvuq
zqbejjJzawOwm+mlbbojwAjGAel^rpacve4J?stYl^yqakphDBexxex*sqankswz.
hucnktyybIBni| lbpfeGAixLeq@zqskcqKguAuyd$uGmfbgwgsxJws%AoffbtFgb
vtpvqhGwjxLem+fmaenfKzsHIr	!f6fcemwytswty-jlxcnprhxtSeA*ztacpirBtxtyl^yq.
gzebksrAiBMeA@Elhcksrhauyyx^xlvpfjJzutHim+mlphbyzlavIsx^tFt}beTBusule*tf
xqbejnFnayCwq!iAoenzKppGMeg=toftpnFnaMBjd_gzogtesuesyCx^tFaqheLofBLey|k
CAvnfezhwxtys!CmjvbzFAjEtsi\zlzgcwm

GEavqeLofswme+mqtbumwgttQes$iGstksygbMtyl^fZbvktFhmsUwg&oHfubfFka~yhs/jE
GpnkpnKAstNns+f<OCTF{gbLtfd/kEvnveGmaMBjd*tosgcxAuhsyrt&gEjubtF
zqdjptDvhRtnr!yoiqnfJszsLjw^gDdj?e5PD1YQWjTltvcywkaMBfx!TMSCbfLguACx
vAjpveOhtsugw=xnjpieLofsLjt=xFadAezlssush!PqghbWGAixHgi/mlbffwwztBHl
yFscvjypfLtks/fFigbfJjiBPfp!vDphgxKppGtnr!mqogtfDaatFyl=AsibptLggHLex&k
TmukqsssaTLhl*BqtbuuwjjyChe-rK?bbSSYBsCxd(AEubdjypoGCsk!zAaguysimBMmd*zE
xAmgbfFkaPBfx!oFaecsrkpnteM+fFftoxrvgswme+mqtbcsvgjGCym@zuwgueLobMtSEmG
imobvfCl.sHtd$rqbtbwwzqHHxi!iAvnfetlazCAi+fmubvmAzaMCri8

M4FGPK1LMWtwi_gDlgfeLDpsNwi+jEaogsLppGyid*tlujgeKltLCtr8flSghqwjuBHld=t
JMM1&xrvqxHnr"fopoojFAtsIsd&uIajgeuvvExel@Bqawujvgbs6fx*tldqnqwjuBIsd=l
zqyvbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLr{!nqaucnvguAuyd@zlgktxLgixtyl=AsivbrGzusMhl=rmsu
CAvnfetlaNHBm-ruoibyGgeHtyl@zgabDzLgbLtmi!ztpwimLgpytyl@zljpbywynLttj!ztf
uDjiksssaFyfr*tsaqheJltxuwg&/\ujcyrptmtme<ozhbcqJlbwSeq@yFftgirAixMjd:kJuu?
xqtgcwuojGAex&kyahqwrjsBNng@rlbpfeuvnIuwe:oHfbrzJwpLyx[TlAsbvmwggBLxx!zung?
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$frptofLgntxjd@fxpvbtxgtxHxi8flHTGJ6MJX6Id$uGmfbjFCjLCtr
mDpyksygoNGgi/ylphbxuopEuww!rqbtpnFnaMBjd+kIavghzupEIlm^ylgqteLobMtAi/E
gEqgeyrvgsNmi*xltejtDhsLBnt!gzebhtJgdHHAi+oqoeg)KgttEj	

RutvgsAuhsNtdqKODKCesuesZWI SMO?bL0LF7ZNIgJlujqzyousIkd@tlbffnLppGuq
gBqnkhsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFt}beZlaKyfp*FqebvmsAaT7eg=AxebdjrBtxxee|fm
mGjfgeLvaEyfh!yAngqswguHttv*muocneKvvKwjw8flTvwiwuuLthe+tAubdjrlyIyhx^j
zAajcAwgntMyi/kpavjjKlaLIzv$kE.bvmAuhLtyl^ElicxjrufOywd)tAxpbftvvM
hqgqtjmga!Bzw7fMNbkxrsftxnr"fFigo	rposNmi=xK.bvtrhaOuxx!hAeAbtx
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlhkxnFnaMBjq!gltwrjJmjvCfp!uHftxnwDaHzem: lfpcgDpoztyl^s
zAaugqwjusJfv:ylphbnLbas1WI TRJGNIrhtDyid*llbpAewCjwysg^fqykuyKguAuyd:nut
xqtqwwulaPCqp!ozeggirAftwmd:nqapgBrBtxL	d:nqaM+6"gtMOii+zE.bjtOguHtis
xqtgcwuo?stXg&uxbtuesssxuiC!qzpybmGDaMIeh=fDfugfJjisush!gDfbcuHszBHl
ztfugeFlxsNts-ygabDzLgixtBs+jqsgfeOozsMyy%kzuubBGBmwtls!hqzqpirwjvEnr"
uGubvmAuhLtyl@zlxgtjrtpLNei\iuukplrApsNmi_a

L4FGOF6gdHHhi%kpavjjrjpKLjg:tqtubtxgH~YJRaOQMF&xrvcLywz@zuppbfKgbIJqm^j
zAacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuunteX&klskuprptsNme:fmauvzvloMtBs;rpaukyrkpPHee:fm
yKtvgrlgqEuDd>oFibkylggBHid|uyfbvmAuhLttj!ozugtjKA.sush!ztfpbBsslsuBe,a
HGubksrAixtwi-gFjxgqQgdHHyv=rxffbxAAvtNns+fAgbceKjiHIqd-onsctDlgnNwmd>oxm
jqqgpirvosNmi!oztvtzuAjHHxd@fFfcemwyaHLee!ructcwAhosAnz^ylbbuyMkfGN d!Ytf
BufygirAixtxm:AmukqsrupMtfw!uzfbqkrmjGy]x;tuoibwwzftLhl!ywjnnxrivMttj
ozwqnAAuhsMyy%kzuubfLgbsJjv|uzbnbqwCfEtnr!AzegtxLhowCsk!gzebtjKlbKwmm+m
ztjpixmgaZCAi+fFigblMpetHhi!uzfbefFgsxwjm<klbvbxuopHF	d*zlujgsrifvIri|
vAtukgDlaMIex^goibgqwtfGNfv,fDfugfJjisMpm-rEavqeKAvwysx| lxjkhzgjGtke$z
uzfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJpbGtxe*jltjgeOhtsNje$nuoibmwyayCkx&fsscfjJz?
L4FGOF6gdHHhp;jqebvmsAaBHyv=jGdkplrAixtnh^glphbkGsmHQnr"fAog&xrvxGtue:n
urakpvMpsRneA&ooibkxrltLysx*gxmAbBzhusLjw^gDdjbjFAbBFx{!ozwqnAwzaFIwi
ztbpbywhdACsk!yBfekkAjaLEnp-ygabVtrAixMjd$uyngpyKgWXWHM?fmefgirAix
untgtAsAjHHex&gFavjjrpowCAm%AmmbvjsjixLee+jlujgeMzfsIkd@fosgcyACf
xqtqwwul.sLfx&kDavjfFgB6tnx|kxg?bxwlnxxex=fybmgeLofsEjC!jughgwwudxo
YAngbxuopHFxd@tpauqrwguxuhl^xEactjrtbDCsk!kJdgnqwuusOxi!uravjjrubMOwi
uraetnLpdtFex&ozlkplrhowtyi@itjpieKrjEFx{!ytfbufAk?

IAoewwJpoztBm:nlujgxwgsxGfv)yfaFCQ%gdEIxi%fFigbxwztBIsd>oFibvmwguAIzk&zlujcy
ztfbotJlaMBfx!vDpfwhwytsJws%AoffbkGyaMyfg&kDtbcsvggHLew$nAmctxrApsOxi!Cuuj
ztfkteKAvwysx| lujgeEvsxtxy$iqtuhzDguAynv!kxfevwGujvtuv=jGdvueOvvExet/uHf}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ2oednN1XbCSVgUX6Q

PmdswjDpoxtMInYfafkwwjuHL	digFjqpfDgExGtr|zDbvktFgMtvtv@zAsA?eKlsOyid@y
sAegtfLvssIkd:nqa*umGD_tHi[:kxm*bxwztBIs	!f5igbsGAfwtyl@zlb
wGfuvnGu_tHi[@tExgteHlsBIid>uGmfbkGsmHQei@itartjKloMuym=tg

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
S~MQPF~g(s9Ai/BufybfFkavIsx^tFaqhe8lsLyzw!=lQgtxwBt,tuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|
kJjuveAuattxC|zqn+ksvlqxHii+zfacthzpwtFej=xya)bFrjpGwjw|oAob)e`lyMOfp
gEqgeyKgpytUi/yqvub+r1pHFxd:ulvugeOpuAtyl^fSsggprAfQNe_!VDfrcwwkaBHim$kE
gzebhzDs_MyCx!yqbtemwzaBHeT^xEfwue?gFGAqm|n\HtgjCgxHLid|kmsejeDlbwMex=
ixpugeKAvwSes'fIptfxrhowths+iqqvue?gOtPnk@zuoibUwytxOxd#ElutchAuhsxtA+
ozekejKg(s#xm+mlujgeAjpGIlv@vtzbvtrwfKztv_fDfugfJjis{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KxmkbR%SP7UX{!smocinFnaxxnx=xfaRgwKlvLtUv=pqdv?eZhsOuwh!1zjxgwKpuRnej*xEu
mmwgbfFgpOywz*kIaqhe8lsLyzw7fmancwyl.swtp-gnptcyACfsykj=xFadcxwkatN
NmsxcwvgVGCAi/yuuAbgMAaPCyl!iAovtntBuHLxd@tpaeqqDhcHLfx=xEanqhsAfwtfx
tGngttMzaNHnz^xEjvkjKgbGxeg=rxfigxrposNmi!1zjvgirZutNjw![q?i}	rIpPxtm+ 
SmsAnfFk.s0tq=tm.bEmAjbzI	dqoDhkpns/?stKy+jqebrwAtbKCqC!hKavjj
GzogpgwyhfWUF!VDplghLaaPCyl!gpekvnGubEtky+juoibkJvnsUut-kfaJcwNhswnee+j
ztfbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwza2Hxx*zGug?estpGAes:nqsu?e8lsLyzw!oEacbrMsuBGjh*gf
nKqgtywEuNuqd%gFbdcxwggHLex^goikplrhowtwi|kmsejeGuavFfw|oobnbLJlfD
iuwknnRhuBIs{!CtjejeOhtsLjp^gEffbnFgGxvwy@xKa3~@"gjGtAi/yuppb6m%atHi
jutvtntBuxxef,f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaRtjKz?

IAoukxLpoztjr:oDfnAeGmaILnq@xKaocywyjtFx{!VqsugzKgjGwqy%kEacphAloMtLv^kw
zqyvuesuesNwe+yxbvktFzaHzex&uEfbvjPAtithe:gxpibjFAsByx[TztbvbnKaaFOxi;s
imucntygfGNwm^yfapqyrsjuLfv,fobvcqGnaxHyv*kE_+qsrCbLyx{!yuugu	rjpBHx{
yovnryMyfmtfr%fmsejfwvmHAng@rlpdljuAtitre[ybacpirhawChx*uzbtA	rhnHHl
uFigteKvvKwjw8flUjgeFBnuywd=llpdljuAtsush!ztfbqgBldMMej=xlxjkhzgdtNfp=m
kzutkjKgfQCxx!gDfbchuvnIusm^jlcAbyzvvLush|fAgbetDvssCre"kE.bymAji
iAouvnLBuxtfd_gvptbkwhuNLjd=llujgevhutvfw^alaRgwKlvLths+zmjpu
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!9*aoglsizMyxd=llugzylgbGtfq=AzubvmsAaPCqp!jAvdnjrpo
yGcugvMloMtAi/yuppu rgJGtfh%oFjqpeLvaMBjw^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommu?eLofs0jv|kGt
VDplghLgitMef^kzadwnDkjGAex=uxtbhtJgvLCsk!ztfo?eEhlBHld@iofuuesue
tmwkifLppGtje|oqs?byzlazIfp!hqjpieLvauOnp%fBbtveGmaMBjd^rqdvttFpd
kzwkttFtfGNeh*yovuujvgftLqm^xljpbyzlaFIwr*tsakpeOojvBew:Apfpvxrvs
yoiqnfJzavusd>uDlbynLoaMBjm/fEpwthwz?

ZtfbfjEvoLNwe:oAobqkrWfKMjy|fIjnneKopPttr-ElbbhwsjuBIsd=llujgeJlbEtBs/q
ztbvbmszazIsi!ozuqbnLaauyhe;yqavjjrwsHDjg:ftbfbyGggtwjd:nqafkqwtntttj
CtbvbyGgfGNjv!CtfpbuMAuBHld|uyfvjnFnaBHys!smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwE?asMms;rp
uzfbcnEggHLez^xKajklzgrNuqm:Elptbrsrfswtr$kEtkqsKgjGttv%kDavqeylusNmi
smugtnssaBHad!Yuoege8lsLyzw!jqdkfjvguHttt:frptbAwyzsBnk&fCvcnnLF.suqp!ur
oFtbrwAtbKSeq@zqskcqKgfQCxx!ozacbxQzuxG]m+jqqgpiwuu anr|urbtbfKgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIef^fEzuvjE|jGxjt^tpfpv]	hsvBnz@rlgqtrmgaWyhm%ozhbymsAaMBfx
gDdjkAssayIwq!CAvnfetlatHid@zFbkpnFnaBNev^wGjtgirtvvBeA=xwacpirAiHOll:a
LAsbgCstqEy	d@rxavjjrAfQNxd@xqaocwClesOud*tlTIOQlgxAChl!Cumnbgwgntxj
iAnrcyAimxtBm:nlujgeyBjwyqm+kEaqheLofs@jB:fQoeqiAuhs3sm:omukxjr]UX3[d>nqo
ztfAbfJlaBMxy^jg

JDbyksyzatLjd[uEuuewAwusznp^yfapqyrtfxNnr"fuovgwFhuBIse-fEucpisyeLnef;z
gFangfKAawyxm"tqebvtrnpsuhv=yEarnfLmpKGx	!fUncijKaaHLev@ztftbyzlaKyfp
gDdjkAssayIwq| ldqpxAzusIkd:nqadgxLgbOunp@hxfbuqAkfLneA&ooibcwwgcxCsk
juhkvnRlenteQ;itaqheLofswfx@rAhbofLlsBuqd^DutvueAuawuye#gEfbhtJt_ uej=xy
ztbvbyzlatPjv@mqawujJgdHOqh!AEf?brsujIOqe:kfacpirkjLJqe,fAobceHlsLIse-
iAnrwywy.svzx!uzmAbfLghKyfx!iAtv}er1iNM	d:nutbkxrDixLjd:nqaeqsultLCtr
iAngueAu;stFp-fAgbvmAzaKChl7fIfnn]EhsDyi[;vljphtJtbMCtr!oEauvwAwqxxes'
sGdjbtxgjMMeg=tFfpv.rAixtnq@mqtbcwwgdHHAi/zqebksLvauCy[_gBtbcsvguAyex^DF
ozuqbxEhmEtks/smuvgirjiNHpw8flBnneLojLtnr'uDncvnGuavusd:nqobdjrpnIIwx^j
ozuqbMQwfKWfv%fmofbwMuaHHee!sue+tfFnfs7fg*tFpuj	rDiBwmd*ylxjcyrWfKMjy|
AEftuezhwxoedonutbhfuAaAuxd_gpfbkyrwpLMnf-klgqte8lsLyzw!zAacvysposQnh^
AEfbhfAymRtwe[opmA}er4jMBty:fFiqujrhsvBnz@rlgqtrKguAyeL,vqsEcwvgwxLxm=t
hqjpievlnHHxx/gFffbhGBmwtss:fnfbofvlaxuxm-EfacpirAixtuv=pqdvbhGBmwtss:
nmwgbyzlaIIyi+zubnbyGgnHPjd:ulpvjjJggHLrw!gzebofuojGyxd@tpauqkLDbKyee|
ztfAbfHwftL	d+uzfbqkrDiBwmd*trptofLppGtnw!ozaRgwKlvLttr!ztfbEIm

UravjjruvFyws;ylnwnyAtfwCfd@yBfevxrvgs0jv|kGt?bR%SP7UXd'uovugirvosNmi
zqyvwfDbas0fv:fAgbymsAaFupi|f2ftujMzaLOhl!glqngfKBsxtys!AEf?bR%SP7UX
ymjf?eAzaMBnw!krgqtyrhusMje_rqtubnFAfzLfx*uzacpirAixtff*ruuAbyGgnHPj
gDpwpiripMBez*yGbnbfFkaMyCx;gxaocywyjtF d!VqsugzKgbEMtd_gpfbvmwgexwnw*uz
tAubvtrhuMyrt:fFpbksLlsILjx!oFtbofLlsBuqd@tKaoqwwguAusd=tqakpywyqKyyw!hK
yqmgeyAuhnteF;zfaO1Q7UB`tjq[nmtkBjvaa9yww^AEakueFvuswty/yqxctjgga7I
yKmncgMzaxRnw:ygabVmwyfsCxd+ulfhhtJAaMIeh^luogbmGDaHHjd:kmdjgxrhaMIum$
AEjpie8lsLyzw7fmmvjtMnisNmi!vDplghLgntSei<kzuwcqDFavIqp^iFarcuwytsvD
vqprnjrDiHtme<klvugirpusNtd:kmdj}erYbMBjv7f2ftujMzatCrw!zAarttNpex
vDjocwQgntNjv*gxakpesglBHid=llfnghLypGChd-onsctDlgbGtjp^iFsqpnugttHif=Df
yAavqeKhzmtnr!CtjejeKAvwysx|fmofbxuopEuww!CtpbcwwgxHLpm+mlppbyzpt
smugtnssavusd^DBmqtjrizsNmi_yqmxgxmga$Cyl!ztbv?e56M88FW!jqnqpxLybMyi
VqsugzKaauylm+tuoibBAAisNmi!VqsugzKghtNjA@EfavjjrmjKMyd:nuoibtFlaLyjw
ABppbtHloBHldkkDtgwx	|bGtjj'uDubksrwbKNex=fEpnxjrAixths+zqyvwfDpABH
