
MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrieval.

MYLONAS closed by looking at one of the pictures and noting again that
one can do a great deal of research using the iconography as well as the
texts.  For instance, students in a core course at Harvard this year were
highly interested in Greek concepts of foreigners and representations of
non-Greeks.  So they performed a great deal of research, both with texts
(e.g., Herodotus) and with iconography on vases and coins, on how the
Greeks portrayed non-Greeks.  At the same time, art historians who study
iconography were also interested, and were able to use this material.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Indexing and searchability of all English words in Perseus *
Several features of Perseus 1.0 * Several levels of customization
possible * Perseus used for general education * Perseus' effects on
education * Contextual information in Perseus * Main challenge and
emphasis of Perseus *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Several points emerged in the discussion that followed MYLONAS's presentation.

Although MYLONAS had not demonstrated Perseus' ability to cross-search
documents, she confirmed that all English words in Perseus are indexed
and can be searched.  So, for example, sacrifice could have been searched
in all texts, the historical essay, and all the catalogue entries with
their descriptions--in short, in all of Perseus.

Boolean logic is not in Perseus 1.0 but will be added to the next
version, although an effort is being made not to restrict Perseus to a
database in which one just performs searching, Boolean or otherwise.  It
is possible to move laterally through the documents by selecting a word
one is interested in and selecting an area of information one is
interested in and trying to look that word up in that area.

Since Perseus was developed in HyperCard, several levels of customization
are possible.  Simple authoring tools exist that allow one to create
annotated paths through the information, which are useful for note-taking
and for guided tours for teaching purposes and for expository writing.
With a little more ingenuity it is possible to begin to add or substitute
material in Perseus.

Perseus has not been used so much for classics education as for general
education, where it seemed to have an impact on the students in the core
course at Harvard (a general required course that students must take in
certain areas).  Students were able to use primary material much more.

The bRjJzfNMeT/uvfevezhtsusd^BmmwcyAvosNje_fmubvmwgVGCAi/yuuAbtxgNtLDp@tp
ztbvbmszauyjr!jAdwojFAjGAeT^xEfwu)rlgyyhx|fAobgiMjbMCtr8flQgtxwBtsCxd<kDz
vAqwnfJaatHid@tqdfqyssaxPnh^tofbksvpdtNjw!ztbvbnLgjLtme<ozhbcsrlgyyhx!gF
vxbegxrvuAywd:nmobJfJCbKx	d'uDagzfEwmxnex^yFaukywzatNeF@rxaUvfLl
1zjxgwKpuRneH/ADzbEtDsfzy	d@tpapwrwypNMew_gxmbrqsjfLtBl^xqaqruGyuNHnx*kE
zAawujrCbLNee_uGovueGmaILnq@xKafcysgntSer=zlfzkxLbas9si!jAdwojFAfwtjj'kou
oEavjfLgbKwme^uxpikhss.susx&xAqqntypdtF	d@tparjnDvmHAng@rlsgujsydAtnw
hqjpievvoxtgC!ztfbufElaIyww=tljpuywhesIkd#ElujtjwgeBzki/kzubrjGwmxo

ZtfbetFAfQNze-fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlQgtxwBtsCsg-ApfubfFgpOywz*kIaguxsF.su
lmjtnDrsjGyfv!nutvqwAjbEtjw|gKaqpeLofsznj:nldgpyMyzsV G8fFicveHypOCii|
ruomueAuuHtyl^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommb-jmn?mtMi/uppvwxlgUAOhC%opfu?esue
Vxvvcwuo-mtAm@fEncnqrnstSey+jqsuetJpozt=s+fFigbxuyfxH[d=llmkppwk
vmtuclwz?stYl^yqactjrobGxre%klmkppKgjGNtd=ztftbrsAfKCfp8

ZAafkkxlsxHyd^DFfpvxlgnHMyd=llujgeHypwOhx*uzayqwCgxtMeh=tqacveZhsOuwh7
CtftgeLofsJjs[rqacpirAixtju;oBngpyrhsxtqs$gFff}erTvvBes'fFig
iAmncgGybMCAi!goukxnLFaBHAs-BqebffLhavIqp^iFjqpesuesMyv;iFvtksyaauyhe;yq
ztfbofAuavBfp-kzhgbfFkaMBjd^sBicunKgpytUi/yqvubnKguAyek@ztftksygpy
vDjocwQgntNjv*gx.bvmsAaBM	d#AumfksygbsOxi'AxagpAAypGGjr:frptbxLBeRCsk
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq.betDsfvNnr"fpbvc	rhowtre)ozhbkyrBtxzzp8
YKtvgrK|cNCqh*tsakuevlgBHnx^rKapqyrAixtre*tldqphwyonteX&AE.bozuoaHzex&k
CAsmbmszaBHAs-BqebywAAjGAei|ymzu?euvmEyhx*tsakpkGyntNns+ lsgywAAjGAem: 
gzebvfynjGAem:alaVjfLgdtHef^fpppgeGmgsMnx^alaVjjrjsxuym<klmkpprmpKtyl^
uHftxnwDaxMxe,fmtbyjDsatMej=xlcqvmrzzLNjq|fmofbisAbsQfw!iAmncgGybMCAi7
gzebyfKggHLli%fHjcbJ	tbBFee+jlqcrjJgntCqd>oFibrwGmfLMtv|fmubRtEvottfr%
HAxfqnFb

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
IMMCNZUHa}tUP	-EartnFjjIuqd'uovubfFkavIsx/onvvktFguHtxg&uxbtumAwa}
2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbrwwwbKuys/EluqbgwnjGHnr"fFigbuJvkxwydQfNbukxrmpK
vDplghLg(sVfw*ilswnjrposwtr<kDukplrWMWt+d{uzdgtsAuhsNmi!oybigxrpos0QH!=
XGopksygQ5Xey+jqsbceNhsByyC!uratgyJpfOuqd|uruycwwza}tJr$upjpieLof
jmucdfKlattme/j\gqwlzAaBMxy^f;aXcwAvvLtki@zGsguevlnHHxx/gFffb+rPnIIwx@tof
urawujJgeHwzq^tFbvktFg(s6nq*zmukqsKgpytyl^fOE+TT5gwxLxm=tl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KDjebHSSB5#HE7fHjegeHyfLCii+zfaEjfvDzvE]L^gxfA?e1udnneh^sAouvwsAfwtf
yAgvyfJlaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosIkd:nqaRcyJvmHAne!RmukpfrKbMuge|kl)RNI{bas0QHNy
vDjpenHhmsztg;ylgtqrrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi!vDplghLgbuIzx!ztsgg]sue u]l@rr
EqbtuesnpsQfw!uzaeqsNlsMCsk!Suhpg)KgMtNnr!yqskgxlgbGxem+fFigbjFk.
IMMCNZUHaLOlk^yFff?euvoOyww*uzaqheLofsNjB:fIjnnetlaMBjd_gvptbhGuuKCgy:oAo
zAauemGsbKMmm[alaECQSSVVUew:xqtugirAitN	d@ylqquxAimRtyl^fAonAeHyjOuyi
vGcnkxzpozttv"gzjBcyAvosuyd:nqaYqwCziHJ	d{nmeyAhC|Ixuqi,ftbfbxGBhANer=
lqegtfDggNHiw!uDapcyAvotFej=AzecvnGuaLOut=xFadgkGyfsyrf@xwjpieMwpGtyl^
vDplghLaauOyd*tEugcirobwtwi-oqebwuGuattlv^gFafgfDgpytms_kIptmesue
smsmgyAuhsNtd@ioporqAzisNmi!zmtmbtxgdHHAi/yupp}

KHftbxAudxtyl^fBpuuntpmBNni|fAgbetEwvMyw[|kmsejnFnaAuAi!kyftijvaaLwms-gDt
ozavjjrmjxFid=llmcvjrhovCjr:fmofbjsymRtri%oqwcneKAvwCjw![BikntKvqAyww7
ztfqntypbGM	d$rmtukhAzuLnee+jlujqxwgtMOiC*tsavjjrojLNtv,fAgbpfLBstFep@C
gzebvmwgiBMys/ElphbyzlaEyle-fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llXguywyoswnz*ruAcvnGu-sBfz^
hqfpbqGuhBHld'uDacbkMsmRtxi@xoicdqwgwxLxm=tlphb2wzuxLsd-oFftcyMyfmtks/
kJborqwaatFqd:nqavgCLzaHzeE;mGtvkswgbGxeF^xzbtfeGmaVFfm/BmvzbfFk
HAfvjnMz.sHtx!zAaogsLppGtfp-fFigbxwjpGxfv,fmofbywyuBuwC!gGujqwKb

2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbcwGzfmtHEgGXVECeKhjwoednnAvnfeGufswtr<kDubOnyufo
YtpwnirAixtie:gnbugetlaxHhs%kp}bbNKgjMtsi$kEtctDrApsxtd:nmu{beZvxsMms;rp
oFadgevlmBPjv^jhabYmsAatvty:fOE+TT5cas!nr$klujkxrptsuex/gztkvnGubE
sqekwrlgxASei<kzadqyzlssNtd$xqbvgeKvgMQfv^fFpbtzFgpGtfd{J\SQOargTBHhi
kHftAgGkzsEss>ylqgquDlaPCqp!hqapgyOvsDCsk!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nKaiqeLvaMBj
zDpwdqw|_PBng&futbhfJghKyfx^xlxkvmrJE `TQ!ztbpbBAAisNmi!vDpfwhLppGttj
smhpgyAjawuye9flGkpfDszmtms>fppgueGufsGfo^fFigbisAbsuAe*rmcngargDtHeq@tK
uravjjrovKxqi|fFpbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrpoyIwq@zuppbyzhusMtq^fBvdnnKofKMel@Bq
oyqqujvgvIIsd%gFbdcxwzauyei-oyjpcywk}
