FLEISCHHAUER argued that the real asset was the underlying collection.

FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to describe various search and retrieval
capabilities while ERWAY worked the computer.  In this particular package
the "go to" pull-down allowed the user in effect to jump out of Toolbook,
where the interactive program was located, and enter the third-party
software used by AM for this text collection, which is called Personal
Librarian.  This was the Windows version of Personal Librarian, a
software application put together by a company in Rockville, Md.

Since the broadsides came from the Revolutionary War period, a search was
conducted using the words British or war, with the default operator reset
as or.  FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated both automatic stemming (which finds
other forms of the same root) and a truncated search.  One of Personal
Librarian's strongest features, the relevance ranking, was represented by
a chart that indicated how often words being sought appeared in
documents, with the one receiving the most "hits" obtaining the highest
score.  The "hit list" that is supplied takes the relevance ranking into
account, making the first hit, in effect, the one the software has
selected as the most relevant example.

While in the text of one of the broadside documents, FLEISCHHAUER
remarked AM's attempt to find ways to connect cataloging to the texts,
which it does in different ways in different manifestations.  In the case
shown, the cataloging was pasted on:  AM took MARC records that were
written as on-line records right into one of the Library's mainframe
retrieval programs, pulled them out, and handed them off to the contractor,
who massaged them somewhat to display them in the manner shown.  One of
AM's questions is, Does the cataloguing normally performed in the mainframe
work in this context, or had AM ought to think through adjustments?

FLEISCHHAUER made the additional point that, as far as the text goes, AM
has gravitated towards SGML (he pointed to the boldface in the upper part
of the screen).  Although extremely limited in its ability to translate
or interpret SGML, Personal Librarian will furnish both bold and italics
on screen; a fairly easy thing to do, but it is one of the ways in which
SGML is useful.

Striking a balance between quantity and quality has been a major concern
of AM, with accuracy being one of the places where project staff have
felt that less than 100-percent accuracy was not unacceptable.
FLEISCHHAUER cited the example of the standard of the rekeying industry,
namely 99.95 percent; as one service bureau informed him, to go from
99.95 to 100 percent would double the cost.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated how AM furnishes users recourse to images,
and at the same time recalled LESK's pointed question concerning the
number of people who would look at those images and the number who would
work only with the text.  If the implication of LESK's question was
sound, FLEISCHHAUER said, it raised the stakes for text accuracy and
reduced the value of the strategy for images.

Contending that preservation is always a bugaboo, FLEISCHHAUER
demonstrated several images derived from a scan of a preservation
microfilm that AM had made.  He awarded a grade of C at best, perhaps a
C minus or a C plus, for how well it worked out.  Indeed, the matter of
learning if other people had better ideas about scanning in general, and,
in particular, scanning from microfilm, was one of the factors that drove
AM to attempt to think through the agenda for the Workshop.  Skew, for
example, was one of the issues that AM in its ignorance had not reckoned
would prove so difficult.

Further, the handling of images of the sort shown, in a desktop computer
environment, involved a considerable amount of zooming and scrolling.
Ultimately, AM staff feel that perhaps the paper copy that is printed out
might be the most useful one, but they remain uncertain as to how much
on-screen reading users will do.

Returning to the text, FLEISCHHAUER asked viewers to imagine a person who
might be conducting a search in a full-text environment.  With this
scenario, he proceeded to illustrate other features of Personal Librarian
that he considered helpful; for example, it provides the ability to
notice words as one reads.  Clicking the "include" button on the bottom
of the search window pops the words that have been highlighted into the
search.  Thus, a user can refine the search as he or she reads,
re-executing the search and continuing to find things in the quest for
materials.  This software not only contains relevance ranking, Boolean
operators, and truncation, it also permits one to perform word algebra,
so to say, where one puts two or three words in parentheses and links
them with one Boolean operator and then a couple of words in another set
of parentheses and asks for things within so many words of others.

Until they became acquainted recently with some of the work being done in
classics, the AM staff had not realized that a large number of the
projects that involve electronic texts were being done by people with a
profound interest in language and linguistics.  Their search strategies
and thinking are oriented to those fields, as is shown in particular by
the Perseus example.  As amateur historians, the AM staff were thinking
more of searching for concepts and ideas than for particular words.
Obviously, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, searching for concepts and ideas and
searching for words may be two rather closely related things.

While displaying several images, FLEISCHHAUER observed that the Macintosh
prototype built by AM contains a greater diversity of formats.  Echoing a
previous speaker, he said that it was easier to stitch things together in
the Macintosh, though it tended to be a little more anemic in search and
retrieval.  AM, therefore, increasingly has been investigating
sophisticated retrieval engines in the IBM format.

FLEISCHHAUER demonstrated several additional examples of the prototype
interfaces:  One was AM's metaphor for the network future, in which a
kind of reading-room graphic suggests how one would be able to go around
to different materials.  AM contains a large number of photographs in
analog video form worked up from a videodisc, which enable users to make
copies to print or incorporate in digital documents.  A frame-grabber is
built into the system, making it possible to bring an image into a window
and digitize or print it out.

FLEISCHHAUER next demonstrated sound recording, which included texts.
Recycled from a previous project, the collection included sixty 78-rpm
phonograph records of political speeches that were made during and
immediately after World War I.  These constituted approximately three
hours of audio, as AM has digitized it, which occupy 150 megabytes on a
CD.  Thus, they are considerably compressed.  From the catalogue card,
FLEISCHHAUER proceeded to a transcript of a speech with the audio
available and with highlighted text following it as it played.
A photograph has been added and a transcription made.

Considerable value has been added beyond what the Library of Congress
normally would do in cataloguing a sound recording, which raises several
questions for AM concerning where to draw lines about how much value it can
afford to add and at what point, perhaps, this becomes more than AM could
reasonably do or reasonably wish to do.  FLEISCHHAUER also demonstrated
a motion picture.  As FREEMAN had reported earlier, the motion picture
materials have proved the most popular, not surprisingly.  This says more
about the medium, he thought, than about AM's presentation of it.

Because AM's goal was to bring together things that could be used by
historians or by people who were curious about history,
turn-of-the-century footage seemed to represent the most appropriate
collections from the Library of Congress in motion pictures. These were
the very first films made by Thomas Edison's company and some others at
that time.  The particular example illustrated was a Biograph film,
brought in with a frame-grabber into a window.  A single videodisc
contains about fifty titles and pieces of film from that period, all of
New York City.  Taken together, AM believes, they provide an interesting
documentary resource.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Using the frame-grabber in AM * Volume of material processed
and to be processed * Purpose of AM within LC * Cataloguing and the
nature of AM's material * SGML coding and the question of quality versus
quantity *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the question-and-answer period that followed FLEISCHHAUER's
presentation, several clarifications were made.

AM is bringing in motion pictures from a videodisc.  The frame-grabber
devices create a window on a computer screen, which permits users to
digitize a single frame of the movie or one of the photographs.  It
produces a crude, rough-and-ready image that high school students can
incorporate into papers, and that has worked very nicely in this way.

Commenting on FLEISCHHAUER's assertion that AM was looking more at
searching ideas than words, MYLONAS argued that without words an idea
does not exist.  FLEISCHHAUER conceded that he ought to have articulated
his point more clearly.  MYLONAS stated that they were in fact both
talking about the same thing.  By searching for words and by forcing
people to focus on the word, the Perseus Project felt that they would get
them to the idea.  The way one reviews results is tailored more to one
kind of user than another.

Concerning the total volume of material that has been processed in this
way, AM at this point has in retrievable form seven or eight collections,
all of them photographic.  In the Macintosh environment, for example,
there probably are 35,000-40,000 photographs.  The sound recordings
number sixty items.  The broadsides number about 300 items.  There are
500 political cartoons in the form of drawings.  The motion pictures, as
individual items, number sixty to seventy.

AM also has a manuscript collection, the life history portion of one of
the federal project series, which will contain 2,900 individual
documents, all first-person narratives.  AM has in process about 350
African-American pamphlets, or about 12,000 printed pages for the period
1870-1910.  Also in the works are some 4,000 panoramic photographs.  AM
has recycled a fair amount of the work done by LC's Prints and
Photographs Division during the Library's optical disk pilot project in
the 1980s.  For example, a special division of LC has tooled up and
thought through all the ramifications of electronic presentation of
photographs.  Indeed, they are wheeling them out in great barrel loads.
The purpose of AM within the Library, it is hoped, is to catalyze several
of the other special collection divisions which have no particular
experience with, in some cases, mixed feelings about, an activity such as
AM.  Moreover, in many cases the divisions may be characterized as not
only lacking experience in "electronifying" things but also in automated
cataloguing.  MARC cataloguing as practiced in the United States is
heavily weighted toward the description of monograph and serial
materials, but is much thinner when one enters the world of manuscripts
and things that are held in the Library's music collection and other
units.  In response to a comment by LESK, that AM's material is very
heavily photographic, and is so primarily because individual records have
been made for each photograph, FLEISCHHAUER observed that an item-level
catalog record exists, for example, for each photograph in the Detroit
Publishing collection of 25,000 pictures.  In the case of the Federal
Writers Project, for which nearly 3,000 documents exist, representing
information from twenty-six different states, AM with the assistance of
Karen STUART of the Manuscript Division will attempt to find some way not
only to have a collection-level record but perhaps a MARC record for each
state, which will then serve as an umbrella for the 100-200 documents
that come under it.  But that drama remains to be enacted.  The AM staff
is conservative and clings to cataloguing, though of course visitors tout
artificial intelligence and neural networks in a manner that suggests that
perhaps one need not have cataloguing or that much of it could be put aside.

The matter of SGML coding, FLEISCHHAUER conceded, returned the discussion
to the earlier treated question of quality versus quantity in the Library
of Congress.  Of course, text conversion can be done with 100-percent
accuracy, but it means that when one's holdings are as vast as LC's only
a tiny amount will be exposed, whereas permitting lower levels of
accuracy can lead to exposing or sharing larger amounts, but with the
quality correspondingly impaired.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TWOHIG * A contrary experience concerning electronic options * Volume of
material in the Washington papers and a suggestion of David Packard *
Implications of Packard's suggestion * Transcribing the documents for the
CD-ROM * Accuracy of transcriptions * The CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Finding encouragement in a comment of MICHELSON's from the morning
session--that numerous people in the humanities were choosing electronic
options to do their work--Dorothy TWOHIG, editor, The Papers of George
Washington, opened her illustrated talk by noting that her experience
with literary scholars and numerous people in editing was contrary to
MICHELSON's.  TWOHIG emphasized literary scholars' complete ignorance of
the technological options available to them or their reluctance or, in
some cases, their downright hostility toward these options.

After providing an overview of the five Founding Fathers projects
(Jefferson at Princeton, Franklin at Yale, John Adams at the
Massachusetts Historical Society, and Madison down the hall from her at
the University of Virginia), TWOHIG observed that the Washington papers,
like all of the projects, include both sides of the Washington
correspondence and deal with some 135,000 documents to be published with
extensive annotation in eighty to eighty-five volumes, a project that
will not be completed until well into the next century.  Thus, it was
with considerable enthusiasm several years ago that the Washington Papers
Project (WPP) greeted David Packard's suggestion that the papers of the
Founding Fathers could be published easily and inexpensively, and to the
great benefit of American scholarship, via CD-ROM.

In pragmatic terms, funding from the Packard Foundation would expedite
the transcription of thousands of documents waiting to be put on disk in
the WPP offices.  Further, since the costs of collecting, editing, and
converting the Founding Fathers documents into letterpress editions were
running into the millions of dollars, and the considerable staffs
involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history of the
joint project between the American Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) and the Online Computer Library Center, Inc. (OCLC).  The
joint venture between AAAS and OCLC owes its beginning to a
reorganization launched by the new chief executive officer at OCLC about
three years ago and combines the strengths of these two disparate
organizations.  In short, OJCCT represents the process of scholarly
publishing on line.

LEBRON next discussed several practices the on-line environment shares
with traditional publishing on hard copy--for example, peer review of
manuscripts--that are highly important in the academic world.  LEBRON
noted in particular the implications of citation counts for tenure
committees and grants committees.  In the traditional hard-copy
environment, citation counts are readily demonstrable, whereas the
on-line environment represents an ethereal medium to most academics.

LEBRON remarked several technical and behavioral barriers to electronic
publishing, for instance, the problems in transmission created by special
characters or by complex graphics and halftones.  In addition, she noted
economic limitations such as the storage costs of maintaining back issues
and market or audience education.

Manuscripts cannot be uploaded to OJCCT, LEBRON explained, because it is
not a bulletin board or E-mail, forms of electronic transmission of
information that have created an ambience clouding people's understanding
of what the journal is attempting to do.  OJCCT, which publishes
peer-reviewed medical articles dealing with thjgeKBcCyhx!uraennFpdtF
zDjcnxlgjGwqy%kEavgCLaaMugy-gDaocywyjtF	d@tpaitfHojvM	d@rFiqwlzgbMtyl*y
zungbnLgdtHex/gztokyrvoESep*tqaknqMzuKuym=tE?

Tqyv?e4LC~9Sd%kEdtkgwkaAIBd?GMTbcsvgPV6Hd@xDjxgirhusNmi!yGclghLgpy
ixjpkhssaMLne-yaabKyrpts&[d@ftjijqQgtMuym|zudcnevptvCup*tqavjfLg3	tis^y
tAubtjIBjKyel@rruqpjKgcNNeg@tltcvnKmzsNmi!tqffueGmaBNxd@ApjgphwgxBNmd-ozf
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!gzebiwswiBweq@zqskcqlgbGxe7SfFigtjrptsuer^kpahqwrAixtxt^kpz
jutugrAubMCtr!urajklz|rNuqm:ElsgujsydAtwi|Axuu}erJmBHng@rlutkfDzatLj
xqtgcwuoatwym<oFjgueLobMtnr<uxwgbyzlatxrm+oEutcyAvosIkd@fFfuveLyftNri+z
zAauqrwgfQJjv*sqovcqrBoBNem+fAsfgwrApsNjw:fuuubzKlgNFsi|ylcghtJlaBNem|
smegbfNhjEugp^fFpbvmwghxHjv@rlqqrzDhuBIs	!fXFDTT6gqKIhi^jqebvtrnjOy
gpekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaHHeSeIOUbetFjfKHnr"fuuubjvpuHL]m+/oikgklgfwCys/omm
hAbtf	rleBNtv*gxaeqsLloMnee+jlujgeLFqxMes'fmsvkhDltsCyd[Anmkumwz
[uoenzvpoztui^x\sgxnwDfwtwi|kmsejeJlqHLyw!gzebtjNpfPM[{!gEaygqDgbL
lqbvwwwzaLBfv^jlcAbtLofKtyv@juukqsssaAuwhTiAqAboGBsGuqw8

GyppieLofsuiz@tFbigxrvgsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smubcwwggtMyi/fpjuujEpotNns+fAg
ozgqtrsAjHH	d*tomwfnFnaKuBd%gFb?bfFkaMBjd@hEfpejrvgsMue$kldqpxLybBHyw
hqdcwxwgqtAjw!jAapqyrlyBMy	!f<UjkxrsbMNjv!lmdvbhJlbMyxd@tljpvjJltMCsk
yuuwcyAvosQmi+fuubetEltsNtd$oFbvktFz?	teR=xlbtgeLofKyee+Eljuuzwz?stFE?Y/t
imqcenLFaMIeh=CzmqcirtbMywm@rEafkwwjuESej/uyavjjrqpNLse-fFpbc
yGcuewAifK.xd[xuovgwlgitLid%xuwg?eGyayFtt[ElekuprofEJxd^tEvtgezphAFD
godwtfLlaMLfr|iDjrvnGu?stTx&kDahgfLBsxMes'f1KEEYrpovFzh^fAo+uhJlfGtfp^xFt
ztbvbfDspPtqm+qmhgbtxgtNvxi]AqovnDrwvuFnw&kpafqhMtfGNxd:ulujgeGyjzCse-
jAdwojFAtittrTruogbxwhsvBnr"fnzbuztqfvN	d@AFiqt	rAjMFj{!kFd}>eAuexRnr"fAg
kHftAeKpozFjd>uDebvmsAatJui@xEakpesuatLym$rq<bxnwDjGAee$iqtubyGgbG
gDukeqwgcRths_vAogpyr]buMyv@iF.bhzDsaMyCx7fAsbiwswiL .d+Aycgtjv
vmsciwswiLtys!xqqnchwgqtAjd$uGovu.rwvuFng@zuppbnFgTvCjr$klfxgwQguACwx,
jmzubtxgjGxjB*tsaqhessmsuwx*ixfubuMimBMmi%fuobvmwgkHOwr@rb
zKqgujL|rNuqm:Eltetjwutitfr%fTzrgwLlyMtqm+qEavjfLgfGugp^fEvduhJpcxLxd:u
hDjpieMwa6yip*tqacdxLybvNxd%oDfevqQgxBNms;zlmgcAAuhsNmi!pAvtpfDb

GrugtevlutCqm+mlujgeLDpsJwm_gDzbyfQzaMIek@ozacehwztsNtd:nqalqzJubEn
ztsqwlzguAyeS{ROapgyOvsDtfr%fOporzKlsOtnj!uzfbfjKpsxMek/gBikexrvssNmv=Asi
ztfbKsLlsGyyd*llkwuyrhosUXGdOlgknjrptsxjw*xqe?bQWIS88em-rGtvtfLlesNmi
yBfgfDrleBNtv*gxarttultLtfr%fFigbhGkjGAes'fFigbiGjvFysx!AEjpie~NN5tye"y
grugteAAaAuxd#kqobchulqMyid'uDarwgDpdtNns+alaUjjrhmLIek@BqacpeAsmNMyv@zqe
zAvtbtxguAyen=ADocn	rpuLtxi@xoi+csv|sxNwm^BmmbefHhcBFnx*kEakpeHhsMChy-gD.
hGubcqKvaBHhp;juoibuJvcEyrw!gEtqensAfwtBm:nltecsFpoztnr!oxmwuyJhuBIsw7
gzebvmwgjFJtv:gzdgbtxgpGaxg/kqobcqwyuLtys!ztfbojvpdtFet/urfuunGuaKy
xqutchLppGMes/fopttjuAjHHx{!uDaoqwwggKyvy^tFmA?ewkjMIwm@rE.bnjLAfKMex=
ztfbgiAApKM	d=xlgqnqGD_NJev^vAsvu rgTAyeg-uEffbgQgjGPnx*tsavjjrhvwCjr$k
zAalqnFgBTUXd=tl2bLzDF.sQmi+f1KEEYrDbLtxg&kpvngirApsAtd=t\mkpjm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmszje:ADfubtxgP3WHX!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrsfGAyl,fpjuezKzjHHex&gFahqqDvxxxeP H4PP&xrwsxMjr:gFjqp	rAixMj
vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r1ixtXKhRlugzyrjbGtgi!zmjnqwwkatMey|kDtbynKo?

flabb+rHmEtyl^yqactyAjmxMel@BqacbkspsESew*sBmgbiGjvFysx!jqgkpnLppGo

flabb+rKpvOri+z\uArjrkfyCsm:oAoub=V1EL eA^xqafgAwspIyid@tpaikAwuaMIeSeIOU
flabbkGyavIim+mg

flabb+rUpsuwx*ixfubBAsmsvjd/kypxgirmsHGex&klkqwwFhmnte+}kobwujrAixLjd@xq
flabbsGgctwpd*yEvgu	rAixLjd@xqapqeDvtMtnw|AqtbgnLofKoedjtofbceKBcLwwm#kD
flabbqGntsIsx=fFigboGBsGuqd&klptbxzlaAuxd@iofuueFvusIsp,fFpbvmwgdNLwi+zxz
flabbuMimBMmi%fybvgwAhmLnef;zlsgvwGzqxwym<kxzbvtrlwxLDx&ozhbvmsAaAuxd#kqo
flabbuMimBMmi%fuobkymga!Bzw!ztfbvftsfsIkd$uzugpyKghKIBw!huhigwmga!Bjd%gFf
flabbtxgqNvqm$gFjqpeKlsOyxd:ulekuyAuhNCxl!hquygjFgdNLwi+zxzbrztsjLBjh
flabbrsAfKCfp|fmofbtDkfKtre:kDjcnxm/

flabb+r1ixtuv*iuoibxQzuxGej=xlujgeBvvKHfp!xqtgogDltsNme:frptbrGzusGjh*imm
flabboGBsGuqw2flgqte'$0&ne"D~lgqtesgzxuw{!vxvubywsfvIrq;tudcvnGutswme/mqt
flabb=LofKyee/kloqbhGuoxwyd:oyfbemsyhxM[,!flahqwr80=(	dK7!~bhtJguAy
flabbjFAjKyeC^gDahqwrzjGAqi!AEftu	rAiHOll!ztfbltMyotFeg@tlcgbuMAaHHee
flabbqGjbEtfv^glogvBGyls	QEi]gabJtOlwxL	d=txzbqswgqxLxs+fobpbfujfLMex&k
flabboGBsGuqd@zlbbvnEl?stXm:klmkejFzfLtre,fopogeAuaMBjd'AFvtg 

flabb+rHBT!em|fIptmnFnavFtw^rKaykyzgdHFqi@mGfubfLgPV6Hd:ulekuuDhz
flabbrsAixGfx*immbgvMhuBIsw!uzauewwlon

flabb+r4jMBty:foporwGtjLCsk!gzzbuywwtsCsd:nqagfnLvsBuqd[xAdguxlguAy
flabbywjiGIqs"ElicueJleNwjh!ztfbvnElaEuld#kFxggsrDixHee!smowuhJpqMtnw
flabbtJphBHfp-EltwdrAAuxxee+jlujgeLpnxtnx!oEacehwwuxx.d:nqatgAAlxsJws$kEt
flabbiGltsHtx!jughgwrnsxuyp,frsqoeLofsMye+jmsfbxAE_MI]i*mtubyjwrt
flabbjEwmHSjh!hKaocsQgpytyl^ftbtf]uvqRtos;xzbnu rgUAyet/uofuueKAjEF
flabbiwwfGxxd=tlqgquDl?

flabb+rHtszfv!gEacbuJltxLAe:oAobetHFaBMeg=toftpjvaatLym$rqtbynDsauy
flabbrspoMunr^jlppbyzlavIrt;zqsbrjJtbGysx-ElbpfeKBcLwwm#kDt?bfKgqtLyd=l
flabbyzljKtxy#yoskryAvomtBm-rlsgejACfsueq*iDphkhzl_JOfp*zKacthzpwtFeg=vK
flabbtxgfOywC:nuoibuMimBMmi%fpvtksyguAuyd,kms>bnFgbwxnx*uz.btjHyjGNxd$gz
flabbgwgqNLhl@yqebksrtvvBex&kltcojrDbRtfw!ozacbmsye wtt,fqoxkwGunxHy	
flabbMsyeswtt*kEactjrwsxJfv^jlcwvesyfsHtx!ztfbrwAtbKSeq^juvobkGyaMBj
flabbiAztxGnr@zuppbtxguAyem+lAsocyAvon

flabb+rIfvuzw^f1KEEYrptsHtx!EqubqsrsjGy	d*zljubiAmgBwzp:fFpbmsGDaAIBd_gzz
flabbuwvqEyeA=AxebunEwmRtgv=CEfbvmJvvzBex&klkqwwFhmsIsd:nqauewwlosux
flabbtHwpLyid:uleqysDvbwCsk!ztfbymGsfsNmm+mlbpfeHyjGNnr"fuubqzL}attrm\fAg
flabbgGAisNDt^ylphbzKlsLtqm)kxzbynDsaKyxy-zg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
VQSUQS12Ts{eH^BqmqrrwuuLtnr!zqdjptDvhRttz^xlujgeHhtMtii$gpfb)e`ofsWQEnY
VDplghLg(sUiz@tFbigxrmpKtyi$nzpnqlQgbGxej=xlujgeUSB`!eT/uvfeve?
JqwgntHpoztfd+kFxqtprhqIFng@zuppbfFgvGxjv-EuoibfKzvFJym=tlphbyzlaILtn^iF
=lEgvfAstsIkd:nqauefFujGAet/uofuue?gQKCsxTuz_fgrsueswtt*kEaqhetvpDMe_
LGuwtjrwmtHxd*tomwfjrkfOyqs[sqovbtxgbsvws>yuoibyGvms{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

RKopge8LS`9SMpYfacuxAzutHyd%oDfevtJaaVIwr^rxaKpkGyntNns+f6fejsGspzCjw!lAs
YoiqnfJszs3sj=xybvktFgTxLAm$kE.bEtJufEFeY+oHftunLF.sznv|zldqorwuuxxes+
ztfbvwwtfGxty|funrchLguAuyd%kHfnquEloMMem+fFfejsGspzSes<kDavjjrwbLNex^t
Eqbtu]	ufMQtv)ozh?bnFgqtLym$Axbt+]zhwxtme%fAobvmwgxtSem+lAsocyAvosCx
nmofnjvaatHid&uI.bksrofKttA+fobug	rAixMjd%kHfnquEloMMel@BqaeqzFAfKvfp@toff
IAspgqD_tsLjp@zuwgblwvhKuul*immbkxGsbMCtr8flPvjjJgtBAsm'oobpveLldAHtp=mufu
ozdnwiwgtvusr^xE.bymAjisuwi!sGdjbrGyfsMtt&oEukefLlesNme+fFigAeOlsxtyi+fKfctx
gsp>brsztsMys/gsfbcsvguAyeh/gybvkhrzbOCsk|fFicveJltNFyd'xAnbkyrposNjv_ylph
hAujbxHhdxtfr%fyppgDryfEuym<kluqbyOloMSes/fFiktyQgzxuww!gsp>bswDatHi
oyqtqAwkaILnr:ozhbvjuooHFtk*kE.bymAjisBfz^fssgcyDFatzki$zqebvmwgeBMyv*hGukqs
urakpkGyntNns+?lbpf	rvgswty/yq.bfnyputFex^itoqntypfLneA&uEfbcuHsjvugm-oFzbvt
ructcwQgqKyxi/BmukqsryfFunr|fmubkxKBfn

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e8LS`9SMpYleguhJpcxxex&klDqnqwnfs6nf/gDzbChultLtfr%
YFptclwgTRMyi_f<DNCX~/a9Ltn^iF.bceDpcKuwC!vDfugwNhuBIsd[xAkgeyl
vDjocwAszmtfr%fIicvezhtsvji+fmdeqrHsjLBjh8flEktjuAmRtky+jqebdDrAix
IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztsush!hKavjjr5fKICd{uDqqtfLppGneA&ooi
nmtbrwGCjwyid@fEjipnxpdtHyd@sAvpveGmaAuwh>gDf?byzlaV6FWnf2sqljuAaAuxd#kqo
CAsmksygxBNmd@fpfxgqGwnxHyd:kmnbcyr5fKICd:ulegxjDvqsuew=lFxctj
gBqnkhsAjHHex@oxptgirApsFnf/gDzbrwwzfKPfx*uzatgvMpsxGjr:ygabYnLojG
IAspgqDaaIuwx*iuqcpyKgjGtyl^fBsqljuAaAuAi!hqfpbBGylBHld(uuovnDrDjMBef=zt
ructcwQgbGxem+lAsocyAvosNjg&tAmqinwz?stYl^frpewxrvgsNmi!vDplghLgitMef^kz
uzatgkGyntNym+mlbpfeKhwBHld#uAlubyzhusuwi!ozadtnLAmxths+juukqsm
VQSUQS12TsMms>kpaYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtfd#xuuvnjripHE	d@tpafgxuyjuyid&uI
yGdjbgGvlLtBi/klujgeJltNFyd=llegxjDvqFysx|fuobrfHlsFupm+mlbtqzFkaMBj
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nqaKpiMzuKCfp!XqwqnzLppGoedonqarcuwyntEnr"fBsqejKzaPux
itbpijvgtHtyl@zlbbunyujyChe+zlboqzFAaHzee$opaycxrpoMLth;iqebksLvaMBj
gouwcqrwbIywd*zEfnh	rDiBwmd%kFftktJhuxMee|fuubunLzaHHep*hDbtAeKofEPjw8

UzfbqkrAixtfh<gzucijKggHLex^itoqntyFatHid'uDavjjrJMT!XdkxAkgeyrptsNme:
ztfbksxvsFuym=tljpbgJpuMFjd#uAlubnKgnHMyp,fAvvbtxgdHJDv*mtubcsvguAOx
urggtxrhosIut=xFvpkyQguHtBs/qlxkvmrtbMywm@rlujcyryfJOnv^ylmkdwsyz
vDfugwNhuBIs{!gzebvtrjsxuyi!gzebytJraHHee+fuohtfKAsNwyy/kluqbxsCfsNmi
smugtnss?stFg)tAxngiypoztyl^frbokqAhsBNDd=llujqxwgxHLpm+mljpbuJltxLAe:oAo
CuujbyzptsCsj=xybvktFaa9YWWjTUVUbsGAfwtyl@zltgxjJhmsNmm+mEactjrifBHl
jAog<erAixtuv*smsAbuJltxLAe:oAobvjuooHFtk,fGtgfeLvetSem|fBiqvtuvqRCsk!ur
hDjvvqwgntNjv*gx?bbXsCjGAex&kljpvjDsfvNze-foppvjFAaHzex&klncvjJpbEtnw!ztf
smjpblGhmnte1*ztaokhJvgBFrd$uBz?byzlaBHyi-rqdvwfDgdHHyi+zljubuJltxLAi%fAo
ztfbcxKBnINns+fFicveAuaMBjd'AFvtgeLofsCre"kldcpetlaKyks/smuvgirposusC
uFigteOhzsNme:fFigpewEjLNx	

GzawpiwymRCsk!gEtwouLppGttj!ztfbEQSZTs0ws(koubhwGtaMBjd#ksjppnFnaPux
ztbvbnLgxHOqh!jqwgntHgbsHjx>uDlbcuHsjvuym=tgabRwGqfvNew:grgbuhsuauIto|
gFacbBGylLNfx*uzanqhsAfwtnr!ztfbnntybKS	d+kmsbvmwgcKCyx-klncvjJpbEo
Gzakofyl_Lywz^xlgknnFnaLSxx^sljubqGjbMyid@zlbbfnKAbGwjd'xAnbvmsA
CAsmuysAjHH	d@tpacbuJpoMywd*ylmqefLlesCsd@tAujgwrivBFim+mgabCqDgpytyl^
smugtnsstsxnk*zuAgfesuesMys/kpaqpeLofsCre"k\gknnFnaLSxx^slbtgeuhutFtk^j
ozavjjrvo Fnr^fobvcqGnvxoeddtlgceylgbsLjg=xpahqwrlbvBes'fFigujrlmxwyv=tud
hApmueAzaLNtv^jljpbyzla~6NR!jmucdfKlaLIex&gFacbwwjpKxei\oEuubtxgxAuyd*y
ozavjjrkjzCye-fxjdtfJFaMBws;mtpwveKAbGxfv%fobvcqGnvxtuv=iqewtjKbas3sd:nq
lGuwtjlgsxMje/itftueOvsDCsk!lDpobyzljKttA+fIptmxLhuBIsw!ozavjjAyaHzkm$kE.
uDavjjAyaGyyA=xwt?bBAsmsBfz^fmdegxK|_PBjv^BqsbvmwFaFCll:fnf++yzypNAmd@
xqrwgxLgtxLAi/fnfkplrivBFyd*tFpbvmwgoxQeh*muucneDpcKuwC8flBbujuvow
gEtwouLppGtnw!ztbvbyzlaILjj^xDffbrwhoLttj!luofksyguAyeq@zqskcqrDjEFef^fnz
rApmksyguALty"nlbbefLhmHAzi8flQGTX7UJ@!eh^yoskdjvguAyew$gzokplrwsHwjw| 
CtjejeMzfLtfd[xAuqvDHlaLwfr+kDadgnFnawyAi-uBffbgQgYxLtB!gzebymAjisMhe+ylb
BqsAbmAnisLjw=rGukqsrpntAjd@zlhtgfLgtIyjh8flBpqyzlssMnk+orjecsLggxuyy/kf
hqdcwxwguACxd*ylbbrwwzfKPfx*uzacruDpdtNns+ ljubyzlaIFfg*tsaqheLofsJfk^y
ztbvbkssmsuue/zlppgexvssIsi!uzavjjrwmtNjr8flPtfnFhsBFD{!gltecsFlsswty-j
hqawujvgxBNmd|uyfbutJAaHzee!jAdwojFAayyjh^xfadwyrifvuzw^fAgbvmAz
gBqnkhsAjHHex&gFakueFvuszje|onmg}erMvKNmi/ lcgefMzfsWQEnYljubf
vDfugwNhuBIsd@vBmkefLppGnee'zqsbvmwgqtJjv!xqqnchwtfGNem|fybfgeLofKy	d@
BqsAbhsyfyOqd]AmmkvDrjpGNws-foigeprptsJjv'uDngf rgBGttv*muocnetvpDtnw
iAnrcwwkaMIex&klqtksLleswtt,fmofbAwyjyChe:oAobkxrtbwy	d#krptgeHypvyjh*ts.
ztbvbfDsaHzex&kljoclwaatFqd=llujgeAugHLre:oAo?bmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stYl^tf
glogyeDpcKuwC!hApmbnKgqKIiy$kp;bbYzlaILnr:kpakofyltsuwi!xqcqwsvgcRtf
iAnogwupbEtgm+jqsbcsvgbsHjA!hApmbnKgsxNzv+kpavqeLofsMmi-lg
YuhpkkAjbGNqC7fFigbgGvlLtwi:ADogfeLvaMBjd-onsctDrzixFAi|fmsgbgwhvMCky-
gzebwxwmvEtwi[rmdgojFAtsIsd@iue+hwwlaIuui/fFicveKopNFid-gEubceDvoztym_kf
ozaghkwjumtyl^fqrwkAssfGNes'fBsgujJCbMCtr!vtpvqhGwjxM d!Ztvu?eLofsJws(kou
nmtbceDpcKuwC!urafklAAbEtgs=qE?bbNFgfLMjr$kfaENF~ZaBMew$gzokplrhow
yFptksygcHIpw!gEa8`#rkpMaui//uoejetpu Gft[kpakofyltmths_vDfuujvgvLCsk
MDpwre*gDV3YX![u?g}	rAixtKv^toibchJvoRGej=xlJpvjJubMCtr@rlDqpxMsutNnz^
IAnokyLlfsztv!Zqmgiwswisush!ZqmgrmGuf	ths_vDfuunGu?stYl^ElbtgeKApKyid@y
ZUGHbkAsfLttr!gzaqryAjbEtkm-ozhbuDKAfFtyl@zljubhGtqHMjh!uracbisAbuuxi
AEffbkGyaLyfv$nuoibfFkaEIhe:ozhbvmwgcHIpw!gzebcsrvqMChe-fvvmggGEaMBfx
yFptgxr!5sNBi-Bq_kphzgqEuyx^xE?bbFrCfKS]l*mt_tgxGsvMCtr!vDjpvjvgdHJDd=l
ztfugetvpDMee:f^~`biGAtsJjv!ozdjbnKgdKyfx^jfawunFnatt3i/uJaFqhM1fvB
vDjpvjJguHtre)klujgeHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLttr!gojf+kJlfsJft^xg

VQSUQS12TsGfm+zmjpgirAitNex&klDNCX~gQKIoi$zlqtgxwuuLtfr!uBqqtyMujMSex=
ozutqiMjfsJjs[rqavqetvpDMee|fpjikyssaBGfk^ylcAbzKpoztfd[gBftbrwkjNG 
HApmuesyfsLjx;xzffbyGguAyew&kxwgueOojEyet^uBmgbfJlatFxs!muwgpeLofsugm-oFz
zAartnFAaHHeh^smof+]LvaFupi!ztfkteGDoswtt*kEaqhetvpDM d![2FTUT6PV`
jutvtntBuxxeg=vufubtxgbGtjr"ozfgtnFnaCIzv+gxarwgDptAyid#ElfpinFlfKCsk
yFvfgsLzatNeG=xzfnnesypNHidv#*~bcxrhosyCe_vxfbqkrDitNee!vDjpv]Gu_wyre+j
iAqAbtxgntNjv*gxaoklzAauyep*qq?bbYzptsPjv,foigcurjpISeA=AxebdjrhwtCqe#rq
zAargtHsfsNtd;yqahqwrAixCwd=CzatgxwhsvBet;xBpugxrhowtBs;rpadtnvnfsNmi!mmq
hquygjFgbGtjp^iFsqpnugxHLpd@tpavjjrwbIywd:nmubtjskfKMep*qqavqezhwxo[
VQSUQS12TsNmi+fmuvgrHAfwtys!oxmwuyJhuxtfd<kDzbgfJszsJws:uFzrgeGm
tquyqwClesuhg^yEavqeLojLtim"oFbnbqAistLD	!f0ftqCrJpKJtv@zuppbmsz
jqwgntHlesuet/uFpvAuwgpytfd<oqxbuysAjHHex&gFaecsrzfGxem_gsfubfuypLMex&k
tquyqwCguHtgi!Bufygim

ZtfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJFauLty"nFafqBFggHLeh^sAouvwsAjHHeg=tFbkpjvguPI
smujgrsAjvMef=uwt}beUSB`!em|fpfxgqGwjGAee+jlxknqrzqxHid:nqapgCLgzxuw
jqwgntHpoztfr!gBqnkhsAjHHex&gFacnqGDtsJjs[rqacveOvsDMye:oAoubyGgcKIBw^
ztfbdtGrtnteX&AE.bEQSZTsCxd%kHfnquAuhsuef/uItkplrApHF	d=tlujgesztNGux*uz
ztbvbzKlsLtis!tAubyfFAaMIev^gpacpewuuBLjd#uAlbhwGtattBs/qEucvnGu.svzx
CAvnfeHyfyywd:ulcgbftsfsNtd-uAlbvmJvvzBee+jlegenvlaBzex&kKayqzDkaECpi!zA
nmwgbfrwsBHyi%foprAeGmaBN 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dmklsgvwAlwtFew=lFxctjr[a.Xnk*zmmbhnDlavIuC/osiv*e?gTvusr*ts
xmugbiMyjGAet/upvevnGua}tFy:uEfiojFAbMCtr!=lDtkywyjttjq[rAzgfeAu
yqmgeyAuhsvts)ylgqteKjbGHnr"f;aEqrHyfLMns+fmofbiwjpFJwi|yuppbtxgjFuli|f;
UOSbptLgqKyhp;jqeb)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtvy^yFjqp]sue usw>kDargwAvesNme:frpnntOlesBjv!vDfugsLhuBIs{
VQSUQS12TsGfh^fFigujrhewCym=tmmbrtAuuLi

flabb+rYfsLjx/oqwcneKvgMQfv^ lDqtswsmsCxd%kHfnquAuhsueY+oJ_dcxwkaLywz^x
flabbfKgxxFqd@yldnkjFAtsztv!ztfbujJCfKtyl@zltwruGyusGzp:oBmgbuDhuyIwq|
flabb=5hdBHys|nfaKDRrhowtXy+fIptmxLhuBIswS ljpbyzlaAIui!ztbvbuwvqEyej/uy
flabbfFFaHzex&uEfbrqsAgHLrw!CumnbwwAsByAi!hApmu.rhayOwx&kDaqrjJhuBHl
flabbfKzvFJym=tljubyzhusMye+jmsfbnFAfKzfg^ylxknqrifsOxi%fmtbozuoatM
flabbuGztBvqi7fIigtjrzutHie/jEaecsrifsJzx!ozarnful.svjg@AEfbEQSZT
flabbhGutBxjv|fFikueJluKCjz@rltqhyOhsxtfd-onsctDrhqIFng@zuppbfFkaPIzp%
flabbqArfsNtd#klbdnjrApsFts)fmubofLlsBuqd+uFaqpqQgbMtHs/tqmnbgMAatNes:nqs
flabbnFzuBNzx*uzt}

flabb+r1ixtul/gEfb*iAnjMuqd'oxfbetHFsBAmx!hKaEqwFlmEtZr*BqsukyQ+aPux
flabbfvkfwtfx!ztfbciNpdxttj!IAspgqD_tsFjk@rltvckxgxBNmd:nqaecAwhusNme:fuu
flabbuJvctvqC!CAvnfeFvusBtp%fGqbksrjpNLy	!fOptpjDsawIjw!tAubyfFAaIytt-k
flabbyGgdHJDd*zEadqtCzatHid|kxmbvmwtauOyd>uGmfbqArfsNtd)kqqbvmwt
flabbfNhjEugp^frptbzKlaBHee!ructcwQgfGPnv=tyfpvexvssFnf/gDzbrzJwpLyx	

flabb+rPosJws%AoukqsrAixtxg@tzftbhsuaLwfr!gnpwve&%~sJfk^ylqgtezvvKn
flabbhswuNLnr"f^~`biGAtsJjv!ozdj}

flabb+r1ixt3i/uJauqkLDbKyel@ylgknywytsNtd|imobjfDmuHHjd_gFftkfDgbGxee<uue
flabbyzlaFInv^fBbvvjJutsNme:fAdewwrDixHel@rruqpjrtbMywm@rljubxuhoGyi	
flabb3wypQtme|fnfgpeOvsDCsk!uzajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxtyl@zlxqwqvgfGugp^
flabbyzlaLwfr+kDakvxwsgsNtd/kopipnRlaMBnw!yuuwcyAvosush!jqbnbBAAisCy
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqmA+]sglBHid=llbwvtKlhFysx@zuppbyzhusQty-jlfpcgDlaMBj
flabbxuhoGywd:ulicpiDlaAuqj:uzfbofLlsBuqd@ylxgnqrhtsNjB:fAobceKpozFjd[gsf}

flabb+r1ixtgs=qEauwgBldMyid:ulujgewsbuIwe:klqtqhwztsxjw$xucgfesipOyeA^xq
flabbxwsfvNjh!hqdcwxwgD5UXW!oEacbuJltxLAe:oAobrwGqfvN	d>oFibvmwggBLxx!~*~
flabbgGvlLtxi-kougfeuvnBHld'xAnbEtJufEF)w!smujgrsAjvMeg=rxfevnGu.svjg@AEf
flabbyzlzsQjv^fEuknqrifBHld&kmwknDrBtxxee+jlcgefMzfmtfp:nAvijeLofRtBi/k
flabbnFgoxyid=llqtgxwywtNns+ lujgeEhuAyre:ootbnntybKSee+jlujgeEhuAyre:oot
flabbksjvENDd>kDfbwsuvnyIwx@hxfbjfNpoztyl^slnkewGmjEGjh8fl)VjjQgxtHyi%fm
flabbuJpoMyid$uBz}_er1iNM	d:nqtgbgGvlLtgi$gyfbceDvhBwfp!itpkejrmpKtyl*y
flabbuJvkxwy	!f1ujgwripHExd>kDfbemGzfGtgC!ztfbrwGqfvN)w!yqmgeyAvoswtq_oFuggx
flabbkGyaxRui/oyfpvxrDjMBex&klugemFvmHAD{!gEaygqDgbLtys!sqfvbfrkfFush!uDapgjvb

flabb+rPntAjw!Cumnbgwgexwtq[xqtugirifyIwi!ztfAbfJlaLysx!uHftbyzlaECsi3fmu
flabbyzptsNnq^fFigAesyfswtq[xqtugirhowtxi+zluqbyzlaBGfk^frjnksygtRMyi_
flabbfFkaMBjr!yqovbyGguAyet/ozugteszavIrt/kEtgfeAtbzyx,!ztfAbfJlaKyyy/tqe
flabbyGguAyeA=xwtvcyAvosuxd$uyqtgxKles_#@TjBjbkrsnfLtfr%fFigbBGylLNfx*uz
flabbiwjpFJwi|yqtbcsvgtvuqi|fFigoexvssxnw[rmz++fFgjGykj*iufpveOhzsNt
flabbfujfLMex&klncvjJpbEtyl=AsibkyrDpKExd]AuugbBwsmsztv!vDjpvnFnatHi
flabbtLofKtuy/vAtgu 

flabb+rJMT!Xd*ylbnutrkfvIrt/kEtkplrvos7fg*tFpujesues3GQ7fmauntOgqKIhi|y
flabbwAniMtss>alaGxjFAvtFqC7foporwwztBIsd@tpafghGtqKyxw*uzaykqDgutEj
flabbuDhdxttr!gzakofylavIsz^xEjqpeKlsOyw	!f6scfj	vgyMeA*rxadgeEhexnef@yqe
flabbtFggNNzv^fBfthtJtbGwjd:kEukpllgdHHhi/tuoibBzlsxtyl^frjngeAz
flabbhGtqKyxw^jlbpfeOobMtwi|uxvvktFgjFuli!oEaugsLb

flabb+rVD~tme|fzpvbgwlosJwi$rGegf.rpntAjw!gDfbdjAuhsMys/kpavjfLgitPjd#kqo
flabbxuhoGyid@zlbbjnyoaKyxs-AFjqp	rDiBwmd[xqtwoftszsQty-jltwkyrAixGeA^rx
flabbyGgbGtTGmfBsqejKz?stGi$gGtgbyzlaFuyi/ommbdjAuhsMhe+tqebkxrhcHOydv$*
flabbDwhsLttp%fmofbBszaILnr:kpaykyzgmxMx[:nmo+kiwhmsNjg&tAmqinwz.sPjv,
flabbjsymRtfr%fBsgnnEpotLDd:kEuubmsCfsHtx!vDpfwhwkazIth!xqtwnyKbasVzx!ztf
flabbuJvkxwyd*yldcryMyjGAee+funcijrAitNem|fAgbuzxmjvCjr:fDfuqqMAjHHex=fnf
flabbxMikxwyi%fFpbQH0gjGtyl^frvvwwwbas7tv^uHft?eLofsMDw:kyacthzpuxwyy/k
flabbfFkaMBjd|EEugoeHsbGtme<klbbntypdtFet-gofbvtrzuHLjd@tlPETeAtbzyem'fuu
flabbmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stGy:fFicveAzaGIyd#kuoibiGufsHtA8

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ23 d!JUTVTNT2U29S{!TQUYQW3Z.sUSH!TQUYQW3POZiedjV6JQPXrMP~
JUTUGR1UB!3TR

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UDJb+rPtLOjw!vqsvcnFpoztys!IP_TQRKg(s9ux*uztbhtJgqNvqm|nuoibnFgDWaWShf;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAcgtyr7JV2	d|vqdkcqrhtLCxx@tFavqeLofsuxw=iubvgeDpcKuwm@tlgqteKwfvCfp
vDplghLz.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|yfacpirtpwywe:uDaqheLojLtxi|yupp?expsLNer=zqe
ztfbdqwztxxef;zltqojOobMtfA)CmsfbhAydNGxx@tofbqkrobOCsk!lAvtbAwyz
jutvksyBjLBjh!vqprnjryfILjw^tFjpieFluPIwo|fmofbswAxHLpm+mlptbfLgmxuxx
rqbpksygjGtyl@zlektjuAjHH	d>numgbqsjlBHld@tKppgeLvaLJje)frsqoeLof
yFsqplwzusJtw|onmgbgsjlzLty+jljpbHV|S87x	!f`JEJewEqKyxw^jlujgezvqxtyl@z
sqndgwKgpytyl^fmvfkjFjfsQty-jlkqksrAixtim|iGtuktFbas2jd|zDfuujvguAy
yGcvkyDlaHzex&oEarcwLpdNFfv!yqtuktFaa.9ux*uztbhtJgEBMxi_ozbvktFa&sush7
iAoegwFpoztHHTX1Nu?eLofsCrt=xFbpejrvgsxjx^xyjpksygxAysd*zlxqwqvgcxtBm|k
zAaeqsKpexLeh*yEfokssAjHHem+fOE+TT5gwxLxy|fzfvytJrtnteE!ytprrnFnaECxx!ur
oEtwgxrwfKNfm+ozhbvtrJE `TQ|fuoenzvlehtex&klhtqzFktsztv!yqmgeyAuh
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKaatHid*t\iqwxwgqNvqm$gFjqpeOofKyet=yEjdnjrCfKMzw
tAorttxpusIwd"uHftprwuusJzf-oobvktFbasUew*sumcteDptMtks/fzfvytJrt
ozdnwiwk;stii:kDnkpnFnaPBjr!uzfbumGBmwths+yuegtevptLyrm+gFjqpeLosHOll!g
tquyqwCaaBxjr:orzkplrAixtri$nmokurKgpKtjr:oFjgueLobMtjB*yFavqeHsbvyem:kyt
uzapgyOvsDM	d*jqovkkQpoztyl^fBpqneGmaxRnw:ozhbpjLDpKEx{!jqugtrAujGAel=Clb
vDpfwhwyasQty-jldjqtKlauyyA^kzapgyOvsDM	d@tpakfjFAjySnr"fFigbjDlnxHyw!ur
glcwunFltLtfv/gzhgojFAaBHee!tquyqwCb

UBukqsKggHLet;hxjujnFnaBHeG	/4PO<erhosIzx|opfbrztsjLBjv!Bqsuwx
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz?bbNxgbGtty:yuegbuMimBMmi/futbwxwk.sCyd$gzadgeFvoILtj*z
