Information Service (NTIS), in the case of government.  The pros and cons
associated with employing an outside publisher are obvious.  Among the
pros, there is no trouble getting accepted.  One pays the bill and, in
effect, goes one's way.  Among the cons, when one pays an outside
publisher to perform the work, that publisher will perform the work it is
obliged to do, but perhaps without the production expertise and skill in
marketing and dissemination that some would seek.  There is the body of
commercial publishers that do possess that kind of expertise in
distribution and marketing but that obviously are selective.  In
self-publication, one exercises full contr/ux.bdzLguAysd=tqaowxLgitHip^
smuvgwKgtNwmd@ylekuyJpcNNns+fmofbrsylxNnr"alaUwhzgbKyew=sqaqheLofsIux*uzt
lAsbrztsjLBnr"fuobvmwgdtMjd=llDF+W7T?

OzavjjrjbLyes'fFfejsAjbEtfr%fpfuklFgjLMzi| lxjkhzgbKyee-yAakouGyutHy{
ztftgesyfsGfr,fybvvjJzaPBng&fybpAesAaMBjdruDlujtHgbELje%EllpgBrhazIth
jqbnbftvvMied/kFskgAssaLSxx^slsgszAyfFysx|fmofbhGzuLneA&gFavqevvatvty:
oybigxlguAyez@xupwueuhqtvnp*zufubfFkaIFfx'uDnu?eLofsNwe%k\phhxrifMQji+
iAtvbfFkaIywj=xybpejlgdHHhi/tEacdtMAaEIhe-/msgceFluPIwo@humkvDl
ozugttHlstvnp*zK.bgyub

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
R~OEJe?gDKyfx*tsapgyOvsDyid*trptofLppGtnw!jughgwwuuszws_fGtkplrufMQtv)y
gEacpesjdxMxd=xlekuxwtjGuym=tlwgjnusfs{eR^zIptmjvgnNFym_kpjcbtFgbsFfv"k
yobngevvfLtss:fKfvbBGyls{eX,vudcneUK_~9Rd[AnmkefLppGtrs%kxacbyOv_xxli%
yIptfe?gQNvqm|nuoibnFmpKGfx*uzaqpesgDWaWShfuobvmwgqKyxi+zlxqtqvgpy
oyncvzJlaLNfr%gDeub+rJpGNwe|zlcgvBwlosWI[mUYacpirufMQtv)fBskenFna}
KJborqwzawyrs+yFscvjvgftLqm^xljpbyzlawuDd@ylbbujLgpytnr|AxbtbnFmpKGfx*uz
mqnub+rWbKurs;tFapgjvguHtqm+qlecvfthtxMe_!RmzgtnFnaMIef^iAngbnFjsxuxm+mxz
tqdguxsyzs{eT/uvfeve6LFW!ee+jlujgeAztNyxd=lljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugesuesuhx*Bq
BqsuwxrwbLMnz^fGtgb+r5_$Csh=CEacuesgxtSes'fpjhhjJloMCfx*tsadgyOlfG
tquyqwCgbvwjw|fmofbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsdQfNbttnwytsNtd:nqafkxLyjuOym=t
urapgyOvsDyid_AxukojvpbsCsj=xybvktFg(s8ji%frptblGvemtwi@r\ukojrkfECAi/E
vDpvqhGsts{eX&klrwgxLppGttj!vDfugsLhuBIsd*tFfitnLFaBHeg-oqov+xwywxL
iAnrwyAuhsCsd:nqacefvlnBweA=xxeb)e0ldHGri+jmukqsKggHLet/upveksygnNFym_kpjc
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

IxjhhtJka5'SGc lektjuApKneP*hDbtAeSBuHGfx*uz.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@ 
uBfpgirojLtye-qlxkvmrAixtli+kDbnbttzfKPfx*uzavjfLgoxNBs/qqebksxvsFuym=t
iAouvnLBuxxee!jughkhMsusush!kxvukAwguHJng!hqdcwxwgjMtnw!yAngvmAuhsDzw:
yFbtvnFnaMIeh^BqmqresuesHtx!EqubhzDszsOsh^xEuqqimga5'SGcfoppvjFkfwtyl@z
iDfcvnFnazysy*tqmAbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsd>gEafkkxlsxHyd'xAnbwxAuh
tquyqwCzatMee+fmdegxKgpKtim|yqnkpfLppGtAi&oomgbfFkaPuxd_uDfbutHojLNng@zqe
gzebotJlaLOgx-kgabJjrpoOCyi%fFigbrwtcxLxd=llujgesBeBysg^fFpbgCLybIIqe:kf
lDpobBzhusNmi,ftfctirhcHOyd:nqartjuleBHld%kyppuyJhuBIsd[xAkgeyKaaMIeA&gF
yAsvbtxgbsQtv-jlphbjDldMLtr*iEakpkGyntNns+/\tejtDhsES	d@xoikxfDa
iGmvwwss.syyg8/\ujgDrDjLBjh!zAagpirBqsQnx&fFfpbtJggBzyi^tlzgcwKggKIrd+uI?
R~OEJeKBhzyxx^jlujcyrApsyCx/gBpncywgeBLjg:rKahttEguAyxi!vDplghLzaPIzp%
vDpfwhwgvGJqi@ymovbwwzvENx	

VGuvksyguAyem|yGfbqkrJE `TQ!ozargwKwfvNnz^fnfhqwwghxNym+mljpvt
mqogtfDpuByxd=tlogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvomtQ3iITaqdxwywxxex&gFavjtKlaxHle"kp
ozaowqLpnxxne!zAecAeOopsQnw&fFpbumAwattuv=jGdv?eKvaMIew@EfarttthcESeh=
tAubjfNlaFOhl!itpkejrlyvyux!zAawujrJE `TQ2flogvBGylxxeq;rFjogiAhaHHee
rmsigeKjbEyef@yudcnqQgeHyxd+uFaAgyrDpKEef^imvugeLofsNjg&tAmqiDrkpxMer=z
kJjuv rgGHLei\gyqng	rhoRvth,fIiqbmszaMLni%fypxksygjFuli|fmsqwsvgpOywd:nq
OzugtswAaDHtA|fFicveLojLtnw!gzagzhAAjGAex=Aoi+csv|hHtuv=iqtu?es
lmtekssAjGAee+jlggtyAsfsuwi@frptbjPwfKCri+zmukqslgsxMje/it.bcsv
jqwgntHtfGN	d#AFapqyrzpFyyl*tsavjfLgpGyeg@tlcgetElawyjt-ElfpvmMzjtMym$
gnpwveuvnFCyx*tsavqeHypwOhx*uzauAxLlnLtfx!ztjubyAtfn

ZtjubxAAvtNns+fIjnneuobGAj{!R~OEJeKhjwoedcklekhkwyfGNne:kpaEF]0VNszws_
ztfbrwsjuBwjw!ztbvbmsCfsvji+frpnntOlesOud:uloqyeAuawCxx/onvvksygetNfd=t
IP_TQRmgaYIwdg5ZDJbyzlaILtf-kyaykyzgDWaWShfutbptLgjMMet=xFbdkqAAzsIwd*zE
yxpypjKzauOyd:nqavyt	lezyid|CAsfbtxgitPnr"fFigbwwAsByAe-fmqrnnuhuBIsd@tp
ztfbwxwyaBHyi/lmdgbnFlyMLng@hxzbdtMuesOud>oFibvmwgetNf{!CtjejeAzaMBj
zKqkefDgDWaWShfBvdnnuhuBIsd_upfn}erPusCxd+uFacbhszfsIkd[AnmkumAuhsxfx@
hGubqkrkjLNwm#AFjpiesguRJng@rxzbuysue uqs+kfavAuAjbEFDd$rAtgfeKFtMyr{
gxm++xGmuPuwi7fGtgteAuuxLke$kfacpirkbMu][=tlbbnnLAmxtim|qgabJjFjfmtfp-
ztfbdjLDfxH]h*ywapcAAnbMCtr@rljuuzwzatMeA^rxacueLofsCrt=yEjdkqAAzsCsd_uEu
imtgueGmaBHyi"xmukplrkbMues+fAogbiAzlsQnx&fFicveGuatHtx&kD?bbRGzusWI[mUY
xqutkjNhmsMtj:CmsgbiGltsHtx!tquyqwCgwxLDd"xmdghzDszsuyd[xqtgpymga1IBi<kD.
ozavjjrwsxMjr:fIptnirvgsCrq@zGsgbxLhowuwh|fmofbqsjlsIkd;tpftuysueBHld=l
CtbvbswAxHLpd*trptofLppGtnw!uDayjfLguAyek/uGofbwMsfLtfv^frptbhJlbMCsk!uD
AEjpieAA.sJzf-oEikplrpoyIwq@zuppbtFgbsWI[mUYafqjKgbwxez@rGfbksrhaOywC
xqbnbxwutxo

R~OEJevyfPtfd$uzutcxLgcxNBi^tlDF+W7TatHid+kFxqtprwsBwnr"fmofbnFgeHCsk!yA
nuhjnnyouxxew=squjksygcBTfv/kljpbnFmpKGfx*uzartnupozoed?fxbtij
oztvkyMAjHHew;itacueLofs#sm<kDtkvDrvgsWfp*lAspkfrobLtAi+jAsubBzvaPCqp
urggteLvaLyqp!ozgqtrsAjHHes+fOE+TT5ggHLee!vDjegeHlssSje/fuobhtMyawClm:yf
hGubhtJguAyew@sqafcysg)xol	7fmobcgKAstwym+mlbpfeAuexRnr"fpbvcgszf	ttr
smhpgyAjaMuui7fDficwvsfLMes'ftpybrsuzsJjs[rqaocDrBtxtnx!iAoewwJloMFD{
CumnbvMvuxtfd[xudgbnFgtBReh*muuu}

3tbvbnKgqtwpe"kpaykyzguAyeG	/4PObnFgpGyew^tEfbcivzaOuqy^/\bbetEwmxNj
godguxrzzLNjq7fzpvboMzusLfA7fGotgkAufwtnr'uDncvnGu_ uqx&uGhjbnLgjLtss:
mqogtfDszsJjv$kuwgfeLobMtBe,alaVjnKgjLtgi$gGtgbyzlatwhi|yltqhyOhsxn
gxujqzyoaBNee%jEaxcqMl.sCxd<oqxgfetFaLIri!vqprnjlgqtLym$AxbtnDrposNmi
AzjxgwKpuRtjr<oDppojFAaPBjv^fFigtjrptsuez^xKajgfNFavIrq*zyfpveLv
tquyqwCpoznee|fnfkplrkfOyqs[kpakpeLofsQws+mlektjuAjHH 

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e46OV2eh^yoskdjvguAyei\gyqngxrkfFIsw:xmugfeszattxi:fAg
oztwnfJgjGztv_gFjqpeylnLa]T^xEfwu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eGmgxLxd+oofnAeDpoDyi
ozgqtrsAjHH	d#AFayqzDkauyez^xKafkkxpdNFyd:uljpvjyybMyeA*ztaqvmwy
jmucdfKltmtyl@zlju?eLvaECso!zAhgvmwyaLyfq-kEtnAeOpuAttx&kDauqzJjfsznp^y
lDpobtLofKtxs;xofu}erPusLjw^snmguesuaBMqe+jfacpirposNmm|fDfurjuAaBM
yunknfJguHtsy_kDpwueKAbGx]e-uzfbrwGqfvNxd:nmubcwwgctMjh!uzaxkiwveBMhw7
ztbvbnKaaHHex&kltkplDl_PIwo|zmukqsrjpGwjt:a

GEauemGsbKMmm[fqwqnAwzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv	rAixtue/gypwpyrufxxeA*rx
hqavqeDpoDtie:gnbugxmga$yeq;yFanksCgqxLxs+gxafcysibLyxd:ulqwdqAj
jmucdfKltmtys!mDpwrevhutvfw^yfakpexhjKFDd|kmnngxKgxtSx[TCtjejeAz
kJutgrwszsxnj'oovnveAuaMBjd^tHjtqsEloMMey+jqsbfnKjvLMns+fIjvjeuvqByxd=l
jmucdfKltsJws-orftcyAuhsuqp!uHftbyzlaIFfg^a

ZtfbptLppGttj!rmzgtnFnatFxs!yFsweprSZ7WMd@ylmwtpAuhsCsd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
vDplghLzawyrs+yFscvjvbas!jz^xmmbffLhctMjw!ozacbxwutxths+yFjvwyw
ozgqtrsAjHHee/itjxgxrDjMBty:fmauklFpgBwfr:fmnqwsLgpytse<osbvktFgcNCqx!oz?
KpvecyGytmthv*zudu?esuesIyl^xEaykqDgxtHyd@fxbAgwwkaLNwy$zGsg+]GufsNme:
jqgkpjKgpKtqm+qEarcyzzaMBws;mtavjjrsbRyww!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbtjsji
yBfekkAjaIInr:ygabKsrSZ7WM(|fHjgy	rsbRywm+mlxknqrifvIri!ozdtgfKpozFD
tqdguxsyzmtfr%fzpvboMzusQnx&ozacbxAuhEyev^yAvtejrivMtfg/uEtbtjKvvKwjw
[q?i}	rAstwnr"fyzvjtDvhRtfr%fovnvzJhmsNmi_kEacewGztsMjz^xmmbeqsztBwx
jmucdfKltsuxd>kxmbcxrhawuye#gEfbqkrYfGunw|gzdgbhMsuNLj=8flUjkxrhcBFnx,fFp
uDhcpnRlaKyxs;xofu?eLvauOnp%fFikplKgpNNes'fyvnvnHsfsIyl^xlujksyzaHHex&k
tquyqwCgpKtxi-koubrnwjfLttj!oF.btjHyfLysx^jlgqte46OV2es+klphbyzlaDyD
gEqgeyKgpytsi:CAsmbnFmpKGfx*uz?

IAovgsvpoztyl@zljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugeuvoLNnx;zqebcsGAixLew*mzjhkhsuusCxw;kf
R~OEJeuvnFysh^jluqbyzlatOim^tof&uesAuxHym=tlQtqowjus8JI	Yl)k}jmaa7uym=tmm
KzhkpjwyjGAeI%AobvktFgExFnz^xKaUAxLln	oedonutbrwGqfvN)w!unkgeyACfsCxd:u
vDpfwhwgbsxfx@hmtgbtxgfGAnr^kDjpieuvvKMjA@xqacueOlmEtfw!ztfbetEwpGysx|
ztbvbhsuauyey|kpavqevlwxFtt!tqxbetMytxQfv^alaKpesgoNGgi/fAgbvmwgfQCxx*ts
gBqnkhsAjHHx{!R~OEJeKhjwnex&kljuuzwgpytwi;yqa-jtOgnNwmd=tqaecsrAbDyee[gDu
gzebtjMzfsCsd=ztftbfHwmBwfx*uzt_bBszaGIyd#kuoibBwsmswtr|opftgimga1yee-yA
xmjugirAixtnw|AqaqhesjuBPjd<kDtwueHhtLCAi!AEf?btFlatMui$zlphbBzpdAtem|
nAxbozuoaBHks/smukqsrDjEFef^fybpkuMsbMyid-uobnnDrizsOxi/ygabOtKAaIytt-kf
nqactlMlemtre,fppbceDpuMFjd#xAxuksygbGxex&kzaykqDgxBMmd:ulqtksLbas64R{N
CmtbwsulsMunr!nAxbvmwzfsLjw=ADdgueOvvExef^fGtgfetFaMBjd<gEubofBvsBNDd=l
AEftueAuaMBjd+kFxqtprloOCws+sqov}

R~OEJeFlyMtxe*jlbbhjOgxHLiw!gnpwve$|XBHis>ylbubfrDbRttj!jughgwwuuBuym+m
hquygjFgoxNBs/qlbeejKzatHid+kFxqtpwkaBHks/smukqsmgaTtsy_hqsbqkrAix
gBqnkhsAjHHxd%kyppuyJhuxxee:fFigb2GylLBtt!iAvnfetlaKyBv*zFfpbyGgvLye2
gosquxrAixtsi:CAsm?eKvaMBfx!uzfbetMsesLzr!ztfobkJvnsusC!4\dcrftsfsxjz*iq_
/mayqwCzutNns+ lbpb3rAfKGnr@r\_cpirAstHxe$zlxkvmrhawuye#gEfbchJvtLtyl^
tquyqwCbasUqx&uGhjbyzptsIui+ylvrbfujfLMee!ruuvnjlgbLMzq*tsaqpjrobLtjr=Asi
tquyqwCguHtme+jxfbkylgjMtis^yloqveHypOCii!gzakpywygtwjd:ulegxjDvqsu
vDpitfEguAuyd$uzwgpnwuuESem+zqhtcywzaBHks/smukqsrmsHGeq;rFjrnjrkbMuge|kE?
4ljubfrCjxQnr"fFfejsGspzSex&gFajcxrsjFCyw8flJpbfryftFew^tEf?bnLgjLtoy|zlb
mDbrjnuhmsPjv|oAobqkryfFIyi!rAh+ksrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKE d!4\uArjrhqIFng@zuppu
xqqtgxwuusIsp,fAogbxLlqsCsd:nqarttyyfLMns+fFpycwvzaKyfp!godguxm

R~OEJeFlyMtim|iGtugiribKLni/yluqbyzlawCxx/onvvktFgpytsi:CAsmgirtvENnq^jub
ozgqtrsAjHH d!ZtfbjjsyusIkd:nqartttsfFtnw!glmceprvgsMye+jmsfueLvaILtz*jq
ztfbcgAsjMSej=xldqouMAfKMex=fFbnmeLvaxuhl!uFigt	ryfMLni<kljphtJtbMCtr7
gzebumMmgEyem:fmsqwsvggtCwp,fobuwfDsznteE:fFigbrGtfGN	d-oFungeHypzLjw|fut
hqjpieEhexttr!yFbpffJktsztv!tquyqwClesCsj=xybvktF}ayIwd^DmnrnjlgqKyxi+z
yFbpffJktsxtd+uFaeqAwyaBGfk^yfafklAAbEtAs*iq.bcsvgeBAnx@rlwkfjGbasU
AEfhwqrApHFeo*zlphbjPjitHli!lAsocyKggHLef@yudbvjPAtsCxd=txzbptOgcxCsk
gEtgogDlenteX&kltAphzypGCEe:oAobqkrjpGNjr:fEutgfEza{C i8 ltAphzypGCEm+mlb
BAjegeLybvEex=fmaxkiwvaMLfg) lfuvftsjLBnr"fFfortJhmsLjp@zuppuetluPyjr
jughgwwuuswtq[uzfpvxrposueq;rFjogiAhaHvoi$z>aeqsKAjMOyi|fmoqvmwyaBMxy^
lAsbpjLDpKEjh!sGmvkrwkjttyl@zljuboMzusvjk*tzjpieLvaKyhi*BqacvywuuBIs	

1zegtqQpoztsi:CAsmbuJvuHwtp|fmmuqeFlfwtxs_klxqtphghHIi{!xqbn+yAtf
jqmkxjJFaILtx=iAmubtFguAyeM+zqspgyrkpsHtx!EqubgCAzunteM+fXZPEM\zaOCjA7
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFakpeLojLths+zqyvbnKguAyer=zuppbtxgoxNBs/qqebfnyputF
unkgeyrPELnex&klbdkqAAzsIkd=tqaqdowjusIsd:nqapgyOvsDtys!vAjpveLvatHtx&kD
unkgeyr]pKths_vAogpyrAixLjs']lppbyzlaGyyA=xw?bbXwyjHOxd#gzeykiLoaBMxy^y
gxtqbjPptMoedg5ZDJbBszaNHhi/zmjpbnxgcBFqm=t\ckv]Hls Mjg=tpapgyOvsDMeA=Axe
vDpxgeKBgyChm^tFakheFBnxLty|fBfqrqwgstHez*jqpbksrwbKuqp^rg

R~OEJeuvovFzh^jlcAbtxmfKCsk!gzakuxMlayIwd%gFbdcxwgdKyfx=xEavqeuvoLCii/ 
gEaygqDgbLtxi<kDbnbhGtnxHyw!gnpwveOobMtrm"nFaeqsKAjMOyi!mApfbyJpbE
sGmvkrwkjttjB[kDjogsLz?stNr!glogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvosQtv-jlujgevhutvfw^
hGjnfjJgpKtxi/BudgbgMpmwywdRvGcnkxzls	tis^yloqvewEfKwnw^fFigbxstf
kJugpxACfswtr:xAmbqAwyaMBjd*tFfitnLFaHzex&klqtgxwuutNns+?ltvtfFnf
vDpitfEza.Gzr"k|aykyzgpGy)w!jmucbgwmpKyex&klvugwrzfxMem:alaUgwAvvL
ztpwimLgnNMyd#klhkxjFguHtBl@zlhwcwsuuxyxd*tFfitnLFaHzet/kEfpvfLppGoedkgDu
uravjfLgjLtwi-gFffbyGgxAywi!uzfbfwsDtsNmi!hAvpffJpfLtfv=AzebceFluPIwo^j
ozgqtrsAjHHew^xHjeg rgUACxd]AqtvktFgpytuv^yqovcyAvosCsx^mDjvAeAu
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!iAnrwyAuhsBfw!tAubdjwuaLNwi|yqebgsGBhAtnr!ztfbchskfFCh
CAsnf	rSZ7WMd@xsvgf	rAiHOll!iAnogwupbEtxi/BudgbuJvwBxjv|fpfcneOpuAtnx
xqhwnfJszn

IAoegwFpoztry-zungfnsaa5'SGcfAcugwNlesNme:fspqfeEBmMCri%omacveLofsGtq^tF
oEajkiwvvLFDd^DBfpunNlaMIet/upveg rgIxtwi$uyngpiwkaILth;iuoibrMsuBGjh*g
CuujbjAAixLez^xKajklzgttFjd<gxvg?eGyaFOqx*sqekceOpuAtfd<kDzbntFnaECki
yBbp?eGyaFOqx*sqekceLobMtBm-rlicxjrhaOywC!hDpcfeMzbzyef@yqacpirDiHMj
iAtvueLofKyks/kldcpetlatGtv:oLffbfEvoztqe/mqapwrtlsLttj!AEftu rgJGtyl*y
iAopghLppGnel*yFptkhssatHid&AybpkxLpdtFqC!uDjgpywkaFuyi/ommbofQgcxtfd"uAe
vxbegeLvaLNfv: lcgefMzfsCyd:kzeubyGgitPjd@fxppijJgmBzjd|vmobvmsuaFOhl!ur
ztfbuhAloMCkm$fybvgwAhmmtfw!CqmnbfKgbsQnh^xlvugwribLy d!R~OEJeFvuxx	d'uD
kJborqwaaMBfx!Gyftkhsua6yrs/ElgkvxrtbGSes'fFigbhJpuxLne!uGunkswk?stMi
xqnctpwkaMBjd^DFfpunNlawCxg;yEjqpesipNNef/ozhkplrAixtNr:kDogveGyaMBj
Tmukqsssa~yxi@xoibcsvgFwOhe:oAobPjLDpKEe+iXQO_bnFApsNmi!Q\24bjFCjKIsq^tF
gEacbBsFaHzel^rBjpieLofsUri/oobpbjvBdtNns+gxauAxLlnn

R~OEJeuspLyid#EloqvnFnaMBfx!ztfbmnFktsIkd@vBmkefLppGMeh^sAouvwsAfwtxx/Aol
nunbcxrlyvyqp^tFalwxLpgBwfx*uztbqkrisHui[|immgbswAxHLpm+mlgqte3|2&nef;z
ztbvbfLguACxd:oyfbptr+lBFqi/_lbrrqAjbMCtr!kJjuvxrApsGtf*ruAgbyzla4a66
iAnowsAAzsNtd=hFbkpeuvoGyhx*BuuA}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d	kmsvjeGmazysy*tqmAbnFAfKyxx*tsacruDpdtNns+ylppbyzlaGyyA=xw
gltnqB	jitHlm+mltkvzsAjHHe_!ZtfbkxKBfsIkd:nqakpywnsBNDd=llqtgxwuutNns+fuo
glogvBGylxxei+Busqprwuus{eW^BqscneJlbLIsw!CtzbEI	YP6txs'zIbtgevvfLtss:
tquyqwCg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns%fFicvexvmEIBi%fXZPEM\zaILjw^tFbvktFaaLyAi/gx
gpekvnGubEtus*tFtbyjJlaFuii8

R~OEJeJljMywe:kpagxjFgnHLjd|zDppiqQgiBMeg=tFfpvnGuaMBfx7ftjuvtJpdtFqC7
uzdgbtFlazIjw!uGuukiwgiBAm[^tpauenwudxtfr%fFigblJvvIttj!ztpugeOopsHji%
godguxrApsMzt^xoporzLlsLnex&kDfbkxrhazLje:fpfctyzgpytli+AuognD
ozugtjKAjGAee[vxjecyAvoLttr!ztfbpjLDpKE d!NqaucBrAiBMew*zGbvktFgdAusk*ts
yxpynDlgxBNmd|uyfbqkrAixtxg*kzukhnugetNff@yqtbcsvgtvBtp@xxzbfnKjvLMns+
mDpwrxrhowtjp^iFsqpnugkHOwr@rEaeqrAuhsIsd@ylxgnqrhtsQnx&fFigbfNhjEugm-oFz
uraYkiwgBKyfddtrptofLppGtXi/Bqsub=#HJ` ee+jltqojrvgsNmi!jmucdfKltsNme:
gDfbdjAuhsGty+zqebvmwyfnteL=Cqwgt	rtbGSes'fFiqujrAiBHlw!jAapqyrzfxGex=
nmwgbuAxvxxek/kmubrtHBmtLem+zqsguymgaYIwd*tEucphwaaFIxx!nuhjbxuopHF
yFvfgsLzaHzePtTOI&uesjrNunr:gzdgbBGBmwtss:fCvcnnxFatMeh^BAuggxrvgsMjv*uGt
sAmgezDhssvns-usz}

IAoegwFpoztyl^futuwjrvgsNmi!ozugiwAAzsIkd[xqtgpysAjHH	dg5ZDJbgwsjxPjh
ztbvbfrjpNJqi!urakpkGyntNns+fBsqxnvlsLtme<klmckirkpPHex&klmcyesAaEyfw:fAo
iqsvcnFguACsk|alaHqwrlytGup^ likueJldHFqi$zuppbBszaMBfx!ztfbPfLppGu
