electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coding.  The results, ERWAY reported, were in all cases fairly
comparable:  for the most part, all three service bureaus achieved 99.95
percent accuracy.  AM was satisfied with the work but surprised at the cost.

As AM began converting whole collections, it retained the requirement for
99.95 percent accuracy and added requirements for text-coding.  AM needed
to begin performing work more than three years ago before LC requirements
for SGML applications had been established.  Since AM's goal was simply
to retain any of the intellectual content represented by the formatting
of the document (which would be lost if one performed a straight ASCII
conversion), AM used "SGML-like" codes.  These codes resembled SGML tags
but were used without the benefit of document-type definitions.  AM found
that many service bureaus were not yet SGML-proficient.

Additional factors influencing the approach AM took with respect to
coding included:  1) the inability of any known microcomputer-based
user-retrieval software to take advantage of SGML coding; and 2) the
multiple inconsistencies in format of the older documents, which
confirmed AM in its desire not to attempt to force the different formats
to conform to a single document-type definition (DTD) and thus create the
need for a separate DTD for each document.

The five text collections that AM has converted or is in the process of
converting include a collection of eighteenth-century broadsides, a
collection of pamphlets, two typescript document collections, and a
collection of 150 books.

ERWAY next reviewed the results of AM's experience with rekeying, noting
again that because the bulk of AM's materials are historical, the quality
of the text often does not lend itself to OCR.  While non-English
speakers are less likely to guess or elaborate or correct typos in the
original text, they are also less able to infer what we would; they also
are nearly incapable of converting handwritten text.  Another
disadvantage of working with overseas keyers is that they are much less
likely to telephone with questions, especially on the coding, with the
result that they develop their own rules as they encounter new
situations.

Government contracting procedures and time frames posed a major challenge
to performing the conversion.  Many service bureaus are not accustomed to
retaining the image, even if they perform OCR.  Thus, questions of image
format and storage media were somewhat novel to many of them.  ERWAY also
remarked other problems in dealing with service bureaus, for example,
their inability to perform text conversion from the kind of microfilm
that LC uses for preservation purposes.

But quality control, in ERWAY's experience, was the most time-consuming
aspect of contracting out conversion.  AM has been attempting to perform
a 10-percent quality review, looking at either every tenth document or
every tenth page to make certain that the service bureaus are maintaining
99.95 percent accuracy.  But even if they are complying with the
requirement for accuracy, finding errors produces a desire to correct
them and, in turn, to clean up the whole collection, which defeats the
purpose to some extent.  Even a double entry requires a
character-by-character comparison to the original to meet the accuracy
requirement.  LC is not accustomed to publish imperfect texts, which
makes attempting to deal with the industry standard an emotionally
fraught issue for AM.  As was mentioned in the previous day's discussion,
going from 99.95 to 99.99 percent accuracy usually doubles costs and
means a third keying or another complete run-through of the text.

Although AM has learned much from its experiences with various collections
and various service bureaus, ERWAY concluded pessimistically that no
breakthrough has been achieved.   Incremental improvements have occurred
in some of the OCR technology, some of the processes, and some of the
standards acceptances, which, though they may lead to somewhat lower costs,
do not offer much encouragement to many people who are anxiously awaiting
the day that the entire contents of LC are available on-line.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ZIDAR * Several answers to why one attempts to perform full-text
conversion * Per page cost of performing OCR * Typical problems
encountered during editing * Editing poor copy OCR vs. rekeying *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Judith ZIDAR, coordinator, National Agricultural Text Digitizing Program
(NATDP), National Agricultural Library (NAL), offered several answers to
the question of why one attempts to perform full-text conversion:  1)
Text in an image can be read by a human but not by a computer, so of
course it is not searchable and there is not much one can do with it.  2)
Some material simply requires word-level access.  For instance, the legal
profession insists on full-text access to its material; with taxonomic or
geographic material, which entails numerous names, one virtually requires
word-level access.  3) Full text permits rapid browsing and searching,
something that cannot be achieved in an image with today's technology.
4) Text stored as ASCII and delivered in ASCII is standardized and highly
portable.  5) People just want full-text searching, even those who do not
know how to do it.  NAL, for the most part, is performing OCR at an
actual cost per average-size page of approximately $7.  NAL scans the
page to create the electronic image and passes it through the OCR device.

ZIDAR next rehearsed several typical problems encountered during editing.
Praising the celerity of her student workers, ZIDAR observed that editing
requires approximately five to ten minutes per page, assuming that there
are no large tables to audit.  Confusion among the three characters I, 1,
and l, constitutes perhaps the most common problem encountered.  Zeroes
and  O's also are  frequently confused.  Double M's create a particular
problem, even on clean pages.  They are so wide in most fonts that they
touch, and the system simply cannot tell where one letter ends and the
other begins.  Complex page formats occasionally fail to columnate
properly, which entails rescanning as though one were working with a
single column, entering the ASCII, and decolumnating for better
searching.  With proportionally spaced text, OCR can have difficulty
discerning what is a space and what are merely spaces between letters, as
opposed to spaces between words, and therefore will merge text or break
up words where it should not.

ZIDAR said that it can often take longer to edit a poor-copy OCR than to
key it from scratch.  NAL has also experimented with partial editing of
text, whereby project workers go into and clean up the format, removing
stray characters but not running a spell-check.  NAL corrects typos in
the title and authors' names, which provides a foothold for searching and
browsing.  Even extremely poor-quality OCR (e.g., 60-percent accuracy)
can still be searched, because numerous words are correct, while the
important words are probably repeated often enough that they are likely
to be found correct somewhere.  Librarians, however, cannot tolerate this
situation, though end users seem more willing to use this text for
searching, provided that NAL indicates that it is unedited.  ZIDAR
concluded that rekeying of text may be the best route to take, in spite
of numerous problems with quality control and cost.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Modifying an image before performing OCR * NAL's costs per
page *AM's costs per page and experience with Federal Prison Industries *
Elements comprising NATDP's costs per page * OCR and structured markup *
Distinction between the structure of a document and its representation
when put on the screen or printed *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON prefaced the lengthy discussion that followed with several
comments about modifying an image before one reaches the point of
performing OCR.  For example, in regard to an application containing a
significant amount of redundant data, such as form-type data, numerous
companies today are working on various kinds of form renewal, prior to
going through a recognition process, by using dropout colors.  Thus,
acquiring access to form design or using electronic means are worth
considering.  HOOTON also noted that conversion usually makes or breaks
one's imaging system.  It is extremely important, extremely costly in
terms of either capital investment or service, and determines the quality
of the remainder of one's system, because it determines the character of
the raw material used by the system.

Concerning the four projects undertaken by NAL, two inside and two
performed by outside contractors, ZIDAR revealed that an in-house service
bureau executed the first at a cost between $8 and $10 per page for
everything, including building of the database.  The project undertaken
by the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR)
cost approximately $10 per page for the conversion, plus some expenses
for the software and building of the database.  The Acid Rain Project--a
two-disk set produced by the University of Vermont, consisting of
Canadian publications on acid rain--cost $6.70 per page for everything,
including keying of the text, which was double keyed, scanning of the
images, and building of the database.  The in-house project offered
considerable ease of convenience and greater control of the process.  On
the other hand, the service bureaus know their job and perform it
expeditiously, because they have more people.

As a useful comparison, ERWAY revealed AM's costs as follows:  $0.75
cents to $0.85 cents per thousand characters, with an average page
containing 2,700 characters.  Requirements for coding and imaging
increase the costs.  Thus, conversion of the text, including the coding,
costs approximately $3 per page.  (This figure does not include the
imaging and database-building included in the NAL costs.)  AM also
enjoyed a happy experience with Federal Prison Industries, which
precluded the necessity of going through the request-for-proposal process
to award a contract, because it is another government agency.  The
prisoners performed AM's rekeying just as well as other service bureaus
and proved handy as well.  AM shipped them the books, which they would
photocopy on a book-edge scanner.  They would perform the markup on
photocopies, return the books as soon as they were done with them,
perform the keying, and return the material to AM on WORM disks.

ZIDAR detailed the elements that constitute the previously noted cost of
approximately $7 per page.  Most significant is the editing, correction
of errors, and spell-checkings, which though they may sound easy to
perform require, in fact, a great deal of time.  Reformatting text also
takes a while, but a significant amount of NAL's expenses are for equipment,
which was extremely expensive when purchased because it was one of the few
systems on the market.  The costs of equipment are being amortized over
five years but are still quite high, nearly $2,000 per month.

HOCKEY raised a general question concerning OCR and the amount of editing
required (substantial in her experience) to generate the kind of
structured markup necessary for manipulating the text on the computer or
loading it into any retrieval system.  She wondered if the speakers could
extend the previous question about the cost-benefit of addingieGyaxRjv:ozh
yFsweyMyfwtre/qGq}beWYXT'er=zqebvmsAaLyAi/gxaQEWrzzLNjq|fDfvcnFgjMuqm$yf
hAmfksyaatHid=ztftbxHhuBuqd'uDncvyAuhnte1&oxfbvmwgntNjv*gxaocDrupMtgi!oz
ztfbhtJtbMtii|oDff?eLofLyew,yFfoueHvtLyxw!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fDfoqAwguAy
uDjiksssaFuyi/ommubvMpdDFDd'xAnbvmwgitHiw!uravjjrwfHJqi!vqshqwEpoztyl^
iAoxgwKppGnee|fIfnneszaMIev^zmjpbyzhusCsj=xybvktFgtHtyl@zlvugwKgdtHeA=xw
CuujbnLbas2TGfK~atgoGpoxxex&gFavjjrjvKLjr:fFikppAuhsIsd_gDlwreAzaMBfx!uzf
ytpwnirupMtxe,fFicveKvnxNmm+mljubnLhmBwes/fnpnfeKvaFOhl!gEayjDrpusCxd:nmu
Cmz}be`vauyew;xq.bqswgoxyiw!zAamptOguAuyd|uyfvjnFnaPuxd*zmmkenRlemtgy:
nAxbefFgpGyek^zlgtqrrvoxtys!ztfbqyzlsoteS+kldcpeEhqszws_fFigbxLyvvNzv^fFp
ztfbvDHvhKuul*ilsgrwwzfGNfx*uz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd|AshguywkaMBfx7fsjxgsrAixt6@EfyjnnnGuaBNjq|fFigbQAistLD
nAmfu	rpusGfC!tAubdjrwpLMnf-klgqte4JaMIeh=fyptgeLobGtwi[uDubvmsAattyl*ts
CmtbksrputFng|fmtbquHvtxxex=fIiAbnLgxtMem:gxjeu	rhmMBty"nlujcyrtbRtgi
jqtktftsfsCsd|uyfbetFAfQNx	!f2sqonKpoztys!zmmmbfrijMtiy/ozhbvmwgbyNjv+uAo
yqtuktFgbuIzx!yqwgtfDgfQJjv*sqovue7JMVtui/lAsogirvosuzx=smukeeJldHAsm:oAo
urafqhMtfGNei-kyfpvxlgbGxeA&ooibvmwFaAIui%fFpbgCLlowne1 ONFNbxspesNme:fuo
lmdvbtFlavusd/kopipnRlaMBjd_gvptbjDlnxHyw!uracbiGjvFysx!CuujbfrmbBLqC
nuhjbiwnsxyes'fDfnkftpmBND{!gFangfKAatMek=upacue7JSnteWoK8FPUevyfPtf
AEfhwqrkjLNnr$zuppbgwAxxysd|zmofcwvaazysi/gxjBgirtbKEzt![u?g}	rkfyCsm+m
lAsbcevvdNGjr:/FzrgevlgBHnx*uzavjjrzuKOhx;xqaqheLofsxtg;sqov_	rhowtBl@z
nqavgwElesuew:ExfbumwlumtBl*itajcirApsxtd>oFibkyssjvM	d#uxekpllgbGxes:nqs
lAsoueGmaxGul@yut}be`ovLnex>ulekhkwyfGNeg=sBppgsLzatLjd@zlxqtplgpGyef^ozh
ztfbuyJBdMOwi!uravjjrkpvOri+zljvujDma{Cyw!rAhke[lgbGxex&klpvjjJgcxCsk!oFt
xqqtgxwuutNns+fIigpeAAaBMet;zlppbyzlaLwwi^tlptbuJpoMyi	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gWnteEkV4PCEMWZa!9eTmK2BTKSYgF5YHXmUZJEbYW5U`

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
N1DMG4r[a!yCx!ozaCUH1PatHid:nqatguJltxHye:oAobqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaOyww;y
gzakofyla}tYl^fzfgfeLvaEIto!gFaycDKgpytzw*tsaocwCBqsNtd@yEjuveJluKCjz@rl(
ZtfbpjwkayIwd@tlfpetvpoztks/smubvmsAaPCqp!hqatgzKhcEyee+jlnwnyAmvGwym=tmm
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpeZVD4Y4{!jusgeyGy.sWjr:kDahqwrLmxwyv=tudbVjPAtsCsd:nqaJwrsujMCjw
[OFVJ[lgSNNli/ylbpfe8yjGwjx=tlVpkAwytBNni| lbpptMudxxex&gFaqpjrAbEE
[9FKDJ4_t	tBe|fypxgirpoMIex&oEaugxKppGtkv=slujgeEvsGCsk!gzebvmsAaWuAm%
VmdmcwvgxtMey+gnmgbyGgbMNjr%alaVjjrzfLMns+fIpwnirhuMyrt:fFpbhtuBtsGtv^fAo
CtbvbtFlavusd%ulxkvmrhaMyCx!ozaCUH1PatHid:nqatguJltxHye:oAobqkrlmxwyv=tud
zqyvbwsAixLex&gzalwxLgbGtnq@mq.bymsAaHHjd$gzafqeOpuAtfd$uyqwvjJguAuy
imopqyrifsxtr^fIjvjesgcHIpd=xlbpbnEhhxoeddzlxqwqvgcxtfv"AqebvmsAaHHjd$gz
jAaowhzgnHLjd:nmoblzKAaKyfh!glugzylgbGxej/uyavjfLgtMuwx*tsarqnFAaHHjd$gz
AEfbofJrvItfr%fyfvjtvzaHzet/kBbtksyguAyex^DFavqeLhlxtky-rlbfxfFAbzyes'
ztfbefHhcBFnx,fAgbvmwgdHGuy:kD?bbYzhusQty-jlmgcirApsueh*yovuunGuaHzeA&gF
ztfbGzJvqxusd{uynwpnLFavuqp|f4FWUFTPM2@4{!CtbvbrsFauyyx^xlcgbywynxx
J7SCDN4PU^nex&gFaku	ropPtys!vDfrcwwgpKtre)klbbvjPAaMBfx!Cumnbqszusuep=ts
zungbfFkaMBfx!imobdjrBtxxej=xlbubrsuzsuut-oobvktFzatMet=yEjdnjlgxAChl
CAvnfeDlbwtys!oEtwgxrvgsCrt/uHjpieAuuxFqi$zGbnbfujfLM 

N1DMG4rBszyid:nqapgjvguHtqs=qlbvbBsFtsIkd;yuoibrsylNJex=frbekqAAbMyev^zDjgxfDa
tAublzKAayIwd/krftgsupozttv!zAajgqHgmHwfx^fmobkywtaMBfx!oEatgyJpfOyi{!hGubcqKvaMIet;zlnctpMwaMulw!oz
glugzyrApsBjp[fDfvtnwCfsNmi!ztjpieKvvzByd^oFigteOpuAtqm+mGjuvnugutAlm+mlpt
ozugtuJlutNns+alaJQH3LZsuqw=fmsiwjvguAuyd-oFungeskwtHhi_kzubjfvgpvwzv/kpakp
ztfbutxAxtLjd:uAmubhMysxHyp,fmwckqsimxtks/fDfvtnwCjGAee+jltgcwuojGAex^DF?
Ytfbrwwztxxex&klegunvlstNzq!uraiqnFnauyDs+jlCqqqwhosMje/itfubfFkaIywj=xyjpi
sAsgbxGwiBMym$gFffbxwhsvBnr" lxjkhzguAyem+yqsvktFgpytrs/klnctpMwaBHex&klugzy
CAvnfexhdBFnx@zq?bbYzpoDCsk!gnpwvewsfvNws+ooavgCLzatMes[vAtgfeLvaBGfk^ylngcsK
iAoukiwyjGAeq@zqskcqrAitNeA*rxapgAwyatJui@xljpbuJpoMtks/sfaqteHyjGNeA*rxapqy
hqakvxrwsBGfv,frpto	rAitNem| lncvjJpbEtBl*itaqpqQgbIJje/yljpbjDldMLtr*ilgqtrm
N1DMG4rhmEOii%fFpbvmwgiBMys/ElbpfeLofsHji%frptbrsylNJee+jlucilAuhsush
kxfevwGujvtyi\zfayjnuoaPuxd%kHfnquwkaMBws;mtavjjrBtxttj!iAnrwywytsCsd:nq
nGncpnLpfLjee|fYJEJJ4ZP7tme%fAcugwNlemtKe:nqsbDzKhaAuid|zmsvgirpos&@8D
zAartjHhsxtyl^frjtuy	lwxLex^DFaqpeLofswtq[AFft}

N1DMG4ryfFuwo^jltgxjJhmsFfv"klqtqowjuLnet@xFjewqsymRtnr!KGsqrjlggHLex&k
iAnrkqsAjHHes'fpjevnGubKCjw7fxbpizsnfsMyy%oqt?bfFkaEusk;gsfbcssszLCx{!oz
CtjejeHlpIFjd&gHfbdzAsusOud@xoikxjKgpytyi\zlbpfezhwxtgi"AzavqeJldHAsm.k
ztfbpjwkayIwd@tlfpetvpoztks/smubvmsAaPCqp!hqatgzKhcEyee+jlnwnyAmvGwym=tmm?
ztbvbhsuauyey|kpapqyrqvLNex=fBskpyrAixtyi\zfayjnuoaFuDd#klbuuzElesNtd#klb
hKqtqiMjusIkd>nmubqswgxtHyw!zAafq	rivMtys!yFsweyMyfsCyd*tEjfgeLofswtq[AFft
yAavjfLgjMthe+fnfbujsydAyi{!hGjnveAuuHtfdcEBftvjPAaLSxx^sfagvhm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
3QJDGQr[a8WQGNylbrrwGhdAtys!vDfrcwAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQN,d!xqutqhGuwxLxm=tf
qqzkplrvgsNjB:yfaoqwwgbNNtq@zqebyfQzaHzeh^BqmqrnFnawuye!=lQtqowjusUIEkZ
gzebvmwgD8`JdkxAkgeyr[a2Hyi-ruhgpyrjitLfg:kDatghGnoBNns+fppgueFvusyCm|zl(
GpwcpysnfLttj!YSNNb+rKbMuew&uGmfbgwggKyjd=llqtqhwkvKuqd_gDlwr.
jqtetnHAjOyeq@xwvrbxLypGAqC!gpwqefLles{eS{RO"ubnFAfKzfg^fumnwxLybMyidQ
YFptclwgsxKzm/kyfpvxrhowths|zEahqwrwvMNnr"fmanqyrvgsCsj=xybvktFgpGtqm+kl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YFvctyr4F2VJP7fEfpktJgsxMje/itauenwuuBMy{!UzmkpjrJpFJzx^xlMkdwsyzsWjr:kD.
Ozd}b=7JMV 	d%kEdtkgwka8WQGNylbrrwGhdAtys!vDfrcwAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQN d!Nq
gDhwgirAitNex&klfnghLypGChd>uDmfbnFApsQmm$nlxgbfJlaFIAm+mlnwuy
godqorGkbMyer=zlppnDrAixtky:ADfbdzLguAyet@yFacueOlmEnee+jluqbxGtfsxjk/kq
kHfpbyzlaILjw^tF?bbYzBtmtxx@xFjpieGBusuyd=tqagpirDjMBev^zDpeqsNlsLCtr!gze
qqzkplrvgsNjB:yfaqpjrDpNFid-owfbvtrtpOyex=CmsfbrMjisGtv^fmvvqrsAfwtBe,y
urafgAwspICsk!jmuc}

LAsbgCstqEy	dkxAkgeyrHET0Yd&gpavqevvaPCyl!gGuqofLpdtFqC!iAoxgwLpoz
jAdwojFAaBGfk^yljpvtrhaLNwy$zGsgfevvdNGjr:fpbvcgszfsQnx&f1DTbywEusux
ozegznFnatHid@rEpbceDpuMFjd#oFaqhesBuHGfx*ilgqtrsAuBHld@tpavclypozttj
ztbvbywEunteX&klDQTJrwsHDjg:ftpuvjvgcRtHs/tqmnbZFpwxLxm:EfaDgqDjpKy	
UOME?eLofsUri/oobpbHzlnBwfp!YAdkgyQaatHid{nqnkefDgBuMyv@iFt?bhGutMCyy:kE
3QJDGQ\zaILnr$oBbnbhGudxLsd@zlujgeEvnxHy	!f6ikueHypCyhx!oEacpewEbFJqi!ur
iAoxgwLpoztyi\zlgqteOojvBes+klbntjskzsBfw!glncemAuf Lje%gnmgbAwytBIsd*tFp
glgqtrsAaFIwi!yGjvcgDlayIwd^rqdvttFpdsxjp*BqsAbfFkawuye#gEfbujsydACsk8
[5jpejrTjvBfi-fXFUMezhesJwi<oAvunDrkfLwwm#kpaEQWWaa$YNF RlxqwqvgttS
ruuvnjrjpGwjv+ozhbkym/asVtv/uIjpiesgdAyrm$gxarjwszfmtii!tAwqbxQuuAyxm|
