of de novo electronic publishing, that is, a form in which the primary
form of the information is electronic.

Project ADAPT, then, which OCLC completed a couple of years ago and in
fact is about to resume, is a model in which one takes page images either
in paper or microfilm and converts them automatically to a searchable
electronic database, either on-line or local.  The operating assumption
is that accepting some blemishes in the data, especially for
retroconversion of materials, will make it possible to accomplish more.
Not enough money is available to support perfect conversion.

WEIBEL related several steps taken to perform image preprocessing
(processing on the image before performing optical character
recognition), as well as image postprocessing.  He denied the existence
of intelligent character recognition and asserted that what is wanted is
page recognition, which is a long way off.  OCLC has experimented with
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000, but it
is not good enough.  It will never be perfect.

Concerning the CORE Project, WEIBEL observed that Bellcore is taking the
topography files, extracting the page images, and converting those
topography files to SGML markup.  LESK hands that data off to OCLC, which
builds that data into a Newton database, the same system that underlies
the on-line system in virtually all of the reference products at OCLC.
The long-term goal is to make the systems interoperable so that not just
Bellcore's system and OCLC's system can access this data, but other
systems can as well, and the key to that is the Z39.50 common command
language and the full-text extension.  Z39.50 is fine for MARC records,
but is not enough to do it for full text (that is, make full texts
interoperable).

WEIBEL next outlined the critical role of SGML for a variety of purposes,
for example, as noted by HOCKEY, in the world of extremely large
databases, using highly structured data to perform field searches.
WEIBEL argued that by building the structure of the data in (i.e., the
structure of the data originally on a printed page), it becomes easy to
look at a journal article even if one cannot read the characters and know
where the title or author is, or what the sections of that document would be.
OCLC wants to make that structure explicit in the database, because it will
be important for retrieval purposes.

The second big advantage of SGML is that it gives one the ability to
build structure into the database that can be used for display purposes
without contaminating the data with instructions about how to format
things.  The distinction lies between procedural markup, which tells one
where to put dots on the page, and descriptive markup, which describes
the elements of a document.

WEIBEL believes that there should be no procedural markup in the data at
all, that the data should be completely unsullied by information about
italics or boldness.  That should be left up to the display device,
whether that display device is a page printer or a screen display device.
By keeping one's database free of that kind of contamination, one can
make decisions down the road, for example, reorganize the data in ways
that are not cramped by built-in notions of what should be italic and
what should be bold.  WEIBEL strongly advocated descriptive markup.  As
an example, he illustrated the index structure in the CORE data.  With
subsequent illustrated examples of markup, WEIBEL acknowledged the common
complaint that SGML is hard to read in its native form, although markup
decreases considerably once one gets into the body.  Without the markup,
however, one would not have the structure in the data.  One can pass
markup through a LaTeX processor and convert it relatively easily to a
printed version of the document.

WEIBEL next illustrated an extremely cluttered screen dump of OCLC's
system, in order to show as much as possible the inherent capability on
the screen.  (He noted parenthetically that he had become a supporter of
X-Windows as a result of the progress of the CORE Project.)  WEIBEL also
illustrated the two major parts of the interface:  l) a control box that
allows one to generate lists of items, which resembles a small table of
contents based on key words one wishes to search, and 2) a document
viewer, which is a separate process in and of itself.  He demonstrated
how to follFtA!ruomueLosHOll!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fpbvcgszfsMnq[rKadAeKlmxwym+m
ztfbcuHypILne:klcwvyGuatHid#xuoiksyguAyrd;vgabJjrhmLIer=zqebrwGimxGxd:nmu
xqncksrApsvjd@iopootvhuxxem+fFigbnFAfKzfg^f<f}i lgbLtus*tFffbtMAauSeP YW.
CtbvbmswqxHxd>nqobwxwytsxtd+uFaennuraHHex&kljeqsrmpKtyl^frjiwww/?

MuwgpeLofswtr|zDbkpyKgpytym_kfaYGNTLMsIrm:zqebceDhszyer;snftbtxgbGwnp-gDz
oFfoueAuaHLii/fFpbufQgbszjA!CAsfueuvovywr*tsauvtJhhxtwi]AusgojFAtsush
CtbvbBAsmsvjd/kCvktjvguHtuy:fmanqyrvgsNmm+mEaqpeDpoxoednozdgbnLgjL
kJutgrwszsyCt^tEjxgeLvaKyhs+BqsvbfDsaHzex&oEafcysaaxMui$ommnAeAmaBNem|
pGtvbnFgqtJjv!lAsob=suesyAi+fugbkyrptsCsd^rqdvttFpdsztv_fuobvDHltxNym+m
zmqgu[lgixtfh<uobvgirivBFim+mlkqwwFhmLtjp^iFsqpnuhmESej/uyavjjrzutLy	!fUo
ztbvbhszfmtnj!uzfbqsDFaAuxd:kJubiwswiBwxd@tpakpiwEjGAe+>nudjbnKgbEFex&gF
uzfbpjwktsQnx&fpfbptNvaxFjg:xAokeeHBcECxl*ts.bdjuhvLyex&kDfbkxrupsHji%fFp
mAadchCgbGxep=uwacvetpu Gft|fAgbrfylt	nes+kldcpeylus&#{E$*alqzJubEMes'
lGmnbywEumttv!gxnquyr!aFCqp*uzarclwzaIywd,kms}be`ofLyet@mqtbefFgcxtuy:fuo
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!7#6binyhcRNjw!urauvtJhhxneA&ooibkxrupMtfp-fFicveEBdAn
3QJDGQrzbBx d!LAsbvBwuuRtDi@xE.butEluACsk!rqtubyzhosNmv^klugtftFuxMeA=Axe
hqatgvMpsxx d!3QJDGQrjbEwzp@zqebvmwgdHMyw!urauvtJpoztyl*yljphtJtbMCtr!gE
lAmnqBK?as3kd@fsjicgQAfswtw:ylbrrwGEjFuyi-El%3?#=%.sNmi+fmavgwsizMyeg=yFt
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!*!aokqDppGtys!hGzbksrAfKGxd=llictiOhsxoedjtqacnxGgoxyiw!g
hGjnfnFnaMIet;zljvbnFgbGxee!yFbhheDplxtTGgIluqbmsueEyex&gFakpkGyntNns+a
YA.bvtrzvIJtv:fmavgwsizMy	d_AxukrqQgcRtkm<kfayjnuoazCAi|f=6bonDsjHHet^x
EqbtbkGyattxy[vAsvgirAfKugC:klphbisAbn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dogBfubxsCfwtgC!GOTbcwwguAyex,vAhtcuzFayCqi|fAskinFhmES
yGqrqwLpoztuy#rudcvnGuaHzex&klkqwwFhms{eG=yFaqhetBjExnr"fFbiijvguxRyd*tFp
ztfbffLhctMjdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtvy^yFjqp]sue usw>kDargwAvesNme:frpnntOles%JM}KX"u
vDfugsLhuBIs{!ztfugeusbKCkm$gFjqpxrlnxLli%alaVjjrAbIyxd|gHffbgQguAy
GyftkhsuaVBjq*immbUtupfMSee/klujgeLFqHAwe[nKahkqwzaMBfx!uDjiksssmR
yGqrqwLlesNmi!vGcnkhsAjHHes'fFigboGBsGuq	!fMmvjtMnisNmi,fmsgbsGAaMulk^j
ozaUIR4aaMBjC!gDfbvfynfwtnr!BqsAbkAufsxjx@ox?bbJNlsRtxm+mxfbujFAfGwjd*y
smsmgilgbEFex&klsginKAsRtsy_hqsu?essmsNmi!vGcnkhsAjHHxd*yEvgu	rkbMyx{!gze
BAmwojKbas8td$uEubhnyBsxMes+fFbiinFnaFuyi/ommbqsrhaIyw[_ksbdAywgctMnw
CqsgbfNhjEugp^alaDghsBtxtFGn-EavAuwzfMNnr"fEzuvjEgsNHxd'xAnbvfynfwtyi\zf
ztftgeAzaGIei\zDbbetKAaIywd@xFjenjmga2NeA@ylvpmsGDosQme:fuubetKAtsUHW!zA
qqzdqfJkaMBjd:gshgfeLlyMtwe:nqsbvmsuaCOxx!qqzdqfJkaMBjd:kJubksrAix
itfcrjKAaILtg^yE?bbNFgpMBjv!CAsfu	rzjGwjd=tqakpywueLtys!vGcnkxzguACsk|
gzebynDsaGyjh!zAadwnDkaMulk^jlugzyrpoMIee!zKqqiwswiRtxC|zqnbksrhoRthe|kf
oraqpjrkpxMex&gFakpeKBdAtfd>gKavjfLgjMthe+fpskxjrupMttr-EluArtyybIBDd#AF
gzagnjuAsHHng!yKtvgrr]xAChl!oEayjfLgBV!em+zqofueLvawI][_uHfbvtrZH66
vGcnkxzpoz 	d:nqaocwypotFeg=yFakueRlsHoedonqaocwypotFeg=yFatguJltxHyw!ztf
iAtvbtxgcNCqh*tsavclylesNjB:fuovqeLofsxfx@hmtg?eOojvBem|fEncnqm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZa)bIAzuBHhx*uzadgyOlfGtyi\zEacpirjpFJzx^xEa)bNEwmBwfx*uzt
uratghGnoBTnr"fFicvessmsLjt/kEfpvfLppGtnw!kzdqfnFna}tIi@ruoibBAAi
iAnrnnuhuxxev^vDfugsLhuBIsw!uravgCLgfGNfm-ylujgeFlfwtks/fmaitfEtbKttj
jAdwojFAts{eZ@xufvAeGmayIwq|fAgbhtJtbEtlv@sybtue?gUxRyd@ylbbdnL|ntJui%
oybigevvfLtss:fDfrtjKloMtfd|kDjqwxrhuMyrt:fFpbtjHyfLysx!zqyvbnF
kxfevwGujvtks/sl(bUL5S.sNmi!ZQJ?biGjvFysxTzKqgbiwjmtLfx*uzt?bfFkaMBj
xqvucgAsjMSee+jlmqplwCjMSes'fpbvce?gUX3eg=trptofFjfsyCt-oojvnDrhmEIBw
kJugpxAvosIwd_upjhkhsAjHHes'fFigbYWPaMuld|kFa)bFvtjGCxx/gFjxgethdDAws;tp
uravjjr1F2t+dnkHftcqrkfLClr!mAbnuexvssNmi!ZQJbvfygtxNe_!GzacdxGsvMyqC
luygfeJlrNCwi_kzubqkrAixtYIdfSvkfjDpoxMe_!ItbnnjFnfLtyl^f6FKbmsz
gFugouLlesNtd'gofb)eYvpwtyi\zEapqyrifRIsh!koppqrAjayyfw*humkvDr[a!Bj
oEtwgeGmaKyuv=jGdkdnDpuRttv!vDpegxKhcBFnx,f;aVjjrptLOjd=llncijKgbL
yunwnfuybsztv!ztfbvjPAaKyiy\f;aQpj\zaFIii-fAgbvjPAawyyi/suogueOobMttr^-E
yAgvyfJlavusd%ulxkvmrhaMyCx!gzebjfKgfvIss_ooaeqsKlrNysg^yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VDjqteLvaLJje)ozhbcgGBus!LQgfmofbrsylNJ	dhooicgqrZQX`GImM\NeSZWLOmtjh*zAs?
ZqyvbJFjpwCsk!OzjvkfLpwxt=X O>.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbKqDpoHCx[{nudcitlggBLxx!jDfy
glekuyAudMCtr!hquygjFguxRyw!gzebetEwvMyww2flUgzyKgbKyee#yFsceyrjvENzv@r
gzebnnFnvBMym$fAclghLzaPBnp^foporzLlsLtfv^foporqAjbMyid[nKtkefDgexPng^yf
nqaucnvbasUgw:xmdvbttqfvNxd$gzoqvetlaIFfg^jljpunvlaIBDw*immbfjNpdxM.d>oFi
iAnrwywytsIsi!imobqsDFaKyuv^yqovbywEusush!goubwuGuaMBtw^fDfrtjKloMuym=tE?

ZtfbtjuvhGCym=tlujcyrhmEtwi[xqtgpysAjHHem|fqoeqiAuhmtXT XNFTI]5jR@YJR
gDhwgilgmxuiw!zAavjjryfvIlr*zuppbtxguPIex&ozhu<er8-s@mi!zAqkeevltvLnt:oAo
lAsbvmAzaLyxw*uzakueKsjzByp,fyjunjskjGA	d#kobwujrAixLjd$gzadgeFvawCxg;yEjqp
urarttKgbGxeg=tEaqheLlyMahs%ozhbwsDltLtBl@zlppgeElbGMem|fBsquesueswtr|fAg
CAsmksygxBNmd:kJubynLoavIrt;zqsu}er9-s8td:kJubefFgcxtwi[xqtgpywkaBHee
iAnrwywyaPCyl=AFauqrwgtHLyd=llfpetvpozjem_gsfubfJlaHHjd>gKaqhewudHxnr"fFfzv	
G5DKKeAzatHtx&kD.bUL5SaRyyd@tAujgwmga!Bjv^futbptrlovIim+mlxkvmGBusMtq^
ozgqtrsAjHHep=yE.bvmsAaBM	d:nqsgbnKgoHtui/lqdvbwwwsHxzg:oAobqkrhaMyCx!ztbv
gxmqyxrvoxtys!jAacyfQgxBNmd:nqaqtnypotF d!Ztvu?eLofsKzi|zuppbgwjpFyx{
3tbvbnKguAyeq=yFawujxBmsLjt/kEfpvfLppGttj!zqyvbkGyattxi/oAvubBGylo
ZtjubiwwfGxxd=tlxjcyrrjGxes'fEftktMzaPIwo!uzfbkxrAbEEnr"fmcqwym

ZtfbrwGqfvNxd%kyppuyJhuxxex&klqtgAAvvLtie,fmmnbnFCpEPjh!nuhjnDrjpFJqi\
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlgckwDFavIrt-kJaocsAwvEuym=tlphbyzlaMyCx;gxaocywyjtF 
OzaqtiwyaMIey|klujcyrjpFJqm$gFffbnFmpKGfx*uz.bqswgitMex=fobnezDhuxtnx
yxpynDrvssGfr;gxmAbfFkaLNtv^fFigbwwzvEN d!OFapgjvzaMIef^fEuqtjvaaMBjv^lAsg?
gEarcwLgpyttr^-EatguJltxHye:oAobqkrAixtyi\zgabVmMz.sIsi!tqffueLvaLNtv^fFig
yFsweyMyfsCsd:nqavgCLbas@td%kmmbynLoavIrt-oobvgiryfILjw^tFbvktFzaHzex^DF.
uzfbpjwktsMtq^nAxbvtrjpGNws-fFigbhGtqEyCm:ElphbyzlaKyuv^yqovcyAvosIkd@fFfzv.
ztbvbrwhoLttr^fzfgfxrhaPuDd=llgkpiAuhsIzx!CtfvjjJgbsxtg;sqovbfFkatH
kxfevwGujvtwi[xqtgpysAjHHes'fmafqhMtfGNem|fxficqrvssHtx3fmofbyzhu
sqbpueGufsHji%ylbbiwstntLes'fppewrwuuLo

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZafkxuBtLyid:nqaxcwAluRttj!lAsoueGmayIwq@rlhtcrEhsLn
oyqnkhAAatHid^DBmkenLaatMee[vxjgfeLvaMyCx7fmofbyzljKthe[gnjnkyAltnteL^
gDhwgirAitNex&kEfbiwstntLxd$uDsguuGuesNtd%orggtjFAaFIii-ylphbywEusNme:
jughgwwuusxjz^rAqgtxrobOy d!LAsbgCstqEy	d=tqakouDpdBNeq=jqmbqkrAixtyi\z
oEavjfLguAywi!oEapqeAuuxLse-fEutwhLBsxnef;zlkwuyrvoxtyl*tsachywyatHtx&kD.
glggyeuobKuhx^xEacpirAixHet^xtbruesgtMuwxTzuungeuvnFush7fmofbyzlosuej^C
sAsgbhzhstwyi/ylbpfesuaxHi[:oFmgbhGtntHi	!f5QGTGWYH 7hUpKQObcqKv
jutvksyBjLBjh!yqwgtfDglBHiw!uravgCLguAuyd&gHfbceKvsMttj!nuftcwuojvuq
yFsweyMyfsNme:futbptLgwxLDd>kxmbfjxpoxx	d>nudj?eLFqBwfp-EfaeqwJltIIsh|
zAaitfEtbKMex&gFactjrupMtAi/ElxgnqrkfyCsi% lbubBwsmsuxd&oqscthzpfLtyl@z
gDfbxjJFaPyqp!jqgkpjvg)xol	7fFigbYzlttOwy|fXjpizslaZLfi$gq-bcsvgfQNwi_kxz
iAnrnnuhuxxex&ozhubxMjisuxdnMYM?bBzpdAtme+jxfbuyJpdMFDd&oqscthzpdtFeh@zm
BqsAbsAjfES 

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZaeqsulexxex&gFaqpjrvuAywd_upfnbsGAaBFqy|zDbvgirvosBnw!zIp
jutrnfQzaPuxd:nqaoqiwsaHzex^DFacuesgcBN]q@vBffbnEhhxnee+funcijrvgsuet@mq.
gzebetFmfLMjh!zAajcAAuhsvji+foppxjJAfwtys!glmkonLlesyCx^tFadAeLof
3AsmumGwaMIex&klwkgBrAitNei-koutqsAjaBGfk^yldqpxLpuNNjd@fBsqonKpozn
vDpdcgDFaLOui/oAsbcqLlsGuym<kluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}beTBusBjd>gEapqyrjpGPnr$kp
ztbvbjDldMLtr*iljoclwzaKyuv^yqovbfrzfKCty|fmuvgrHAaMIev^vDfugsLguxRyd*t
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabOfFFaHzex&kusbrwGimxGxd|zqnbhwGtaMBjd'goubvmsAaMBjC!gDf
tAubfnJldMtfx:kyqvueLvaKyuv^yqovbyzlaMyCx!hGubcyLlnINxd:ulsgrwwzfGNex&k
vmhg?eLovLtre)ozhbvmwtaKyuv^yqovcyAvoLttj!xqqtgxwuutNns+yg

OzavjnKgtBNze:oAobqkrpovLje|ozhnAeuvnIFng@zqebvjPAvtFem+lAsocyAvosush!ztf
tqffbyGgdHHyv=rlujcyrjpFJqi\oFzbksrhaNMjj;rlxcAe}DiBwmd#kstbvmwgrNyxx*uz
uravjjrufxxej=xlhqqirAfQNze-fsscorsyt	nes+klicueLofsCsx/upvevnGuaHzeWbSX?
3uujbXYTMmttr^fobpbiwCfEIud|vqdkhnugeHwzq^tF_vAuwgexwqe/gFjqpx
lAsbuuwjjyChd:kJubvDHltsIw{!gEaykyzguAyeX OfacvywtqMMex=fsfpgwsAf
mqogtfDgeHwzq^tF_vAuwgexwqe/gFjqpxrAitNeg@tlicpiDlatFqd|uDuubtxguxRy	
ZtfbVJ1gjLtfr!gFugouLguHtii<kxprbkGyntNxd'uDavgCLgsxJwi|kzucvnGuaMBfx
CumnbjFzvKyex&kllkpirvgsLjy|gnjnkyQgbGxep=tsfxkyQgpytie:glekuhMztxxei@xxjgt 
OFaqhkwytsueA@EluqbxLhzsuqm<kljpbyzlaLNfx^fAgbrjJtbGysx!zqdjptDvhBwfp
xqwqnzLppGo

OFajcxrifxHee!iAovksMpozthl@rxfpijrposNmi!ZQJbvtrjsxuyi!jAdwojFAazLfq_gDt
ztbvbiGgtHGjd>uDlbksrjpGNws-ruoibyzlavIrt-kJjvAeGmaMBjd:kJuwcqrvcCyhx!hGu
gxtqbfDspPCsk!uzfbvtryfILjw^tFavjjryftFex^DFavjfLgpGyeA*rxahksvb
LGofcrwuutFex=fFigbsGAjHHes'fFigbYWPaBMex&gFaVGNrjpGztv_gzdgbfDspPMes+k
ztfbcgAsjMSex=fqyvgsvgpKtrs%orzbvmwgUX3ex@mltgveKvaMBfx!oFahkyKguAyex^DF
ztbvbtFlaBMee:zqnrvnFnaMIev^vDfugsLb

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZapgCLgpNNqm+kpavjjrheFCsm|zDbvkAwgctwpk/uGofbtxguAyeX Og
ZtfbVJ1gjLtfr!ozugtssAjHHfp!vDplghLguHtii<kxprbfFkawCxw^suocvjrnvBxjp*tqt
lAsbvmwgfGwth*tsacpirpoMywg&gzhgbtxgntwmm+k\sgcisimxtyi\zgabKyrpt
yBpputJlesvDd:nqaCuxGjjtNns+frptbHGtqNNjv|fuobvmwgINGfr*zufu?eLof
GEtqensAjHHej=xlDqouMAbMCtr@rlMkplMptMChw7fmofbyzlaTMxs$omukqsrmpK
RuugtfJFatHidgozhwkxLpdsWtq[AFjpi rgSxJwi|kzucvnNltsIkd+AyftqzKgpMBjv
vDphgxKppGuqd|uojgvnwzaLCyd=tljvueskwBMtv,fnpctimga!BjdoKUajcxrhaGOrf^x
urachkAsjtNjh!vDplghLzaMBfx!nmwgbuJvwBxjh!gEtkuysudxtgC!zqtvksygeKukx|fAg
ztfbizAkfECsi|a

GyppieLofsxjw*mzaiqfDzayIwd:nqaVGNrAbztxi: lujgeKjixGjd'oDtvbtxgbEFeq;yF
sqfvbyzlaGyjh|fAgbtjKlbKwm{!hqdcwxwguAyeX OldcojrvvMttj!ztfbtjKlbKwm
iAnowsAAzmtBl*itafkirupMtki^rlbfgvMhuxFDd|kDwgfetFaxRnw:ozhbvfygtxNx	
ZtfbvfygtxNeq;yFadgewEuxHxm<klbubBwsmsuxd$uyqcvntsfsQnx&fqykuyAuhsush
kyftinFnaLNfr%gDeu}erPos&@!E lwgtxAvos& @!uravjjrNvBxjp*tqtbyfKgsxFje|kp
[5QGTGWYH 7hUpKQObkqDBtMLfx^jlujgnJgdHHyi+zE-}

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZapqywkaMBfx!uzfbrwGimxGef^yquvksygfEyhx/uzjebywEusBfw
hqfpbyzlaEuho!uracfjIBbMyem+zqspcqrvssyCx^xzbnbiGjvFysx@zuppbkGyaFusC
kJjuvnFnaxFjg:xAokeeLlyMM d!ZtfbVJ1ghNCii-ozfubfKgdNLwi+zxzbhtJtvEuyi%
iAovcnFggxQej*DqebtjIBjKyri+zE.bdzLgpGyes'fFigoeAzaMBnw2flUjgwwgnNMy
gxxcAxrifsueh=iGngpyroftxjv7fmobks	mjEyeWbSXavclrAitNet/uHjfgx
7>acbgAimBIlv@vtjebiwzdKCux*uzaqheLofsyqi$zDppkhrvcCyhx!uzfbkxrAbEEnr"
gnpwve}AitNem| lxjqeAudEOii%fuu?bBzlomtBl@zlgqt	rhowtzr%kDayjnuoaMCyp^]b
gzeb4[rAixths[ElugzyrmsHGeA&ooibkyrDbLtii/oHff?eAmatHD	!fUgbvmwyfsQfw
tAaequQguxRyd=xljhbyzlavIuC!zqyvbnKgvGEss>tfavjjFgpGyew:gFfubfKgnNwm	
2qsuktFg3n]es'fFigbLMpexFnr^ylxcueKjixxzp^jluqbgwgdHGup^zqebksrmbEFe5D#@
gzebceJlwBMjh!ztjtfeNlsLCtr!oEavqetlaILjw^tFffbyGguAyeX OlbfxnKvsRtgs@xp
lAsbkyKgfGxtv|kyfpveLojLths_ozhbynFAfKoedonqaVGNrpuLyqj!kJjuvxrApsJws<opf
glnctpMwaEusk;gsf?bsGAattre/qqe+wurAfQN 

GyppieLofswme-rqoigxrAixtYIdftbubfLAfFJyi%fFpbhfulaBMex&kloggirmpKtf
smsmwursbGAze"klujcyrDjEFeA=xwahqwrlyBMym+mlqtqowjuLnex&gFaku	robGxqi!ztf
rqwgneGmaFuwo;vlujcyrwfHJqi!gDfbwxAuhsHtA!zAavclrvoESeg&gBugt	rzfvNns+ 
gzebrfJhhKuul!juwkunGutsush!tAubozuoaxFxi8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?eKBdAtf
rmoiwfylatFxs!CumnbgwgbuFjd:ultecqwgvItlv@iqgwnqQguHtme+jxfbvmwgiBAmp,
jquckqwkaFuwo;vlxjkhzgntHDd[kAqngexvsxMji!gEavjjrmvMOwi!jqtvkssAjHHes'
sGdjbjDldMLtr*ilugzylgbGxeA&ooibkxrupMtyl^frvvwwwgexMym+gFjqpetBusNmi
vDfugsLgiHGjd=llowojJvvLtjp^iFsqpnuguxRyw!ozaurjupbECEi%fmsgcxm

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZafkxEptLyid:nqanqBwzu wtq_uz_fgsGtjGuys/fmqrttsjisux
AzbdnjrApsMzt[uDubvmwglBHid=llbrrqAjbMCtr|fFicvevybPtui=vxfbymGgitPj
tqwgtetlfGtnr!ztfbrztsjvtqm#xmsAbwwnvEuwp,fnfhqwwaatHid_gwfbvmwtavIri
hmdm}erOfsuiz=imugfeEvsxtnr:kDfuvnFnaMyCx!gzebotJlaBHyi-ruhgpyrAfQN 
GEtgtyAuhsNme:fuubkxrupMtgi,uzebghGupFChd'kmtkdnDpuRtys!nmwgblGvesNjB:yf
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZapqywkaMBfx!ztfbVJ1gHNCii-ozfubqAzuBHldw$*_qfirAbzM
iAovcnFzaMulw!ztbvbtFlaBMei\vqdvgirApsysx^xlfxgwQguBGjd:nqatgqwCbGN
zqyvwfDggxuyy/klpeezJz?stNx!iAovcnFzatFqd:nqavclKguAuyd[kAqngeFlfwtss> 
gzebkyrptsHtx!kJqgeywkaMBfx!kHftAtFlaPCqp!zmhbvmAuhLtnr!ztfbufElaPuD	

ZtfbszwzuBIsd=lliqyeHlpIFjd>oxmbvfyguAyex^DFakueAuaEuwk^fBbtvesggNHhx*uz
uravjjAyaKyfg:oAobvtrDitNeWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifFftojvguAyem|yGfbqk
xqqtqiMjjuCqm:EgabYmsAaHHjd+kqeubyGgcxtff-kluqbwwwsHxzg^fmsgbyzlaMBnr"y
uzfbyfFAtsNtd>uDlbynLo?stUi/nmqubfrtpKyey|krvnbhGudxJyd:nmobvmsAaHz
xqqtqiMjjuCqm:ElptbwwjpOywe#oxjvAeAzaMBfx!urarttultLugm-oFz?byzhusCx{
CtbvbhsuaHHjd"kFahttEgbGtjp^iFsqpnuguxRyd>oFiqwyryftxnr"fuubclspo
ozavjjrvsBAnr@rgabJjrpmEOxx/gFffbyzptswtr:kzukqsrDjMBee!vmhgbkJvn
PmobEtEloBOx(|fnjnksyBbEtNr:xAeweyAvosNtdggFjp}

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZatgyMyoxxee:fxfpiyzguHtyl^futuwjrvgsCre"kEacueKpnNFfg/g
lAsbvmwguxRy{!ozaqtiwyaMIev^oFftcywgiBMef^rufhbyzhusCsd:nqanqsygsNHeq=xq
ztbpbnEhhxMes'fBbigxrvgsJfv:oovncwrleBNns+ylphbyzlaMyCx!gDfbpjwkfwn
hqdcwxwgkNMyd@yltgetFk_zysi/gFjqpeHopMIhs[oqtbcsvgtxwtr%/sfpgwsAjHH
sudtqkAsnsxjk^tqscvjlgtHtxi$uze+ijFlstNns+fDfrtjKloMuym=tEavgsvguH
jqhgpjJhuxnee+jlppgeLlowMex=fAwgtxLyfLMew=sqatgqsAjOyqC!zDjxkfDgbLJjg:y
uravjjrAfQNew;itacueAAtsFfC=AFaqpeLofsJfk^ lxjkhzgjLtss:fmmycDK
yuhpkkAjbGN	d%kEqkvjrDitNex&klugzyrjsBNng|fyjijyrzbRnee+jltnklzAaHNmi/
vufegxrvgsCsj=xybvktFgtNwmd@ylujgeNlsRtnq[uDucpyrsfQChe-fFjguetluPyjr!ztf
KzhnkxzgbGxeP@zuobxjJzjHHxd=llDqojFpvL.xd#oxjpizssaMyCx7frptbjPhnIFj	
SAsgqAwy.sCsd_gzzbewMjjtFev^yBfevxrpusCxd^gEzbvtrmpHFes+kEfnheuvovywr*ts
CtbvbfrzdtHsi%funcijrvgsNmi!zqyvbBAsmsuhg=sBmkummgaYIwd^DmnrnjlgjGttv%kD
zAauvzvFaMBjd:xmouonKzjHHes'fFfzvxlgjGztv_gFjqpeuvovywr*tsavjjrAfQN
imstkjJgjLtsi$kEtctDlgxAChl!yobppjvgjFuli|fEjorqQgeHtss:fmmycDKgitHip^a
LGsvjjJaaxPjr!ztfbjnyo_JOfp*zKaocywyjtFxd#kuoibuJveNwjh!gFaEqwFlmEtzw^
sGdjbtxguAyem+lAsocyAvosNme:fAogbBGBmwtsi^jljhbxLBeRCsk!ztpugetvpDMee|
vtzukhssaHvoi$zE?bbNLgjLtfd$nAjegeLobMtme|fnfgpeEhexoeddzljubfFgbKAze#rK
pGtvkkAhcEyeg&uudg?etBusIsi!jAfubsGAaDHtA!CtbvbhGspKtyl=yqargsrzuKIpi|fuo
ztfbofJnjGtfv^fAsbymwAixLex&kDfbyfKgbsMye*tlppbyzlaIuli7fnfeczKlaBNel@y
hqfpbkAsuxLjh!uGu}be7ufsxti|fzpvbpFvxsQmi:nqsbvmwyfsQjv^fDjrueAuaMBjd[gsf
hqdcwxwguAyDd%uloqveKopPtzt7fmofbtFgbswty[rqaqheLofsGfv"ozbnbrsylLttr^
rAtguezhmyttj!ztfbofJrauyhe;yqavjjrwfGtnw!BqsAbqAniMtfr%fFigbxuhoGyw
lmjngirApsJng)fuubwulgbGxew=fIicveAzavFje/rKacbhzldDGfv)fuobvmwgntLlm+fAg
ztfbqwAnjGuqd#kopogxrhaECyx-klteqtHgjGtyl^fybtinFgpytyl^frbeunEpmxo
YFbpffJkaILtf-kytbhtJggtwxm_oxfbgiAAjHHx{!tAubpjOguHtjp^iFsqpnuz.svzx
gxtqbyJBfsIkd-osiv+qwutsJms:usscrmQaatHid@xqatgrsylxxel^xqadghsBtxtnx!oE
oyqqtysuusNme:fIfbptLggHIqd=ADtgnAwzaMBfx!kHfpbnxgxxtuv=jGdgbfrCfKSer*iq
oybigeGmaMBnw!vmhgbBAAisAts%foppvwszumtBi!gDfbptLgsxJqe$ozhbvmw
smowuhJpqMtfr,fyptgeLobGtrm$xAgknrrobLtwi[rmdgfeLofsGfr;yoskrym

ZtfbVJ1gdHGjw!lDpobyzlaKyxi@xoibetEtvGCyC7fIigtjrpuLtkm/yFacnqwnjtHhi
rufu?etBusCyd*yloqveBBtMtfr!gobfgrAjaxRjv$oEf}be1AaAuxd/kxfxcsulayuw
hqzqpirAiHMjd>nAaurjFkatFqd=llujgnJguBGjd|zGeAksyguxRy{!hqdcwxwgpGy)w
sAegneGmaMyCx!jqugtrAufLtBl@zlppg)KgtHzyA@xqaecsrkpsQnx&fmavgCLbas1ts%
sAegnxrsftxex=fspqfeKvgMQfv^alaDcirtpwyqw!rqbfbyGgctxew=lFxctjmga!Bfx!nmt
koppqrAjavIsw^wGfpejKaatHid*zljubyzltxtjg=tAnkeeuvoLyvy^tofubyzhusBfz^
rqebvmwgFNLtt^gzaEqrEBoBNDd:ulignurzvIJtv:fFigbYWP.sush!ztbvbBAsmsFje% 
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZajquwk.sMtq^fEphvBsyfsPjr%uDtbvtryftFnD^fFicveAmaMBjC
vDpxkiwgtHzyA@xqaykyzgbsvjx:kDaoqiwsaHzex&klugzyrAixSeg@tlncmjrhaDCqp*ts?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+ddsBmkefLppGMes'fpjhhjJloMtIX	ylbpfeLhhsMjx|f;aQFFrCfKMzw!YSNNb+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFguAuyd'uxmqyjvaaLyAi/gxacfiAAjHHfp!vAjpvxrDfKyeq@jq?
TqjvjjJgBT0e+*aq??bFKzpvCfx*uzaqheStfKChe+f2vdnnKofKM[d+uDaECQ~g)Boj	7
IAnrwywy_tCii%fMdswnKpuBIsd@tpaNqlAzuBwxdnABqqty{gitMee!jAdwojFA_MSui
jqgkpnLppGtks/fmoekjFAaZLji)fpscoflgbENms;mtavjjr1F2tBm-rlcgbftsfsNt
nmofnjrAitN d!MuwgpeLojLtxx@zqaqhesmgtCww!gzebcxKBnBHld:nmubvmw
zqdjpnuhm Dty/tmmbrwGkvvyww!gzebvmwgdHGri/iubnbAwueHLxd%kojfgeLvaNMjd:nq
uFigteLDpsNDt^yfavjjFgbGtnr|zuuwvnGuaECpi!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztmtBl*it
suhjveJldxCAi!gxmbqkrAixCwd[AnmkefLppGM	d>uGmfbmsCfsNtd#klbdnjrApsBfr%rq
ztsggevpgyywi+zluArjKgpytis$AyfpvevlgBHnx*uztbcsvgutAew^zEacpirifsugp^fFp
jutvksyBjLBee_uzhbvmwt?

UrgkejrKpvOri+zlBtemAAfvNzv^f<PFC[robLtxs_klbfxfFAbzyxd:nmubhqGDayLtq!oFt
zuhjvexvdNMes+fAghkhwgeHwzq^tFtbcsvgdEyfv!jusgeyAvoLtks/funrnjEloMuym=tg
SGdjbtxguAyeS	Gltvcsvhswtnw!kmtkgwrApsLje%fmofbhDlbKywd@zlgktxLgsxuim+m
ztbpbyzla`1RP!yFbpffJk.sQmm$nljubjPAsxGjp,fsfpgwss?st2l@zlujcyrtftHxd*y
ztbvbnxgpGyeA@tFtbvtrBtxtlv@vtjeueAua!3KJ!gzebQISaaHHjd*yltvwhCaauyhe;yq
UPBbfjxpoxMek/gBikexrmpKGfx|fIiknjr1JYZeh=kEapqylgxAywi@ylTIOQrzbRMex&k
CAsnfeAzaGIyd>guukplrmpKtyl*ylxqtprnsHOud:uldtgfLlatHtx&kDaitfHojvMej=xybv}
3tbvbnKgoxyii%futbcsrhcBFnx,fFpbwxwgxAuyi<kDaitfHojvMej=xybvbtFlaPusx|a

ZtfbVJ1gqKIAm%kEacbxGjlxNex&gFacnqGDtsIsi!zAaeqsFldMtyl^f5HONevvdNGjr:fFp
ztfbiwswiBwx	!f6igbsGAbMCtr!ztbvbyzlazLft&ootbcwwgjGtnw!ixfctqQgbswms*iq
ztbvbtFlaGyjh|fFpbofClauuxi%fAobjjJgpKtmm|fqoxkwGunxHy{!gzebvmsAaBMes+k
gpwcpysnfnteWbSXakueDltLtri"gxpocsAhdtFem+fmuvgrHAjGAex=fpfhkswggHLre:y
lAsbcqDglBHiw!urakpkGyntNns+ lujqzyoaFIwi!sqhcntEhoBuhe-fuobcyLlnINnr"fFp
iAwgtessmsMtv:ylphbiGjvFysx|alaVjjrvuAywd@jHbpvfylaBMex&gFavjjrtpwyqd=l
zqyvbwwwsxMjr:kpadAe~NN5tnw!yunrnDrhosIwh^xlphbrsnoBNzh^fDjejjJgbGxeq=xq
lxfzkgDlaMBfr!ztfbotvlmsIkd:kJubqkxlsxxef,f1EC}erIpMBes'lqsbjnwybKwmm$gx
yFsweyMyfLnef;zlTIOQryfvIlr*FqtbvmsAaMBjd&oqscthzpdtFeq=jqmbqkrAixtyi\z
ztbvbtFlaBMep=uwjpiesAaFuDd+uFajcAwgcxysd*tlujgeEpowMes'fFigbiwzjzHjv| 
CtftgfKgPWUeh=kEapqym

UPBbkxrupMtwi@rxzbcnEpoztks/fFigbpAuesIkd%uovogsLguAuyd:nqaVGNrDbGNxd:u
kzdqousztnteX&klUGKeuhosBfr%rqavjjrrjGxes'fybvgwAhms9IE!nmt?bfKgxxFqd@ylb
yuhpkkAjbGNqC!hDpcfjJgstHli!uraocywyjtF d!UPBbujwttsNtd#klwgtDrtvvB
lAdwujvgpGttj'oofbftuBnxHyw7fIikemrptsQme:fuubuysyuxxes;zlcgksygdtFqi%/\
urgkejrkpvOri+zlbtemAAfvNzv^a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
IMMCNZUHa}tYi\z\fpetvpoztkv=slbbrztsjLBjvNylqgtxHldMCAi!=
XqtrqsKpcBFnx*kEaqhesgqNvqm|nqsb)e0lqKIiy$zuppbtxgNBAsiNylMcvnFgtxLni|
Ctpngesueswtq[rqugbBAAis!LQgfFbiuethtxxes+fBftejACfwtsi^jlbpfewEqxwyi%
AEfb)e8hsMChy-gDafghAzjHHxd@xutkplrmsHGex&klhgpjJhmsxjg*yuppbyGgqKIiy$k
gzebrztsjLBeTgJl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ZtfbhnFhmsMui@qqsbksrAiBMew^yEjqp	rLsBweG?RMMWEFlgwBwjd[xqtkfjFA.
ItbfyDur_1yfp^EfaKphmaaLJto^frsqoeLofsJjv|vqdvkAwgpytfd[AnmkumwyaKy
zqyv+jFjpwCsk7fDbvjjJguAusd@ylppgeIBbECkm^jluqbiAzdNMxd_kFiqfxrvg
kzdqfnFnawuye7fmofbttzfKPjh!ztbvbyzlaILjw^tFftueKpuMCsk!ozavjjrypHG	
CtfvjjJguAyDd&gpaejtKlosNtd=xloqv	rDfKyee$zuoibfKgqNvqm|nqsu<ertbDCsk
itpkejKaazuyl^xuoibisAbmtle:nqskplrpoyIwq@zupp?esuesGfo*tsacuxwztFysx|a
IMMCNZUHaHzki/kpavjjrobKx]A=tldqpAAjuBIsd:nmubksrwvuFnw&ozhbxjJFaEuwk^
zqyvbkAsfLt=w;itacue8SE	nes+kldcpsGAatPtm%fybmksygqxLxs+gxalwiytfGNxd=l
gBqtquJpbMysi|ylbpfeKAsNwyy/kg

OzaECQSSVVU)w!Bufy?ewudHxnr"fpfekxAvoLtxx^slgtqrrwsBIwd(AphogsLz?stYA=
tAukqsKgitPjd#kopogesEjHGxd'uDajkrrposNmi!iAoukiwybMCtr!urahwyMyfsMty/iqt
lAsbgqwjuKIsm$fBvdnnuhuBIs\!f!-bgqwjuKIsm$fFfzveHBcECxl*tsakueszaIyww=tmm
gEacpDrvuAywd)ozebqkrwvuFnw&ozh?bfFkaJOjw:oAoubtxgjytfr%ftpybyGgfGwth^
ztfbffLhatLjd|oyqnAesgdHHxi]AqoegeGmaMBfx!vDjqtevldBMns+?la4_essm
vqsuqsssawyhm|oAoubfJlaHJjr!zAaetnLpdBMr{!CtjejeAzaNHfz=opbdnjm

IMMCNZUHaKymi@xEffbmAzaKIqi!gEacbuMimBMmi/fAs?bgwAuxL	d@ylbpbnFAfKGjh*gDz
hquygjFgxAuyd*ylwkgBwkatMee!yAvpfeAkfttfr%fFigbuwvqEyeA&ulxqwqvgntEjd;yq
urakv rgGBHim+mlujgeKwfvCfp*yFavqeskwBMjd*tlujkxrwsHwjw|futbvmwgdHLjd=l
ztbvbkMudMCtr8flUjgeHBcECxl^xlnwuyrtpGCys/fmofbmMnaMBjd'ozfbnnFlauyyA^kz
muwkplrBtxLxd>nmubvmwFaPusx!gzebuzynfLNnr"fIicveLofRtrm"nFapgjvbas9si
xqtrqsKpcBFnx,fAgbceHBcECxl^xljubyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgexMnv^ylphbxuopEuww!gze
xqtgcwuoaECgv@xubpueszaHJus|kpavqetBmEBje%kpmAbkGydBHld:nqnbksLvatLje|
ztfAbBGBmwtss:foiqqxwguHtjr:kD?

IMMCNZUHaECpi+kpavjjrxvxMym=tEadgnFnaKunw^jluqffQgbuIzx!jmucbxLyvvNzv^
gzebuysuetLiw!zAavjjrkfvCxm=tEahchwkauSex&klBddjrTjzHjd&oytgnkrkvKCsk
vDpfwhLppGttj!ztfbRfLypEIlm@fEftkjKgjGtyl^fyjf+sAufMyjr:nldgpyMyzn
ItbfyDur_1yfp^E/tbfjuptBIsd:ulsgrwGkvvyeQ*mzf&ue4huBHew^xufubBzvmxtfr%
iAnrnjLlaPCyl!YSNNbysntsQfw!gxtqbgszfwtzt=tlbbrjJjfBPjh!tqffbfFkatH
kJqgeywkaNMj	!fUobvmwgttGjd>gKavjfLgNBAsiNylxqtprjbFyex=fnfbhfJgnHLjd:nmo
gltkouDlaAush#uAlbhtJgdEywm$yfaRNIrptsuqv^gpzbhfJgnHLjd:nmobcevhutvfw^
lAsbvmwvmHAne+ygabKyrptsuef^jDpemeKvvKwjd'uDavjjrzuNxDd=llXguywyo
iuwknnRhuBIs{!IMMCNZUHatMxi/zqe}

OzatglsyesNtd:nqafghAzjHHex=fBsqfzulatHid[AnmkumrWMWnex&klffkyGyjtFef=gDe
urggtjvgeBLjg:fvvfirwuuLttr!ztfbszwzuBIsd=llbrrwGwsBuyi+kEtbqkrAixMj
zqyvuexvsswtr<kDtkqslguAynv!kzdqfnFnatHid:nqjtbiAzuKCgy:oAo?bfFk
iAoenzvlesNme:fFigbgwzusJtw|onmgbuJvkxwyd>gEaqpjrAitNee<uuegfeGCfKN
ozutwxAvoLttv!kJdnwxAvoLtnr!yAakouGyutHyd@fDfuqzJjfnteX&AE.bvmwghxHjv@r
jqdkunGuaMIex/gztokyrAixttv*muocneuvmEyhx*uzacueusftLqC!gEarqxKpcEyeA*zt
ztfbynvltMtus|yucngesCfGOjw!lAsbwxwgmxxex=fAujgwrkfvCxm=tE;bb6{gUHtjr$upf
ztfbffLhaHLer=zfaUIR4gpKtss: lUGKeGyaGIy	!fMhckslguAyei\vqdvgirBtxL
iAnowsAAzsuxw^xFffbyzlaGyjh!lAsbptJtbMCAi!zmhiksygtMLzg:ADfubtxgjFJtv:gzu
nGncpnLpfLtyi\zE.bcsvguAyeX OltggrwkaMBjd_uEubcuHypILne:kltvtzuAvKyej=x
ztbvbuMyqHMj	!f4fugfJjisFnf/gDjcpxlgxAIee/klutcnFlesNtd<oqxbvmwgmtLli/
oyqceyrvgsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNew=ADdgueGua+]es/f&~bqwr8~[tis$zAscn
jutekuDpoxM	d-uGenAeswqKIAi%fFigbiwjjLCtr!zAakphDBextye"muoi}er1ixSew^k
CtbvbnKgdHGnr"fnfvvjJguAusd:nqaurjupbECxx!CtpbkxrjpFJqi:kxzbhtuBtxxes+
uzfbgiAAjHHes'fMndttKl"LtIi!Gzjoc	rhowtyl^ElbnutrBowyww:gzebvmsAaMBj
vAugpyAhmsOxi|fqyegjvgqKyxi+zlfzrjuAbMCtr|ala4_e#obMtBm-rlcgbysnhxxee+j
CtbvbBAsmsHtx8flPpejrhhtCs{!ztfbdtsyesLje-oLffbyzhusIsi!sGtvbysnaMBj
unwkqzKbasVzx!ozapqeOhzsMms;rpaqpjrhuMyrt:fFpbkiwuuBzDd:nDpwimrlovIim+m
yoigojKgfOywC!yuoinjrkjLwwi:klbtgfrvgsuex^DFavjfLgnBAmx!yAngffQgcx
yqbtemwk?stYl@zlxcuesupMBjv!jqdkunGu?stXi@xoikplrizsueg=rGnpbsMtcxL	d@t
gGujqwlgbsQtv% lbbxtDBnxnet^xyjvvnFnavIrf*tmukqsrzftLhl^yfacpirAbzAnr"
tAucvnGutsMji_kpanqlAjbEthl=oofubfKgdHLjd^rqngpyKbas([dcuIafqjKgpGyeq@qq
ztfbffLhatPfm-gnmg{er1jxCsk!oFavqesgDWaWShfqekvnGuavLje:kEankrAAbMCtr| 
hGubceEhhGyym$fFbrgexpmxtyl@zljubAwyzsFfv"kfakuesjdHGue+oqebdDrAix
kzdqfnFnaLJjg*ludcvnGutmtfr%fFicvessmHQxd=tqavqeEhlxtqs$gxaoqiAmjvuym=tE
gxtqbfDspPMes+kluqbnFjpKJtv@zqacpDrjitHli|fAogbrsFawyxm/klxkvmAuaMBj
hAvpfxrvgsJwm<gFfbtjKlbKwm{!ztpwimrlyIIwx*tsavclrmjEyxd'xAnbceUK_~9R
iAvnfeKlsOyen;yFacueOlmEoednozdgbsGgpGyes+fFigbgGhswths;rparqxKpcES
gzukenHhuxtje$nlbpfewCfKSeA@EljpbBzpdAtfd|itpncwrtjzByd$nApugeLvaFCsi
ztjubisAbsvfr) ljvbBszawyhm%kpavqeKhuBMkC!ztfbdfKpdLtfr%fybmgeKvnx
vDpxkxAvoLtks/fIicveEphANeg=sq?bb9{gOHNex=fqoeqiwguAyeh@zmccujrDpNFid/un
oFaqheLofsCsx^xoicplwhcBFnx,fmofbuGyutvnp*zKavjjKlaBGus/zmovbywEuLtxl=Axe
godqorGkbMy d!LAsbEF4HM@WF{!ztfbgCLloLCAi!uBukqsKgqKyxi+zqebdDrmvEF]x^DF
yqbtemAuhsLju;oDfbefJlaBHex^DFaugqwjuBIsd@tpauvwGuhESew;vBptvewudHxnr"fAg
jmucbyGggtwnp*zmugbyzlaPCii|zlqquxAimxtxi@xoibuyJhuxAni|alaDgyLls
yAgvyfJlavusd@rIbAuetlavLje:kp.bdzLgtNGrs+ozhbvmwgsxMty/iqt?byzlaIytt-kf
gzebvmwgfGywk,fFpbtjuvoOywx!ztfbvjPAaBMee+uFigteEhuMyw	

VXEbkxrifBHld^topfgilgdtJyy/kp.bcsvgeBMyv*hGugf	rifvuzw^fFp
ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElbpfeLofsvte/jljvbtxmfKMex&klxkfjKAaIIxw*hxfbcwJhzsIk
lGuwtjryfLyfv$nlbrrqAjbMCtr|fFicveuhosvjd|kqobvtvhznteG?RMMWEFrjpGwqy%kp
hKawtlAuhsNmi!kzdqfnFnaHzee-rljortJAbGNex^DFauqzJjfLtnr!CtbvgAwyaPuD
yqfoueEvtMtft[xAqtkfLlatHid%ADbdnjrhusNmi!zung?eOpuAIzx!hxbpemAuhsuyd:nq
ztpwimLguAuyd=tq"ubBGylsGfC!xqrwkwwgfFysh@zuppbnFguAyej;zGsg}er]UAOx{
ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElqtqiMjfwtfd<kDzbnfJnfsBzq@tuukgxrAfQNeh@zmccujrifyIwi!ztf
luocneJlmxuxi!uravjjr1F2tLy*jqmkpjKb-

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d{xqbvksyguxRyw!CuujbrsylNJee%BAdcvjvg(s@wi+jEakpewudHxnr"f;
ZtfbVJ1gbGxex&kljuuzwgpytnr:kDdjcsylbuCqm:ElphbxLhowuwh|f;aC
suteqsulqMCtr!iAoegwFpoztyl^f6FKb+rPnIFng@zuppuexvssusd*tEukvzLppGtqm)k
ROakpeLofsyAi+zlujcyrhaFOqx*vxjekyQgpytIX	ylegxjDvqLt+dkxAewenFnaBGfk^y
gEacbkAytMtxx^vluqyfJktsJtw|onmgbhGuwxLxm=tluqbkMsmsNjB:fFitqzyo
itbtchLlssLjg=mzjvktFg(s@mi!GMQbvfygtxNxd@ylbbetEtpGtxx@xFjpieHvjGNee+j
ztfbpjwkayIwd$gGukqsr[
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1DMG4rwsxzfg^jlujgevptvOxw*uzavjfLggHFqs>kpaykyzgtxPjv@rldqorwuuLtnr
lmwqteGmavLje:ozhbvjPAtsQnx&fybtmzHgbGxes+fFsgpiKgjGtjr$upjpi rgJGtyl^
lGuwtjlgxAysd_gzzbotJlaMyCx|fmsgbfNhjEugp^frptbtF|mBHjd|kmsejnFn.sLje-
vDpdnjEzaBHej*tpjpieOobMtnw!CmovgirDjEFeh^Bqmqr	rpgsIsi!oEahchwkaPCyl
sumnktFzaHzeA=xptbqkrkbMu d!OFavjjJlgHLjd#kopogxrpnIIwx@tFavqeuvoLCii/
vGuvksygntLpy[fuobvjPAtsNtd&kxqbujsydAyww!nAngbnFgpGtyl^fmdvwfDguACsk|
ztfAbBAzisNtd/kFskgAwbas$fv*uGtbcuHyptwmi|fFpbtjxpoBHld/kFskgAssaFyyl=jE
zAxctirAiBMei+jljpeqMkfsvzm-juoibtFgbswtq[AFftbAwytBIsd=llbbfnuAjHHfv,
gzebnjLAjGAex&kldqouMAfKtqs=qlvrbBGyeLtnr!oFavqeGiutCsd_uDfbksxvsFuym=t
gnpwveLofsMjq@tFjebxLyvvNzv^fAsbujEhoMChd'oqmfbtxgbsQtv% ljvueyybFGfx*imm
yFsweyMyfmtfr%fEzpvfuAjvtxx/Aouwtjm

N1DMG4rjpFGjr:kpaqpeLofsJwi|kzubmjwuaBHyi/kEubksrAixtjr$upjpieOvsEx
ozaetjsAjGA,d!7>aochzpoxawi@jmcngeNlsLCtr|fAgbfnuAjHHfv*kEavjfLgdtHef^
ozjvkfDszsNfk"kpakpe~NN5neA&ooibinNltsuew:xGdvwwwguHtyl^fpjevnGubKSei+zDz>
ztfugewuuKCjw!imobvmwuauyeg=tHftvjvgjGNtd@fyptgeJphBxes/fAujgwOptx
jughgwwuusxfx@hmtgbxLyvvNzv^fuoukiwguAyeg=sBvvgwlgxAChl!imobdjrAsxuyi%fmt
gleApfEpdsNts-frptbxwhsvBnr"fyfejfFptFM.dw]lmctlwgcHxni|fAgbvjPAaMIew:Apz
ztfbnfFnvtAj	!fUobqwvlssNtd*toptrtJhuxtrs/kltqrmAzuBwfx^jlngemsujLGx{
sAsgbftvvMtms>fIptfxrifAuAi!tqffueLvauyeo+uIo?bBzpdAthe+fnfbnjsyoxxem+
vmsvbkJvnsCsj=xybvktFgjGtim$zuppcwAltnteL=Cqwgt	rAixtqe|zlugpeQlbKMel@Bq
yqfpbrMjisCsx^xqtvbnFgtMOiC*tsavjjrzuKOhx;xqaqheHyjGNjh!judvktFhsByx
iAoxgwLlesCsx=foporzLls Lje%gnmgbkGynnteX&kljphtJtbMCtr!uzfbfjJpwxMee#uGu
smoAbBGyeLtkv=slujqxwgjLttr-ElqctyAhmmttr^fAsbvBGgexznr*zuppueGmaMBj
iAnoqsrvssNmi!AEvcneElbGCsk!uracbBGyemtfr%fFigpeFBnxLty|fpfhksAAjHHxd=l
AzvuwfDgvLuli|alaKheLofswtq[AFftbnKgvLCsk!glekeyAvotLDd:ulignuryfMLni<k
CAsfueAuattyi\zfakveFlfwMeq;itaoqwwgjGztv_gFjqpesipNNex&kldqorGuaNMfk^y
