current interest in developing large bodies of text in computer-readable
form in order to study the language.  Several projects are engaged in
compiling, for example, 100 million words. HOCKEY described one with
which she was associated briefly at Oxford University involving
compilation of 100 million words of British English:  about 10 percent of
that will contain detailed linguistic tagging encoded in SGML; it will
have word class taggings, with words identified as nouns, verbs,
adjectives, or other parts of speech.  This tagging can then be used by
programs which will begin to learn a bit more about the structure of the
language, and then, can go to tag more text.

HOCKEY said that the more that is tagged accurately, the more one can
refine the tagging process and thus the bigger body of text one can build
up with linguistic tagging incorporated into it.  Hence, the more tagging
or annotation there is in the text, the more one may begin to learn about
language and the more it will help accomplish more intelligent OCR.  She
recommended the development of software tools that will help one begin to
understand more about a text, which can then be applied to scanning
images of that text in that format and to using more intelligence to help
one interpret or understand the text.

HOCKEY posited the need to think about common methods of text-encoding
for a long time to come, because building these large bodies of text is
extremely expensive and will only be done once.

In the more general discussion on approaches to encoding that followed,
these points were made:

BESSER identified the underlying problem with standards that all have to
struggle with in adopting a standard, namely, the tension between a very
highly defined standard that is very interchangeable but does not work
for everyone because something is lacking, and a standard that is less
defined, more open, more adaptable, but less interchangeable.  Contending
that the way in which people use SGML is not sufficiently defined, BESSER
wondered 1) if people resist the TEI because they think it is too defined
in certain things they do not fit into, and 2) how progress with
interchangeability can be made without frightening people away.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN replied that the published drafts of the TEI had met
with surprisingly little objection on the grounds that they do not allow
one to handle X or Y or Z.  Particular concerns of the affiliated
projects have led, in practice, to discussions of how extensions are to
be made; the primary concern of any project has to be how it can be
represented locally, thus making interchange secondary.  The TEI has
received much criticism based on the notion that everything in it is
required or even recommended, which, as it happens, is a misconception
from the beginning,   because none of it is required and very little is
actually actively recommended for all cases, except that one document
one's source.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN agreed with BESSER about this trade-off:  all the
projects in a set of twenty TEI-conformant projects will not necessarily
tag the material in the same way.  One result of the TEI will be that the
easiest problems will be solved--those dealing with the external form of
the information; but the problem that is hardest in interchange is that
one is not encoding what another wants, and vice versa.  Thus, after
the adoption of a common notation, the differences in the underlying
conceptions of what is interesting about texts become more visible.
The success of a standard like the TEI will lie in the ability of
the recipient of interchanged texts to use some of what it contains
and to add the information that was not encoded that one wants, in a
layered way, so that texts can be gradually enriched and one does not
have to put in everything all at once.  Hence, having a well-behaved
markup scheme is important.

STEVENS followed up on the paradoxical analogy that BESSER alluded to in
the example of the MARC records, namely, the formats that are the same
except that they are dijyzjv^tF?bbX`LWX8Xd%xqxbceHhstFqi-fnfvyjwu
jAdwojFA_MSui!jqgkpnLppGMee+jlNCTHryfvIwh|frptbgGvlLtfr%fEftkfDzatHid_gBt?
CtftgeGufsBfw!glucilAuhsMyv;iFvtgesuesNmi/kljubfrAfQN]m+zqsejfFnfn
Y6FXGS~gpICsi%fFicveLofsJws%AoftueGmaMBjd*trptofLppGtBm-rltgveLofsNjv_y
lAsbvmwgtMush@xpa-k wb.sxjz^rAqbftuBnxHy[:EBfbfjxpoBNns+ylgqteLofsOxi/y
uravjjAyaILth;iFt_?euyftNnr"fmaukyMhuBIsd:nmubynDsauyet/unmgofLpdtFej=x
gzakpxLpuNNns+fxjmgeLofs6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|yfayjnuoaPCqp!nmwgbyGgexuqd>oFi
ztfbFYVzaBHex&klfxgsLguAuyd@fyvnvnHsjvCyC!uravjjEgexPjp=vE?bbYzBtm
tGngttMzaIytt-klbtgeKlfDCsk!gltvcsvhswtgy:fobpptLggBHid:nqavclrzfMtyl@z
Cumnbgwgbvwjt:gnmgbyGguAyrd@tpavjjAyavFni+zE?bbX8LSUYWKTSoRWGJ6gbzLji%
CuujbyzptsPni> lbpfeKhjwtyl@zlujgeKpuNuym=tlxcueAuattBe,fIptujggatNyi_vFjpi
zAawpnxFatLgm:xmsAbI`KtsLjw^snmgfesAuxGux*tsavqeMujySee!SMSEbwwjpKxeA*ztac
hucnktyybIBng!xqdqtirkpGyee$iAsfksyguHtyl^f2swuxAhosCsw:xGdvktFz?
GodqtiAuhsNtdnZQWGPXlguACxd|oFvcvnGuaHwhy/xqebxjJFaxuwp,fuobvmwgqKIhi|yg

3MUGTXryfvuqp^jlgtqrrlbKFDd%oEdwuxAvoLttr!VDplghLgPIysd}uAlbvmwgdHHhi/t
uraocsQgqxIup^fFicveElsxFDd#ElqtqiMjjGAem_gsfu?e8VCsQfw!tAubtjssmR
kzicphAuhsCsx^rxfevzssatwhi|yluqbyzlaFuyi/omm}be6lwxLyl^rqtu?eFvusQnw&ozh
zAaqxjJlnIBfw*FqavjjrvqIIxm:oAobdjLDfxHem_gsjpiesueszzp-fFfzv	r4B!YWW
yFbvgirAitNeTjHlwkgBKghxNym+mlujgeAtbzyxd@ylbbhnJzusMyi[fFpycwvgqHMxm#rK
iAoxgwLpoztys!lGmnbywEusNmv=AsibemsybvNjv!xqdqisAAjHH	d*llujgeLldAHtp=mK
oEacruJvqKCfx^alaYCYWYTsuqw=fqnrjfKpAxxex&gFagphGkjGAem|fuoxqqNlesyAi+
CuujbfrzfMttj!oybigxm

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZaciwwlesQnx&f9BVGW~guAuyd=tqaecsrjsxuyi!gzaUIR4geHwzq^tF
iAoukxLpoztBl=rxzbqkrpntAjw8flBvbkAytMtxm"nF.bqwyhoBTnr"fsscrmAjaBGfk^y
CuujbfFgTZ7Qd%uovogsLgntSer=zltggrrApsIkj^xlhtgfLgbwPfr:gsfu?etBusNmi
gpwcpysnfLttj!ztfbuhzlnxt2EoK4TbfjKjsBvjh!CAvnfetlaILjg*yqmAbyzhu
gnjnkyQguHtrs<kljpvtrzpFyyl*tsavjfLgjLtrs/klphbfrtvENnq^jubbftuBnxHy\
gldqogAubMCtr!uravtfFzdKCgi%fFfzvesuesJfk^funcijKbas%JM}KXaeqsuBsKyid*t
ztjuboMkhFysx7fAghgwAuhsyAm%kzdgbkJvns0ws(koubCISWUmtBl^xqacbusnfsCx
juwkfjvgjGNtd:kJubgqwtfGNxd@tpaitfHojvtjp^sqovu	rhowtnr!lmdvbyzlaMyCx
kxfogsLzatLjd=xsbpkEwkauSeg=rGnpuesuesFnr^ygabVmwzfsFnr^ylncAetlaNMjh!gE
ztfbdfKptsztv!jutvtntBuBHld%uovogsLzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv rgBLttr^
jqwgntHzaLIkx>gDfbksLlmECli+zlfpqzyoaMIev^iAhpkEwgxAuyd:nAtgbjDlnxHyw
gDf?bnLgntEjw!yqougeLvatJup,f5HONeLvatHem_gsfbksAAjtFqC7fFicveEhzmtnr
lmdv?eMsuBGfx^rKadghGtfsGtv^fmofbrGyfsNjB: lfkvmwyaMBws;mtaQEWrvssyim:kp
UOSbqwrlwxHen;yFavjwGBhAtpi,ozh}beXvss%FX X5.bvmwgmtvtv!uraeqrHvtBHld:nq
jAdwojFAatHid|gKjpieLojLtxi:fAgbftuBnxHyw!uDavjnKgtxNes'funcijKgcxFtr"y
zAavjnKgeHwzq^tFaeqsKAjMOyi|fmauklFpgBwfr:fuoxgxLtfGN 

3QJDGQrhmLIeq@jqavjjrwpBHyd:nmubvmwgBT0ex@mltgvxlgxACqi!tAubgCultLCAi-E
vDfuewAwuBPj{!urggtesgdHGrs+fEuctyAuhsJtm+zbavjjQgeHtss:fpfhkswguAy
yFsweyMyfsIkd:nqafqhMtfGNx{!ztpwimmga!BjC!nmwgbxGtfsLjg=syfpffLppGMee#uGu
J6EubtFlavIzp%fGtgbfKgfQurt-kE.bdzLguAyDd%ulkwuyrzvzAjw:fFbibxwAtntedauD
kJborqwaaMBjd{U4FbrwGqfvNee:zqnrvxrApsOxi!ztfbCF8gntLpy[fmtbozuoatM
vAtukgDl.svzx!ztftgesyfswqi@xxzbcwwhtsQmi/kltvtzuAvKyeq;yFadgeskexx 
ZtbvbnFgoHtBe,foppvwskjvNxd:nqawujrvgsUFT!zmhbujLz?

Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZapqywkaMBfx!ztfbVJ1gqKyue/kpacbqGuhsQtv)ozhbrfHlssyfv-E
uzacdtMAaMBjd?G2avclrzfMtfr%fIicveAAaEuho^jlujcyrAixtYIdfFiqwlzAaBN
tqffgilgbGxee!lmjtnDrspGAeg/oFjswjrvgsNmi!tmnkplrjpGPjr:oAou?eOojvBel@y
rqebvtrhaOywC!jughgwwuusMyC-klphbsstjGAem+fFigbYWP?stMi!yFsguxwkaMBj
oyqqtysudxttj!ztfbquHvtBNns+fnfvyjwuaILjw$xuqvkAwgntLpy[ lujgeCpowtyl@zlb
vGcnkxzlssIwd@tKcqfDrjbGtis!CtfpbuJveNwnr"fppewrwuuLtii!tAwq?esue
jqtetnHAjOyeq@xwvr?eAuaPBng&fAogbmszaMIex@qqayjfLguAyex^DFaecwJpfK
vDpxkiwz?stNr!ztfugeHhsMChy-gDavclrzfMMem:futbgfKFaMIes<kDformszjSyex&oE
uBqqunLppGnef^imvugeLofsUFT!zmhbujLgjLtjB:xqngnDrmmxRnf-kgabGAwuaBzes+k
pGtvbzKlesNmi!J6Eu?eLofRtfp-uIacnrGzususC:nuoibyGgbIJje/fmmoqxLgbGSBl^xq?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gW2oed{U2ZTKLZ1a2!XY Y

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
VQUGTXr[a`yAi/gxaeczLppGMeg=toftpnFnavIuC/osivbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnu
kzwkttFtfGNe_!XqwkgBrvgswtt,xuhjveDhxsCsd:nqaWpnLles!ye:kEa)bYzlaGIym=t
uravjjrwvuFng!mApfbfFkaMBjd%kEjtcgAsjMSes'fuoegsLpwxMex=fBsqotLlaBNe_
3tbvbhGwzKCll:fBsqvjuAts{e1=xwtbptLgqKIyi$zqebdDrjpISwm"nFa)bYzlaKCll:y
uraequQyjzByd&uxegtxr[a9Ogp*ytftu)rjpGwjv+yljpbyGkbR.xd^rqdvttFpd
kzwkttFtfGNe_!IAnrwqKvsRtqm$kztgue?gUAyet/oofbqkrjpISwm"nFakpesgeBAnx@r
sqekwrrhowtyl^fzfgfexvsswts[kDbvktFg(sUih*zuppcqrjmtLnj*imukqsKg(stWs;mt
pGtvkhwgpyNjr:oyfubyzlaHOyg=sqakpeFBnxLty|foprAwAniMtre:zqsub+rJpISwm"nF
ozacpewsfvNws+ooauqhAluRt+d{uBztklzAaEuBd@rIbAueGumRtxi:ylvrbyzl
hAvpffJpfLjee+EFikplrjbGtgi!itbpijvgcRths+zDbeve?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYfarqqAjzsJqe+tuoibfvCjLywd:ulujge0lhBMyi/fAgbEtHFsBAmx| 
RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rgaFuii!yqwgtfDghxHjv@rldqorwuuLtfr%fFigpeGwfGyid:nq
lxpqteLvawCxg;yEjqpeGmaLOgn^iFtbqkrpoMywi|zluqbyzlatOim^tof}

NmwkplrhuMysh^jltgxjJhmsMjw|oAoubnFgbGtjj'uDubvtrnbBHee!yqougeGmaPBfx
vqprnjrkjwtfr%fIigtjrjpISwm"nFayqzDkatzki$zlujgnJgmBPjw7f2FVGW~gfQJwi|yqe
ztfbhtDspPCsk!imvvktFz;

flabb+rPgsIsi!zmlguesueswtr<kDuubrsAfKCfp|fmofbuMAtsNmi_fuobpjOggHLrw7
flabbyzlomtkv=slbbetHFsBAmx!vAjpveGmaOCjA7fAogbnKgdKyfx*tsauqrwAiBHld@tp
flabbBAsmsLjg^oHfbutElaKCll:yg

flabb+rOpPyAi/ ljhbBzhusIsi!oEaeqsNlsMCsk!gxsgciQgfQCxx| lbbszwzuBIs
flabbnEtfwCfx^rKactnKltsugs;zlujgeKAbMOxd=llujgeEhuxLne-yljpbvMltMCtr8

flabb+rWvMNnr"fEpogyzpoztnr!ztfbrztsjvtis_guobksrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLttj'kDt
flabbxGtfszwi^jAnbhwGtatHCm^zK.bdzLgeBMyv*hGukplrpusNmv=AsiqwyrAixtBs/rp
flabbtFgbsHjx>uDlbkxrhoHNmi/fybvvjJaaxPjr!oraqpjrobLtuy:fuubksrAixtuy#rud
flabbiGtbBHem+fFigbZFpuxxeW:gFfu}erYfsztv^osobnfOz.sPjv,frsgszwuuESee
flabbBGylswfr!hqakpeLofsJzf-ooafqrsposCsd:nqaWpnLles!ye:kEadwyrwsHNjg:kp
flabbnFgpMBjv!iAvpvwAltnteX&AE.bqswgnNMyd$uztkfjJgbEFes'fFigbuDhdxMee
flabbBGylsGfC!xqbej	rsfLNes+klvpynLAjGAqC!hqdqojrsjtvqi!zAadgnFnayuhi%
flabbBAAisuew;oFahqwrjpISwm"nFakpkJpozyri+zfaqtesAaEyfw:fmangyLls
flabbiwtbGxnr"fpjuezKzjHHes'fIicveGufsCxd%uuoi}

VQUGTXryfOCjA^jldqrDJphANep@Cljpbyzla@Hnx^jlTvcywz?stYl^f7?U}
IAouvnLBuBIsd^lrfevnNlmRtxx@zqtbvmsAaVIsk/kEtbjfKguAyet=Cqsbvtrlotwy
iAqAtnyousFfA|frptbyOvaIOwt=yqt<be'/aMIei+iAvtclwguAyeg/kmukqsrhow
jutugrAubMCtr!urakpywsmxwyy@rlxqtpKggHLex&klhqqirvgsMtg*kFzbcxrhaPBtp^?
gze?bxAnoBzng@tFmA?e"/aMIek*BqaetjsApKMee+jlujqxwgxAIet@iwbigesue
jutugrAubMyeq@zqskcqKguAyei$uzpokhryfPuwh|fFicvesyfsxzi!ztfo}

IAoitjKzaLNwm<kEavqeKAsBEjd@fnbncsul.sQmm$nlbvbyAtfLthe+fnfeqrwgbG
kypvktFhmsCxw;kgabVmwgVGCyi%f5ucvjKgitMer^BqsbchulqMyid:nqapqyAvosIkd:nq
tmuwtfDgsBAmx!uracpesBuAIwd|ulnwemrhtsCyd&gEacehwwuxxex&kloqvnGuaHzex&k
vGcnkhrnpHxee+jlujgevltBLff*ruuAbtxgjGwjr:oHfubyGgqKIrs:kljv}er1iBMew:gFf
urachkspsLnel=Cqwgt	robLthv^gFffbxLybBHxd=tlujgeAuuxLse:oAocneDlwxFee+j
oEavjjryftMtr!lAsbujNlstFes'fFigbiAmgxLjr$kEakpeLofsFfA|fFicveOlaAuAi8
ZAecAeLofs#sm:kpaUvfLltsJws:kouubfDtpLNei<kDzbmnFkaHzeA=xwavjfLgdtHef^
immngirhosyCt/kEtkqsrvgsusd@AFiqt rgUAyew:gzectirmpKtle*tuoibhGwzKCll:
vDpvghLppGtnw!yunrnDrvsBAnr@ruuA}er1iBMem|fmanqBrzutHie/jlbpfeElbGMex&gF
glxqtprptsHtx!iAqkgirmsHGew=squjksygfEMj{!gEaygqDgbLtxl=CEacbhwyutCs
suokofDgbFIzr:fAgbczLopKMmm[alaQpjrjbGtfp|ulbeszAyfswtt,xuhjveHypMyhx*uz
lAsbofCpoztfd+kIaxgwKppGttj!vDfgznKAjGAeq@zqskcqlgqKIAm%kpakveEhoBzjw:y
yAngbxHhsDttj!iDfcvnNpuRo

NAxgxjJaavIuC/osivbiGltsHtx!vDpvghLgjwyfw7fyfvjtvz.sMDw:kyt++tFszsNmi!Cmz
ztbvbtFlaxRuv^yEfubyzvtxtyl*tst}be6vssxti|foprAwAniMtuv=zqdvbfFFuACsk
ztbvbnKgnxwme+oobn?esuzMBnr"fFicvevvfLtss:fuoxqqNlavBtm$kfaqteuyjMywm
