results of a process called declicking, in which one mechanically removes
impure sounds from old recordings, are not copyrightable.  On the other
hand, the choice to record a song digitally and to increase the sound of
violins or to bring up the tympani constitutes the results of conversion
that are copyrightable.  Moreover, if a work is protected by copyright in
the United States, one generally needs the permission of the copyright
owner to convert it.  Normally, who will own the new--that is, converted-
-material is a matter of contract.  In the absence of a contract, the
person who creates the new material is the author and owner.  But people
do not generally think about the copyright implications until after the
fact.  PETERS stressed the need when dealing with copyrighted works to
think about copyright in advance.  One's bargaining power is much greater
up front than it is down the road.

PETERS next discussed works not protected by copyright, for example, any
work done by a federal employee as part of his or her official duties is
in the public domain in the United States.  The issue is not wholly free
of doubt concerning whether or not the work is in the public domain
outside the United States.  Other materials in the public domain include:
any works published more than seventy-five years ago, and any work
published in the United States more than twenty-eight years ago, whose
copyright was not renewed.  In talking about the new technology and
putting material in a digital form to send all over the world, PETERS
cautioned, one must keep in mind that while the rights may not be an
issue in the United States, they may be in different parts of the world,
where most countries previously employed a copyright term of the life of
the author plus fifty years.

PETERS next reviewed the economics of copyright holding.  Simply,
economic rights are the rights to control the reproduction of a work in
any form.  They belong to the author, or in the case of a work made for
hire, the employer.  The second right, which is critical to conversion,
is the right to change a work.  The right to make new versions is perhaps
one of the most significant rights of authors, particularly in an
electronic world.  The third right is the right to publish the work and
the right to disseminate it, something that everyone who deals in an
electronic medium needs to know.  The basic rule is if a copy is sold,
all rights of distribution are extinguished with the sale of that copy.
The key is that it must be sold.  A number of companies overcome this
obstacle by leasing or renting their product.  These companies argue that
if the material is rented or leased and not sold, they control the uses
of a work.  The fourth right, and one very important in a digital world,
is a right of public performance, which means the right to show the work
sequentially.  For example, copyright owners control the showing of a
CD-ROM product in a public place such as a public library.  The reverse
side of public performance is something called the right of public
display.  Moral rights also exist, which at the federal level apply only
to very limited visual works of art, but in theory may apply under
contract and other principles.  Moral rights may include the right of an
author to have his or her name on a work, the right of attribution, and
the right to object to distortion or mutilation--the right of integrity.

The way copyright law is worded gives much latitude to activities such as
preservation; to use of material for scholarly and research purposes when
the user does not make multiple copies; and to the generation of
facsimile copies of unpublished works by libraries for themselves and
other libraries.  But the law does not allow anyone to become the
distributor of the product for the entire world.  In today's electronic
environment, publishers are extremely concerned that the entire world is
networked and can obtain the information desired from a single copy in a
single library.  Hence, if there is to be only one sale, which publishers
may choose to live with, they will obtain their money in other ways, for
example, from access and use.  Hence, the development of site licenses
and other kinds of agreements to cover what publishers believe they
should be compensated for.  Any solution that the United States takes
today has to consider the international arena.

Noting that the United States is a member of the Berne Convention and
subscribes to its provisions, PETERS described the permissions process.
She also defined compulsory licenses.  A compulsory license, of which the
United States has had a few, builds into the law the right to use a work
subject to certain terms and conditions.  In the international arena,
however, the ability to use compulsory licenses is extremely limited.
Thus, clearinghouses and other collectives comprise one option that has
succeeded in providing for use of a work.  Often overlooked when one
begins to use copyrighted material and put products together is how
expensive the permissions process and managing it is.  According to
PETERS, the price of copyright in a digital medium, whatever solution is
worked out, will include managing and assembling the database.  She
strongly recommended that publishers and librarians or people with
various backgrounds cooperate to work out administratively feasible
systems, in order to produce better results.

In the lengthy question-and-answer period that followed PETERS's
presentation, the following points emerged:

     * The Copyright Office maintains that anything mechanical and
     totally exhaustive probably is not protected.  In the event that
     what an individual did in developing potentially copyrightable
     material is not understood, the Copyright Office will ask about the
     creative choices the applicant chose to make or not to make.  As a
     practical matter, if one believes she or he has made enough of those
     choices, that person has a right to assert a copyright and someone
     else must assert that the work is not copyrightable.  The more
     mechanical, the more automatic, a thing is, the less likely it is to
     be copyrightable.

     * Nearly all photographs are deemed to be copyrightable, but no one
     worries about them much, because everyone is free to take the same
     image.  Thus, a photographic copyright represents what is called a
     "thin" copyright.  The photograph itself must be duplicated, in
     order for copyright to be violated.

     * The Copyright Office takes the position that X-rays are not
     copyrightable because they are mechanical.  It  can be argued
     whether or not image enhancement in scanning can be protected.  One
     must exercise care with material created with public funds and
     generally in the public domain.  An article written by a federal
     employee, if written as part of official duties, is not
     copyrightable.  However, control over a scientific article written
     by a National Institutes of Health grantee (i.e., someone who
     receives money from the U.S. government), depends on NIH policy.  If
     the government agency has no policy (and that policy can be
     contained in its regulations, the contract, or the grant), the
     author retains copyright.  If a provision of the contract, grant, or
     regulation states that there will be no copyright, then it does not
     exist.  When a work is created, copyright automatically comes into
     existence unless something exists that says it does not.

     * An enhanced electronic copy of a print copy of an older reference
     work in the public domain that does not contain copyrightable new
     material is a purely mechanical rendition of the original work, and
     is not copyrightable.

     * Usually, when a work enters the public domain, nothing can remove
     it.  For example, Congress recently passed into law the concept of
     automatic renewal, which means that copyright on any work published
     between l964 and l978 does not have to be renewed in order to
     receive a seventy-five-year term.  But any work not renewed before
     1964 is in the public domain.

     * Concerning whether or not the United States keeps track of when
     authors die, nothing was ever done, nor is anything being done at
     the moment by the Copyright Office.

     * Software that drives a mechanical process is itself copyrightable.
     If one changes platforms, the software itself has a coprAwAniMoedonq
flabb2GymwtNr:kxmgeyMhms0ws[kDuAbTJnbGCEe:oAobynDsaAIqh!gltAouGzjNGe6C
flabbRsydAtyl/uGhjb7rHqKCqd-#&4?bfLgItLAe/jlVpkAwytBND{!uzafklAAbE
flabbywjiGIqs"EfacpirDjEFew:ApzbvmAzaxHym/kljuuzwbas3kd=tqarwwuobLyxd@
flabbhGtqNNjv!yAgvyfJlaIuho@mq.buzuoatMeQ@i2bkpylgbGxeg/kmugueKvnxNmm+m
flabbswD.sIsi!xqdgkAwzaILtx^iFjqpeGumRtks/fFicveOojvBel@ylcggsrhewyi	

VQUGTXrhewyid:nmubqkLlosCsd$uBztklzAaFuyx^xE.bttMnisDzw:oofbkxrAix
uGueqrwaayIwd^DmnrnjlgjGths-rqdvkAwgmBwjr|ozh?bF~JB9t=m8kg.bCrwyjvus
YAdkgyQgpytHs_vAtgtxlgBNNms/yfacpirWvuFnw&kDt_?esuesVRM![u?g}	rIsHuig@yF
SGtke	rPovo[{!CtftgeAAaFuDd|kqnbvmsAaMBjd#osaiwDKgsxwjm<klnqtjrAitHex&kus
jGf}be7mavIzv|kfargtHsfsIzk&zloqveLvavIuC!gldtgfLpwxtuv=jGdvbBAAiHOy
vmzkplrmpKtnx3fFigtjrziHOqh!hqauqrwgdHGui+ymukqsmgaUOyd:nqavtzLoaHzex&k
CAsnf	rhowtnx!oEapqyrhazLje:fFswvmlgjLtyl@zlujgetphsAzC!mquubuDhzxxes+
ztfbtfvppsGtv^frsgszwuuESex&gzavjjrsjMNqi!mGz?bBzvaAuxd:uleqbrMjisGtv^
Azuknezlauyhs_kEacbgAnazOD	!f6icveAzaMLzi!uragxjJFatOyl=xfagxjJF
iAnrqxwy.syAi/EAog?esuemtzr'uDuwpfLlmRnem|fBbtveGmaECki8

IAqAtnyousuqA@EEaqtnypotNjw!CuujbyzlatOyl=xfagzhwwusCsd$gEfubtxgxHLpw
smegbkGyaACwi8fl)OqxLgtHzyA@xqahcqDzaBHys!ztjubhsAfzIwC8]laYjjFgbGtfy:nAs
yqofuezptsuwx*ixfbvtrhaCIzv+gx.bjjrobLtss:fDfnksIBjLBjh!iAqAtnyoumtyl=Asi
nqatgyspoLtyl^fDjijyrApsLjp*tCvkumrpunteX&klbwvmGyaKyhi*BqtbcgKvmNNjp,
kHftAyzpozoedonqangxKgqKIrm+kzubvmwgbNNms/ lujgeEvsxtqi<kDbigeLof
vGcnkxzlssQnp-ftbxgeAuavIsx/goubpjyvuBuym=tE?bbNFgpKxjv!zAavtfFzgxLex&k
xuhjvxlguAyee;ztptbrMzusMnk+fmobclJlfFysx!muwkplrAixGee>gK?

OzacpewsfvNws+ooauqhAluRnem:futbkrHvsMusx!zAadgesimxtys!rudgpxwgbsQwm:kD
gzebytJraHOyd%kmmu}er4jMBev^mmsfbyGgvLyes'fmayqwCaaBNey|AmmnAeAzaFOhl
kmtkgwrDixHee!vGcnkxzlssBtp%ylujgeJphANx	!fUobcsrlmxwyv=tudbgwsaattwi@r
vDpdnjEgbKCxi|fIigpeGufsCxd%osjvkEAuhsush!smlkplrpoyIwq@zuppbfNhjEugp^a
VQUGTXryfyywv^jlbicnFguHtjp^iFsqpnugmBwjr|ozhbeqwhsBHll=AEfu}erJpISwm"nF
uGhjveLvaKyre*tlxkvmrAixtfy:nAs?bgMAatMes+klnqxjKggHLBe/jlhnqgssmRtnr!ztf
kxfevwGujvtfv^tm.bceEpewFjq@tlxjqeuhosBfr%rqavjjrCbKCty|fDjijyKgcxwtq^y
ozdtgfKpozFDd+kofuufJF?

ZtfbptLppGttj!iAqAtnyousFfA!oEavjfLgjMtwi|opfubBAAisNmi!ozekxnvBbEnef;z
ozacpeGu_ECsi!kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbfrDpKEeg@tlcgbfvhqMyid@tpavksClsxxeA*zt
hKaocsQgjGxnz*jGbnu	rAixLjd*yldqphwyonteM'foicplwzatLjd@AFiqtnRlesush
ztftgeAzaGIee"xqfogsLguHtyl^foppvwsyzmtyl^fBftutFgxAIeg&gzhguesgxHLpd=Czt
ztfbemsuhxM d!ZAarwyrpususs:nqsbyfQaaMBjd[kDtqpeOopsuhu;oDfubuwynBMxm=t
zAaejfFnfsueA=xwavghzujvuqp,fIjnnetldHGjd:nqacwyzvssush!ztfbqBFlsmtzr-kEt
yAngbfyyfxGjr:fFpbvmwgdHHyv@xKajcxrifxHeq@jq?bbNLgjLtyC[oobnbkGyaMBj
uDjiksssaIOgp*ytftbyGguKSex=foppvwGsatFqd=llujgeNlsLCtr|fmofbfDsaHzex&k
AEfu}erJpISwm"nFancBrhmPuDw!uzmAbxwAtsOud:nqadqzFkbKCjw8flBpAyzpozthe+fnf
itbpijvgcRths+zDbev 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gW23 d!I1OENZ~PP7

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MQOGTF4gE2!HYnYUPPb+r1xHtvy^yFjqpxrmpKtim|iGtuktFg(sXnj'kDfpvewtqAuxi|fuo
ztfbYtJrtAIudQfNskplAuhsNmi!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^fBbtvnKhoLtys"kFigte?
JqtkfjJhuttnr!vxbppnFnaMBjd-uzh+vjJtawyAi-uBngpyrvgsMtq^ztjpie?gRNyxx*uzt
yGstqzFkjGAex&kljuuzwgpytjp^iFsqpnugexJtw*zl(bFnKjvLMns+fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
jqqqunLgbLtfr!gxmwunGuaMIex&kljuuzwgpytxx@tpbtfxr[a7yjh!lAsbcevpsxwys/E
urartjKlsOuym=tlqtqowjuLtnr!juhkvfDggHLrd@tpahqwrhdvyxw!zAavjjAy
juhkvnRlesznp^yl(bEJ`O"Lthe:gxpiwjrvgsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFjd:kJuubnFguAy
nGncpnLpfLt+drnmubetFzuBNzx^ylbbrztsjvuym=tljpbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeOvsExadQ
TqffbkGya5Wex=fpfcneOpuAtyl^foppejHAaHzes+/xjpgeHBcECxl*tsa)bQU_ts8jx>uDl
JqwgntHtfGNeS'ludgbewEqEIwm+mlujgeDpnBNxd=llNCTHrhtsuew:gzectirposNjv_y
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsr[a6ulr*zGegbtxguAyet/unmgoesuesNmi
tqffbkGyawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyQgjGttv%kDavqeEhjGNfm+fmofbxLvsx
kxfevwGujvtnr'uDncvnGua}t2s/qEiqreHhsMChm[gzuubyGgcxtAm^CqebcxrhaLNfv:ozh
vAjpve?gExPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBObzJnfwt+d?fEugreLvxtLid?S/t
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fzfvytJratwhi|yl(bCevlmBwfx^
gzebclGujSCsk!vAmkeDrxvxMym=tlgqte4Ja}tWi!ztfbkxKBfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
jqqqunLaa5Wey/mqebvtrpoBNne:klbbefLhmRNng!vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqe
xqtrqsKpcBFnx,f;aUwlyltMCtr|frptbhGvqxLfx*BqaxgsLBsxMe_!IAnogwupbE
vGcnkxzlsL.ej^gDtb)e~AstNjk*ilrwgxLppGMej=xlhgvyAuhsNmi!oybigesuesNjB:
vqprnjrApsNmm+qlujttMnisFtr"/FftoeuvpIywe:oAob)eUsbKCkm$gFjqpeGmaMBj
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzajkxrypEyee|fypfgwsApKttj!ztfbetFjmNxnr"fEfuunGu.s1NJaU4EbtfAzfwtyA=
wGfuvnGutsBjd#kxjgxjvgxHOqh!hqoghnLggKIrd%oEdwuxAvohte5SfMsgbyzlsxtjr=As
