we can see courses of action that should be taken in the future?  And, if
so, what are they and who might take them?  2) Partly derivative from
that, but obviously very dangerous to LC as host, do you see a role for
the Library of Congress in all this?  Of course, the Library of Congress
holds a rather special status in a number of these matters, because it is
not perceived as a player with an economic stake in them, but are there
roles that LC can play that can help advance us toward where we are heading?

Describing himself as an uninformed observer of the technicalities of the
last two days, GIFFORD detected three different emphases in the Workshop:
1) people who are very deeply committed to text; 2) people who are almost
passionate about images; and 3) a few people who are very committed to
what happens to the networks.  In other words, the new networking
dimension, the accessibility of the processability, the portability of
all this across the networks.  How do we pull those three together?

Adding a question that reflected HOCKEY's comment that this was the
fourth workshop she had attended in the previous thirty days, FLEISCHHAUER
wondered to what extent this meeting had reinvented the wheel, or if it
had contributed anything in the way of bringing together a different group
of people from those who normally appear on the workshop circuit.

HOCKEY confessed to being struck at this meeting and the one the
Electronic Pierce Consortium organized the previous week that this was a
coming together of people working on texts and not images.  Attempting to
bring the two together is something we ought to be thinking about for the
future:  How one can think about working with image material to begin
with, but structuring it and digitizing it in such a way that at a later
stage it can be interpreted into text, and find a common way of building
text and images together so that they can be used jointly in the future,
with the network support to begin there because that is how people will
want to access it.

In planning the long-term development of something, which is what is
being done in electronic text, HOCKEY stressed the importance not only
of discussing the technical aspects of how one does it but particularly
of thinking about what the people who use the stuff will want to do.
But conversely, there are numerous things that people start to do with
electronic text or material that nobody ever thought of in the beginning.

LESK, in response to the question concerning the role of the Library of
Congress, remarked the often suggested desideratum of having electronic
deposit:  Since everything is now computer-typeset, an entire decade of
material that was machine-readable exists, but the publishers frequently
did not save it; has LC taken any action to have its copyright deposit
operation start collecting these machine-readable versions?  In the
absence of PETERS, GIFFORD replied that the question was being
actively considered but that that was only one dimension of the problem.
Another dimension is the whole question of the integrity of the original
electronic document.  It becomes highly important in science to prove
authorship.  How will that be done?

ERWAY explained that, under the old policy, to make a claim for a
copyright for works that were published in electronic form, including
software, one had to submit a paper copy of the first and last twenty
pages of code--something that represented the work but did not include
the entire work itself and had little value to anyone.  As a temporary
measure, LC has claimed the right to demand electronic versions of
electronic publications.  This measure entails a proactive role for the
Library to say that it wants a particular electronic version.  Publishers
then have perhaps a year to submit it.  But the real problem for LC is
what to do with all this material in all these different formats.  Will
the Library mount it?  How will it give people access to it?  How does LC
keep track of the appropriate computers, software, and media?  The situation
is so hard to control, ERWAY said, that it makes sense for each publishing
house to maintain its own archive.  But LC cannot enforce that either.

GIFFORD acknowledged LESK's suggestion that establishing a priority
offered the solution, albeit a fairly complicated one.  But who maintains
that register?, he asked.  GRABER noted that LC does attempt to collect a
Macintosh version and the IBM-compatible version of software.  It does
not collect other versions.  But while true for software, BYRUM observed,
this reply does not speak to materials, that is, all the materials that
were published that were on somebody's microcomputer or driver tapes
at a publishing office across the country.  LC does well to acquire
specific machine-readable products selectively that were intended to be
machine-readable.  Materials that were in machine-readable form at one time,
BYRUM said, would be beyond LC's capability at the moment, insofar as
attempting to acquire, organize, and preserve them are concerned--and
preservation would be the most important consideration.  In this
connection, GIFFORD reiterated the need to work out some sense of
distributive responsibility for a number of these issues, which
inevitably will require significant cooperation and discussion.
Nobody can do it all.

LESK suggested that some publishers may look with favor on LC beginning
to serve as a depository of tapes in an electronic manuscript standard.
Publishers may view this as a service that they did not have to perform
and they might send in tapes.  However, SPERBERG-McQUEEN countered,
although publishers have had equivalent services available to them for a
long time, the electronic text archive has never turned away or been
flooded with tapes and is forever sending feedback to the depositor.
Some publishers do send in tapes.

ANDRE viewed this discussion as an allusion to the issue of standards.
She recommended that the AAP standard and the TEI, which has already been
somewhat harmonized internationally and which also shares several
compatibilities with the AAP, be harmonized to ensure sufficient
compatibility in the software.  SUmwgeKyBd:nqankswgbMtxe,ozhbNHrvvzByd:u
hqavjjrspvOxd=xlgqtzEggHLew;itajcwEvoBTfx*uz?

ZmlkplrAixtlv=ABakpesgtECll:rKafkkxlsxHyd%oDfevnGu.svzx!uzfbymwyfsuy
rqbuveAuaMBjd+kmsbvjJta5Weq*mtubrqsFattmi-vrvnbwGsfmtQ3iITatgrsylxxex&k
vxbpueGmattsy_hqsbqkrwsHDjg:yluqbhsysRtty:fBsgujJCbMCtr!hKaetjsAjGA
juhkvfDgjFuli|fFicveOpmEtjr%fGqbksrvo Fnr^fAsbpjsy_ECsi!yFptclwgbMtxs_k
oztvkyMAjHH d!f2sguzEhcES	dgIlxknqrsjGEex&oEaocywyjtFew=sqiqyeLvaBNx
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mljpbrGzuswfw^ygabVmMz.sCyd*yljpbfrkjzCye-frpto rgM^8HL!nme
ztfbkrHyfLMns+fFicveEhoRttj!ztfugeAutMCyy:oAoubBGBmwtgi!CumnksyguHtre)k
ztpugexpmxMee$iqtukgDlaMIes:nqsbrjGwmxtty:yuegbyzlaBHxx*zGukqslgqKIAm%kp
ztbvbyzlsxtnw!tAaequQyjzByd[xAcngrmga!Bnw!jqtkfjJhuNGeA*rxatgvMpsx
vDprclsAjGAex&kllpqBDlezyex&gFavjtKlawClm:oLffbkAsfLtjB*yF.butrAitNex&kK
imobgsvgvItnr!uFigteGu_ECsi!imucntyz?stFp:nAvijeMudxLye*tlbdqzLguAy
sqdjcsAznsztv!goikgAAuhsNmm|fDfuwqLaa5'SGcfEbkfeLobMtnx!CmstcsLle
yoswvnFFauyhe;yqakveKlfFyid:ulcgbhGuoxwyi%fFpbutElaHzex&klccunugjLMzi|fAg
imucntypoztfr%fpjuvwAivMCtr!uratghGyeLoeddzlxqwqvgcxtej=uxjuj	rnjOysd:nq
gypwpyrvgsQtv)fFicvessmsIkd;ylicxjrApsxtd@tpaqwwrtftAjv!xqtqwwultmtys
juteqAwyaFOqx*vxfbksKAjMOym=tEafklAAjSCsk!ztfbufElaPIwo8flSgbrAjsHztv_yf
R~OEJeKhjwneA^fmsgbnFgqKyyx,fspqfeKobIy 

HMUVKSrjbEFjh!ztjubfrijztuv=hxfobfFkaGIyi%fFicveLofsWtv+kxmbrjGwmxt=A&u
nmebcqJlbwSeh^vmsvgi{gxxLjd>uDlkplrvosCy	!fMubkxKBfszws_fFigbgwnjGHnr"
CmtbvtrsftLsd&uIavqeuhutFtk!ztbvbnFmpKGfx*uzakpyGgS53Sd@tpavjjFgjGNt
UOME?eKvaMBfx!oFayqzDkauyee$iqtukgDl?stYl@zljuuzwgsxGfm+yluqbgwgsxMtp<kp?
R~OEJeJlkHCsi%fFicveHBuMCsk!oFakpyGgPV6Hd=xlSNKSrDbLtmi-vrvnbnFzpyuwd@y
yAngdtvFaPBtd*ylujksCpozttj!vqshqwEpoztuv^yqsxcyAvosuhx*BuuAbtFguAuyd>uDl
iAvnfeDlbKHee#uGubkymga2Nem|fzpvbswjfLMfv*rKajgqHmvEtks/fuouvnLBuBIsw!zA
smlgbyzhusuAe*rmcng rgCT@YMifAqkpjvguAuyd:nqakfjsgxtMex&gFakveFvusIsp,fnf
lAsbrwwzfKPfx*uzarwwHvtxMef;zlgqteLofswtr<kzjgphwgpytui=vxfbntGrjGAej=x
ztjubrsAfKCfp8flTjgewueHLxi%fXZPEM\zawChx;slujcyrkvIFng@zuppbtxguACx
krgqtyrDbLtys!hqacxtAkfwtgC!kHftAeElbGM 

N1DMG4rpoyIwq^jlujge#vsDMms[fmcqwyrvoxtre(uDaewwJloMtfg:oHjvAeGmaVYYL7
tmngnDrhavuye-usvgbtxgntwmm+k\sgcisimxtyi\zEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxmga1yqh!uz
XXJPbfLgqKyxi+zfavjjrjbMuqs"AqajcxrifxHeg=tofpvwsAfwttr!G5DKKeszaHJus|kp
zAafklAAjSyid*smhgueGmaMyCx8flTjgeAzaxRup=xuoibBsFtsNtd*sBsqxjrAix
imucntyBfsush!smlgbnLgnHLjd>opfnAesCbBFff-kfacpirDfEwtq^jltwilwzuBIsw
gnpwveLofLyeg=toftpxmgaVYYL!uIoubyzlaKyhs/jE.bymAjisuwi!tAublzKA
xqtvtnuAfwtys!XXJP?esueswfr!jutvtntBuxtyl^sliqyjNlssCyd>oEigu 

ZmlkplrBqs6JWf-EagcwDpfKtvy^yFjqp	rIB!@NR!ozrwkwwkaPBjx&kDaNE	rzjGwjd*z
oEacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpdsznp^ylbpfevltBAsm+mlbbojuobGCxq!lAsbfjssjGAeA*zt
ztbvbwsAixLex&gzarwyLpoztgs=qEaqpeKofEPjw7fIpwnirifvIri!xqtrqsKpcEyej=x
ztfbPfLppGuqd{uBztklzAaWyus|oFptAeGmaXFjg:xAokee5huxLne-ygabQkrjpNLxi
ztbvbhGBmwtss:fnfbchuvnIFnw&kpaqxjJujzBy{!hGubkyrDpNFid#kltqojLojGAeP{
iAvnfeHsbGtks/alaIKKXVSWtfg)tAxngiylesNme:fyvejeLopNAmx!CmtbdjAuhsxjz=zqe
zAavjfLgtxNes'fBsqdqwttsush!xquwtswkaMBjd%oEdwuxAvosNtd:nqakuxMlaKunw^j
hKaN1SUO_ Qmi:nqsbqwrupMtuy:zuoibyzlaDCsh!uratghGyeLtyl@zlcqvmrIB!@NR!gze
N1DMG4robOyef^kzavcqCpoztff=AFakpe0SJ7tnw!tAubceKhuBMke$zAsAbxGsvMCtr8
OFaugjElesNtd&oyavjfLgS53Sd@tExgtjvgM^8HLNylptklAubEtus*tFaeqsulsGCsk
yAngbpAuesIkd%oDfevtJFayIwd:nqtgbpAueLttj!smugtnsstnteM+fmaukyMhuBIs
CtftgeKvnxvth,futbcyLlnINnr"fFpbfjupextBl^ztftbtJgoHNex=fEdcpeLojLttv
lumobyzhusIwd:ulmgcwFgxAyyl^xlptbsGAaLIri=tqajcxrhmKyfh,fpppgeKv.s64R{N
yGhigxLlemtWPdTljubmwsqyOq{!hGubkyrptsHtx!nqmrhzDgjGtyl^fobugeGmattqs$gx.
uz_nkswgdtNfp=mGf}beXBsMBjv7fAogbBGBmwtqm)kluqbmsCfsBjv!uDajkxrzzLNjq!hq
gIbtgeLobMtyl@zlfzkxLzaBHeh*muucnexvsFnew=fFicveGufswfr!vDfugsLgjMtys!g
vmutqslgfOysd:nAvijeGufsxnh!tAubfnypuBTjd*zfakheAAaBMes;zlphbhGwzKCll:a
ZtfbqsDFaPuDd:ulncmjrAiHMjd-ozlcijKgxHOqh!hqavqeHlsyIwq!glutgrwueHOx
gypwpyrvgsLje-/FjogeDvpDazt7fIikemrDpNFid#klbymBsyesuyd#kEu?btJ
vqskqiAjbEFDd:ulzcpprAixtBl=rqahkqwggKIrdmRUObcsvgntNhl!oFacifAutMttr^-E
uIobuyMmgmtBl*itakuesgoNCxe+iq?

HGubymwyfmtJVrG~akpvMpsxx	d%uqtbqswgtMIud*tomwfnFnaMBnr"ylujcyrhsx
gHbknftsfsQnx&fUovgwFlumtks/fuouvfFjfmtnr!uzf&ueDvdtFeg@zmmqizwc
OFacnrGzusMji_ylujcyrAitNem|fXD&ueElbGMex=fmdswnJlatwhi|yluqbyzlnn
ZtbvbwwwsxMjr:ylME&xrufPtks/slphbqAistLDd-umo}be8lsAuuw!RO"ubswDaHH]p*tq
imucntyBfsCxd@tlbocqyhntNns+fAgbcqDguAyxi!imucntyBfLttr!ruog}erSZ7WM
iAoegiwkaMBfx!vqsjcuKguAuyd>gEavtzwgjGtyl^fHftAeDvoztyi/sfadwyrDbLtss:
gBqnkhsimxtys!yobppnFnaBHex&kltjqwLguxLr	!fUobjnKgwByB{!ztfbvtLhmLthm:kp
hKa1cqwaa"]	@E$lcqqpKgpOywd[kDicrxrhayIzvTEqbtbuwyjHx	d@tpa3?#=%_"n0@E
hApmuexypFtHs/tqmn?eOlsxtss:fnjibsMtcxLx{!CtjngeKlbKwmm+mlbnneGCfK
iDfcvnGuayIwd/kxbvkAwszsLfv^fAdewwJlovyxd>oxmbrwGCfsNtd#klmguxrlgyChm^tF?
GEaIKKXVSWtBs+jqsgfeAmaMBnw!CAvnfeFvusvjd@fEfrcwsimxtkm-klppbW4POsush
iAvnfetlaKyvy^yFffbkJvnsNmi_ lCCVY1UaBHyi/pqdvgirAitNem:fIbubjszjES
godguxAimxtys!gzakpxLpuNNns+alaUG1WYU`9Sd[uuovgirvvMtyl@zlujcyrmjEy	d$Ay
kzicphwtfGNx{!CmtbcAspmtvqi!CuujbwwmfKysg^fuohqwEhuBIsd=tlDF+W7T.sQmm$n
smlgueAAattqm:zxfbotJlatPfm-gnmg}

OzaJQH3LZ,Mez*kI.bvmwgsxuqd]AqtvktFggtwnr"fFigb2GylLBtt!oEayjfLguHtuy:fuo
ztjubhsAbEIly^ lcgefMzfsNme:fDbkujKguAyeu;kEukqsrvgsQme:foppuyAAvMyxd@
vGcnkhsAjHHem+fFigbjDldMLtr*ilxqtqvbas	2IdHQMbksLlsCyhx^jlujcyrLsBweN=Axf
ozaQEQU_ts9kj*iqaqhe0ltxuwg&futbcqKvaPLjw:ruoibBAAisNmm|fBbtvnuBmtL
vDpdnjEaaPBnp^fSJHHT0KaMBty"nFakveKvvGxjh!lmjtnDrnfGywm$a>abJTURF^
iAovgsvlesNme:fmaocoGyjMSes'fFfzvxrposNmi!nGncpnLpfLtfv^fuobvmwgitHiw
uragkyzlssuew_gxmbpzEifKttj!rmsigeJltxuwg&fuouvnLBuBIsw!uDakpiACjwOfp|
gzebcwwgoHNek^tqscnqQgbOunp@hxfbhtJgbGStr^fqmugeLvatwhi|ylbvbfDs?
YtfbytFkfKyid*llujgxwguxRyw!uGhjveLvauyeg@zmmqizwk?

GrugtesyhNGjr:fBsqejwkfwtge$qlbpfexvsMBej=xltgxjJhmsGnr;zqtbqAwyaPBD
imucntyBjGAeq*mtubdjrhaGyhi|ymsAbxwywBwj{!RQCTQSrzvzAjw:kpavjfLguACx
oEtwgeAuwHFAi%fFigbwwzqHHxm#oxjvAeGmattuy#rutjgwmga!Bjd'goubvmsAaLIri=tq
nmtbewwhuxxew=squjksygfEyhx/uzjecqDFatHid)kqqubnLgvGxjv!nutbqwrofK
iAovttDgeHyxd+uFaeqsKAjMOyi!vGcnkhsAjHH d!VGcnkhsAjHHem_vxjgu
jutugrAubMCtr8flXjkqwgjMtBs;rpadgeAtqHLye+zlgqtesgtvBtp@xluqbqwAaHNmi/
vqprnjrroHQex&gFavjnKgdKyfx*uzagznKAtmtnr!smoAbwwzqxwyw!ztjubnKgoH
jughgwwuuszws_fmobwsHBcECxl^jlncpzKjsBJy	!f6icveAzaPBfx!oEadgnFnatwhi|yqe
ozavjjJl.syCg^vFavjfLgoHQes+kljubsGAaEIto*tsacveAAaBHex&klicti	jpISef;z
ozavjjrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zg

RQCTQSrlyILjw|kparwERsfFysx!gFavjjrCbKCjx,fAgbyfQzaxFjg:xAokeeHBcECxl*ts
nmtbdjwuaOCjA^jgabOzuoaHzeA&gFajcxrifxHeh*yovuujvguALty"nAvvbyzltxtyA=
jmzubmszavIsg^xzffbHV|S87et;hxjujnFn.sQmi/kmtbksrAixttrTruogbjFCjKIsq^tF
ztbvbxzlavIsj/uzuu?eLofswtr|zDbkpyKgbGxeg&gxmgplwzatLjd<kDzbfnxmfKysx8
YAppgwrvssFfx^xlMEbBAsmsBfz^fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbetFjfINes'fAo+nnFl
vGcnkxzpozoedogwjpieMwaMBjd$uyngpyrLS$U4d_gpfbgfJsjxLee#uGubuyGyjGA
iAqkgxlgMXVWSifsbxgezlssIBr!pAvtpfDgbLtfr!kJborqwbas2tA!CAvnfeKofsxjt=yuu
UVDEVexvsswtt,xuhjvalgtAyee|qqe?bgwjbNMjd:nqalqzJubEtBm-rlfzkxLgjGtyl^
smjphwstfsuydjIXDbcsvgqxIup^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAacehwztsCy	!fTftgeLof
yuuwcyAvosCxd%orggtjFA.sIBr^xEikreNlsLOxd@iofuu	rhowtnw!yAngvmAuhsNme:
gDjugxrDjMBet;hxjecyAvosCsd:nqaqp]Dpoxtjr<oDppojFA.szfw:kDavjfFgjL
yAngvnEltsLje-oLff}erSbvEnr"fomgcwrhoLQjv|fFpbcqDgpytyl^yqaswjKAjHHx
nqsugqxaa5YGVjTlekfeFvususx*iuqcvjrAitNeP{fIpwnirifsugp^fFpbvfClattws-k
ozajgqHpoztys!jqgkpjrzpFyes'fFigoexvssKzm:klbbymAsfn

M4FGPK1LMWttf|kDwgfeLobMtQGNylOgvBGylsXjz^rAqogsLgPyzng^futbcyLlnINnr" 
gyppieGAixLex&ozhu?eLvaxRup=xqavjjrsjFCyw!uraOCWUgbLtfd|zmofcwvgjGtyi/sE
urajcsvsjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFesstHtss:kpavjfLgSxvjg$g
M7FPVMWYayLtq!ztbvbtxmjvyek@BqacbuswfKtys!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrmpK
OzgqtrsAjHHeW$oqoege}HT2![d|AynctnRpoztxi<kDbnbtxguAyeh*yovuunGuaIuui/y
ztbvbBwyfswtq*tsaqwyrvgsNmi!TquyqwCgExPjp=vyfpve7mgBwj	!fSSGGSXPF5Xew@op
nqawpiwytMIth!ztbvbyzhusIkj*iqajcirhaECxxTyqsxgwrzpEChm:ozhblzKAaMBjd)oze
urahgjvibvEev^iqjxgirApwuDd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!jughkhMsuByxd=lljfgsLpgRCsk!gze
imucntyBjGAei-koutqsAjaBHks/smukqsmgaZ`JIiLUFNFezvqxxex&gFagxjJFcHxD
CAvnfetlatQfv^fAgbvmsAatHid|uyfjqBrjpGNwm#AFfbvtrAitNeg=tHftufLppGo

TAukplrAxHttj!RO"ubwGsfLnej*xEu?byGgbvNee|fmatguGzjMIwC!uratghGyesztv
smugtnssaMBfx!oEaequQyjzByi%fuobvmAzavIzr:xK.bcsvgtxwtr% luqbrsrf
smugtnsstsCyd&uxeubfNhjEugp^fuobutElaECrm:kpahqwEguHtfd$rufpvjDlaMBfx
mAfubgwFpGxeG=tssguxlgCX!XImfEviijKAfwtyl@zljvbBszaBHhy_hqovbtFgMVtys
kJugpirAiHMjd/kEqqpxAijECym^yluqbfDsaMBjd:nuoiuetljGAet;hxjujjvgjG
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabVmAzaPIzp%fyfcpewCfGNze-rKacehwwuBHld^rqdvttFpd
lAsocyKbas6Hd$uGmfbwwxvBLjd:nmubcyrzpFyet=ozubvmwFauyem+fmaegwLhjG
runkvjvgtxNes'frptofLz.sush!ztfpbiwCfEIud_koicpnKttsztv!gxmqynFnaIytt-k
zAacehwztsNms|kljpbyzlaLuri!CmzbvmsAaHNmi/fFikplKgbKyee$iqtugimga!Bnw
jAfubsGAaBGup,fFicveLofRtfv^fAobvmwgoxNBs/qlbpfesCbBFff-kluqbjNlsRIsi8
ROafqjKguAuyd>oFibotKAaHzem:ylckdqAvhKuul*ilsgetJktmtGInYQSbufAk.sQmm$n
kzebwurtjzLfx*tsavqeLofsOym-oFzb-jmn?mtTGgI>aqteKvnxQmi/klfnujmgaUOyd(AEu
gEaoqxLgpytQGNylcqqpKgbKyee<gumcdqwgjGtxs_klgqtrrAiKIzk&fuovgwDpcKuwC
rAbpbtJgtHGjd=ztftbrwjitHnw_ ltqbnFguAyew@sqaycDrlmxwyv=tudbhtJtbMMes;mtu
zAadgesCbBFff-kluqbtLofKMem+fEpogexvsFuy{!ztpwimrDjMBew=sqaequQyjzBy
iAoukiwybMCtr|alaDGX~LSsQfw!tAubuzynfLNnr"fFicveLofLyeq^itbpkxEzauy
kEucdqAzixxex=sAstqBlgpGFDd:nmubvmwFaLyjq^jluqbkssmsQnx&ozaNE)KgqNLAm^Cf
gzebvmsAaMBjv^fEiqwqvgcxtqs+m\scplwgqEusw!zAaguysimBMmd:nqn}

GolpqBDlezCsk!ztbvbyzvtxtkv=slMEbnFguAyev=uyaciwwlesQnx&fNFUUJ0
iAoegwFpoztyl^fzfgfeLvavIsj/uzubfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGutmtLMaL1SFbzFkfKMhs/kp
ztfbofyujMOii!uravjjrwsHvqi_fAgbymsAaMIeo^kBacpirDitNex=fEfnghLbas1NJaU4E
tAugfeLobMtQG!iGstgsLszsLjg^oHfubxGtfs(6{E$*akvjEzaIywd%gK.bptLgdHOsx*ts
kxfevwGujvtre:kDjcnxlgbGxee/mGffbkGyaFOhl!sAsgbiAzuKCgy:kpatgxHvoLCgm-oFz
ozaqtiwyaMIeq@ozucksrhowtxx=xqagnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHH 

HQTUGWryfLJtr%kpavjfLguAyee|yqndnjvghKIzt!iAvnfetlaOCjA^jlbubfrzutLym+m
vAjpv	rDiHMjd*tuukcqrvqxLfx*tsartjEptxths;rpadgezlmICsk!zAaoqAwgjGtyl*y
jusgeyAvosush!jqgkpnFnaAIBdgIldqwqvgeHtxs7frptbjPhnIFj{!ozactjszaHz
yFbpffJkjSuym=tlptbiAzuKCgy:oAobqkryfLJtr|onjnkyQb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@jpffbyzhusURd>gEahwqDFaxHle"kp.bywwzuECsk!CuujbxGtfsIkd:nq
wGfuvnGutsNme:fBftvfAuaMIex&kldqpAwytBIsd=llpnfjJgiBMys/oobnbrsAfKCfp| 
CtjejeOvvExef^fAogbyzpoztyl@zlujge4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMeq*mtubftmga`yAi/gx
vAjpvxrtfGNns+kpadAeTLT`YWd@tpaugAwybEttx&kDtbqsrAiBMeu;kEukqsrobOyee
sGdjblJlbMywd*sBbeveGuaMBtw^fIiqbfJlavIsg^xzffbBAAiswfx@rAhwksygbGxex&k
tquyqwCpozttj!hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d@ylxgnqrhtsJwi|kDwcvnGuaBNxi-lg

YBfcmnFnawCwi$zxzbvtrHNmtBl*itajgeuvoLCii/kpaycxrhaEuwk^rKawphGwzKCll:kp
jmucdfKl.s64R{NlvtijvgexPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBO?eGy
iAoukiwybMCtr!uraocpAuhsNmi!jmucbnFgjMtfz@oxbdnjrApsJjs[rqakpywyfLNjh!oz
jAjpieFluPIwo!sGmvkrwkjtoedjtlbeetMuusIkd:nqaewwJloMtlv^gFaujtJAbzyes'
juhkvfDgetNfd:nmubkxripMBee[vqbnksygbGxey+kzdwogwyfwtgC!iAnrnjPgsBAmx|
vDpdnjEz.sNmm|fopwtxwgpytfg:oAobetMsesBfz^fmauklFpgBwfr:fqghghLgpGtre)ozh
tquyqwCgnNFym_kpjcbfryftFnx,a

OzavjnKgdHHsi$zupp?eXSF2!HLcG7FTbwwwpKNjh!uzacbkJhhFysx@xKarttLvuRJjd*t
RO"ubTxmjvyes'fUohqwEhuBIsdokoipqqGnzs!jv<oofubyzhusuyx^sBuubyGgbLMtg*gFf
juhkvfDgjFuli|fAgbrmGApzLft&ylxkvmrjbMuqs"AuoibnFmpKGfx*uzakpeOhzLtyl@z
CAsmbBAAiBHee!rAdcnesyfttsi:CAsm+]sgtMyu{!yAavqeKhzmtys>gDebCR\z
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fmdegxKbasZzv:nqs?bF5gitM
gFugouLlesNtd;yqauvfFkbKxeh@zmahqwEzaBHes/jqsbvtrofEJeq@qqavjfL
jutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsuhg^yEavqtDzatHid:nqawpiwymRCsk!jmuc?esuesNmy|
hqmkgAwzaMBfx!ztfbffLhctMjd*ylogvBGyltvqi8

Glegnnuhuxtfr%fmhqpnRpoztus-oozbszwzuBIsd'uDaNE	ropPyAi/ lxjkhzgdHGjw
hmdmbyGgsxMty/iqtbcsvgvGztv:AzbvgqQgitMee+funrchLgpGtyl*yfakueLvayCsh
yAngbfHwsHJwm@zq.bjtFvstvqi7fmofbqwnbEths|z\sgetNlsRtus|yucknnLpfLoed?
iqsvcnFgtDCyx*ytoguxrjpGwjv+ozhbetKA_Kyhs<kDzbjfKgntxjd[kAqngeMutNLj
kJbevqQgxAuyd:uleq}erHNsQty-jlcgbmAniESev^iqqvkAwguHtim|iGtuksyggNLyl^x
R~OEJ)Kgpyzjv!zAavgxLgpKtii_uztvtfLlaBNxd%gFbdcxwgjGtfd+kFxqtp
kzwkttFtfGN	daRQJUEMZHVX`ew@op?

XquwtsAuhsNmi!jutewxKppGtys!CtbvbxzlaOCjA^jlbubyzlaOCye-futuwjrvg
kxfevwGujvtii[uEjv?eTHU!3Sd/kopoojFkfwtyl@zlMEbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBw
vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqebtjKwpGMnf*ruuA?eLobMtnw7fnskplrApzyyl^x
ztfbfnKAsBvzx^jlptifFpAtNns+ylbpfeKlusOud@fEuwfDrnsHOud:ulmqqprhusuqp
ztfugeAztNyxd@tpaugjrDixLjd>klbubfrubMCtr!ytpwnirtpOy d!ZtfbdwGhexL
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!CqafgfDgxBNmd:nqaocssnfFysx!uragnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHHeA*rx
tAubfnKhqIyfv7fnvvbtFszsAws>fIptujm

RQTMbyGvlsOud:nutbvmwtfsush!yGhigxLlesNme:fXDbcyLlnINex=fBftuzskfsIsi
smkqteDpcKuwC!ozagchzgtMuyi!zAafgfDgxBNmd*zEauvfLlaxKzm<gxfpveHBcECxl^xf
CtjejeEphANet/upvegesgdHIui/gFjxgeHypCyhx!ztbvbBGBmwtgi!kCvkvftsz
jutvtntBuxxee/uGofbyzlavIzr:xK.bcsvgpGyem+fIikemrSDsQty-jlcgbiwhmBHld>oFi
glnkpnEhmsHzq#kDaqheHBcECxl^xEacpirtjGCre-foprAwAniMtuv=hxfou 

M4BDGWryfFuwo^jlujgeJldxHyd%kHfnquEloMtnr!ztfbuhAloMCkm$fopoozFpuRttj!g
CumnksyufLMex=fGtgbXYTMsush!kuujgwrkfIIxm:fAsbksLlsvBfr"klppbfrmbBLqC
yFbpffJkjSyid'uDncv rgIxtBs+jqsgfeAmattxm_oxbtbrGCfFysx!CmtbvfCpoztup@iq
ozavjjrovFusm:oqt}beSsuAIzk&fFigbSsAjHHfp!RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexvvGxes+rK
glggyeHBcECxl^xEavqeuvpIywe:kljpbfrsjDyez^tFvtgeLDpsIwd:nDfgbDwhsLtfk= lb
tqxbgkxvsMtrm"nFaigswybMyee!sGdjbqsyhxLer;snftbBAsmBHld:uldqquwybMy 

QUNDCQ4gsxwty+zqebjnKgvGCy(|f<NcemAuf `je%gnmgbHGsmxwym=tEaTgfvpoztWs=s>
zDpwdqwzaPCyl!ztfbetEtfKwne-fBvdnnKofKMes'fqmgeyJvoBweq^jubbksrhdJOnv*ts
smugtnsstsztv!RO"ubhGsmxwym=tE.bksrwbKNng;rmsbvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&exlbKtyl@z
ztfAbBGBmwtss:fnfbcgDlaMIeg=Bqsbvmwpsswtw:ylbpfeOvvExep=yqaeqsLypEttj
ztfkteHypwOhx| lujcyrSDsQty-jlhkxjrAixGee>gKaqteKlmEtyl^slbpfeEhlx
vDphkyKggKIrd:nqn}beZlawIzf:kpavjfLguAyet;hxjujnFnaBHiy|zDzbyfKgqKyue/kp
zAaoqAwgjGNtd:nutbcwwhatNex&klnqojFA.sAnz^tljvueJltBMye+iqavqessmHQnr"fXD
zAawujrpuLtre$nuog+wwhetvqi!smugtnsstsuxd:nqaNkgJhsRtBs;rpankpwb

ZtfbetHFsBAmx!rmxbptOgbwxwi|yqtbetEwbvNeh*ywacuesgnxxny_ lbpfe4Javus
xqrwgxLgpGyeg=vKaqheLobMnes/fFxqbhGwjxMem'fuubkxrAixttr-ElwgtxAvomtfr%
imobtjIBfLNeg=vufubtxgtHzyA@xq.bdzLguAuyd'gumubyGgbwxwi|ylncifRpoxMes/
hApmueGyatHDx&ozhbnnClaMBfx!CtjejeAzaBHeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^frpto 

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirAixtyl=xzzbpfLBsxttj!ztjubnKzvxneA&ooibjjrpmEOxx/gFff
CuujbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofswzq#kDtqojrwsHwjw|fuoxqqNlesCsd[AFukplrhavIuC!urac
yojgpyAmjvtie:gnbugeGuattQEifuobNH\zaLwni+iqatgfvpoztws=sgabJjrhmLI
golpqBDlezyid:nmubNHrufxxxd&kxqbcsvgdHOqh!kzmkuyrAixtjr^xsjguesuesNfp^tFt
uraYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtnr!ztjpmnFnaMBws;mtacbsMtcxLes'fFigujrwsHvqi_yg

MUGHQWVgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAobvtrnfMNnr"fFigbnEhhxtfr%fFfzveHlpIFjd:u
ztjpmeLosHOll!zAhgvmwyaPBjv^fFigAeOhoMtys!mAakpeLofsFtr"fFfto rgN^6TR?Y
iAoegiwkaMBfx!nqsbgCHlsBysg^fmubvmwgQBywg^f5zortKpvFtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fmu
MqptijLvxGtZr*BqsukyQgbGxex&oEaygjCgbMtQG!nmebhtJjfwtmi/fFpbtjwCbEOfx^
nqsbrjJzqxwym<klppbyzlaNMjj;rzfuueGmaMyCx!gEakofyltnteQtR1OCUexybFyid:nq
oEtwgxrposuew^xufubtxgrNyxx*uzt<beZvxsxtd>klbeszAyfsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFj
zqyv{erKpsQjd:gwfbrnuAvKyxd=lljvbfFkaIywj=xyaQEWrvosCyd-gFft{erPtsCy
oyqqtysuusNtd=hFbkpeNlsRtmm"n\rwcqAAzsCre"kEacpirAfQN	d^zo?{
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@mDfgfeOpuAtR3gUZBU&xrmstGnr"fAgbuyJhuxAng!wGfuvnGutmtfh%ozh
ztbvbfrsbKAjd*tEukvzLppGtxy$nlbubQUgqKIge#rKajcxrApsxtd@rxaqheLopLy
ztjpixrhusxnj'kDfpveLpnxM d!Ztvu?eLofsNwm$qljubyGgfQywg*yqalwiytfGN d!Ztf
3AsmumGwaAuid@jpffbyGgiBMee+jlBO&xrjpGMnh^xmukqsKgjGtre)ozhbvmGzf
pGeiojFAtnteG=toftpnFnayOyy/klnggyAuhLttv!jutewxKppGM	dh5XPPCXrzvzAjw:kp
ztbvbxuyfxHnr"fBskqwAAjxMeA=AxebdjrofEJky-a

3QJDGQrvqBHjh!ztbvbyzlawCAi/yuuAbwwmmxwyi%fuobvmAzazLty[fIbubfrzjzHef=zt
uravjjroftFyl!gzebqkrAixtnq_gFvtkyQgpytyl^frjgnilgbGxeq=xqavkrwgxHOqh
nmwgbyGgqtMxd#krptgeOlavIsz*tofbqswgbGIyl^xldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz?

Gzagzhzhozyef^zIfgpe56M88FW!gzebDF`1J7thp@xugkgirAixtus*tFavjfLguAy
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxd>gE
ztfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqheCupPFjh"klgqteLofszzx;xq.bptLgtBGup,frptbusyuBwzp@x
xqtgcwuoaNMj	!fUobvmwgdtMjd=llQgtxwBtmtR3gUZBUbxspemtyl^fmtuwrHAjHHeA@y
ztbvbyzlaMyCx|fIpwnirupMtgi!kzugtjvgbzunr!ozuqbjDldMLtr*immnAeJlbwugp^
lAso}erZQX`GImM\NeSZWLOsuih^jlujcyrhaLwfr+kpakofylaPIzp%fzpvbxwywxtfw!gz
gDdjkAssavIuC!lAsbrzJwpLyxd=llqtgxwywtNns+fuobvmwgdtMjd=lfaucDlguAyeF*rx
uraTklzAtmtnr!ztfbujFzfsNme:fFigbxuhoGyid*smhguesyfsykj^iFjxgqQguAy
gDdjkAssavIum^ylgqteLofsWtv+kxmbofLofFuym$ylcqqpKb


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasteE[vqofkCrP;stUVjM4BO



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabYT0RT19U
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberVO
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaGNJU1S88NG
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe`LY!!



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!f&_3`e2Boxt6!D8

flabbergasted!flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!3mtjksyApGneH8Ig



flabUzHwpKNjh!hKacbLJhoMtkv=slujgeVhwBxee+jlMwenDla9uho@xpaHqzFkbMCtr


ZGfuffQaa=tOy+kl2~~7

TMUKQSSSaWYRSiY6SCVN7Ua5UG{!G6SKWRlgM2VWEm5lNCFN~VO

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl7fDfikxLybMCtr

#a~`bF5gas%jp$uyf

flabbergas0ws|yqsbInxmpKx	d	oDfevtJggHLeW$nAmctqQgQKIlv@sE.bcsvgDtLq
flabbergastedarqjuemzhvxL	d{uAsfkssApKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7fXjdtfJFaHz
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK

#am7bF5gas!jw|oAobK rgDHHyi+zljpbfrUfPtKs/saabYmGgXBFqdpyqaKvesues%me:
flabbergas%np-f6igAeVv}

flabbergasVws@jleguhJpqMCtr!uravjjrybGAjd=llfnghLypGChd*trptofLppGo
flabbergasWme/gougtnRhuBIsd=llxjqeMzfLtnx!gzebjtOgjMtnw!uDaocDrifsOxi%a
flabbergas3sd@jpjvktFguHtfd-uAlbcyrzdAIqe/rKawujKaaMBnw!yqtuktFgxBFq
flabbergasCsg-ApfbceHyfLysx@zuppbtFgvLyef,fEuwfjFAts	P[v8lbpfeuvmEyliS
flabbergasush!ztfbijFlstFet;hxje}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtGjw!JmmA
flabbergasUAv@fYjejjDzpGneE/itjxcqrYfLyfv$nlbpfeWCbEOfx*uzaUvfxm.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgBKwmm<kEacpirYfvIwh|fMeoksAzuKuym=tl)QxjJCjxQ[
flabbergas!zw@tlI}b1wjdBu	dokmnbNjskfKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7f7tgteWCbEOfx*uz.
flabbergasted@tp
flabbergas4te+tqaHtjwtbGneE|yAdkcywgDHIwh*tmuqt	rHnxLng@tlNgotJF.s6nf/gDz
flabbergasted=llDqplJltLt=F^EAofbyzlaLwms-gD-

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDs?

flabbergasYfg&fBsgujFAbMCtr!zAaeqsKptMttj!glgkhywlo Gnr;zq
flabbergasMye:kyfpv>KopPjek/uGqbfnKjvLMns+fIjnnexvmEIBd-Azdj}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtwvy^ruogbMwztmtIm/kouqt	rUbMCtr@rlEgotFzuKuym=t
flabbergastedggn

flabbergaste58flBbeqsztBwxd[xAkgeylgtMLjw|ozhbvjPAtsush!zqyvbwwAsByAe-
flabbergasted!flnqtjrAitHeq;rFjogiAh;stUi/yqvubUJvkxwy{!Nmsxcwv
flabbergasted!flVpkAwytBND
flabbergasted!flFnnnrTzEIse| lNcpfypoztJh*zAs

flabbergaste68flPvjjJgiNGfr*zufubuJvkxwyw!kyqnqDAuhsNmi!kyftinFnaGIwq|fAg
flabbergasted!flujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bqa-VJ1/;stHl@jIzem]ZlbEyD(|
flabbergasted!flUjgeWuhECxl!VAfvtDrMvEFeX^DFaFcysibLyee+j	ptbUsAsHFtk*g
flabbergasted!flMcvnFhaWuye#gEf
flabbergasted!flFtkhrT?sWfp@rGdc?e@pdxtUv^yuegpylgDAuiA,iw_JgfDlzmtNr$a

flabbergaste78flBogwAjbGtRi_uDz
flabbergasted!flDctqrMmxCxg&nmvgt	rJpHLim+gFpt?esue
flabbergasted!flSkepQgFKQfC7fMtuqhAhuxtHs=xpjpcyGy.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|y

flabbergaste88flGqwsvpoztKe:nqsubjPhnIFjd'xAnbRfurbKxeL;smokvnw
