in a cross-disciplinary way.

Ronald LARSEN            Directions in High-Performance Networking for
                         Libraries

The pace at which computing technology has advanced over the past forty
years shows no sign of abating.  Roughly speaking, each five-year period
has yielded an order-of-magnitude improvement in price and performance of
computing equipment.  No fundamental hurdles are likely to prevent this
pace from continuing for at least the next decade.  It is only in the
past five years, though, that computing has become ubiquitous in
libraries, affecting all staff and patrons, directly or indirectly.

During these same five years, communications rates on the Internet, the
principal academic computing network, have grown from 56 kbps to 1.5
Mbps, and the NSFNet backbone is now running 45 Mbps.  Over the next five
years, communication rates on the backbone are expected to exceed 1 Gbps.
Growth in both the population of network users and the volume of network
traffic  has continued to grow geometrically, at rates approaching 15
percent per month.  This flood of capacity and use, likened by some to
"drinking from a firehose,"  creates immense opportunities and challenges
for libraries.  Libraries must anticipate the future implications of this
technology, participate in its development, and deploy it to ensure
access to the world's information resources.

The infrastructure for the information age is being put in place.
Libraries face strategic decisions about their role in the development,
deployment, and use of this infrastructure.  The emerging infrastructure
is much more than computers and communication lines.  It is more than the
ability to compute at a remote site, send electronic mail to a peer
across the country, or move a file from one library to another.  The next
five years will witness substantial development of the information
infrastructure of the network.

In order to provide appropriate leadership, library professionals must
have a fundamental understanding of and appreciation for computer
networking, from local area networks to the National Research and
Education Network (NREN).  This presentation addresses these
fundamentals, and how they relate to libraries today and in the near
future.

Edwin BROWNRIGG               Electronic Library Visions andfbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$zE
hmtgfeGua6yrVd-EatghGtnxHii%fpjtghLppGM 

ZtfbG]DpcKuwC!yFscvjyFaILtn^iFffbnFguACxd[rmobkxrhaOCxm=tmsAbtFlaMBfx!imo
kzbdnjrtbCIwd$nmoigxrhowtnq[xAwgojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaIOgp*ifacpirzqxwne-
ructcwQgtxLAm$kgabVmAzaOCxm=tlju?eLopNAm{!uzfbvmsAavusd#klsgcqAGfwtBm:n
zAecA)Kguxwmr=rAhA}erHusNmi!ymngbyAtfmtnx!CumnbhzhmEysk^fFigbuGsjMChe-
gzebutupbEtxx/AouwtjrDjMBnr!CtjejeDpcKuwm^ylprgwsAfhtem+fmdcfjEpd
ructcwAltmtyl^fFscfnLppGuqd^sBicunKgpGtqs$gxaeqqDldMCtr| lfzvjFkjGAex=
godtgiAAbMCtr!oEtwgxhgjGtuy#rudbnntybKCjw7fFigbuGAfGNne-fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
hDbpemrhowthi+zDbnbqAistLni|frvnnDrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofsJzf-oo<bcsvggHL
yBfekfDgmBvwe/oqt?bswDaHJus/zGokvnwzayIwd|nmsgfeuvmEyhx*uztbcsvgoxNBs/qE?

ZtfbgsNpsHHri+zljpbBzpdAtyl*yltvtfLlhBwet-gzajcxrifxHeh^BqmqrjvgjLnee:
ztfbotEloMneh=suocvjvgcRtfd|kztgbtxgmBvwe/ElmkonLz?stYl^foppvnFBfw
kJqcpxAvosush!xmqkfeyypPNmd=llmqefDgbvuii_ooankgJhsRths-rqdvktFzaBMer=C
ixfctqQgbMtfr!kze}beUvsIIwe:klmkdwsyjxM	d@tpagxjFgmtQep*hDbtkjKaatLj
lmdgfeOpuAttt^xmukplrDjMBnr!glekhkAjvENei$uzpokhrjmBGfx^ lbubBwsmsuxd>oF
