that do some work in controlling the complexity of the textual object but
also allowing one to represent the real text that one will find.
Fundamental to the notion of the TEI is that TEI conformance allows one
the ability to extend or modify the TEI tag set so that it fits the text
that one is attempting to represent.

SPERBERG-McQUEEN next outlined the administrative background of the TEI.
The TEI is an international project to develop and disseminate guidelines
for the encoding and interchange of machine-readable text.  It is
sponsored by the Association for Computers in the Humanities, the
Association for Computational Linguistics, and the Association for
Literary and Linguistic Computing.  Representatives of numerous other
professional societies sit on its advisory board.  The TEI has a number
of affiliated projects that have provided assistance by testing drafts of
the guidelines.

Among the design goals for the TEI tag set, the scheme first of all must
meet the needs of research, because the TEI came out of the research
community, which did not feel adequately served by existing tag sets.
The tag set must be extensive as well as compatible with existing and
emerging standards.  In 1990, version 1.0 of the Guidelines was released
(SPERBERG-McQUEEN illustrated their contents).

SPERBERG-McQUEEN noted that one problem besetting electronic text has
been the lack of adequate internal or external documentation for many
existing electronic texts.  The TEI guidelines as currently formulated
contain few fixed requirementzE.bdzLgpGyes'fFigoeAzaMBnw2flUjgwwgnNMy
gxxcAxrifsueh=iGngpyroftxjv7fmobks	mjEyeWbSXavclrAitNet/uHjfgx
7>acbgAimBIlv@vtjebiwzdKCux*uzaqheLofsyqi$zDppkhrvcCyhx!uzfbkxrAbEEnr"
gnpwve}AitNem| lxjqeAudEOii%fuu?bBzlomtBl@zlgqt	rhowtzr%kDayjnuoaMCyp^]b
gzeb4[rAixths[ElugzyrmsHGeA&ooibkyrDbLtii/oHff?eAmatHD	!fUgbvmwyfsQfw
tAaequQguxRyd=xljhbyzlavIuC!zqyvbnKgvGEss>tfavjjFgpGyew:gFfubfKgnNwm
