Growth rate (population): The annual percent change in the population,
resulting from a surplus (or deficit) of births over deaths and the balance
of migrants entering and leaving a country. The rate may be positive or
negative.

Illicit drugs: There are five categories of illicit drugs - narcotics,
stimulants, depressants (sedatives), hallucinogens, and cannabis. These
categories include many drugs legally produced and prescribed by doctors as
well as those illegally produced and sold outside medical channels.

Cannabis (Cannabis sativa) is the common hemp plant, which provides
hallucinogens with some sedative properties, and includes marijuana (pot,
Acapulco gold, grass, reefer), tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, Marinol), hashish
(hash), and hashish oil (hash oil).

Coca (Erythroxylon coca) is a bush, and the leaves contain the stimulant
cocaine. Coca is not to be confused with cocoa, which comes from cacao seeds
and is used in making chocolate, cocoa, and cocoa butter.

Cocaine is a stimulant derived from the leaves of the coca bush.

Depressants (sedatives) are drugs that reduce tension and anxiety and include
chloral hydrate, barbiturates (Amytal, Nembutal, Seconal, phenobarbital),
benzodiazepines (Librium, Valium), methaqualone (Quaalude), glutethimide
(Doriden), and others (Equanil, Placidyl, Valmid).

Drugs are any chemical substances that effect a physical, mental, emotional,
or behavioral change in an individual.

Drug abuse is the use of any licit or illicit chemical substance that results
in physical, mental, emotional, or behavioral impairment in an individual.

Hallucinogens are drugs that affect sensation, thinking, self-awareness, and
emotion.

Hallucinogens include LSD (acid, microdot), mescaline and peyote (mexc,
buttons, cactus), amphetamine variants (PMA, STP, DOB), phencyclidine (PCP,
angel dust, hog), phencyclidine analogues (PCE, PCPy, TCP), and others
(psilocybin, psilocyn).

Hashish is the resinous exudate of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis
sativa).

Heroin is a semisynthetic derivative of morphine.

Marijuana is the dried leaves of the cannabis or hemp plant (Cannabis sativa).

Narcotics are drugs that relieve pain, often induce sleep, and refer to opium,
opium derivatives, and synthetic substitutes. Natural narcotics include opium
(paregoric, parepectolin), morphine (MS-Contin, Roxanol), codeine (Tylenol
w/codeine, Empirin w/codeine, Robitussan A-C), and thebaine. Semisynthetic
narcotics include heroin (horse, smack), and hydromorphone (Dilaudid).
Synthetic narcotics include meperidine or Pethidine (Demerol, Mepergan),
methadone (Dolophine, Methadose), and others (Darvon, Lomotil).

Opium is the milky exudate of the incised, unripe seedpod of the opium poppy.

Opium poppy (Papaver somniferum) is the source for many natural and
semisynthetic narcotics.

Poppy straw concentrate is the alkaloid derived from the mature dried opium
poppy.

Qat (kat, khat) is a stimulant from the buds or leaves of Catha edulis that
is chewed or drunk as tea.

Stimulants are drugs that relieve mild depression, increase energy and
activity, and include cocaine (coke, snow, crack), amphetamines (Desoxyn,
Dexedrine), phenmetrazine (Preludin), methylphenidate (Ritalin), and others
(Cylert, Sanorex, Tenuate).

Infant mortality rate: The number of deaths to infants under one year old in
a given year per l,000 live births occurring in the same year.

Land use: Human use of the land surface is categorized as arable land - land
cultivated for crops that are replanted after each harvest (wheat, maize,
rice); permanent crops - land cultivated for crops that are not replanted
after each harvest (citrus, coffee, rubber); meadows and pastures - land
permanently used for herbaceous forage crops; forest and woodland - land
under dense or open stands of trees; and other - any land type not specifi-
cally mentioned above (urban areas, roads, desert). The percentage figure for
irrigated land refers to the portion of the entire amount of land area that
is artificially supplied with water.

Leaders: The chief of state is the titular leader of the country who
represents the state at official and ceremonial funcions but is not involved
with the day-to-day activities of the government. The head of government is
the administrative leader who manages the day-to-day activities of the
government. In the UK, the monarch is the chief of state, and the Prime
Minister is the head of government. In the US, the President is both the
chief of state and the head of government.

Life expectancy at birth: The average number of years to be lived by a group
of people all born in the same year, if mortality at each age remains
constant in the future.

Literacy: There are no universal definitions and standards of literacy.
Unless otherwise noted, all rates are based on the most common definition -
the ability to read and write at a specified age. Detailing the standards
that individual countries use to assess the ability to read and write is
beyond the scope of this publication.

Maps: All maps will be available only in the printed version for the fore-
seeable future.

Maritime claims: The proximity of neighboring states may prevent some
national claims from being fully extended.

Merchant marine: All ships engaged in the carriage of goods. All commercial
vessels (as opposed to all nonmilitary ships), which excludes tugs, fishing
vessels, offshore oil rigs, etc.; also, a grouping of merchant ships by
nationality or register.

Captive register - A register of ships maintained by a territory, possession,
or colony primarily or exclusively for the use of ships owned in the parent
country; also referred to as an offshore register, the offshore equivalent
of an internal register. Ships on a captive register will fly the same flag
as the parent country, or a local variant of it, but will be subject to the
maritime laws and taxation rules of the offshore territory. Although the
nature of a captive register makes it especially desirable for ships owned in
the parent country, just as in the internal register, the ships may also be
owned abroad. The captive register then acts as a flag of convenience
register, except that it is not the register of an independent state.

Flag of convenience register - A national register offering registration to a
merchant ship not owned in the flag state. The major flags of convenience
(FOC) attract ships to their register by virtue of low fees, low or
nonexistent taxation of profits, and liberal manning requirements. True FOC
registers are characterized by having relatively few of the ships registered
actually owned in the flag state. Thus, while virtually any flag can be used
for ships under a given set of circumstances, an FOC register is one where
the majority of the merchant fleet is owned abroad.
It is also referred to as an open register.

Flag state - The nation in which a ship is registered and which holds legal
jurisdiction over operation of the ship, whether at home or abroad.
Differences in flag state maritime legislation determine how a ship is manned
and taxed and whether a foreign-owned ship may be placed on the register.

Internal register - A register of ships maintained as a subset of a national
register. Ships on the internal register fly the national flag and have that
nationality but are subject to a separate set of maritime rules from those on
the main national register. These differences usually include lower taxation
of profits, manning by foreign nationals, and, usually, ownership outside the
flag state (when it functions as an FOC register). The Norwegian International
Ship Register and Danish International Ship Register are the most notable
examples of an internal register.
Both have been instrumental in stemming flight from the national flag to
flags of convenience and in attracting foreign-owned ships to the Norwegian
and Danish flags.

Merchant ship - A vessel that carries goods against payment of freight;
commonly used to denote any nonmilitary ship but accurately restricted to
commercial vessels only.

Register - The record of a ship's ownership and nationality as listed with
the maritime authorities of a country; also, the compendium of such individual
ships' registrations. Registration of a ship provides it with a nationality
and makes it subject to the laws of the country in which registered (the flag
state) regardless of the nationality of the ship's ultimate owner.

Money figures: All are expressed in contemporaneous US dollars unless
otherwise indicated.

Net migration rate: The balance between the number of persons entering and
leaving a country during the year per 1,000 persons (based on midyear
population). An excess of persons entering the country is referred to as net
immigration (3.56 migrants/1,000 population); an excess of persons leaving the
country as net emigration (-9.26 migrants/1,000 population).

Population: Figures are estimates from the Bureau of the Census based on
statistics from population censuses, vital registration systems, or sample
surveys pertaining to the recent past, and on assumptions about future trends.

Total fertility rate: The average number of children that would be born per
woman if all women lived to the end of their childbearing years and bore
children according to a given fertility rate at each age.

Years: All year references are for the calendar year (CY) unless indicated as
fiscal year (FY).

Note: Information for the US and US dependencies was compiled from material
in the public domain and does not represent Intelligence Community estimates.
The Handbook of International Economic and Environmental Statistics,
published annually in September by the Central Intelligence Agency, contains
detailed economic information for the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development (OECD) countries, Eastern Europe, the newly independent
republics of the former nations of Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union, and
selected other countries. The Handbook can be obtained wherever The World
Factbook is available.


Appendix A:

 The United Nations System

    The UN is composed of six principal organs and numerous subordinate
agencies and bodies as follows:

1) Secretariat

2) General Assembly:
     UNCHS    United Nations Center for Human Settlements (Habitat)
     UNCTAD   United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
     UNDP     United Nations Development Program
     UNEP     United Nations Environment Program
     UNFPA    United Nations Population Fund
     UNHCR    United Nations Office of High Commissioner for Refugees
     UNICEF   United Nations Children's Fund
     UNITAR   United Nations Institute for Training and Research
     UNRWA    United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine
              Refugees in the Near East
     UNSF     United Nations Special Fund
     UNU      United Nations University
     WFC      World Food Council
     WFP      World Food Program

3) Security Council:
     UNAVEM   United Nations Angola Verification Mission
     UNDOF    United Nations Disengagement Observer Force
     UNFICYP  United Nations Force in Cyprus
     UNIFIL   United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon
     UNIIMOG  United Nations Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group
     UNMOGIP  United Nations Military Observer Group in India and
              Pakistan
     UNTSO    United Nations Truce Supervision Organization

4) Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC):
     Specialized agencies
       FAO      Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
       IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
       ICAO     International Civil Aviation Organization
       IDA      International Development Association
       IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
       IFC      International Finance Corporation
       ILO      International Labor Organization
       IMF      International Monetary Fund
       IMO      International Maritime Organization
       ITU      International Telecommunication Union
       UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
                Organization
       UNIDO    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
       UPU      Universal Postal Union
       WHO      World Health Organization
       WIPO     World Intellectual Property Organization
       WMO      World Meteorological Organization
                Related organizations
       GATT     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
       IAEA     International Atomic Energy Agency
     Regional commissions
       ECA      Economic Commission for Africa
       ECE      Economic Commission for Europe
       ECLAC    Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean
       ESCAP    Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific
       ESCWA    Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia
     Functional commissions
       Commission on Human Rights
       Commission on Narcotic Drugs
       Commission for Social Development
       Commission on rAixtXx@zGtbqkr4pFys
flabberWpIOqe:oAobEtEtjLMns+
flabberZutNnw:oobnbHGtnBMxm=t

~>aVtzKAfxMmm[fOpwphAs

`>aKpywyotNns+gxaEqzJAaHzeN;yFjege}PD3 

GBqgpiAEaU

GnctgAAhuBIsw!lAsbKsLlsGuym=tmmbQwyhoBTfx*uztbcsvgHKIzt|

GNFFCergaTLff!HmombkGyaXwtr=sudbFjNlmHJri+zljpbFxyjvu
GODbbergaTLff!IAprgwsAjHHeG=Azdkn
GODVbergaTAjr$ElgqteUBmMOwe-fmofbYwjiGChe-fOpqrjJhuBIs
GOQbbergaTzwm$gz.bEfJpcuyfr7fmofbUsjjyChd{uGovtnwz
GrEDbergaTzwm$gzaFgAwspIGjr:fNbpm
GRFUFergaTLff!LGofbkGyaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fPfxgqGwnxHy
GSabbergaTHii@tlHtqzH
GXabbergaTLff!Rqbiwj
GXBFKergaTMtg*gojqpe4huBHte_kDjecssgextNr:ksscenGu<sMji!Rmukp
flabbergaTGjv*imobKsLlhKuym=tlBuutupbMCtr![XBKC[
GYGbbergaTLff!SAogvfJFaYOsh
GYVbbergaTLff!SmhjtjtgVGCtr
GZ1WUergaTOxx/gxjc+SwDa'yfp@tp_WpnLles!ye:kEaUghMyjMSeX/kmuA
G2FEbergaTMne!VmdkhnugFvIss_ooaEqtHlstNns+
GEEDbergaTMne+fPfxgqGwnxHyd}gzl
G5FCPergaTMxs$omukqsrvgs!ty:nqbuveSzjtHeR@zuppu

HMEbbergaUusu;klBhtnuhjGyeh^fPfxgqGwqxGjr:?
flabbergaLyjd?lDjecsrKfOyqs[sqovbGsuls	Fj	H>
HMEGCergaUusu;klBtcgwgextIi<kxprrjEloMtJg=tAnkszwgfGtFj/oCvg>
flabbergaLyjd?xmcbDfFrayIwd iAoqonugExPjp=vyfpveAuaTzwm$gl)CDJVH-
HOJGbergaUusg=fOfpvwGhnxLng@tAafge1uuxAwe$oAobGhGupFChs3fEfgbHwuuKuq
flabbergaTGjv*imobDfFrayIwd iAoqonugJGNjk/gFjqpe}ID2Y[
HPFCEergaUusu;klegbIwCfEIut_kzubfjKgFMuyw!jqan&FxyjJOjd{kzutcqw}aLyj
flabbergaVysx/gxaChwAjbGtXx@zqtbFjNlmHJri+zlCcppr]CWYFGS
HqognzPgaUysi-AJaGetFvnBweY+oAo
HUEbbergaUusg=fUovgwstfKChe+ulegbIwzbKPtp-ubaugjrPoMyw[?sqskefF
flabbergaWyAi-uBngpyrIbGEe+dGPC_
HUTbbergaUuso!lAsbKsLlsGuym=tmmbUjLAmxGjr:y
H1BFbergaUusu;klPwgxL|ByLng@ozfbfjrKfOyqs[vqngpyhgtxye1^yFaChwAjbG
flabbergaWyAi-uBngpyrIbGEe+rGPC_

IlabbergaVIrq=tIfcnyz
IMDObergaVysx/gxaCojJpdtHeG=syppbRsylxN
IMFWbergaVIzr$oxaqheSybutJg=tAnkee!ujMS
IMSKET5gaVuwm#hqbpbHGtnNHnx,fmofbHGtnHHeQ@xwfv
IODbbergaVOxx=sEaEqtHlstNns+fOpwphAs
IPCbbergaVuwm#hqbpbIwCfEIuq^tFaDcsC
IQabbergaVIzr$oxaqheWBsHJj
IQBQbergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgeD_ByLnu;klegbq\VvxMy,!yqfbYjKA
flabbergaTzwm$gzaGetFvnBweG=syvpkyQg)VYFSS
IQFCEergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgxrLutNxd%klm&CkJprNyeG^tFscnjhgtxy
flabbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtvGCyC!uraEgsLybEtFj/oobpbXLhuxMe+{KQBE_
IQNCbergaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoeg.rhmLIeo+uIobcxrJNXUes/
flabbergaVIri$uz<bcgGsjLBjh!7lKcpzsyzs&@!v
IQQINergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgxrWbRMeh^ylHtcsvza5uhw3fEfgbJuvoHGng
flabbergaVIrq;tuuAbtxguAyeK/kmubNfCltsWty+zDjgue}JF91Q=
IQSPbergaVIsw^oxaGwwGwfxHet=ADance0ldAywg&klOweqwhjKy.d|kqaGwwGwftH
flabberga8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeR;ixfcte0ltxuwg&f<DGTS{
ISabbergaVIsx@jAscbLJvvI
IUTbbergaVIrq=tIfcnyzgpytNr%kBfpfjFAa`Nfx^y
IYFCbergaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoege}JF6U[,!gxtqbpFvxGtfw
flabbergaVIri$uz<bcgGsjLBjh!7lKcpzsyzs&@!v
I1DQOergaVItv%ozbvksygDHGrm:zqfbqsrLyIIwx!IAovttDz
IAngetFgaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoege}JF6U[,!gxtqbpFvxGtfw
flabbergaV7JE3fmcqnnKofwt6degzvctDr80=&
I2abbergaVIqs_hAaRnfF
I5DGbergaVIsj^xqoegeGua`yhy/oFzbcsvgDHIui/gFjqpeAuaXOws[k

JOabbergawyAi-uBffbhGBoMLD

KMEDbergaXuxx!GrskefFgExPjp=vyfpveThoD
KNSFbergaXOws[kmobDfFrayIwdmkoppuyJBdMCtr!gzebFjNlmHJri+z
KOabbergaXOws[kmobEtEtvGCyC
KOBbbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbFxyjvu
KOBHGergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbFKpbsush!ztfbHfJgFtMy,!yqfbGhGupFChd@tp
flabberga`Ihm@rlDqorAztBIsd'uDaCunsgbGxex&klQcenxpds	JW{G2-
KOFbbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbJMypIy
KOMCbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbQsAjGtFq^xudc>eKlfsYhs+uyjebHGtnBMxm=t
flabbergayIwdggFjpbFElsBwfd@tpavjjrJbKCgf^gza-GH4HD	
KOMCEergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbQsAjGtFq^xudcbfFkaMBjd{gDjddjsu
KOPUQHrgaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpwphAs
KOPYCXrgaXwtr=sudbEtEtvGCyC!uraYgxLgByLng@tlTvcywz
KOXCbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptb2wzuxLsd?yub>bxwlaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-
flabbergaVIrq*yEjqpexvss%jw:kDobCxAha{YXGrG>
KRUCbergaXOws[kmobHwwla!Lfh^fMtuqhAhuBIs
KUCbbergaXOws[kmobKsNltMGjr:fNbpm
KzugpywgaVIzr$oxaqheLofsYsx^tFf
K5BbbergaXOws[kmobUusjfsUli+iK
K5DCRergaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpoonKzjHHej=xlBukfrhowtyl^f2bekkAj
K5DYCergaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpoonKzjHHej=xlXguywyosUxm@

LMPbbergaYIth!gzebClJpdNFyy/klPtifFpAtNns+
LXTbbergaYLtr:fXjpge~AbMyx
L`abbergaYLfr$f`ppg

M\3bbergaZLty[fAgb4
M\4bbergaZLty[fAgb5
M\6bbergaZLty[fAgb7
M\7bbergaZLty[fAgb8e}upMtys!hqaeqsxBtxxeA*ztavjjrIjztXm\]
M\8bbergaZLty[fAgb9
M\9bbergaZLty[fAgb0
M\0bbergaZLty[fAgb~
M\2`bergaZLty[fAgb3#
M\23bergaZLty[fAgb36
M\27bergaZLty[fAgb30
M\2~bergaZLty[fAgb3@
M\36bergaZLty[fAgb49
M\4`bergaZLty[fAgb5#
M\45bergaZLty[fAgb5
