mean, what makes them so shiny?'

  Alice looked down at them, and considered a little before she
gave her answer.  `They're done with blacking, I believe.'

  `Boots and shoes under the sea,' the Gryphon went on in a deep
voice, `are done with a whiting.  Now you know.'

  `And what are they made of?' Alice asked in a tone of great
curiosity.

  `Soles and eels, of course,' the Gryphon replied rather
impatiently:  `any shrimp could have told you that.'

  `If I'd been the whiting,' said Alice, whose thoughts were
still running on the song, `I'd have said to the porpoise, "Keep
back, please:  we don't want YOU with us!"'

  `They were obliged to have him with them,' the Mock Turtle
said:  `no wise fish would go anywhere without a porpoise.'

  `Wouldn't it really?' said Alice in a tone of great surprise.

  `Of course not,' said the Mock Turtle:  `why, if a fish came
to ME, and told me he was going a journey, I should say "With
what porpoise?"'

  `Don't you mean "purpose"?' said Alice.

  `I mean what I say,' the Mock Turtle replied in an offended
tone.  And the Gryphon added `Come, let's hear some of YOUR
adventures.'

  `I could tell you my adventures--beginning from this morning,'
said Alice a little timidly:  `but it's no use going back to
yesterday, because I was a different person then.'

  `Explain all that,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `No, no!  The adventures first,' said the Gryphon in an
impatient tone:  `explanations take such a dreadful time.'

  So Alice began telling them her adventures from the time when
she first saw the White Rabbit.  She was a little nervous about
it just at first, the two creatures got so close to her, one on
each side, and opened their eyes and mouths so VERY wide, but she
gained courage as she went on.  Her listeners were perfectly
quiet till she got to the part about her repeating `YOU ARE OLD,
FATHER WILLIAM,' to the Caterpillar, and the words all coming
different, and then the Mock Turtle drew a long breath, and said
`That's very curious.'

  `It's all about as curious as it can be,' said the Gryphon.

  `It all came different!' the Mock Turtle repeated
thoughtfully.  `I should like to hear her try and repeat
something now.  Tell her to begin.'  He looked at the Gryphon as
if he thought it had some kind of authority over Alice.

  `Stand up and repeat "'TIS THE VOICE OF THE SLUGGARD,"' said
the Gryphon.

  `How the creatures order one about, and make one repeat
lessons!' thought Alice; `I might as well be at school at once.'
However, she got up, and began to repeat it, but her head was so
full of the Lobster Quadrille, that she hardly knew what she was
saying, and the words came very queer indeed:--

    `'Tis the voice of the Lobster; I heard him declare,
    "You have baked me too brown, I must sugar my hair."
    As a duck with its eyelids, so he with his nose
    Trims his belt and his buttons, and turns out his toes.'

              [later editions continued as follows
    When the sands are all dry, he is gay as a lark,
    And will talk in contemptuous tones of the Shark,
    But, when the tide rises and sharks are around,
    His voice has a timid and tremulous sound.]

  `That's different from what I used to say when I was a child,'
said the Gryphon.

  `Well, I never heard it before,' said the Mock Turtle; `but it
sounds uncommon nonsense.'

  Alice said nothing; she had sat down with her face in her
hands, wondering if anything would EVER happen in a natural way
again.

  `I should like to have it explained,' said the Mock Turtle.

  `She can't explain it,' said the Gryphon hastily.  `Go on with
the next verse.'

  `But about his toes?' the Mock Turtle persisted.  `How COULD
he turn them out with his nose, you know?'

  `It's the first position in dancing.' Alice said; but was
dreadfully puzzled by the whole thing, and longed to change the
subject.

  `Go on with the next verse,' the Gryphon repeated impatiently:
`it begins "I passed by his garden."'

  Alice did not dare to disobey, though she felt sure it would
all come wrong, and she went on in a trembling voice:--

    `I passed by his garden, and marked, with one eye,
    How the Owl and the Panther were sharing a pie--'

        [later editions continued as follows
    The Panther took pie-crust, and gravy, and meat,
    While the Owl had the dish as its share of the treat.
    When the pie was all finished, the Owl, as a boon,
    Was kindly permitted to pocket the spoon:
    While the Panther received knife and fork with a growl,
    And concluded the banquet--]

  `What IS the use of repeating all that stuff,' the Mock Turtle
interrupted, `if you don't explain it as you go on?  It's by far
the most confusing thing I ever heard!'

  `Yes, I think you'd better leave off,' said the Gryphon:  and
Alice was only too glad to do so.

  `Shall we try another figure of the Lobster Quadrille?' the
Gryphon went on.  `Or would you like the Mock Turtle to sing you
a song?'

  `Oh, a song, please, if the Mock Turtle would be so kind,'
Alice replied, so eagerly that the Gryphon said, in a rather
offended tone, `Hm! No accounting for tastes!  Sing her "Turtle
Soup," will you, old fellow?'

  The Mock Turtle sighed deeply, and began, in a voice sometimes
choked with sobs, to sing this:--


    `Beautiful Soup, so rich and green,
    Waiting in a hot tureen!
    Who for such dainties would not stoop?
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
    Soup of the evening, beautiful Soup!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!

    `Beautiful Soup!  Who cares for fish,
    Game, or any other dish?
    Who would not give all else for two p
    ennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
    Pennyworth only of beautiful Soup?
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
        Beau--ootiful Soo--oop!
    Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beauti--FUL SOUP!'

  `Chorus again!' cried the Gryphon, and the Mock Turtle had
just begun to repeat it, when a cry of `The trial's beginning!'
was heard in the distance.

  `Come on!' cried the Gryphon, and, taking Alice by the hand,
it hurried off, without waiting for the end of the song.

  `What trial is it?' Alice panted as she ran; but the Gryphon
only answered `Come on!' and ran the faster, while more and more
faintly came, carried on the breeze that followed them, the
melancholy words:--

    `Soo--oop of the e--e--evening,
        Beautiful, beautiful Soup!'



                           CHAPTER XI

                      Who Stole the Tarts?


  The King and Queen of Hearts were seated on their throne when
they arrived, with a great crowd assembled about them--all sorts
of little birds and beasts, as well as the whole pack of cards:
the Knave was standing before them, in chains, with a soldier on
each side to guard him; and near the King was the White Rabbit,
with a trumpet in one hand, and a scroll of parchment in the
other.  In the very middle of the court was a table, with a large
dish of tarts upon it:  they looked so good, that it made Alice
quite hungry to look at them--`I wish they'd get the trial done,'
she thought, `and hand round the refreshments!'  But there seemed
to be no chance of this, so she began looking at everything about
her, to pass away the time.

  Alice had never been in a court of justice before, but she had
read about them in books, and she was quite pleased to find that
she knew the name of nearly everything there.  `%`obM.xd:nq
pGeig	\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7f)cgefMzfsIkd&oEaitjsAaPCl	N

flUjgeBBezy	d#ElujgeOhzmtBe|fFigbPAuhitfr%fmtbjjrDpKyel*yldtqBF
uHftbyzlaPCl{![xpqmesAaMBjd'xAovkxHpfvyem'fKpwbBsuusNtd|kqajqBrof
juebkyl/aAyeh*jloqveDvpDtfx!gxmbetEmpKNff-kfacpirpusQfw!iqsvcnFsz
tAubdjuvnBHl	

fl!CpirAitN)w!ztfblzJF_uIC{NfFiqwlzAaTFng^ l!cpirAiHMjd:Cqmxg
iDfcvzJltm.e+|nqaycxrvcECli%fFpbufQg!vLje:ADfu?)rFpNtxi^ lcgefMzf
yAngbtxguAyrd>kDfbcsAtbEM	d@tpauqrwgxxLjd#oDeu?[r'JsMzt[uEfbvmwF
gDfbvmwgkNLtv|a/abUmwgttCid:nutbnfKAaPIwh!zIpbqwrAiKyjd:oyfubtNls
zAajgwKlmynef^ozhbtfLofKtuv=ApaqheAA;stks/fEigbyzvvzBy{!gze
xuhjvqQguHI	d:nmubxjJFayyBd-oFungeypsEMes'ftftbfylaDHjA!ztf
sqbpksygpytnx!gFacnqmga1IBi<kD.b@oMyz GjrNfIpwnirobOyeh=tqalwxL
gEaygqDb

flUjgeLDfEPjd(ADptueOlsxtfp-fIskvnFnaOywC!hGtknDrvosMqe:kE?
^9icvesyfsNmi,fppkpln_asUqm$klxjkxHlsxxex=fFigbLJFqAIs	!f)UjgD
imo&vezhwxtfr,ztjpieLvaIOyd%uIobAjLaauyks/klujgeLyjtF)w!hqhwp \

fl!VjjQ_sxtuy:zuoibiGDosNmi*xlocojKa"sNmi!MDzrjtFgxACxt^xqebks
xqqnA	r'gHLej^gDavjjQgtAIzp%frptijLguAyrd#krptgeLofsysh!uravjj
zDjcn \

fl!UvzHpesNmm+mE@&bFDpdxtgi"gzakpesgmHOi{!ozekissuusPtm$kfadwy
ytfbuyGwqxxel@yFjnA	rmpKtyl^f9ikvjrYbuvnx!iDjgfeGBumt%W*rqoegeAu
ztfbetMyu|.ee+jlujge3poztuy:fAobjnKgtIyhx@ixfubfFkaEIto^j
gzykqzKszsLty+jfavqeEhlxtty:fIiqbBszaMuqo*ts?

flBnkhwgdHOqh!yqf?bfKgxxFqd@yljhbxzlaPywi!rApmksygpOywd:nqjt
ytpwniwytmtyl@zlbnneLofsDzv=xEaygwwgxKCym+mleqysr'tMOum%fFikplK""
uzavjjAyaLFfx^yfacpirzixths;rpagxjFgntEjd=AFavjfLgpGyes'fFigo
juep&yrroHQel=CluqbxHlmEt%w:ABjf?)rhowtyl@zligbmskaMIee|qliku
tqjijgGBssNtd:kxmbjnEbas|Fd+oofbozvkmxtyl^oDaunfLlt,Fqd#kljp
hqgqtjrAixtyv*gx"ubtNls|.ex&uGhjveSsjvy 

flPpgeGmaMBjd(ADptuezhesuet^tojnbyzhusMvy^gwff}er1iBMes'fopwtxwa
GxjegeuvvExer=zltvcsvaatHid|nqaygsLgsHOsh!ztfbetMyusush!mAu
hqikpirojFnee+jlwgtDrzpHHej=AzebcsrvqIIwx;tuuAbtxgutEnr"fuu
gIbA}erZixtim%fuubutrxvBwpp,fFicveLofsJts/fxjvvqwgkNLtv![uubyfK
Humn?eLofs6nD@xp-betMsesHtx!smlgbtMAatNee-rlxjcyrobwtgi$uyfbqk
oF<butlgbyNjv!nGovksygbEFee#uGubhtJgjMnel^fIbubttsjzyid:ulxtkyw
CuujbtFlayCsk^xlgqteLofsLjw:fAgbvmwgetS.d@tpavjnKgxtMes'fHftA
ruuvnjrBtxnee|fuubnjxAaGIeq@xwaqpeLofsMqe:kg

fl!Jgwssemtwi@jlujgesjdNMfx*uz@&bxspesNmi!Quoi}

flPpbyzptsNmi!3tjvge0hcuCyd#rqxbvmJlfsvqe|zEaqpeLofsNwy_vqu?bfFk
ztfpbzFypEFjh!ztfbrfJjiFysx!yosqnqlgbGxev^gpacuexvmEIBw2/\

flab@Yzla0Oji+fAgbJjsyuLnew&klncfjrzpFyex@xFt?
flabbergasUqp!uzacbxMtnxLeh@Ea
flabbe`ofs5se<klphbMwhsMM	d&kltvqqwguAIxi!zmsvu	
flabbergasUsh!zApmbyzlnsKzm:klbycD/_

fl!EqsKpexLeC=ADaxgwvpdMn)d:nqaMksygttCid:ulujgeBBsRo

fl!PqyrFfMner=zlzgv^\guAyeV@hnjvbmszuBFDd*tFfttzHAfwoedGZtftg)K
glhtgfLgexuqd:uldqojrifyIwi!ztbv#)

fl!EcqDguAyej*xEubynLufLM	(!ymjfbyzla4Csk3fmofbyzla$Bnx^f4bddnL
hxfybyzyfxtgp@yFtbqsrAixtyv;sBfv?esueswfp-kpaqwylg!YCww:
CuupgxK""

flUjgexpsLNeA*zzfuueOhtsNmi!Nmuvgwmga1yeg@sqakpeOpuAtfd:kmdwreAu
uzfbjfFkatHid@fBjgejrvgsvwi@j\bpf]tBuMywd*tlujgeGAixL d!^Uadgl
vmsfqslgzHOwdhgvfuvDl_aAyef^mmo?b%xvssvwm+muoibyzltxtnr2flcwve1
nmep&yrxvBNjd'ozjujjvgnRtyi@fIigpe1gxtMew^tFahqwm_

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulicxjrmjGCxl^jf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}be]4ixHeh*jlzqw
hqhkpa\

flUjgeZhuMywd-uAlgfesAaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfmtBl=ftbfbkGsmHQjh!nunbksLv
ztfbetMyumtfv_/uo+cwEgxBNmd:nqaFqwEvvLy d!^RpwtywloMBes'fYbtemlgJ
ztjpmeAAaPux{NftfbufAk?

fl!HkkLlfGNm{NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!UkCLlfGNm{NfmefgirAixtIs/sAvug 

fl!YtnLlaMBfx!jAxp?)rAixtPm+mltckirApsNmi!pGsA?esuesNmi!pGsA
kmhgtqQgxKIyi!jAxpbfDsaMBwi^fpbvgxrvosNmi*xltncywz.sush!ztfp
gpegfeLofFtzt7fmofbwwkvvyid:nqacpxOlssNtd|numnksyzatHid[kzdg}

fl!VcpwgpyzeC=ADajcyl_aMBjdfozhbufAkaMIex&klIcvywy?

fl!KveAzo,Neq*tq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwm

fl!UvtDlo|.ex&klLkplrlyvFfm_kp.bvzJujGAex=fFigboMyzmtBl=
oztvcsLszsGfh^fmaogrGybGxzq!uravjjrmbvN 

fl!KbpwlqsNmi_fFpbujDs.,tyl^fTbvvjJgbwxjh!gEacpewEqEuse:oAo>
^U"xgeFvoxttj!sKaqysmga2.rd@ftbvvjJb"

flIgtjrAixtVy^kzarwyrvosBjv!yBfevfusfLnee+jlcgifFgtMuwm+mlbvbyzl
NmuvgwlgxAIex;xzffbussfsush!lueigywk?

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhit%e+jleqp)Lgcxtsi/BAvu?eGy
O/mnbmsCfsSty!kJfewywkaHHex&kltrqym_

flUjkxrkjwtss:fEfgoeLvaxHhs;xmhgbyzlaPCyr^yEacvessmhtel^fwfrv
ytjhvnFnayLtq!uzfbhtGAaMIex&klpvjjJaaEIto*tsawpjszjESee:fFig
WGfgp	rhowtnr!nutbetFmvLCtr!nqadkyrhaEuwk^fBjgejrvvMttj!nut
zqbewurpoLNje%fAgbvmwgcKyfhTgze+dzLAfKo

flKwuyrhusNmm|fypogsLgBEChi!lqmvbfrCfKSeg;xupwueKloLuym=tfayjnuo
vGABnjvgixLee!mApfbiwhmsOsx*rltjgeEhextty:fIicveAAaPux\!fEigbBsz
hqhkpsAuhsNtd"xAxbnfJnfKtfk@oz.bcsvgtAyex&uGhjvesAayCww:fEig
CAvnfeylusOud@tpangfNlaMBjd$uGsv>etBusIsd|koppfeLopNAmx|fEig
jqdkfjvguHtwi_guobymwyfsMmi!CmtbcxrspGAee|fFigtjrDbLtws=slgqt
nqs}

fl!KbBAzisSty!CAvnfs\AaLKzi^Fqauq \gttCid:nqaFqwEvvLy	d>nAaycx
yuuvksygoxRyd:uligt rg!2the+ftbtfqQgcKyfx&kg"

fl!Kbhsu"Mtmi-vljv?)rzbBxeE-oofbxjJFaFyjo-Eaab@N\tazLtA*ts?&

fl!1qz\CfsHtd/osivbyGghKIBd&kDf?&eKhjwtyl^fPptotMzfn

fl!Fqs\AaMuqo!tAougsKl.,txe*jlBnkhwgnHLjd#uxenA,rg!RIzd)tAx
EAv&tjrnsHQnr"fFpq})

fl!1gxlgcNNeM!mDpybfLgbsLje|uzbdnjrwbvy	(!ymjfbyzlaWIwq=AEf<
^zpvbnFguAuyd/opjewqGBtszfw&oAo}&erHowtmi!mAubwurCfKSew;rwjnA
gzebewGztxxes<kDavqeLofsIyl^xltkfjrvgsNmi!iAvtv 

flBnneLojLtym_klujge9BfxHel@jlogxjJgmxzyd=lrauvfJpoztfx!ztf
NmuvgwlgbGx	d(AEubcxrAixtIs/sAvugeuypLMjh!ztfbetMyumtxl^fEbkfeLv
uzfbqkrAixttj'ooftueGmaMBjd$uGsv?e]IsBHld_klujgeDptMttj!ztf
yuoigwKgjGtyl^fxbuveuvovywxH-lppbBzpdAtyl^fIsgvhzles2fx:kD
zDfodqwkaLI	d:nmubjjrziHIpd#uFibjnKgtAIjw!urg}

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sNmi!QuoibwwwftNjh!gzhtkqQaa/Iwdd-xmbjfNl
EAvbgCwjvMyi{!CtfvjjJgzHO)v^fzftxtMzaHLer=zg"

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?bDGBss7fn^yFz?&eLofs2fx:kDadglsu.sCsd@
zDfodqAuhsPtm$kfa@+]sues3el@jz"vbgwnvGtrC!zqb++sGAatvtz^fmaygjC
uDauq]	howtBl@zlxkvmrAixtgv^gp_cpi	ivMNjv!mquvksygtHtyl*t\_cpi
ztfbvBAulECsk!uravjjrAfta](

fl!VjjrAxBHpp*tsaqheLofsQme:b/aucnvguAyeO*ts?

fl!KvetlhtHeA*ztavjjrAftn)d:nqaJcyLlssLjt-oqe}

fl!QheuvvKMjd:CuomnnFnauylm+ylxkvmrha!:)d|guebvmwgLBHld|nmsrnDm
^PpbAtMgutEjd_klgqtesgeNHhi9flHqbtF""

fl!K&rrhaIItv!smo?&eLofs2fx:kDaygsLgpGne$@tpaoqxLguACsk|
zIjpmqwkatzyi/fFicv]	voESex&klNcthzgItLjd|gue++)

fl!KbiAko,N^(!ztfbOfJjis2fv^fuovgwJBqMyid*tlbbiwwhusBzv/Eg

fl!1qzrkjw:)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!KbiwuzsCy%NfEbkfeLofs7fv$nlIctjm

fl!JgevloByxd*zf"bufAkaMBjdfozh<be]sftPjd=AFavjfLgqtLy	N

fl!YgqDaatNee+ElscvjlguAyeH=xypwujrzbBx][NfFigbMsAuxLeA^tFaqp	
rApmksygbGRns;yxzbttMuesNtd|kqakhezlaPIzp%fpfpAeAAaMIt\!fnvvbyzl
JAsoqzKlawysm^jloqvmAuhmtgi*tsahcxLgbLFji[a

fl!ChywyaMBfx7-ldqpyAuvxxex&klIcvywy.s|Nd$AFauqrwgnHLjd#xqbf+
gze+dzLAfKa](

fl!DwyrDitNeh*jlujgeVvsFIzw^fEbA{)rvoxttj!ztfblzJFatMpi%a

fl!VjfLgJswfrNzlsgojEifKn)d|guebvmwgItNyi/a

fl!1qzrTV`@ev^sqndgwl_aKyre/qqebvmwgLBHl{!^AsbK)DsaAuAi!EAv
kJfewywk?,

flUjgeEptxLff-klIcvywyawLtt[kpajkxrAftwzt!gzebdwwhe ushThGuvgwl
gzebyjFAawIBr!uzaqpjrroxy d!^U"obfrwpHLeq@tfaAqzJgNtDjw:Ef"bjj
hqhcp 

fl!1qz\yfsuez^xKarqtJgtIyfo^xf"bufAkaMBjdfozh}

flIgtjrvoxttj!ztfbizAuftaum"yldjgjJlemtfr%fIbubnEtfwCfx^rK
yGqrtjKzfwtgC!ztfbqkxpdxLxd=llujgeuvvKN d![MtbvmsAaBMev@ztftbf
nmsfbBGyemtNd>oxmblzKAaxRup@ozavqeQvvsBtA!oFaycxrkpGy d!ZtfAbmsk
glmctlwgdtHAe|fnbi?eOojvBex*kpawresAaMBjd_uGujbBAAisMyv*tst<
ozuqbyzptsNmi,fEmkruwkaMBjd"Auogc]Hphmtmi@jlgktxLaatHid:nqobufL
ABppbnLb-

fl!K&rrnmtxeMNBqaugjFguAuyd%uzf?&eLopNAmx!Gxjeg rg!2.Ai!yAaqhywu
xqbfbnFguAyer^CEqcrjJz.suyd:nqagpirvgsNwm@rE.b*YzlsxtBe|fEpog
gFugouLzatNee[vxbwujlgxAChl!CmtbkrEleBuyi-EltwruJltLyid#Elujg
urgkejJzaHzex&kldqwwLa&sush!OlogxjJgvGxjv|zApfbBzhusCyd_kmov
zumnbsGD?,

fl!KheLobM.xd@rxaAqzrroHQee#uGubkylgzHOeq@EltvcsvgeHQs{N
iAovksMlesNmi!Quoi}

fl!Kbhsu"Mtls!tAanqBwy.,txe*jlujgeZhuMyw\!f)J&oeGuaMBjd'rApt?esz
oFaku \

fl!VjjFgzHOeq@ElTKVevvxGn)d:nqaMksygsxJqm^jg

flIgtjrAixttx&kDaiwnFlb Jnk!itfgtjvaatHid>gEauwuHyfLMjh8

fl!EqrwaaMBfx!luokumwkaMBjd"Auogc]HphL:)d:nAvijyrHmBwj	!f)OqyeOl
ytbnneylusIsd#kFugt \

fl!K&irybMBjv!luokumrtzsNje7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs?bBAAisusd@tJjqwx
rApmbfLguAyeU;kqo?bBzvaPuxd/kmekplrAixtqm|zlphbxAuhxLx	

fl!1qzrtbRtls7-ltckirAixtPm+mfacpirAixtMe:zqsbjzJyjxxqC!rqgvbyzl
iAvtv	rDjMBty:fqwgpeOhjMCsk!zAarwyrojLtxl=kEaqp 

fl!++fFkaCOxx!zmlgbmAzaAyfh!urgbqzLzjwy	(!ztfbSzwlosuih^jluqbtFl
uravjjrvgyChi/yaabdzLguAyeL@zFftbBszaHOyd=lltkimLgcxztv^fFig
urgkejJgdHOqh!mqubvtrAixtis=xg

fl!EcqDguAyer^DFaykyFltL:)d|guebvmwgLBHl	

flUjgeFlyMtBm:tqtubBszaMBjd	Aoigux\zavIto8flTjgeuhsKCjh!ztf
vqqrgw	ipQtnr!nqsbjfFk.sush!GxjegeyBfLMjh!CtpbkyrDbLnei<kzadgkGyf
ytfbitLgjGNtd:nqaeqzJA.svDd:nqaycDrAixtui=vxfbpjsyaMBjd%uAsbdjyho
yzfgBnFnatFqd@zlppejm

fl!IkAwgzHOwd^Buegphwa"sMfm%fFigbPAuhn

fl!UjfF_um.ew@opavjjrjpHE 

flUjge3poztqs=qqebcsPppNMqC!gFavjjr4iBNjdmgnckv	rDiHtxe*jljpbf
rAxbxtAjfmt%3=ADaOcowzuRtry|zldtqxK|fQurm+klUJKXrDjMHjw|a/

fl!YgqDaaBzeM!sGtv?e1gnNMy{NfFigbPAuhsMfm% lxkvmrhaFyqe+itpnA
gus?bfFk.sukx^xlgqniAuhsBnw!gDnubfFkayLtA+ozhbcyrAixths=qluknq
nutbgDwzaPywi!tqbtnDrvvMttj!yuhjv	rofsMfm%fuobcevlfItAs*iq.b@2zhu
gDfbvfJAtsGfh^fAg{&

fl!RguHlsmtrs|zxz?&eKhjwtyl^fopqm 

fl!Vtjsjmxn)d|guebceKsfxJDd<uudgbgwojGxel^xg

fl!EqqDhssNme:fPptotMzfm.ex&klRwgjFgtALni)kpaqwymga/Vjl^gpavjfL
JAsoqzKl@stYy/tlujcyrKpKGty|klpwveGmavIzv:'laUwuHyfLMel*s-abRnFji
nun#be7mgsQnx&ftjubBzptDywwH-

flGqteKvnxtrm+AFfubyzlaPBtp^fopwtyrDbLtnr!iAohwxAvomtli:zuoibyzl
JAsoqzKlaMOwr^jlpwv	rhownef,fFigbyAtfsNmi,ftbfbxwAuEyid%uIo
gsbkp	rAixths=qlicfevpttJui@xqe}

fl!PgAwyaFCshH-ltckirAixtPm+mfaykyzgbGtfm/fAgbiwwhusLjp*kr
