	[To ORLANDO]

	To you I give myself, for I am yours.

DUKE SENIOR	If there be truth in sight, you are my daughter.

ORLANDO	If there be truth in sight, you are my Rosalind.

PHEBE	If sight and shape be true,
	Why then, my love adieu!

ROSALIND	I'll have no father, if you be not he:
	I'll have no husband, if you be not he:
	Nor ne'er wed woman, if you be not she.

HYMEN	        Peace, ho! I bar confusion:
	'Tis I must make conclusion
	Of these most strange events:
	Here's eight that must take hands
	To join in Hymen's bands,
	If truth holds true contents.
	You and you no cross shall part:
	You and you are heart in heart
	You to his love must accord,
	Or have a woman to your lord:
	You and you are sure together,
	As the winter to foul weather.
	Whiles a wedlock-hymn we sing,
	Feed yourselves with questioning;
	That reason wonder may diminish,
	How thus we met, and these things finish.

	SONG.
	Wedding is great Juno's crown:
	O blessed bond of board and bed!
	'Tis Hymen peoples every town;
	High wedlock then be honoured:
	Honour, high honour and renown,
	To Hymen, god of every town!

DUKE SENIOR	O my dear niece, welcome thou art to me!
	Even daughter, welcome, in no less degree.

PHEBE	I will not eat my word, now thou art mine;
	Thy faith my fancy to thee doth combine.

	[Enter JAQUES DE BOYS]

JAQUES DE BOYS	Let me have audience for a word or two:
	I am the second son of old Sir Rowland,
	That bring these tidings to this fair assembly.
	Duke Frederick, hearing how that every day
	Men of great worth resorted to this forest,
	Address'd a mighty power; which were on foot,
	In his own conduct, purposely to take
	His brother here and put him to the sword:
	And to the skirts of this wild wood he came;
	Where meeting with an old religious man,
	After some question with him, was converted
	Both from his enterprise and from the world,
	His crown bequeathing to his banish'd brother,
	And all their lands restored to them again
	That were with him exiled. This to be true,
	I do engage my life.

DUKE SENIOR	Welcome, young man;
	Thou offer'st fairly to thy brothers' wedding:
	To one his lands withheld, and to the other
	A land itself at large, a potent dukedom.
	First, in this forest, let us do those ends
	That here were well begun and well begot:
	And after, every of this happy number
	That have endured shrewd days and nights with us
	Shall share the good of our returned fortune,
	According to the measure of their states.
	Meantime, forget this new-fall'n dignity
	And fall into our rustic revelry.
	Play, music! And you, brides and bridegrooms all,
	With measure heap'd in joy, to the measures fall.

JAQUES	Sir, by your patience. If I heard you rightly,
	The duke hath put on a religious life
	And thrown into neglect the pompous court?

JAQUES DE BOYS	He hath.

JAQUES	To him will I : out of these convertites
	There is much matter to be heard and learn'd.

	[To DUKE SENIOR]

	You to your former honour I bequeath;
	Your patience and your virtue well deserves it:

	[To ORLANDO]

	You to a love that your true faith doth merit:

	[To OLIVER]

	You to your land and love and great allies:

	[To SILVIUS]

	You to a long and well-deserved bed:

	[To TOUCHSTONE]

	And you to wrangling; for thy loving voyage
	Is but for two months victuall'd. So, to your pleasures:
	I am for other than for dancing measures.

DUKE SENIOR	Stay, Jaques, stay.

JAQUES	To see no pastime I	what you would have
	I'll stay to know at your abandon'd cave.

	[Exit]

DUKE SENIOR	Proceed, proceed: we will begin these rites,
	As we do trust they'll end, in true delights.

	[A dance]




	AS YOU LIKE IT

	EPILOGUE


ROSALIND	It is not the fashion to see the lady the epilogue;
	but it is no more unhandsome than to see the lord
	the prologue. If it be true that good wine needs
	no bush, 'tis true that a good play needs no
	epilogue; yet to good wine they do use good bushes,
	and good plays prove the better by the help of good
	epilogues. What a case am I in then, that am
	neither a good epilogue nor cannot insinuate with
	you in the behalf of a good play! I am not
	furnished like a beggar, therefore to beg will not
	become me: my way is to conjure you; and I'll begin
	with the women. I charge you, O women, for the love
	you bear to men, to like as much of this play as
	please you: and I charge you, O men, for the love
	you bear to women--as I perceive by your simpering,
	none of you hates them--that between you and the
	women the play may please. If I were a woman I
	would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased
	me, complexions that liked me and breaths that I
	defied not: and, I am sure, as many as have good
	beards or good faces or sweet breaths will, for my
	kind offer, when I make curtsy, bid me farewell.

	[Exeunt]


The Project Gutenberg Etext of LOC WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS




                      WORKSHOP ON ELECTRONIC TEXTS

                               PROCEEDINGS



                          Edited by James Daly







                             9-10 June 1992


                           Library of Congress
                            Washington, D.C.



    Supported by a Grant from the David and Lucile Packard Foundation


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS


Acknowledgements

Introduction

Proceedings
   Welcome
      Prosser Gifford and Carl Fleischhauer

   Session I.  Content in a New Form:  Who Will Use It and What Will They Do?
      James Daly (Moderator)
      Avra Michelson, Overview
      Susan H. Veccia, User Evaluation
      Joanne Freeman, Beyond the Scholar
         Discussion

   Session II.  Show and Tell
      Jacqueline Hess (Moderator)
      Elli Mylonas, Perseus Project
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca, Patrologia Latina Database
      Carl Fleischhauer and Ricky Erway, American Memory
         Discussion
      Dorothy Twohig, The Papers of George Washington
         Discussion
      Maria L. Lebron, The Online Journal of Current Clinical Trials
         Discussion
      Lynne K. Personius, Cornell mathematics books
         Discussion

   Session III.  Distribution, Networks, and Networking:
                 Options for Dissemination
      Robert G. Zich (Moderator)
      Clifford A. Lynch
         Discussion
      Howard Besser
         Discussion
      Ronald L. Larsen
      Edwin B. Brownrigg
         Discussion

   Session IV.  Image Capture, Text Capture, Overview of Text and
                Image Storage Formats
         William L. Hooton (Moderator)
      A) Principal Methods for Image Capture of Text:
            direct scanning, use of microform
         Anne R. Kenney
         Pamela Q.J. Andre
         Judith A. Zidar
         Donald J. Waters
            Discussion
      B) Special Problems:  bound volumes, conservation,
                            reproducing printed halftones
         George Thoma
         Carl Fleischhauer
            Discussion
      C) Image Standards and Implications for Preservation
         Jean Baronas
         Patricia Battin
            Discussion
      D) Text Conversion:  OCR vs. rekeying, standards of accuracy
                           and use of imperfect texts, service bureaus
         Michael Lesk
         Ricky Erway
         Judith A. Zidar
            Discussion

   Session V.  Approaches to Preparing Electronic Texts
      Susan Hockey (Moderator)
      Stuart Weibel
         Discussion
      C.M. Sperberg-McQueen
         Discussion
      Eric M. Calaluca
         Discussion

   Session VI.  Copyright Issues
      Marybeth Peters

   Session VII.  Conclusion
      Prosser Gifford (Moderator)
      General discussion

Appendix I:  Program

Appendix II:  Abstracts

Appendix III:  Directory of Participants


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                            Acknowledgements

I would like to thank Carl Fleischhauer and Prosser Gifford for the
opportunity to learn about areas of human activity unknown to me a scant
ten months ago, and the David and Lucile Packard Foundation for
supporting that opportunity.  The help given by others is acknowledged on
a separate page.

                                                          19 October 1992


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                              INTRODUCTION

The Workshop on Electronic Texts (1) drew together representatives of
various projects and interest groups to compare ideas, beliefs,
experiences, and, in particular, methods of placing and presenting
historical textual materials in computerized form.  Most attendees gained
much in insight and outlook from the event.  But the assembly did not
form a new nation, or, to put it another way, the diversity of projects
and interests was too great to draw the representatives into a cohesive,
action-oriented body.(2)

Everyone attending the Workshop shared an interest in preserving and
providing access to historical texts.  But within this broad field the
attendees represented a variety of formal, informal, figurative, and
literal groups, with many individuals belonging to more than one.  These
groups may be definedvgsHOll-ElbeetJkjGAex=fFigbkGsmHQnr"fFprkhKgpK
goukxnLpfLi

=lJoclAuh
=lTgcwuobuFjd$upffbywEuL
=lOcvnGubEtfr%fuovgwFhuBIse-foporzLlssHjx>uDlu
=lDF+W7TaILth;iFjqpesuesxnw|kyjpcyAvo
=lNgvmGktsush!zqdjptDvhRtks/foppxjJAjGAes-jqsbrfHlssGfx^xubnueAuuH
kxfevwGujvtks/s
=lTvwiQgpytyl^fGtgbtxgeBAnx@rlncvjJpbEMef,fEdjqqsytsush!uFigtx

ZtjubxMtntLDd*ylbttfFnfwtyl^smukefDszsush!jAfubsGAayIqp=ClujgesjuNuq
yqrwgsulaHzet/kEfpvfLppGM 

T1UGU,
flabb='/as3sd:nutbftuBnxHy{!ztfbrmJhtxtjp^iFsqpnuguxRyd*ylvugirApsGje+
flabbfFFavIrt;zqskBjvgsxJws%AoukqsrvssPjv|oAobqkrhawIhy_kzu?bgGvlm
flabbfJAjvFj{!uDaocsMzdKCux![uoenzvpoztnq@mqt_?esuesHtx!sqsgnDrhaFuhl*tq_
flabbwwhetvqi!uDaochzpoxaxi@xoicdqwguxRy	

flabb="/as@mi!3AsmumGwaPuxd&kxebcyrAixtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yEaqpe+|2[tOy+k
flabb6+$3mtBm:nlgwpiAuhszws_fFigbIsCjwtfr%fXvekqwgQtwpe/jlGqwsvhuBIs	
flabbYzlawIhy_kzubvmsAayIqp=CEatguJltxHyw!gltworsyzsIkd:nqartjKloMuym=tE
flabbrskfsuyd:nqaYqwCziHJee+jlxcueuvnICqi%fnzbLfEltsXFPtalaVjnK
flabbnFAsHxzg:oAobyfKgxKCyx^tlcAbISSZsush!ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS}


V4FUGW@HU29Sd?TPaKOFYPOZ

VDfugwNhuBIs{!gEavjfLguxLrd*ylvugirizsuwg&oHjuvxl]4	tBe|fypuvewEqEChm:rK
jutewxKlesCsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!oybiksybasUsr^fWFPPJ%gbGxeP,tzfbRJ0ZP73ZW
kJqncnFlesBtA!ztfbetFjfINes'fmahcnLogNFeg=vKacpirAixtzw^x\gtkjFkmBHjw|fAg
ztfbvwskjMCtr@rlcqqprobOyek;opffbyzljKtuv=pqdvbfLgDHLsi-rlVpkAwytBND	R0>
GxujqzyoaBHyi/kEugfeAuavIrt;zqskBjvgeBMxi_ozbvktFaaIuwx*iuqcpyKgjGtyl^
IAspgqDgqKIoi$zlbtgeuyftNnr"fpjikyssaBGfk^fEfvueGmaHFii/fnpqmxrposNmi
vGcnkhrkpFunr!gEacbxGBsvyej=xlbbhwwzisJft^xlgcexAtjEyes/ ljpbfrmvMOwi
vtbug	rtjvLtj*ry?bbYzlauIto|fDfvwwFlesNtd:nqankgJhsRtxl^rHfubfJl
nuhj+vMhmBNDd@tpawujxBmsLjt-gofogsLzaHHee$op_htjwgqtJjv!ztbvbxzvvExep@yF
glmqplrAjFy d!ZAafcywaaMBjd{uDognqrwsHDjg:ftbubuDhdxxep*zFmgbtJgoH
kyqjcxAzaHHeg/kmukplrzftLhl@hxfbvjPAtittr^fIpwnirupMtgi!yGsrtnKlesNtd'oze
ztbvbyzlaILtn^iFarcwLpdBJfr:ylwkgBrzvvBex^DFtbcxrufPtjh*zuppu	rhowtyl;y
tAubcxrmbBNmj;rlsgrwGkvvNns+yg

OzajgwrAbEEes+fBsgujJCbMCtr7f2bvtnupbsVFXoOZauvwMjlsusd^iGngpnuhmsush
lxfzkgDlaGIyi!gEaujjrlowIww^jlujgeuyftNns+fmofbiAztxGnr@zuppbtxgbsPfv*kFz
uravAuwzaHzeh*muucneuvqByx	!fPpbptLgcxtys=fzbtttOgjGtii'ozjpieOobMths;tFt
gEacbuJltxLAe:oAobgqwtfGN	d}G6UKPeuvvGMjp^jbahqwrAixtuv^yqov?esAaEyfw: 
juhkvfDgdHJni|fybfgeOpuAtuv^yqsxcyAvosCsd_ozebefFupMtgi!gEapcwJvxES
yFbpffJkjSyid@yfaucDlgnBwws'oxnbetHpfLtBm:nlujgeKhnxttf(koukxjmga`yyx*ts
yFbpffJktsJwi$oBjvqzKszswfr!ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EldcpeJltNFyd*t
itbqu	rzixtfh<oEff}

OzarcwLaaUUYXdT/tbrtKpuBIsd/krmgeywkaMBjd;tEfvvqwkaGuyy/klphbnEhhxaks/smu
yFbpffJktmtfr%fmuvgsvlfLths;rpajgfJgfvBti|fAgbvmAzaNHxi:zxffpjKzaBHex&k
iAnogsLzaHzez@xupwueKwftEjv|alaHqwrlytGup^ lKgcsrIB~9SEnfDfxkjOlesNmi
yFbvwxrvgsMjz^xmmbhtJtbEtxx@tpbtfxrtpOCsk!ztsqwlzgdHGrm:zqfubtxgfQJjv:yb
gzebEqAmgHLidg5ZDJbjFjpNLfk^jlujgeMzfsIkd@fzfyblMpexFnr^frptbyJhoLGnx:ozh
jAdwojFAaBGfk^ylppbNFAfKHjx8flUguyAtpGSej/uyarcwLpdBJfr:yljpbyzla7uym=tmm
GsskezDAvKuqdgonsctD\za{8FPSf6fzveVphBNnD@zuppbUJvhKurd@tpaNE)KgBFywm$gz
SqnqtDrwsHDjg:ftjijqAniMyid|uyfbqkrAixthl@rxfpijKguHtyl^fmdvwfDgdKyfx*uz
uDakpywydAusk^fAgbkrsnfLnem+ixvfksygeBzkm$Axukgxrposwtr<kDukpl
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDtaMIeh*muucnexvsFoed	uzbnfe#HUX`Xd/kBptvjvgpGtyl^
vDpitjKzaHzee!smtvgwrwmtHej=xlbbrwGqfvNee:f~bnge!ujOyww*zKavqeuvoOywx
hApmueGuaFChv=lumobyGgeBAnx@rljoclwgtxNx{!VDplghLgPIysd}uAlb-U7I-n

ZtfbYtJrtAIud=lrftgirybMBjv!rqtubtxgbGtnq@muoibuJhdMChy_fFicpeHsbGHjh7
hGub*mGD_MI-d&ozuubjElszyee:fHbtktMzaIInr:yfahqwrlytGup^ lujttMniHOy
QQOPG4\zaILjw^tFbvktFgbGxem+fFigbiAzdNMxm=tlphbfJjbGuew;itacu
ztsgumGseBHld@tpafkyzlsBHld=lrftgirizs1js/mqaVJT5HatHidaRQJUEMZHVX` 

T1UGU,
flabb=&/asUqx&uGhjbyzlsxtnw!gltgpxwgjGtBl*itacpDryfILth;iFjqpxrvg
flabbmAzuHLng@rlncvjJpbEMet/kEftxjrAixtmy_gzatghGyemtxt^iubnkxLzaBHex&k
flabbkAlmwtme<klegxjDvqxxet@xFjewqsyazOnh^ruoguexvssNmi!iDfcvnGuaHz
flabbfujfINff-klqtgxwywtNns+foprkjKb

flabb=*/as@nx-kEacpirhgyCqm@zuppueGmaILjw^tFftuesyfsAnz^tlbvbyzl
flabbgwnjGHnr"fAgbvmwpssLjw[koukxjrAbEExd@tpakpeLofsXnv^iFptAeGm
flabbUsyuBwnt@tFtb-FHwfGxnB!OUJ_}


ZTFbOFUOJ7Y]V GPBDNJr1F%@,d!SMSMWUrHOWtZW 

ZtfbujuAjHHxd=llujge#vsDMms[fFicvevlbENeA*ztaochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMtyi+jqe
zAadgeEvsxths+iqspgirDjMBee$iqtubfFkaNMjd:nmobynLoaILjw^xHbvktFaatNep^gEu
ozavjjrubKLtA!zqdjpnuhmsMjr|kgabOnuobxFeWkK4CGTL	Td0#JIifybfgesggHLhi'Ax
vDfugsLhuBIsd=tlujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bq"ub=`LJ	tnq[rqngpysAjHHes'
ztfbUysuetLidbkzftcqAGfwtRe/qGqbNfFnvtAjdRYSNN_ rgIBMem%kmtbyjJlaxwms^j
hKaUwxsua19HO 5faGnqAgN^6TR?YfacpirZuNuwx!3QJDGQmga$Bnp^fFig
vDfugsLhuBIsw!smegbgQguAyeX OlbfxtuhuxMeg=tFbkpjvgoHtuv@iFjewrlguAynv
jutewxKppGtks$AEffbtFguAyez@rGfbqkrAixtkm+oEigfeHypwOhx7fIicveLof
KGsqrjsuaVIrq;tuuAbhssmLtwi;ymcknnLF.svzx!CtbvbrsFatFxs!hqavgwEle
jGscdnDpuRoedonqzbcwyBfwtyl@zlnctpAuhsOu[TztbvbnKaavIim+m\_cbywEusCsd@
Cqmn+hGudxCAi%fIbAbBAsmsJjv_oFakveLvauyeq=BqebhwGtaHHjd$uyqwvjJ
kzwkttFtfGNex=fmoqvmwy.suxd>kxmbcxrApsvjd;yqebdDrCbKCty|fGtgtxmga!Qt
quofueGmaFuwo;vlxgtjrkjLNnr"Autjgigga" et/uoffwwssaFuwo;vfayjnuo
jqtetntltsNmi!lqbvwwwzaHzee!zqyvb=wbhnneh=zEaqpesgqtAj=7fmofb7{
jqtetnHAjOyeq@xwvr?eOojvBeh^yoskdjKguAyew:xGdvwwwgpKtjp^sqovueGmat
jAdwojFAa{y k8 ldjcuLlsLnet@xmhtcuzz.sush!lDppveEhuMyw=8

ZtfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuubjEwitMnD^jlujgeAtqHLye+iqaqheLlyMMex=fEdjqqsytACu	
ZtfAbjPwmtCsi%ftpybmwhwBFDd$upffb=suesNmy|fmocnDRlesush!gzoqvfLle	tyi\zE
imobwsvlsECjd/kEfcthzaaIFfC!glsqnjrposMhl=rmsnAeuvnFOsm$gFjqp	rhow
lmdknnLhuxthp@yEsqqrrAftwmm+mgabUUWYCX`L[hi3VGGSryfFCsh^jlmkuywufKMex&gF
glxtkyLlosIwd[xuovgirpuxGe+^as??bfrwbKNng;rmsbgiAAjHHes'fmadqtC/aBM
sqsgnDrhaKyuv^yqovcyAvosIkd:nqacdxLybvNns+fIfbefDsattyi\zgabVtrjpGwjv+
uGsugqNltsQnx&frbkvmxBmESev^vDpfwhAuhsuet/ozugfeAutMusg^fAgbvmwguxRy{
Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZactlMlemtnw!zAaeqsulsGtty/yqmxgxrDjMBex&klsgrwwzfGNfx*uz
uracbwwwsxMjr:gFjqpe}+jFuli|fmtbunEBmtwwe!lAsbvmwguxRy)SalaVjjr1F2tuv=vAogpyK_
ozugtjKAaBHem_gsfubywueLtys!lAdwueGuavIws-rmsAbrsAfKCfp|frptbzKlaBHex^goikpll
lAsbgCstqEy	d[nAuqiwswiLttj!ztfbChJvqHFnw!zAacehGtqtHDd@fSsggprAfQN 

HKavjjrlowttj!ztfbYtJrtAIu{!Y2FTDJ0N_6wVY KZaeqsxltLyid:ulicxnFnauyjr
iAoxgwLlesNtd@fxjokywkaxRyi+zluqbyzlaOCjA!ztbvbjDldMLtr*iljoclwz
iAouvnLBuxtfd[xAnkunFnatFyi/tmukxjrApsGng/urjnonFn<sCsh^kp.bcs
gxugtssAjOyet/unbdnDrzvIywm=xluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}beTBusBjd>gEapqyrjpGPnr$kp
ztbvbjDldMLtr*iljoclwzavIsw:oFvvgesgtxLns;ylbvvjEwusNtd/kBsgujFAaMyCx!oz
kxfevwGujvtks/sgabJTURF^tfr%fYZNQSSZatFxs!iAoegiwkaMBfx!ztfktewEqxLni+iq
gFavjjrWjxLhi!YKnrqxABnsNmi!vDfxktMzaPyjo!gFaIgtJnfMIBr!1zjxgwKpuRtfr%
ztfbrwwzfGNeg=trftgsulatNex&klMkdwsyzsIkd{uzhtgxKgitxeg=sBfnnjvguAyrd:u
xqfxcqMhuxtyl^oDargwKwfvNnz^fAobvmwgvLyky-tqtubtxguxRyd@yljoclwz?
GFugpiwltswty-jltggeLobMtyl^fFfzvesuesCre"klbfxtuhuxMeA^xqakp
iAouvwMjuBPjd:kztkqslgtHtys!ymz}

ZtsggeFvo!YNd[xqtgpysAjHHxd%kEdtkgwkatJuv=goigueLvaILjt@xuoi
smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLguAuyd@xqangxKgsBAtv=AEacpirAiNMep^yEagzuwutBPj	!fUo
ztfbefKlaHzex&klQcrjJzaHzeK^uDhgb2sziBHlx=tfaFqwGAiRtY1jNUHbgCHsbBHjh
ztbvbyzlawClm:gxaxgwKppGtBm-rlqtqAAkfsuer=z\rwkyw|qxLki$zlsgpiwyjGAes'
ztfbvwsutvLnf^jlugzy	|tHGjdv9%.``#rkpvOri+zE.bcAspmtvqi!lAsbtjKlbKwm
jGskplrAixtii$gpfubBzpmxtyl^fBfthjuAaHLet/ozubxjJzjHHem|foporqwAfwo
SqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKavgfEgbGxex&kltvckxgpytSEg-EaVgCL
JuhkvnRhuBIsdkxAhtcrr]txyef^rAx_bfDzpsIzx-ozffbfrtjwxqi!mDpwpirjpGwjv+ozh
yqbtemsimxtyi\zE?bbNFguAyeg@yqaqheStfKChe+fYfoqwQaavIsx/gouqtxrwsHxzg^
zqyvueOpuAtff=AFa~~]Hlsvysx!godwtfuFaMBfx!yqsxgesza.vws>yq&bqw
_Dfhgwwudx?ez^xEjqpxrvgsQwm:zqobqwrwsBHyi%fAskinFhmLoed tpawujJzaPBtd+kqe
lmjvjkMsavIum^ylptbuwygxwyd/kzekvnGutsGzw:fDfhgwrApsuhg=sBbpAnFnaLyyw!ur
juhkvfDggtwxm_oxfbkrsnfLttv!iAouwqLgdHJni|fAgbvmwgpKClm+gxtbksrhaGyfv#E
ructcwQgpKtfv$nuwg}erHnxLng@tlNgotJFaLNfj'fmsiwjvguAuyd:nqajklzgdHMyd=l
vDpfwhAuhs&#@TvqsegsLgbvwzv@zqaequAltsQty-jlqtgAwuus6Hd'xAnbqkxlsBHl
godguxrApsFfv"klqctyKgpytnx|fopnnjuAjHHx	


ZTFbOFUOJ7Y]V GPBDNJr1F%@,d!SQUJQI~gPYtHSi2QSUKT6

GxujqzyoaMBjdruDlujtHgeBxer=zljpeqMkfsuew,yFfocyAjaxRfq*tmukqsrvgsNmi
squjqiKggHLeg=tHftvnFnaMyCx|frsqoeHhqxLe+=xlgtqrrmbvMnq*rqakofylt	tnr:u
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEaaGyAi/ztfngxKaaOuwm=AEaurjsrfKMex=AoigfeMwpGtyl*y
smuvgwmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlgXX3GIgfDfrqwLlesNme:f1DNEezhtsyCt^xungpywkaPCyl!g
sqsiksygpytry-zuqngeGwuBwfp!itbtchLlssLjg=mzjvktFgtRMyi_ylujcyrDjEF
xqewejrlsKIww!lDpobfFgvGuhg^vFbdnjrybMyes'f%aejfJhdMyww!uGubqkrlwxLD
rf~``eLvatHey+godgrysimxtwe:klphb7rjitLfg:kDtbqzLgpytjz^xKan?#=%?

VmngnfrHOW`Jd[xqtgpywkatHes<kDwkgBrvgs8FPNylUgzyrKjzCym.gFjqpe8ypzLfq!gze
PGekvmr7JWUWd%oEdwuxwkaMBjd:koipkhssawyye*rE?bb51KB~tjB[rmjpgiropPtSEg
vGsejfKlesBfv%CmsgbfFkaLIkx>gDfbefHhcEyes'fBfthtJtjGAes[zudcneuobKuhx^x
xqdqisAAjHHe+jI4-bcsvguxRyd$uzwgtxAvosush!AEffbnLzaHQsd|zmghbyGgdHHAi/z
zqyvu rgUAyet/uofuu	r7JWUWd|gue?bwwxvBLjh!kJugpxACfsyim:ozhbcsvgqKIoi$z
yFbhhexvvGxex&kytgnAwzavIsw*jqskplrhmMywr@zuwgu	rpovFzh*tsatgpwFjGA
gze:qwrjsxuym+mlbduyJhdMMes/fEvoofJpfLttj!zqyvu rgOT6ev^iwppgirjpLNxd@z
*'argwrwbzy d!HKaycDrvgswtr:xmtv?e0pdDSeIm3MZbgCHsbBHjh!ztbvbFElsBwfr
SqnqtDrobwtii$opffbkJvnsNmi!yFbtveLvavIsx/goubqzLgdHHAi/yuppbyGgfQNjv+gx
yqsxkhwgcNLje;ygabVmwgdKCyi/omawujvguHtxi-koubvmwzfswtr:xmdvqwKgxxLjd$uEu
gzebszssjMSes'fDfuwqLz.suxd=vBpugirApsGjx&uptbqkrjpGPjv|oAo}beWYXT'er=zqe
ztbvbmAzuHLng@rleqezEloMMes/fnpqmxrvgMysd%uloqveDlowtyl^sEfnxjKguHtTGma
HAvpfeEhuxLne-ylsgrwwzfGNee!yBfekfDgqKIgp^sgabKsrofKtjB[kDjgphwaaJOfp*zK
iAovttD|_BHxt^iFjpieAudHGnr"fybvgwAhmLneg=AzukplrlsKIww!ozaucrHsfLa]t=yqe
ztfbotKAaMCriTiAouwrAuhsuxt^iFaqheuvoMLfg:ozhbqzLgdHHAi/yupp}erLS$U4
xqdmqswkaTGjv*imobOjEvsR.xd$uEuubfLg%(tui/fBbig	rivMthe;zuppgirAitNej^Cqs
iAtv+jDlnxHyw!nmebdjwuaBHhp;jqebvmsuaBHeR?R/tbhnyBsxo


U2UKQS~gG8`eHdY5FOKSS1J88

ZtfbvtHpdsIkd%oEtgonFhuBIsd[xAqgtewtfKAjh!gFaxcwAvvLtus*tFtbfzJpoztyl^
3AsmumGw?stFx!ztfbujKzjHHeh^BAugfeLvaGuym=tmmbcsvgjGNjv+gFjqpfDgdHGuy:kD
tquyqwCz.s64R{NfaJqBsyesVJWnK4.bTtFhmwtQEmYQO?bfFkaXxBm+fNSQYS0PHZ
nuhjnnyouxxex&klwktyMltsIkddtFftpjLguHxfC!gzebqkrAixtsi:CAsmbyzhusQnp-
kHpnxjrmsHGeM+zqspgymga5Cxx^tqsubhGBmwtim|iqspbnFguAyxi!tmstcyACfLtf
Butkqsrvgsusd*trptofLppGtii_uosceDrposQmm$nlnknqAvoLttj!iuukBjFzayLji-E
luofbfFkaNMjd>nmubvmwFaGyjh8flM1PHZgoHNjh!ztbvbfrsbvEes'fEucpisyeL
ozikdnLzawCxw^suocvnFnaFOqx*sqekceGuaMBjd+kFxqtplgbsNtt*ilbnutrkjLwzw|kp
hKaDGX~LSnteP?X5FPbfvksxMxi%fFigbnKzvxMes'fzfvytJraLwfp@humkvDrhow
sAewnfJpuRtfr%fopoojFAfwtzt=tlujgevpgyChy-zKaqhesuuBwnt@zuoibyzlaxzki$zE
uraittOAisCsd=xpftueGmaFulr*zGeg}erIS8%SVdMSavcqClesugs;zlujgesijECyC!ur
vmdmgyrybwCtd:ulqtqAAkfswjv:guobnnFrtsCsd@fzfvytJraPCyl=AFavjjrufxxej=x
Cuskplmga1IBi<kD.bvmwgqKyxi+zqsubfDzpswfp-kpacvywuuBIsd:ulujg
ytptvhGtjGAxd@tpakphGuhKOnx*kEaqheHyfLysxTjmzbetEwvMywd+kFxqtpKbasZtv
kJborqw?as&[dikFxqtprBtxtnw!mDpyksygeKure:oobnnDlgcNNeq;itapgyOvsD
zDbhhnugdHHxm|zEaqheHlsLIse-fopoozFpdtNns+f<F+ofAs-nte6SfXbtijripwCjw!ur
ozgqtrsAjHHee/klbxcnDhcEy	d#AFacbzKls,Mee#oxjvAeLvaLyfv$nlbettKzaMBjm/
kzuktjLFaBMep*suugf rg4	tYl^xqactjrzjzHnj*imovbwwzpNLhi|frptbxupfGwjd@tp
zqdjptDvhRnef;zlggyeFluPIwo!yAvtejKgqKIAm%kldqpywuusCsd:nqajwrsujMCjw8
0>aOchzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMMee/kldqorGuqEuhi7fnvvbyzlavuue#oxjvAeGmaMBj
yKtvgrrApsxje-fIjvjeAtbzyxdRrqubcqGufsIyl^xlngfnsggHLre:y>anclKgcxBnr%a
GlhnkrHzfsIkd@fyvnvnEleBuej;zGsgbkGyaGyyA=xwt?bmGDfOyw{!CmtbrwGCjwyid#E
Smskce4LC~9Sd*tligteGCfKPni>fAgbvmwgPGFnr^fVpwtsssaHzeG;xDfpveUsjGChe-
ZDjcnxr]P3WHXS lbpfeLofsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKarwgDptACsk!uz_nkswb

ZtfbetFAstMym+mlgqtrrvgsNmi!IP_TQRrkjLEeA@ylogxjJgtRMyi_gFjecqDF
gzbnAEwk.svzx!gFugpiwltswty-jlhngfFgbGtnq[xqtuktFggKIrd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
ytpy+fFk_Myqp!vDfugsLhuBIsw8flUjge8lsLyzw!gzebCrwyjvusdhkyptAewEbFJqi|
jqnqpxLybMyid/kofpvqQgqNvqm|nqebfnKrtmtBl*rqavjjrkfLwwm[zuppueGmaMBj
ONZEWXrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgQtJjv|fAgbIjGyhxt2e|nuoivtFgbGxeG&gpxAep	OftFjCNy
VmutqqGnjttQe:ozbbFfLhctMjdRVXE_byGsesIkd%oElubyGgdHGj	!fMdeqwvpoztys
KDjebHSSB5#HE7f2MF&xrwsBHhm[gxahqhMzaAuxd#kqobqsrjpGPjv:ozhbLfuxvxM]T@Ax
Suhpg)Kgexznr*zuwgbhGsmxwym=tlphbQsAjGtyi\zEavqeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlayIwq8
GxujqzyoaxPjv,uzfbetMsesMme/klujgeFluPIwo!gpwqefLlt,tjr:nGtkcxEggHLee+
uz_nkswggNNzv^ lujgeHvtLCgm-oFzbqkrypEFnr"fGqbqsw_tsMqi^BqtbhtJgbsMjw|oAo
CuujbfrJE `TQ!iAovcnFpoztgs:nlugzyMhmsGfx^xubnuesuesuet=CqshwqryfMLni<gx
kzhkpjrtbwyex&klekuprzfxGee+fmqrgfDpoztAi|yqmbksvlfwoedonqaqxjJhmE
jutewxKppGtxy"mqtvgirAitNex&klutcsKpuBIsd'xAnbEI	YP6tys!uz_nkswgoxNBs/qqe
godguxrtbRtuv=BqahcwrzmHQjv!gzebotJlawCkj*iGmvbyzhosBfw!hqfpbfFAjvCue:kp?


3TPbCWWgU1YeYnK4TbCSVgX1UYd	UlUJG4rKPo

GxujqzyoavIsg^xzffbBAAisNmi!zqdjpnuhmBNni|fAgbrwGkvvNns+ lujge#vsDMms[
tqwgteDvtMtxm"nFaqheLofsJzv[uEfubfFkaNMjw!uragnjuAsHHng!BqsuktFzaHz
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt}beSzaGIyi%fmcqxjlguAIxi!ozugtjKAfwtnr!oybiksygeBMhy|yqe
ztfbrwGimxGfx*immbofLAfKttj!juhkvfDgqKyxi/BmukqslgxACqi!ztfbVJ1gqKIus+kzuu
jqtetntlesBtA!smdjksw|sxuie#rqavgCLzavusd#klvugirposLjw^gDdj}er1iBMep@zFft
zAqkeeJldxCAi%fFiqttMnisNwi@zyfpveAuaMBjd[gBftbwwhesvDd?BDbbONUOF5!TR8
Ytfbrqsjfwtyl^fBigptEloHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbynLojGtyl^foppvjPAaHz
hDpcfjJguKysh|fuobksxvsFuym=tlugemFvmHADd@tpauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIs	

GyppieGAixLex&ozhu?e5PD1YQWjTleguhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%
ztfbqwAnjGttj!ztfbYtJrtAIud=tlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFgbswtr<kDtcvnGuaAyel@j
nmebetFzjwywe#rKaoqwwguAusd@fKfctesnpsQnx&fObtneXSF2!HLcG7FTbhGudxLsm+m
yAngbtxguAyem|yGfubksjfwtgC!GY?bbTFguAyee|yGnrvnGuaMBfx!tGngttMzaHNmi/
vqprnjrDfKyee|quoibyzlaLuri!wGfuvnGutmtyl^fpfekxAvosQfw!smegbyGgcKCsk
zAhgvmwyatMeq@tKaqheLofLyet^uBmgbfKgqHMxm#rqavqeszlsNmi!ymngbvMltMCtr|
zAhgvmwy?stNr!glegguwyaLysw^ lHKHK7YEsMfm% lujgeGyjzCsd=llujge#vsDMms[
rmzbksrAixtii|oDfbqkrAixthy/xqovbQAistLne+fAgbEtFnsxMx{!PmngueZb
HumnksyApGnex=fybmgeLofswtp-koukqsKgpytyl^fXjdtfJF.syxt^iubnnDrAiHMj
urggtnFnaNHnu;klptbzFBtNuqd:kEukotFFaHHee|vqdvueGmaMBjd?sqskefF
kJqgtnwudxnee<gumcdqwguHtfd_Aoibynvlsswnv$rqaqheMzfKMex&gzavjtKlayyB
vqprnjrDiHthe+fopogeLva$uxl*tsuqpeLvaNMjd:nqn}be`ojLtri@tFavjfLguAy
kyqjcxAzaHzeEh lgtqrrAixtty:yqu?bmszauyjr!uzacthzpwtFeg=rxfevnGutsIkd:nq
hmtkeeEhuxLne- lbpfeGuaFupm+mlujgxwgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kEacxfAsbuFj{
xmujgwrAitHew^rqdvgirvssBje<oxzbgiAAfwtuv=jGdvu 

LDpobF5_tsyrt&gEjubkGsmHQjh!ztfbszwzuBIsw!CuujbBzpdAtyl^f9ptmxzvqsvjk@ta
CtpbynDsaNMjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp| lbpfeAuaPBfx!lAsobBAsmsNmi,fIjujeLvaNMj
ztfo}erIvMtfr!kHfpbqsyhxLem|yGfbfjKlsOCsk!sqovktFaaBHeKdLRPTF)KgwByB{!Cmt
ztfbrmwupFyse-fssqyyzgjGtNr:kDogveuvoGyhx*BuuA}erOfsyCt/kEtgfeLofsBtt^
ztbvbyzlaILtw[koubqkrnsxuyi/fuovgwuvoGyhx^jzfuueLobGtjz^xlcghtJlaPIzp%
rqbfbyG?as&[d_AoibotJlavItt^xmukxjrhowtry:AmmnAeKBqIIwx*BqagpiwhwHLx,!8>
jqwgntHtfGNes'fEzuvjEzaHzew&gDffbfFkawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyAltsNt
gHpkfevBqEChe:oAobcsvguHtjr|ADfbchuBstwDd@tpartjKlsOuym=tlphbzFprNy
smugtnsstitfr%f#-bclJlfFysx!uzavjjrufvyxw@xKauvfFkbKxxd@tpafgAwspIGjr:fAg
ztfbcuHypILne:klektjuApKCjw!gzebksvpdxMex=fybmgeFhwBAfx*uz
yFscklzAgHLBe/jlboqsyguAyez@xuffbwwzpNLhi|fFicvesyfmtfr%fuoetjszjGAqC
CumnbgwaatPfm-gnmg}erPosNmm|fopppjuAjHH	dbORGQTIryfJOjw:kpavjfL
vmsvkhAwbGNxd/krmgeyrmsHGex&klpwvxwAaNJtr!ztfbutJAtsIkd=AFdqojKguAyD
ztpwimLguAye1=xwtjqurtjzByd&gHf}beVpesNms|klqtgxwuuswtr|zuuwvjrhazLty[
CuujbxMmgBwni+zldqorGuaBHyi/kEuubyGgqKIus|klbbpjPAaLNjt!uDapgCLgtMyuw7
gzebkkrzpmtBl@zlnkimLguAIxi!hq}bbYzlzsQty-jlsgvzJuaMIex&kEfbszwzuBIsw!ztf
lAmnqBAuhsukx^xzpqp 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfOptgeGma$Iwo|nAqbetFjfKHxd[xqqctfLppGtfr%fBsqfzuAjHHes'
smugtnssts{eW[kojcneuobEFjr"kljpbhGuwxLxm=tlphbywEuNuqd_gFftkfDza}
WGbnkyQgwxLxy|fCvcpyAAzs{eH=fFigbxwCfKuqd"xAvrueJlqKyxi+zqebumsyfswtq_uz
ozugtjKAtot+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
kyqjcxAGfwtyl@zligbBGBmwtfx:kyqvbyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgqxIup^fIiqbuwygHLrd|uyf
uravjjrDpKEes'foppxjJAjGAes/fBsgrfJpozteq@zqskcqKgbGxex&gFavjjrjpKyes'
ztfbYtJrtAIud&gpavqevvaPCyl!vDfrcwsAjHHee+jlqtqiMjuBIs	!fRMGKXUOIT#JV
ztfpbiJlxsueh*yFjpeyAvosvjx>kqobvmwgmHHld:kDn?bBzlosGfr,fFikplKgxHOqh!hq
gHbknftsfsush!iAopghLlesCsd:nqaycDKguAuydbORGQTIrkfLwwm#kp.bcsvguAyew&uDu
zqso?eAuaPBng&fMNbptLgpGFDd&gEaytjKAmxxeA*ztavjjrptLOjd=llxjcyrptsNmi
hqtvbhGBsLyex=fBvtuzwgcNNee-yAajcxrmbvyid@fHbtkjLFaHzex^itokefD
itbnnjFnfLo

LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kybtmjvgB6.xd^tpfcxtJzaMIeh^gxaykyzgbsQnh^fDbpijrvgsFnf/gDz
lAsocyKaaLOhl!gEaoqyAvosJng:ADfbetDsfvNns+yfauqzFk_Kyhs/juoibhGsmxwym=tE.
gzebrnuApKCfp!iAmnghLppGMes'fHbtktMzaLIwx| lfurjupbEFDd$uxmgeyAvoLttj
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzavjjrjpNLxi!uravjjKlaxzks/zE.bCRrrfINeg=suoibgsjlsNt
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt++rsuvLwwm[zEaqteJhsxtuv*tFffbrsAuxL	d#uGofbrsAfKCfp| 
kFd}be`lyMtus|kpavjjrnsxuyi|zldqpAwytBIsd$nmmngsylaHzee-rgabVmMz.sNmi
mqogunKgpytyl^f9ptmxzvqmtBl*itatgkDldMMex&klqtqgDlnLtke$kpadAeST?stYl^yq
vDpdnjEzaBHhp;jqarjDKpdtFet/unmgoxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlguAIxi!ozavjjrsjuLfv,
gzebcwuojOyef;yuoguxrkftFeA*ztaeqqDldMCtr|fybfgeMwaHzej/gsjngesuesLfv^
smowuhJpqMtnx^sE.bdtMuesGfx^xubnu	rltIyhm@rxzbvmwgoHNtv*uGtnAetyjMNqi
hAvpfeEhuxLne-ylphbyzlaEuyi!tuogvjwuuAthi+zGsA}er1ixMjd@xqartjuppNM
iGmvwwssatLym'gouu?ezvxxPjv7fmtbyjDsatMem+zqsguyAuhsMty/iqtbqk
ozgqtrsAjHH	d@tpaNEevltBLjw!zAatgysposush!iAougwNlaMBjq8flBObswleLtys
nmofnjrAiBHlw!CuujqzLgetGfk*tsavjjEbas1zm-rAukpnFnattgs=qluqbwMuaBN
ztsqwlzgbsMmi^zlgggiwyaFOxx!hqacxtAkfwtfx!gxmbetKAtn

HqzqpirwiRMng@rlqtqgDlnLnem|yGfubuwyutCsm+mluqbvMhmBNDd@xAtg}erMpK
kJborqwaaMBjd%kEjtgeLvaILtz*jqawujJzaPCyl!gltgcwuobuFjd:kJubkxrhgyyhx^j
hKavjjrxvxMym=tlphbfujfINff-klmgxjDgpytfg$ADbeA rgPGyel;tpsgfeHlsvysx
godwtfuFaBMex/kyfpftMzmRtjB[kztkxjmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbqzLwvMttj
uBukefDgdAuwe$zqsbtjuvhGCym=tl)QEW{gdtHef^fFsgojFkpNMqC!ozbeezJhuxo
GxujqzyoaT7el@ylbvvjEwuxxex=frjpfesgnBxip^fssqwsvaaNHhi/zmjpvDrwfKMnw:y
gEavqeOofMBjv!uDapqyrpusBfw!juteqAwyfwtyl^fDjijyrzpEOym=tg

WGfuvnGutsIkd]AmmkvDrhsHMjd$uzdgtsAuhsCre"kEacueOlmEoedaRQJUEMZHVX`
iAovtfKAfwtyl^fqyvtjElmRtmm"nlmgxjDgpytvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyxd*t
ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybRwGqfvNeA*ztaCO)Kgfyztv:yluqbuJvwBxjd@fnsqyxw|rNuqm:E
uDacehwzt Kze-oFzbkrsnfmtfw!uBqqujvguHtfr!gDdjkAssaHLet/kEftxfLppGtnq@mq?
LXFKUHZOB@YWd:nqsghtJlaPyqg=sqebvmwgpIJtv:AzjvAeLvavIrt@xqapqywz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd=hEftxjvgjGtue|yuoibyzhuswtr<kDtcvnGutsBjd&gpajcirhcHOy
tquyqwCzaAuAi!hqhwpeLvaLClr@rlujcyrmpKtAe/oAvubkGynLttj!sqekces
jqugtrAubMCtr!smzbdjrtbwyex&gFavjjJlaBMee!hDpyuj	xvtFnx,fuugo	rvssu
jutvtntBuBIs[@tp_cehwzt Kze-oFzbkywtaMBfx!smzbetwEjLNem+fEpogeKFtMyrw
CuujbfrojzBjv!wGbnkyQgbKwmm<gxakvjEguAuyd>uGmfbgwgjGwtr<kzjgpyrApsMjr%
ztsqwlzguAyer^zIptmetldtOxi!urakvxrzjSy d!LXFKUHZOB@YWd/krfttjvaaHz
iAvtujlguHtnq@mqtbotJlaMBfr!zAaugfJjitvqi!zqyv}

GEaCOeuvoLCii/kpavjtKlaJOjw:oAou?eKlwxLfp!iAoeguLBbEtnw|AqtbcwGzfhtes;mtu
GYaqehszjHHfp-EluqbwwwsHxzg^fybvgwAhmLtjr:oDfnAeLosHOll!gzakofylaLyy{!gF
uFigteLpnxM	d^tFjtgqQguALty"nlbbvjPAaLyy{!gzebksrzpFyeg@yqt?bfrtjQp
ZtftgeHypuugp,fIpwnirifsNnq^ylxjgsrAixtmm|zAskefDgbNNmi+zudkvDrvgsus
gDukhfuAaPIzp%fDfswnJlaMBfx!oFtbkrsnfsvjd;yqe}beSuaBGfk^fyjijyrif
jqtktftsfsuxd@fDfeqzJzfsztv!AEftueAmaHHjd$uGmfbsGAaILtz*jqa3`#	wfKwjr:
godwtfLlaMyCx8flBicnFaaT7eA=tpftgilgbLtfd[xmdvkhssaFuyx^xfakhes
jutvksuAjHHeg=AxebdjrkstQsd#kFxggsrybKyet/ozugfeEhuMywd:nmubonyousyCm|z
ozaowqLpqEyeg=rxfevnGut ayl@zlju?eAuaMysd=xlgkhywlosFnf/gDjgu rgJGtxy$n
imtgu	rAixtsi^jlgqteHlsyyhx!xqqtqiMjuBIsd>uGmfbgwgmxMxd:nmobhtJgvGCvy^
oFfou rgJFJqm$oFakpezptsLjq@xwt?bK4LJ`WML?1QSbetFjfwyi{!CmtbvmwgbwGnw|oAo
ztbvbF5gitMef^kzavkqLpoztxx/uzhnAeLvxtLiw!wGbpvnLFatHid%xmxkplribvEee
ruuvnjrmsHGet^xrfeveIBbECyC8flUjcyrptmtnx!yqfogirApsURd:nmubutupfMSeA=Axe
hqadgyLlssMjv<kpakheEvsxtyl*tstbyjJlawCxx/onvvgirizs6H[TkHfpbnxguAyDd>kDf
tAubszAAfsJjv'kou++yzhosCkd'kIftbyzpozM	d[kDggeyDFaKyuv^yqovgilgxxLj
jutvtntBuxx d!ZtjubBszaLNfx^jlbubfrwsHJtw*zuppbyGgcxtyi|zqe?bBAAi
xqtrqsKltsNtd#klhcvmwyfwtkv=slvugwKb

OzavjnFrjGAee#uGubkxKBfLtwi-gFffbyGgsxJws%AoukqsrvgsGfx^xubnuesuesMji*ts
uFigteHlpIFjd^tsbigirposJfv@rxfnbfuAjOCym^yfaCOevlfFyid*zlvugkMsaMI
iAoxgswgbswtr'kDfpejmga1ysg^ lujge#vsDMms[alaHNJ1ZD12FY XlujgwwBqHH
yGsxgDwkaMBjd|kHftcqrnsHOuw!xqqtgxwuuxx,d!7>avjjrDpKFid=lljoclwza{Cre"k
AEftuesuesCre"klncmjJz-it7=!ztfbytJsesIkd:kJubcsvgtvBtp@xEikresuemtBm:nuo
ztjublJvvInex&uEfbetFjfKHjh!CuujbqsuhNuliT/RMGKXUOIT#JV!iAohgxKlesNtd'ozekpl
jqmkimLmvEtnv=tKakpeLofszfg:fFicveKvnxttj!ztfbotKAatxAe+iqebvmAulxLxd=t
iAnrwywyjSyid:kJuubfJlaMBtw^fpfcnnFnaPCyl!gzdkgsLgHKyjo!gzebTtEhosGfx^xubnu.
9>avjjrufMQtv)fIptnihgbGxe8SfFigblwufKuqd>uDmfbtxgmBvwe/EltekjFjfmtBl*it
ozdnwiwzaIytt-kljpvjJltMyid*tlqtgxwywtNns+fmofbhsAbEIlm+mg

LXFKUHZOB@YWd$uzdnwiwkaACxd/kybtmxrDjMBew[kojcneLobGExd:ulujgeVhwBxee+j
RGdknjrWbvEfv%fRpwpisAjHHej=xljvueKBqIIwx!uravjjrtfxNnr" lujgeStfKChe+
SqnqtDrnsHOu{!ztfbQkxpdxtks/f5djqqsymRtUv=mDbou	rAixtSe:oAocn
JqnqpxLybMCtr!Rmc?bfFkaMBjdjlrjegeGma`Jjg*gxaGxjFAtnteL^fqyrtjKzfwtyl^
nAqgbyzhusXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDebonyousvjd@hxfbvtrhuMysh7fzpvksyguAuy
Vmdmcwv_tsQtv)fmofbyzlaPIwo!uravjjrmpNHie:oAobjfvgtIIsw=xqebceFBnuywd=l
vDplghLzaBHex&klugzyrhsxu 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}
