SESSION I.  CONTENT IN A NEW FORM:   WHO WILL USE IT AND WHAT WILL THEY DO?

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DALY * Acknowledgements * A new Latin authors disk *  Effects of the new
technology on previous methods of research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Serving as moderator, James DALY acknowledged the generosity of all the
presenters for giving of their time, counsel, and patience in planning
the Workshop, as well as of members of the American Memory project and
other Library of Congress staff, and the David and Lucile Packard
Foundation and its executive director, Colburn S. Wilbur.

DALY then recounted his visit in March to the Center for Electronic Texts
in the Humanities (CETH) and the Department of Classics at Rutgers
University, where an old friend, Lowell Edmunds, introduced him to the
department's IBYCUS scholarly personal computer, and, in particular, the
new Latin CD-ROM, containing, among other things, almost all classical
Latin literary texts through A.D. 200.  Packard Humanities Institute
(PHI), Los Altos, California, released this disk late in 1991, with a
nominal triennial licensing fee.

Playing with the disk for an hour or so at Rutgers brought home to DALY
at once the revolutionizing impact of the new technology on his previous
methods of research.  Had this disk been available two or three years
earlier, DALY contended, when he was engaged in preparing a commentary on
Book 10 of Virgil's Aeneid for Cambridge University Press, he would not
have required a forty-eight-square-foot table on which to spread the
numerous, most frequently consulted items, including some ten or twelve
concordances to key Latin authors, an almost equal number of lexica to
authors who lacked concordances, and where either lexica or concordances
were lacking, numerous editions of authors antedating and postdating Virgil.

Nor, when checking each of the average six to seven words contained in
the Virgilian hexameter for its usage elsewhere in Virgil's works or
other Latin authors, would DALY have had to maintain the laborious
mechanical process of flipping through these concordances, lexica, and
editions each time.  Nor would he have had to frequent as often the
Milton S. Eisenhower Library at the Johns Hopkins University to consult
the Thesaurus Linguae Latinae.  Instead of devoting countless hours, or
the bulk of his research time, to gathering data concerning Virgil's use
of words, DALY--now freed by PHI's Latin authors disk from the
tyrannical, yet in some ways paradoxically happy scholarly drudgery--
would have been able to devote that same bulk of time to analyzing and
interpreting Virgilian verbal usage.

Citing Theodore Brunner, Gregory Crane, Elli MYLONAS, and Avra MICHELSON,
DALY argued that this reversal in his style of work, made possible by the
new technology, would perhaps have resulted in better, more productive
research.  Indeed, even in the course of his browsing the Latin authors
disk at Rutgers, its powerful search, retrieval, and highlighting
capabilities suggested to him several new avenues of research into
Virgil's use of sound effects.  This anecdotal account, DALY maintained,
may serve to illustrate in part the sudden and radical transformation
being wrought in the ways scholars work.

                                 ******

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MICHELSON * Elements related to scholarship and technology * Electronic
texts within the context of broader trends within information technology
and scholarly communication * Evaluation of the prospects for the use of
electronic texts * Relationship of electronic texts to processes of
scholarly communication in humanities research * New exchange formats
created by scholars * Projects initiated to increase scholarly access to
converted text * Trend toward making electronic resources available
through research and education networks * Changes taking place in
scholarly communication among humanities scholars * Network-mediated
scholarship transforming traditional scholarly practices * Key
information technology trends affecting the conduct of scholarly
communication over the next decade * The trend toward end-user computing
* The trend toward greater connectivity * Effects of these trends * Key
transformations taking place * Summary of principal arguments *
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Avra MICHELSON, Archival Research and Evaluation Staff, National Archives
and Records Administration (NARA), argued that establishing who will use
electronic texts and what they will use them for involves a consideration
of both information technology and scholarship trends.  This
consideration includes several elements related to scholarship and
technology:  1) the key trends in information technology that are most
relevant to scholarship; 2) the key trends in the use of currently
available technology by scholars in the nonscientific community; and 3)
the relationship between these two very distinct but interrelated trends.
The investment in understanding this relationship being made by
information providers, technologists, and public policy developers, as
well as by scholars themselves, seems to be pervasive and growing,
MICHELSON contended.  She drew on collaborative work with Jeff Rothenberg
on the scholarly use of technology.

MICHELSON sought to place the phenomenon of electronic texts within the
context of broader trends within information technology and scholarly
communication.  She argued that electronic texts are of most use to
researchers to the extent that the researchers' working context (i.e.,
their relevant bibliographic sources, collegial feedback, analytic tools,
notes, drafts, etc.), along with their field's primary and secondary
sources, also is accessible in electronic form and can be integrated in
ways that are unique to the on-line environment.

Evaluation of the prospects for the use of electronic texts includes two
elements:  1) an examination of the ways in which researchers currently
are using electronic texts along with other electronic resources, and 2)
an analysis of key information technology trends that are affecting the
long-term conduct of scholarly communication.  MICHELSON limited her
discussion of the use of electronic texts to the practices of humanists
and noted that the scientific community was outside the panel's overview.

MICHELSON examined the nature of the current relationship of electronic
texts in particular, and electronic resources in general, to what she
maintained were, essentially, five processes of scholarly communication
in humanities research.  Researchers 1) identify sources, 2) communicate
with their colleagues, 3) interpret and analyze data, 4) disseminate
their research findings, and 5) prepare curricula to instruct the next
generation of scholars and students.  This examination would produce a
clearer understanding of the synergy among these five processes that
fuels the tendency of the use of electronic resources for one process to
stimulate its use for other processes of scholarly communication.

For the first process of scholarly communication, the identification of
sources, MICHELSON remarked the opportunity scholars now enjoy to
supplement traditional word-of-mouth searches for sources among their
colleagues with new forms of electronic searching.  So, for example,
instead of having to visit the library, researchers are able to explore
descriptions of holdings in their offices.  Furthermore, if their own
institutions' holdings prove insufficient, scholars can access more than
200 major American library catalogues over Internet, including the
universities of California, Michigan, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
Direct access to the bibliographic databases offers intellectual
empowerment to scholars by presenting a comprehensive means of browsing
through libraries from their homes and offices at their convenience.

The second process of communication involves communication among
scholars.  Beyond the most common methods of communication, scholars are
using E-mail and a variety of new electronic communications formats
derived from it for further academic interchange.  E-mail exchanges are
growing at an astonishing rate, reportedly 15 percent a month.  They
currently constitute approximately half the traffic on research and
education networks.  Moreover, the global spread of E-mail has been so
rapid that it is now possible for American scholars to use it to
communicate with colleagues in close to 140 other countries.

Other new exchange formats created by scholars and operating on Internet
include more than 700 conferences, with about 80 percent of these devoted
to topics in the social sciences and humanities.  The rate of growth of
these scholarly electronic conferences also is astonishing.  From l990 to
l991, 200 new conferences were identified on Internet.  From October 1991
to June 1992, an additional 150 conferences in the social sciences and
humanities were added to this directory of listings.  Scholars have
established conferences in virtually every field, within every different
discipline.  For example, there are currently close to 600 active social
science and humanities  conferences on topics such as art and
architecture, ethnomusicology, folklore, Japanese culture, medical
education, and gifted and talented education.  The appeal to scholars of
communicating through these conferences is that, unlike any other medium,
electronic conferences today provide a forum for global communication
with peers at the front end of the research process.

Interpretation and analysis of sources constitutes the third process of
scholarly communication that MICHELSON discussed in terms of texts and
textual resources.  The methods used to analyze sources fall somewhere on
a continuum from quantitative analysis to qualitative analysis.
Typically, evidence is culled and evaluated using methods drawn from both
ends of this continuum.  At one end, quantitative analysis involves the
use of mathematical processes such as a count of frequencies and
distributions of occurrences or, on a higher level, regression analysis.
At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
thtfbytJsesCsd/kofpveQlbKMex=fEvrrtJAavIrt;zmukqsssaMyCx!gzbnAxAzaBMex&k
ZXH?byzla!Bjw@ADvubQAuhNujdbxmfecjmga!Bnw!vDplghLgjLtii<uFffbyG
iAoxgwLpoztyl^fqyvcsLgbGwni+zlugzyKgpythp@yEjecqrNsxyhi8fl)GfnLvs,Mer=zq;
godqtiAuhsNtd:nqaVNLrUfPMqi:zqsbqkrTbRtq!D8faVNLrDbLtnr!AEfbksrAiBLyCTzIp
jughgwwuuswty+zDjgu rgUACxd'osvtgeMwetNjw!SUDJGQ~VO,Met/kHjqwxrjpNHyd#Elppg {

ZtfbuhzvmtLxd[kDgqtrAuhsNmi|kldqpAwytBIsw!nmwgbgwlosuxo^jluqbwwjpzHnD^
ztbvbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKvvKwjw!ztfAbfJlavIsz^xFjpiexvssIsi!AEfbrtKzfLMez@rGf
lAsbqyzlssLjw^gDdjbuMyqHMjw!gEaygqDbasUxd@fDfuwqLaawOwm+mlujgeHhtMtki>
Eqbtu	rovFusm:oqtbuhzvmtLxd&gHfbksAAjtNjh!glowogwyaHzet/uvfevxrAp
ozdtgfKlaLwms-gDmAbfujfLMex=foppxjJAfwtyi\zgabUtlggHLei\gyqng	rAixtYi\z
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2 	d@hAvvbBzpdAtrs/kljubxspesFfx^xljpbyzlaILtk/gy.
CmtbgxLhcECxl^jlbubfFgfyztv:fnzbuhzvmtLxd:ulegvjJtjGyew:gzectirlmxGjr:y
gzebojLopwMej=xlfpetvpoztre$nuog+wwhetvqi!zqyvbkGyaxFjg:xAokeewEdAusk^a
OzacbxwjpGxei'lAsvbyGggtwnp*zmugbyzlaLBfv*tsaqheuvoOywx^jlugzylgtvBtp@xE
nmwgbhJlbMyid@fzfybnFzuBNzx*uz.bvmwgDxHyi/frptbJDldMLtr*ilUgzyKgjGtyl^
NGncpnLpfLt=G ZT-}be`ofswjr:kDaguyAtbMyxd:nmubvmwyfsuwi!@f~``eKlsByxd=l
yAvtejrAfQNxd*tlujgezBntHnx*kEavjfLgitPjd#kqobetFCfKNjh!zA
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgxHLqh>opf}beULU1tnw!AzegtysrjGAee+fuovgwFhuBIse-
yqbtemrmpKths+BqsvgirAfQNem+fFigbmMtbGCym^yfaeqrHpmBHld*zljpvtrho
kxfevwGujvtqm#xmsA?esuesJwi[gDjpietpcECtk/gBikeevltvLnt:oAoubtxguAy
yAvtejKggHLex&klSgujsydAtQm#xmskgxrPoyIwq@zuppbSwAxHLp(|f<SNKS{
smdjksw|sxuie#rqafcysggBFj	!f6igbqAistLDd[xAgguxAvosBfw!hqhwpeLvaBHnx*gFf
rmsigeuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMee|fIfnn	rzvvBee|fMngtnuhos7jq=xK?

3tjngeKjiHFfv|ftbxgetlfGtre)ozhbetFCfKNjh!zqyvbfNhjEugp^fFpbqswgbGIyl^xf
zKqkefDszsIsd%oElbqwrvosWI[mUY.bvmwgdEyfv!zDfpfeAzaMIBe/jlncmnFnaMBjw^
xqtqwwultsuAe*rmcngeLosHOll!xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwt}be`ovLnex&k
GyftkhsuatHidaxqoeje0ltxuwg&fAobvmwgUKyfw;xKaqheLofsZwi+itaNcsyBbzy
[MSVHQ{gbGxex&klEcpywgQKIoi$zlbtgesssxuiC!gHbknftsfsIsddtFftpjLb
SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpeGuaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosush!gzbnAxAzauS
tAukplrAitN,d!7>akphJlbLCsk!tGndgwKgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEakpeLofsFnf/gDz
iAnowsAAzsuwi!xqdqisAGjGAex&kljortJAbGwjd:ulujgeskwtHhi_kzubqk
yoiqnfJziBJes'fDfvttKwfvNnz^foppxjJzjHHes'fEpwthwgntNjv*gxtbksrAixtfv:y
gzebjzEhoBNni|?lbpfe"/aMBjv^futbceyypPCsk!xqbnkEsAjHHex&gFaocpAuhsNmi
yAvtejKgbOunp@hxfbqsryfLyfv$nlbpfewkvvuym=tlogvBGylLtre\oyjBgxrAixCw
AEfhwqFltLtks/fFigbfFhmRMnw!vqshqwElesvDd&AybpkyAltsMhl=rmsu}

ZtfbhtMyuAtuv=iqtubtxgtvBtp@xxzbetEtvGChe:oAobkxrkjLMjq*tmukqsrvg
xqtgcwuoayCsh*tst?byzhusCx{!vGcnkhsAjHH d!YoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibjPptMCsk
xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwtbvtrlozCsi^xlbbpjOguRJjd=llqwdqAjbMCtr2
yoiqnfJsz wtr:xAmngirqpNLse-ylujcyrhsxtjp^iFsqpnuhmESet/upvegirhow
jutugrAubMyi	!fMmvjtMnisMzg&fvpwtssstsuwi!yFjnnewtfKAnr"fmtbc
iAnowsAjbMCtr!lAsocylguAynv!tGndgwrobLtlv=Cz.bhwGtatJuv=DuncvjDFaMQjp<k
zAavjnJAz MnB!jGskplrAixtue|zlzgcwr]KNFDdv#&2bvtrQvGye5D#@-}be5vtMttj
ztfugewsfvNws+ooauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKgbKyeh^BAugfeLvaMIum$yljpbyzl
nGncpnLpfLoed?ylxkvmrufMQtv)fopphjJlovyx{!yoiqnfJszsysx&AEjcurrmpKtyl^yq
kxfevwGujvtos;xzbnueKAfFMej/uyavjjrtfwCzqNylvpkvMlatvnp*zKavqeskwtHhi
yoiqnfJziBJem+fmaycDrAitNer=fAujgwrtfwCzq!imobftrizsMzt[uDukplrnmHvfp
lqffdfuratHid*tFftemsuhxnet/goukefDszsCsd/kmmbvnEl.syfv-EljpbyzlaKyxi@xoi
vDpegxKbasVjC=tpauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbfjDpwxLDd=l
iAnogwupbEtky-r\ugzyrwsHxzg:yfauwhzgbLtfv:oomgueAuaILtj^yEjqpfDgkHOwr@rE.
tqxunjLAfKM	d_gsbBkswz.sQnv^fEftxnultmtfr%fDfhgwwudxtxs;xofu}er1ixMjd@xq
hqjpievlmBPjv^jlwkceGu_ECsi!rAdcneDpcKuwC!imucntyBfLnei|vqdkcqDFaMBws;mt
IP_TQRKbasZzv:nqsoqwwaatwhs/juoibyGgN2WMIgY1O?byzlsxtnw!mqogtfDgpINnq*yy
ztbvbyzlavIuC/osivbfFkayyjw!oEtwgxrpnIyim+mlujgevlmBPjv,fAgbhzDsaMyCx!uz
kJjuvnFnaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd|uAobynDsauyev^yAmxgim

ZtfbhnFhmsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uzakueuBsKChy-AyafgAwspIGjr:
gzebksKAsNwym=tfacpirAiBMem+BAmxgxrAixtzw^fAgbetEwvMywd*trptofLppG
zqdjptDvhByxd*tluyqesyftM d!ZtfbhnJzusCxd:nqafgAwspIGjr:fAg
iAnrwywy_HLni+zqebksKAsNwym=tmmbvtGstmtBl*itakphDBexMew*sGmcvnGutm
sGmvkrwkjttft[rudcvnGutmtfr%foporzLlssNts-ylujcyrhsxtzw^jluqbfKzjLNem+
ztfbcssszLCxd=lltqwwultsCsd:nqaenfKzsHIr{!kFd}be`ofs0jv|kGtbRwGqfvN	d@
jmucdfKlaMBfx!vDpxkiwzattry-zungfnsgdNLwm$AxvobtFgdEuxw*immbIwwll
iuwknnRhuBIs{!oEacblGvesyCe_vxfbqkrAixtBe,fuobymAjisysx*xqaewwJpdNFfd@xq
hqjpieJldtMyd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlm^ygabKyrptsusx*iuqcvjvguAuyd:nq
iGstgsLgeBzkm$AxuAbnFgfQwme+muoibjDldMLtr*immnAeuvnIOyi//nbugi
oztvtzuAjHHfp!yAgvyfJl.sQmm$nljpbyMyosGfo^yljvbiAmgBwzp:frptbtFlaLwms-gD
zAadwnDkaNJtr!ztfbytJraHzes:nqsu?eOpmEtgi!xqtqnAwkauyks/kluqqeDvozo
YFbpf]sspGyeg;xDjewqsyatJup*imukqsKguAuyd*tHpnxjrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaPCqp!hq
ytbtcgDlaMBws;mtapgyOvsDM	d/kuohqwupoztyl^oDauklFpgBwfr$klbubnFAfEFjg:Amm
vDpfwhLzatMeA^rxacueAutMLzg:oAocneLvpEM 

Ztfbujuvowtfw[koubqkrlmxwyv=tudbnjsyoBHld*tHpnxjKguAyey|klphbwwzftLhl!gze
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlubkGyawCxx@tofbgiMjbMCtr!vDpitfEz?stXy$nlqtqlJhnL
ozugtfuAjOyqC!ruombywhdAyww!CuujbxLBexHyw!ozaigtyybIBng@rxzbuhsAuxLjh
rAdcvnGutsush!xqmAbtFguAyee<gumcdnDpuRttj!kxfevwGujvtnr|zDvevnGubE
xqtqwwultnteH*yFbpejrleNwfx*uzarttyybFMee/klhcksAuhsQnh^fmqrgfDgbFIsk
yFbvgevlqtLyq^tFtbqkrleNwfx*uzadghsBtxttj!ztfktevlnHHxx/gFffbhswbvCyC!zA
hDjpieskwtHhi%fEqgenssjSyid$uGsugeOvsDtfr%fmobcwJhzsIkd^DBftvxrApsGfr,
ixbuuwGvnLoed?fDfegsLgsxJtv:frpwpirAitNee:fxfcuyr03sMye:kEaqrjJhuxxee:
rqbuveGufsMye:kIjfgeFluPIwo!lAsbgiMjbMCtr!oza3~@'aaPCyl!tquyqwCzaNHii/
jqwgntHtfGNem+fybpAeGmaMBjd/kybkpnFnaLNfx^yg

SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpetFaGIym+mluyqeKAsBEnr"foicplwzaMupm+m
vxbegeAuaLwms-gDmAbhGtnNHng@zuppbfEvoztmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xE?bbKAytMtnw!ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nlfnghLypGChd:kJubksrwbKNng;rms?bfFkaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^y
ozaigswybEnee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrlbvBes'fFigbkACfsJws$kEtguevltvLnf^j
gnpxg rgBLtri+zuppgirlbKFni/ lujgwwgjLtfd$kDucksrzzGywk,fmubytJraAywi8
Ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbhtJgpGyet/uofuueLlowMex=fEukozDhuxtnx|
AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltmtgi$gGtgbyzlavBni'fopwtxwgpytrs<kyfpveAzaMIBe/jlb
iAnrtjzloLCAi!uz_nkswgxHLpm+mldqpywEusztv!nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueLobM
ozdnwiwzaHH]p*tqacxfAsbuCqm:ElphbpwFauCgp*usscrmAltmtxg&uxbtnDrmfxxge$qf
yAvtejKaatHfp,zudcneLvpEM	d@tparwgDpdtNns+ygabONUOF5!TR!tAugfexBsMBjv
ztbvbyzlaFIAi_kzubvtOhswtfd$uyqtgmwutBPjd=t\mkpjrDpKEnr"foppvjPAayIw
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueAzaGIyd+kI?bbNFggtwy{!oFajcxrifxHey+jqsycDrmpKtrs/
