developing an electronic concordance of the works of Saint Thomas Aquinas
in 1949.  What we are witnessing today, MICHELSON contended, is not the
beginning of this on-line transition but, for at least some humanities
scholars, the turning point in the transition from a print to an
electronic working context.  Coinciding with the on-line transition, the
second striking change is the extent to which research and education
networks are becoming the new medium of scholarly communication.  The
existing Internet and the pending National Education and Research Network
(NREN) represent the new meeting ground where scholars are going for
bibliographic information, scholarly dialogue and feedback, the most
current publications in their field, and high-level educational
offerings.  Traditional scholarly practices are undergoing tremendous
transformations as a result of the emergence and growing prominence of
what is called network-mediated scholarship.

MICHELSON next turned to the second element of the framework she proposed
at the outset of her talk for evaluating the prospects for electronic
text, namely the key information technology trends affecting the conduct
of scholarly communication over the next decade:  1) end-user computing
and 2) connectivity.

End-user computing means that the person touching the keyboard, or
performing computations, is the same as the person who initiates or
consumes the computation.  The emergence of personal computers, along
with a host of other forces, such as ubiquitous computing, advances in
interface design, and the on-line transition, is prompting the consumers
of computation to do their own computing, and is thus rendering obsolete
the traditional distinction between end users and ultimate users.

The trend toward end-user computing is significant to consideration of
the prospects for electronic texts because it means that researchers are
becoming more adept at doing their own computations and, thus, more
competent in the use of electronic media.  By avoiding programmer
intermediaries, computation is becoming central to the researcher's
thought process.  This direct involvement in computing is changing the
researcher's perspective on the nature of research itself, that is, the
kinds of questions that can be posed, the analytical methodologies that
can be used, the types and amount of sources that are appropriate for
analyses, and the form in which findings are presented.  The trend toward
end-user computing means that, increasingly, electronic media and
computation are being infused into all processes of humanities
scholarship, inspiring remarkable transformations in scholarly
communication.

The trend toward greater connectivity suggests that researchers are using
computation increasingly in network environments.  Connectivity is
important to scholarship because it erases the distance that separates
students from teachers and scholars from their colleagues, while allowing
users to access remote databases, share information in many different
media, connect to their working context wherever they are, and
collaborate in all phases of research.

The combination of the trend toward end-user computing and the trend
toward connectivity suggests that the scholarly use of electronic
resources, already evident among some researchers, will soon become an
established feature of scholarship.  The effects of these trends, along
with ongoing changes in scholarly practices, point to a future in which
humanities researchers will use computation and electronic communication
to help them formulate ideas, access sources, perform research,
collaborate with colleagues, seek peer review, publish and disseminate
results, and engage in many other professional and educational activities.

In summary, MICHELSON emphasized four points:  1) A portion of humanities
scholars already consider electronic texts the preferred format for
analysis and dissemination.  2) Scholars are using these electronic
texts, in conjunction with other electronic resources, in all the
processes of scholarly communication.  3) The humanities scholars'
working context is in the process of changing from print technology to
electronic technology, in many ways mirroring transformations that have
occurred or are occurring within the scientific community.  4) These
changes are occurring in conjunction with the development of a new
communication medium:  research and education networks that are
characterized by their capacity to advance scholarship in a wholly unique
way.

MICHELSON also reiterated her three principal arguments:  l) Electronic
texts are best understood in terms of the relationship to other
electronic resources and the growing prominence of network-mediated
scholarship.  2) The prospects for electronic texts lie in their capacity
to be integrated into the on-line network of electronic resources that
comprise the new working context for scholars.  3) Retrospective conversion
of portions of the scholarly record should be a key strategy as information
providers respond to changes in scholarly communication practices.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
VECCIA * AM's evaluation project and public users of electronic resources
* AM and its design * Site selection and evaluating the Macintosh
implementation of AM * Characteristics of the six public libraries
selected * Characteristics of AM's users in these libraries * Principal
ways AM is being used *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Susan VECCIA, team leader, and Joanne FREEMAN, associate coordinator,
American Memory, Library of Congress, gave a joint presentation.  First,
by way of introduction, VECCIA explained her and FREEMAN's roles in
American Memory (AM).  Serving principally as an observer, VECCIA has
assisted with the evaluation project of AM, placing AM collections in a
variety of different sites around the country and helping to organize and
implement that project.  FREEMAN has been an associate coordinator of AM
and has been involved principally with the interpretative materials,
preparing some of the electronic exhibits and printed historical
information that accompanies AM and that is requested by users.  VECCIA
and FREEMAN shared anecdotal observations concerning AM with public users
of electronic resources.  Notwithstanding a fairly structured evaluation
in progress, both VECCIA and FREEMAN chose not to report on specifics in
terms of numbers, etc., because they felt it was too early in the
evaluation project to do so.

AM is an electronic archive of primary source materials from the Library
of Congress, selected collections representing a variety of formats--
photographs, graphic arts, recorded sound, motion pictures, broadsides,
and soon, pamphlets and books.  In terms of the design of this system,
the interpretative exhibits have been kept separate from the primary
resources, with good reason.  Accompanying this collection are printed
documentation and user guides, as well as guides that FREEMAN prepared for
teachers so that they may begin using the content of the system at once.

VECCIA described the evaluation project before talking about the public
users of AM, limiting her remarks to public libraries, because FREEMAN
would talk more specifically about schools from kindergarten to twelfth
grade (K-12).   Having started in spring 1991, the evaluation currently
involves testing of the Macintosh implementation of AM.  Since the
primary goal of this evaluation is to determine the most appropriate
audience or audiences for AM, very different sites were selected.  This
makes evaluation difficult because of the varying degrees of technology
literacy among the sites.  AM is situated in forty-four locations, of
which six are public libraries and sixteen are schools.  Represented
among the schools are elementary, junior high, and high schools.
District offices also are involved in the evaluation, which will
conclude in summer 1993.

VECCIA focused the remainder of her talk on the six public libraries, one
of which doubles as a state library.  They represent a range of
geographic areas and a range of demographic characteristics.  For
example, three are located in urban settings, two in rural settings, and
one in a suburban setting.  A range of technical expertise is to be found
among these facilities as well.  For example, one is an "Apple library of
the future," while two others are rural one-room libraries--in one, AM
sits at the front desk next to a tractor manual.

All public libraries have been extremely enthusiastic, supportive, and
appreciative of the work that AM has been doing.  VECCIA characterized
various users:  Most users in public libraries describe themselves as
general readers; of the students who use AM in the public libraries,
those in fourth grade and above seem most interested.  Public libraries
in rural sites tend to attract retired people, who have been highly
receptive to AM.  Users tend to fall into two additional categories:
people interested in the content and historical connotations of these
primary resources, and those fascinated by the technology.  The format
receiving the most comments has been motion pictures.  The adult users in
public libraries are more comfortable with IBM computers, whereas young
people seem comfortable with either IBM or Macintosh, although most of
them seem to come from a Macintosh background.  This same tendency is
found in the schools.

What kinds of things do users do with AM?  In a public library there are
two main goals or ways that AM is being used:  as an individual learning
tool, and as a leisure activity.  Adult learning was one area that VECCIA
would highlight as a possible application for a tool such as AM.  She
described a patron of a rural public library who comes in every day on
his lunch hour and literally reads AM, methodically going through the
collection image by image.  At the end of his hour he makes an electronic
bookmark, puts it in his pocket, and returns to work.  The next day he
comes in and resumes where he left off.  Interestingly, this man had
never been in the library before he used AM.  In another small, rural
library, the coordinator reports that AM is a popular activity for some
of the older, retired people in the community, who ordinarily would not
use "those things,"--computers.  Another example of adult learning in
public libraries is book groups, one of which, in particular, is using AM
as part of its reading on industrialization, integration, and urbanization
in the early 1900s.

One library reports that a family is using AM to help educate their
children.  In another instance, individuals from a local museum came in
to use AM to prepare an exhibit on toys of the past.  These two examples
emphasize the mission of the public library as a cultural institution,
reaching out to people who do not have the same resources available to
those who live in a metropolitan area or have access to a major library.
One rural library reports that junior high school students in large
numbers came in one afternoon to use AM for entertainment.  A number of
public libraries reported great interest among postcard collectors in the
Detroit collection, which was essentially a collection of images used on
postcards around the turn of the century.  Train buffs are similarly
interested because that was a time of great interest in railroading.
People, it was found, relate to things that they know of firsthand.  For
example, in both rural public libraries where AM was made available,
observers reported that the older people with personal remembrances of
the turn of the century were gravitating to the Detroit collection.
These examples served to underscore MICHELSON's observation re the
integration of electronic tools and ideas--that people learn best when
the material relates to something they know.

VECCIA made the final point that in many cases AM serves as a
public-relations tool for the public libraries that are testing it.  In
one case, AM is being used as a vehicle to secure additional funding for
the library.  In another case, AM has served as an inspiration to the
staff of a major local public library in the South to think about ways to
make its own collection of photographs more accessible to the public.

                                  ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
FREEMAN * AM and archival electronic resources in a school environment *
Questions concerning context * Questions concerning the electronic format
itself * Computer anxiety * Access and availability of the system *
Hardware * Strengths gained through the use of archival resources in
schools *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Reiterating an observation made by VECCIA, that AM is an archival
resource made up of primary materials with very little interpretation,
FREEMAN stated that the project has attempted to bridge the gap between
these bare primary materials and a school environment, and in that cause
has created guided introductions to AM collections.  Loud demand from the
educational community,  chiefly from teachers working with the upper
grades of elementary school through high school, greeted the announcement
that AM would be tested around the country.

FREEMAN reported not only on what was learned about AM in a school
environment, but also on several universal questions that were raised
concerning archival electronic resources in schools.  She discussed
several strengths of this type of material in a school environment as
opposed to a highly structured resource that offers a limited number of
paths to follow.

FREEMAN first raised several questions about using AM in a school
environment.  There is often some difficulty in developing a sense of
what the system contains.  Many students sit down at a computer resource
and assume that, because AM comes from the Library of Congress, all of
American history is now at their fingertips.  As a result of that sort of
mistaken judgment, some students are known to conclude that AM contains
nothing of use to them when they look for one or two things and do not
find them.  It is difficult to discover that middle ground where one has
a sense of what the system contains.  Some students grope toward the idea
of an archive, a new idea to them, since they have not previously
experienced what it means to have access to a vast body of somewhat
random information.

Other questions raised by FREEMAN concerned the electronic format itself.
For instance, in a school environment it is often difficult both for
teachers and students to gain a sense of what it is they are viewing.
They understand that it is a visual image, but they do not necessarily
know that it is a postcard from the turn of the century, a panoramic
photograph, or even machine-readable text of an eighteenth-century
broadside, a twentieth-century printed book, or a nineteenth-century
diary.  That distinction is often difficult for people in a school
environment to grasp.  Because of that, it occasionally becomes difficult
to draw conclusions from what one is viewing.

FREEMAN also noted the obvious fear of the computer, which constitutes a
difficulty in using an electronic resource.  Though students in general
did not suffer from this anxiety, several older students feared that they
were computer-illiterate, an assumption that became self-fulfilling when
they searched for something but failed to find it.  FREEMAN said she
believed that some teachers also fear computer resources, because they
believe they lack complete control.  FREEMAN related the example of
teachers shooing away students because it was not their time to use the
system.  This was a case in which the situation had to be extremely
structured so that the teachers would not feel that they had lost their
grasp on what the system contained.

A final question raised by FREEMAN concerned access and availability of
the system.  She noted the occasional existence of a gap in communication
between school librarians and teachers.  Often AM sits in a school
library and the librarian is the person responsible for monitoring the
system.  Teachers do not always take into their world new library
resources about which the librarian is excited.  Indeed, at the sites
where AM had been used most effectively within a library, the librarian
was required to go to specific teachers and instruct them in its use.  As
a result, several AM sites will have in-service sessions over a summer,
in the hope that perhaps, with a more individualized link, teachers will
be more likely to use the resource.

A related issue in the school context concerned the number of
workstations available at any one location.  Centralization of equipment
at the district level, with teachers invited to download things and walk
away with them, proved unsuccessful because the hours these offices were
open were also school hours.

Another issue was hardware.  As VECCIA observed, a range of sites exists,
some technologically advanced and others essentially acquiring their
first computer for the primary purpose of using it in conjunction with
AM's testing.  Users at technologically sophisticated sites want even
more sophisticated hardware, so that they can perform even more
sophisticated tasks with the materials in AM.  But once they acquire a
newer piece of hardware, they must learn how to use that also; at an
unsophisticated site it takes an extremely long time simply to become
accustomed to the computer, not to mention the program offered with the
computer.  All of these small issues raise one large question, namely,
are systems like AM truly rewarding in a school environment, or do they
simply act as innovative toys that do little more than spark interest?

FREEMAN contended that the evaluation project has revealed several strengths
that were gained through the use of archival resources in schools, including:

     * Psychic rewards from using AM as a vast, rich database, with
     teachers assigning various projects to students--oral presentations,
     written reports, a documentary, a turn-of-the-century newspaper--
     projects that start with the materials in AM but are completed using
     other resources; AM thus is used as a research tool in conjunction
     with other electronic resources, as well as with books and items in
     the library where the system is set up.

     * Students are acquiring computer literacy in a humanities context.

     * This sort of system is overcoming the isolation between disciplines
     that often exists in schools.  For example, many English teachers are
     requiring their students to write papers on historical topics
     represented in AM.  Numerous teachers have reported that their
     students are learning critical thinking skills using the system.

     * On a broader level, AM is introducing primary materials, not only
     to students but also to teachers, in an environment where often
     simply none exist--an exciting thing for the students because it
     helps them learn to conduct research, to interpret, and to draw
     their own conclusions.  In learning to conduct research and what it
     means, students are motivated to seek knowledge.  That relates to
     another positive outcome--a high level of personal involvement of
     students with the materials in this system and greater motivation to
     conduct their own research and draw their own conclusions.

     * Perhaps the most ironic strength of these kinds of archival
     electronic resources is that many of the teachers AM interviewed
     were desperate, it is no exaggeration to say, not only for primary
     materials but for unstructured primary materials.  These would, they
     thought, foster personally motivated research, exploration, and
     excitement in their students.  Indeed, these materials have done
     just that.  Ironically, however, this lack of structure produces
     some of the confusion to which the newness of these kinds of
     resources may also contribute.  The key to effective use of archival
     products in a school environment is a clear, effective introduction
     to the system and to what it contains.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Nothing known, quantitatively, about the number of
humanities scholars who must see the original versus those who would
settle for an edited transcript, or about the ways in which humanities
scholars are using information technology * Firm conclusions concerning
the manner and extent of the use of supporting materials in print
provided by AM to await completion of evaluative study * A listener's
reflections on additional applications of electronic texts * Role of
electronic resources in teaching elementary research skills to students *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the discussion that followed the presentations by MICHELSON,
VECCIA, and FREEMAN, additional points emerged.

LESK asked if MICHELSON could give any quantitative estimate of the
number of humanities scholars who must see or want to see the original,
or the best possible version of the material, versus those who typically
would settle for an edited transcript.  While unable to provide a figure,
she offered her impressions as an archivist who has done some reference
work and has discussed this issue with other archivists who perform
reference, that those who use archives and those who use primary sources
for what would be considered very high-level scholarly research, as
opposed to, say, undergraduate papers, were few in number, especially
given the public interest in using primary sources to conduct
genealogical or avocational research and the kind of professional
research done by people in private industry or the federal government.
More important in MICHELSON's view was that, quantitatively, nothing is
known about the ways in which, for example, humanities scholars are using
information technology.  No studies exist to offer guidance in creating
strategies.  The most recent study was conducted in 1985 by the American
Council of Learned Societies (ACLS), and what it showed was that 50
percent of humanities scholars at that time were using computers.  That
constitutes the extent of our knowledge.

Concerning AM's strategy for orienting people toward the scope of
electronic resources, FREEMAN could offer no hard conclusions at this
point, because she and her colleagues were still waiting to see,
particularly in the schools, what has been made of their efforts.  Within
the system, however, AM has provided what are called electronic exhibits-
-such as introductions to time periods and materials--and these are
intended to offer a student user a sense of what a broadside is  and what
it might tell her or him.  But FREEMAN conceded that the project staff
would have to talk with students next year, after teachers have had a
summer to use the materials, and attempt to discover what the students
were learning from the materials.  In addition, FREEMAN described
supporting materials in print provided by AM at the request of local
teachers during a meeting held at LC.  These included time lines,
bibliographies, and other materials that could be reproduced on a
photocopier in a classroom.  Teachers could walk away with and use these,
and in this way gain a better understanding of the contents.  But again,
reaching firm conclusions concerning the manner and extent of their use
would have to wait until next year.

As to the changes she saw occurring at the National Archives and Records
Administration (NARA) as a result of the increasing emphasis on
technology in scholarly research, MICHELSON stated that NARA at this
point was absorbing the report by her and Jeff Rothenberg addressing
strategies for the archival profession in general, although not for the
National Archives specifically.  NARA is just beginning to establish its
role and what it can do.  In terms of changes and initiatives that NARA
can take, no clear response could be given at this time.

GREENFIELD remarked two trends mentioned in the session.  Reflecting on
DALY's opening comments on how he could have used a Latin collection of
text in an electronic form, he said that at first he thought most scholars
would be unwilling to do that.  But as he thought of that in terms of the
original meaning of research--that is, having already mastered these texts,
researching them for critical and comparative purposes--for the first time,
the electronic format made a lot of sense.  GREENFIELD could envision
growing numbers of scholars learning the new technologies for that very
aspect of their scholarship and for convenience's sake.

Listening to VECCIA and FREEMAN, GREENFIELD thought of an additional
application of electronic texts.  He realized that AM could be used as a
guide to lead someone to original sources.  Students cannot be expected
to have mastered these sources, things they have never known about
before.  Thus, AM is leading them, in theory, to a vast body of
information and giving them a superficial overview of it, enabling them
to select parts of it.  GREENFIELD asked if any evidence exists that this
resource will indeed teach the new user, the K-12 students, how to do
research.  Scholars already know how to do research and are applying
these new tools.  But he wondered why students would go beyond picking
out things that were most exciting to them.

FREEMAN conceded the correctness of GREENFIELD's observation as applied
to a school environment.  The risk is that a student would sit down at a
system, play with it, find some things of interest, and then walk away.
But in the relatively controlled situation of a school library, much will
depend on the instructions a teacher or a librarian gives a student.  She
viewed the situation not as one of fine-tuning research skills but of
involving students at a personal level in understanding and researching
things.  Given the guidance one can receive at school, it then becomes
possible to teach elementary research skills to students, which in fact
one particular librarian said she was teaching her fifth graders.
FREEMAN concluded that introducing the idea of following one's own path
of inquiry, which is essentially what research entails, involves more
than teaching specific skills.  To these comments VECCIA added the
observation that the individual teacher and the use of a creative
resource, rather than AM itself, seemed to make the key difference.
Some schools and some teachers are making excellent use of the nature
of critical thinking and teaching skills, she said.

Concurring with these remarks, DALY closed the session with the thought that
the more that producers produced for teachers and for scholars to use with
their students, the more successful their electronic products would prove.

                                 ******

SESSION II.  SHOW AND TELL

Jacqueline HESS, director, National Demonstration Laboratory, served as
moderator of the "show-and-tell" session.  She noted that a
question-and-answer period would follow each presentation.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
MYLONAS * Overview and content of Perseus * Perseus' primary materials
exist in a system-independent, archival form * A concession * Textual
aspects of Perseus * Tools to use with the Greek text * Prepared indices
and full-text searches in Perseus * English-Greek word search leads to
close study of words and concepts * Navigating Perseus by tracing down
indices * Using the iconography to perform research *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Elli MYLONAS, managing editor, Perseus Project, Harvard University, first
gave an overview of Perseus, a large, collaborative effort based at
Harvard University but with contributors and collaborators located at
numerous universities and colleges in the United States (e.g., Bowdoin,
Maryland, Pomona, Chicago, Virginia).  Funded primarily by the
Annenberg/CPB Project, with additional funding from Apple, Harvard, and
the Packard Humanities Institute, among others, Perseus is a multimedia,
hypertextual database for teaching and research on classical Greek
civilization, which was released in February 1992 in version 1.0 and
distributed by Yale University Press.

Consisting entirely of primary materials, Perseus includes ancient Greek
texts and translations of those texts; catalog entries--that is, museum
catalog entries, not library catalog entries--on vases, sites, coins,
sculpture, and archaeological objects; maps; and a dictionary, among
other sources.  The number of objects and the objects for which catalog
entries exist are accompanied by thousands of color images, which
constitute a major feature of the database.  Perseus contains
approximately 30 megabytes of text, an amount that will double in
subsequent versions.  In addition to these primary materials, the Perseus
Project has been building tools for using them, making access and
navigation easier, the goal being to build part of the electronic
environment discussed earlier in the morning in which students or
scholars can work with their sources.

The demonstration of Perseus will show only a fraction of the real work
that has gone into it, because the project had to face the dilemma of
what to enter when putting something into machine-readable form:  should
one aim for very high quality or make concessions in order to get the
material in?  Since Perseus decided to opt for very high quality, all of
its primary materials exist in a system-independent--insofar as it is
possible to be system-independent--archival form.  Deciding what that
archival form would be and attaining it required much work and thought.
For example, all the texts are marked up in SGML, which will be made
compatible with the guidelines of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) when
they are issued.

Drawings are postscript files, not meeting international standards, but
at least designed to go across platforms.  Images, or rather the real
archival forms, consist of the best available slides, which are being
digitized.  Much of the catalog material exists in database form--a form
that the average user could use, manipulate, and display on a personal
computer, but only at great cost.  Thus, this is where the concession
comes in:  All of this rich, well-marked-up information is stripped of
much of its content; the images are converted into bit-maps and the text
into small formatted chunks.  All this information can then be imported
into HyperCard and run on a mid-range Macintosh, which is what Perseus
users have.  This fact has made it possible for Perseus to attain wide
use fairly rapidly.  Without those archival forms the HyperCard version
being demonstrated could not be made easily, and the project could not
have the potential to move to other forms and machines and software as
they appear, none of which information is in Perseus on the CD.

Of the numerous multimedia aspects of Perseus, MYLONAS focused on the
textual.  Part of what makes Perseus such a pleasure to use, MYLONAS
said, is this effort at seamless integration and the ability to move
around both visual and textual material.  Perseus also made the decision
not to attempt to interpret its material any more than one interprets by
selecting.  But, MYLONAS emphasized, Perseus is not courseware:  No
syllabus exists.  There is no effort to define how one teaches a topic
using Perseus, although the project may eventually collect papers by
people who have used it to teach.  Rather, Perseus aims to provide
primary material in a kind of electronic library, an electronic sandbox,
so to say, in which students and scholars who are working on this
material can explore by themselves.  With that, MYLONAS demonstrated
Perseus, beginning with the Perseus gateway, the first thing one sees
upon opening Perseus--an effort in part to solve the contextualizing
problem--which tells the user what the system contains.

MYLONAS demonstrated only a very small portion, beginning with primary
texts and running off the CD-ROM.  Having selected Aeschylus' Prometheus
Bound, which was viewable in Greek and English pretty much in the same
segments together, MYLONAS demonstrated tools to use with the Greek text,
something not possible with a book:  looking up the dictionary entry form
of an unfamiliar word in Greek after subjecting it to Perseus'
morphological analysis for all the texts.  After finding out about a
word, a user may then decide to see if it is used anywhere else in Greek.
Because vast amounts of indexing support all of the primary material, one
can find out where else all forms of a particular Greek word appear--
often not a trivial matter because Greek is highly inflected.  Further,
since the story of Prometheus has to do with the origins of sacrifice, a
user may wish to study and explore sacrifice in Greek literature; by
typing sacrifice into a small window, a user goes to the English-Greek
word list--something one cannot do without the computer (Perseus has
indexed the definitions of its dictionary)--the string sacrifice appears
in the definitions of these sixty-five words.  One may then find out
where any of those words is used in the work(s) of a particular author.
The English definitions are not lemmatized.

All of the indices driving this kind of usage were originally devised for
speed, MYLONAS observed; in other words, all that kind of information--
all forms of all words, where they exist, the dictionary form they belong
to--were collected into databases, which will expedite searching.  Then
it was discovered that one can do things searching in these databases
that could not be done searching in the full texts.  Thus, although there
are full-text searches in Perseus, much of the work is done behind the
scenes, using prepared indices.  Re the indexing that is done behind the
scenes, MYLONAS pointed out that without the SGML forms of the text, it
could not be done effectively.  Much of this indexing is based on the
structures that are made explicit by the SGML tagging.

It was found that one of the things many of Perseus' non-Greek-reading
users do is start from the dictionary and then move into the close study
of words and concepts via this kind of English-Greek word search, by which
means they might select a concept.  This exercise has been assigned to
students in core courses at Harvard--to study a concept by looking for the
English word in the dictionary, finding the Greek words, and then finding
the words in the Greek but, of course, reading across in the English.
That tells them a great deal about what a translation means as well.

Should one also wish to see images that have to do with sacrifice, that
person would go to the object key word search, which allows one to
perform a similar kind of index retrieval on the database of
archaeological objects.  Without words, pictures are useless; Perseus has
not reached the point where it can do much with images that are not
cataloged.  Thus, although it is possible in Perseus with text and images
to navigate by knowing where one wants to end up--for example, a
red-figure vase from the Boston Museum of Fine Arts--one can perform this
kind of navigation very easily by tracing down indices.  MYLONAS
illustrated several generic scenes of sacrifice on vases.  The features
demonstrated derived from Perseus 1.0; version 2.0 will implement even
better means of retrielwtF 

S~MQPF~gdEIxi%fnzbntGrjGAee:fAogbtxguAyet*iFvtgxrhowtss:ozhbclsposNme:
uzfbefFgeHtfd"xqbvbiwhmsIkd/kEfcthzgvLCsk!ztfbkhGupzLft&ElbubBwsmsuxd:nq
zqyvu rgGHLem+yFbpejlgtMOii+zEakpesgdHLjd$uGsugesAa1uwz@xpavjnKgzxuwd>kDf
nuhjnDrpoMywi|zqebksrNsxypd$uzdgryKgpytks/kuhpgwKgbGxev^vDfugsLhuBIsw!ur
tAo+IwwllLoednulujgDrwfKztv_kpacblJlbMtii@rlphbwwzftLhl7fnpvjeOpuAtyi\zE
[q?i}	rOfKIis:AE-bcsvgxBNmd*iAoqiwswiRttr!Bmtguesueswtm+yfaqpezvxsNmi
MDfgmxrwpKNwe,kpapqs	Nsxypw8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?esyusBnw:uDjcpxrDiHtxx;jK
ooppqlJhqASeA^xqacnxGgjGNjv^yFff?esuesQjv^fmcngeLvaNMjd:nutbofLlsBuq	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+ddtpfzksygbGxew^gDdjcgAsjMSes'fmmnbJFnmBMmd>uDeubnFgQxLxi;yl(
YqwgtfDggxuyy/kEaqhe8lsLyzw!7g~b)e~lwxLfp!rqwgnxrvgswzw:uyjBcyAvo
vAtukgDla}tUi/yqvubzKlesztv!mqogtfDgfwOhe:oAob)e8lsLyzwNfqghghLzaHH
kpvecyAvos{eG=tFfzvzssaBHks/smukqsrpos0jv|kGtb)e5hjGthl@rxfpijrhow
kyqjcxAzaHzeT^xEfwue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqwgtfDgqHCsx|fqngtlwkaBHex&klekuhMztBIsd:nmubhtDspPyidh5XPPCX\zaILjw^tFbvktFb

Gxujqzyoa6'QSiG5ajcirupMtii_uztvtfLles0jv|kGt&bftpmBNDd:uldtqxK|txuwg&
jAdwojFAtmtxl^fopphnJtfwtyl@zlbnneWuhECxl!CAsfueAua9yww^AEactjrpowyCi%
gzebefFgcxtxi@xoigf rgTHnej=xlfzcrHsfmtxe$xugkejrjpNFid&gHfbdjwuaLyfv$nqe
ozacnqrAfQNx{!ztfbjnKApKChe-fqtucDlgbGxee-rlujgeuhutFtk;klfpvwAltsQnx&
ztfktevltvLnt:oAou+]AuaLBtv: ljpbfDsaHzeT^xEfwu 

HApngfFgmHAng!oEapqyrpos0jv|kGtb3 =gcNNeA*rxadgeskexxex=fFigbswEu
BqsuktFaatFyl=AsibcsrlgyIwx!oEadgnFnaFuii!tAubvtryfLNwm$zlQgtxwBtsNtd@
jmucdfKlaBHeA&ooibqswgkNMyd[kDgqtrKgtxuwg&ozh?bGGvmxusd=xlpvjjJDjLy d!OF
oEarqxKpcEyex=fypxgeDhuxLfp-ElujttMnisNmi!jAdwojFAtsvDd|kxfevnFnattBs/j
uzfbkxrpoMywi|zqebksrhowtxi-koukplrhosuwi@fAgbksxvsFuym=tlppgeAz
ozugtjKAfwtnr!gzebvwQpoztys!rApmbyzhusQtv%fGqbksrAitNee/km?

Yuoege8lsLyzw!CmtbfjNlmHJjh!ozaJAuwyDtLi{!yqwgtfDgmxPjp|fAgbezKApFCEe:oAo
gDfbrtKzjuFj	!f5jorqwgbNNms/ozhbvtGstsyCm|zlujcyrhmEIBd=tqavqeuyftNj
gzoqvfLlesJfx&ylujttMnisNmi!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nudjbfJlaNMjj;rlgqteFvuxaye)ozh
gzebhtJghNCii%fFpwtxrmpKtyi@itjpieHBsIIxi|fmofbkGyaxRus|oFptAeOyjMCsk8
3uujbfrsjMNqi!sAsgbnFnfGOnx,fuubkxrwpLMnf-kluqbgwnjGtys!gpebqwrzvuMym:AFf
smugtnssaBHeT^xEfwu 

VqsugzKgitMer=zlcggsrBtxxew=fyvejexvsswqe|yudubjvBdtNns+fmtbhtJghxHjv@r
kpvecyAvomtBl^xqakveKlfFyid:ulicxjrhosCrt@iFaqpeLofsMyy%kzuubnFguAyeg=xq
iAvtujrhus2fv<gDeb-frnfGywe-fDfswnJleswty/yqavjfLgtMOii+zEaowxLgutEjd*t
iqsvcnFgbKyfwSalaUvzvloMMeA^xqacdqwguHtzw^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommbozuoaFIwi8

ZtfbRjJzfNMeT/uvfevezhtsusd^BmmwcyAvosNje_fmubvmwgVGCAi/yuuAbtxgNtLDp@tp
ztbvbmszauyjr!jAdwojFAjGAeT^xEfwu)rlgyyhx|fAobgiMjbMCtr8flQgtxwBtsCxd<kDz
vAqwnfJaatHid@tqdfqyssaxPnh^tofbksvpdtNjw!ztbvbnLgjLtme<ozhbcsrlgyyhx!gF
vxbegxrvuAywd:nmobJfJCbKx	d'uDagzfEwmxnex^yFaukywzatNeF@rxaUvfLl
1zjxgwKpuRneH/ADzbEtDsfzy	d@tpapwrwypNMew_gxmbrqsjfLtBl^xqaqruGyuNHnx*kE
zAawujrCbLNee_uGovueGmaILnq@xKafcysgntSer=zlfzkxLbas9si!jAdwojFAfwtjj'kou
oEavjfLgbKwme^uxpikhss.susx&xAqqntypdtF	d@tparjnDvmHAng@rlsgujsydAtnw
hqjpievvoxtgC!ztfbufElaIyww=tljpuywhesIkd#ElujtjwgeBzki/kzubrjGwmxo

ZtfbetFAfQNze-fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlQgtxwBtsCsg-ApfubfFgpOywz*kIaguxsF.su
lmjtnDrsjGyfv!nutvqwAjbEtjw|gKaqpeLofsznj:nldgpyMyzsV G8fFicveHypOCii|
ruomueAuuHtyl^fBskofJFaFuyi/ommb-jmn?mtMi/uppvwxlgUAOhC%opfu?esue
Vxvvcwuo-mtAm@fEncnqrnstSey+jqsuetJpozt=s+fFigbxuyfxH[d=llmkppwk
vmtuclwz?stYl^yqactjrobGxre%klmkppKgjGNtd=ztftbrsAfKCfp8

ZAafkkxlsxHyd^DFfpvxlgnHMyd=llujgeHypwOhx*uzayqwCgxtMeh=tqacveZhsOuwh7
CtftgeLofsJjs[rqacpirAixtju;oBngpyrhsxtqs$gFff}erTvvBes'fFig
iAmncgGybMCAi!goukxnLFaBHAs-BqebffLhavIqp^iFjqpesuesMyv;iFvtksyaauyhe;yq
ztfbofAuavBfp-kzhgbfFkaMBjd^sBicunKgpytUi/yqvubnKguAyek@ztftksygpy
vDjocwQgntNjv*gx.bvmsAaBM	d#AumfksygbsOxi'AxagpAAypGGjr:frptbxLBeRCsk
ixbuunuhms1wi^iq.betDsfvNnr"fpbvc	rhowtre)ozhbkyrBtxzzp8
YKtvgrK|cNCqh*tsakuevlgBHnx^rKapqyrAixtre*tldqphwyonteX&AE.bozuoaHzex&k
CAsmbmszaBHAs-BqebywAAjGAei|ymzu?euvmEyhx*tsakpkGyntNns+ lsgywAAjGAem: 
gzebvfynjGAem:alaVjfLgdtHef^fpppgeGmgsMnx^alaVjjrjsxuym<klmkpprmpKtyl^
uHftxnwDaxMxe,fmtbyjDsatMej=xlcqvmrzzLNjq|fmofbisAbsQfw!iAmncgGybMCAi7
gzebyfKggHLli%fHjcbJ	tbBFee+jlqcrjJgntCqd>oFibrwGmfLMtv|fmubRtEvottfr%
HAxfqnFb

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
IMMCNZUHa}tUP	-EartnFjjIuqd'uovubfFkavIsx/onvvktFguHtxg&uxbtumAwa}
2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbrwwwbKuys/EluqbgwnjGHnr"fFigbuJvkxwydQfNbukxrmpK
vDplghLg(sVfw*ilswnjrposwtr<kDukplrWMWt+d{uzdgtsAuhsNmi!oybigxrpos0QH!=
XGopksygQ5Xey+jqsbceNhsByyC!uratgyJpfOuqd|uruycwwza}tJr$upjpieLof
jmucdfKlattme/j\gqwlzAaBMxy^f;aXcwAvvLtki@zGsguevlnHHxx/gFffb+rPnIIwx@tof
urawujJgeHwzq^tFbvktFg(s6nq*zmukqsKgpytyl^fOE+TT5gwxLxm=tl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KDjebHSSB5#HE7fHjegeHyfLCii+zfaEjfvDzvE]L^gxfA?e1udnneh^sAouvwsAfwtf
yAgvyfJlaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosIkd:nqaRcyJvmHAne!RmukpfrKbMuge|kl)RNI{bas0QHNy
vDjpenHhmsztg;ylgtqrrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi!vDplghLgbuIzx!ztsgg]sue u]l@rr
EqbtuesnpsQfw!uzaeqsNlsMCsk!Suhpg)KgMtNnr!yqskgxlgbGxem+fFigbjFk.
IMMCNZUHaLOlk^yFff?euvoOyww*uzaqheLofsNjB:fIjnnetlaMBjd_gvptbhGuuKCgy:oAo
zAauemGsbKMmm[alaECQSSVVUew:xqtugirAitN	d@ylqquxAimRtyl^fAonAeHyjOuyi
vGcnkxzpozttv"gzjBcyAvosuyd:nqaYqwCziHJ	d{nmeyAhC|Ixuqi,ftbfbxGBhANer=
lqegtfDggNHiw!uDapcyAvotFej=AzecvnGuaLOut=xFadgkGyfsyrf@xwjpieMwpGtyl^
vDplghLaauOyd*tEugcirobwtwi-oqebwuGuattlv^gFafgfDgpytms_kIptmesue
smsmgyAuhsNtd@ioporqAzisNmi!zmtmbtxgdHHAi/yupp}

KHftbxAudxtyl^fBpuuntpmBNni|fAgbetEwvMyw[|kmsejnFnaAuAi!kyftijvaaLwms-gDt
ozavjjrmjxFid=llmcvjrhovCjr:fmofbjsymRtri%oqwcneKAvwCjw![BikntKvqAyww7
ztfqntypbGM	d$rmtukhAzuLnee+jlujqxwgtMOiC*tsavjjrojLNtv,fAgbpfLBstFep@C
gzebvmwgiBMys/ElphbyzlaEyle-fpfxgqGwnxHyd=llXguywyoswnz*ruAcvnGu-sBfz^
hqfpbqGuhBHld'uDacbkMsmRtxi@xoicdqwgwxLxm=tlphb2wzuxLsd-oFftcyMyfmtks/
kJborqwaatFqd:nqavgCLzaHzeE;mGtvkswgbGxeF^xzbtfeGmaVFfm/BmvzbfFk
HAfvjnMz.sHtx!zAaogsLppGtfp-fFigbxwjpGxfv,fmofbywyuBuwC!gGujqwKb

2mskqzKgrNyxx*uztbcwGzfmtHEgGXVECeKhjwoednnAvnfeGufswtr<kDubOnyufo
YtpwnirAixtie:gnbugetlaxHhs%kp}bbNKgjMtsi$kEtctDrApsxtd:nmu{beZvxsMms;rp
oFadgevlmBPjv^jhabYmsAatvty:fOE+TT5cas!nr$klujkxrptsuex/gztkvnGubE
sqekwrlgxASei<kzadqyzlssNtd$xqbvgeKvgMQfv^fFpbtzFgpGtfd{J\SQOargTBHhi
kHftAgGkzsEss>ylqgquDlaPCqp!hqapgyOvsDCsk!ozgqtrsAjHH	d>nKaiqeLvaMBj
zDpwdqw|_PBng&futbhfJghKyfx^xlxkvmrJE `TQ!ztbpbBAAisNmi!vDpfwhLppGttj
smhpgyAjawuye9flGkpfDszmtms>fppgueGufsGfo^fFigbisAbsuAe*rmcngargDtHeq@tK
uravjjrovKxqi|fFpbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrpoyIwq@zuppbyzhusMtq^fBvdnnKofKMel@Bq
oyqqujvgvIIsd%gFbdcxwzauyei-oyjpcywk}

ZtfbRQVgqKIoi$zlxcuethtxxes+fFigbuJpovCup^fFicveuvnIOyi//Efcthzpozttj
zqyvueAzaFIxx!krggeyACfsQmi+fuubkxrkpGyeA*ztacbqsyhxtie:gnbug rgCxwfy|k
VXEbtjHyfLysx^jlbbetDsfvNns+fFicveKlsOyxd|ulncpDrkjLwnt-ozfubfuypLMew=
smoAbuwyjHxx{!oFaycxrpsKyxm|zucng 

ZtfbdfKpdsLzp^fuobetFCfKNnr"f2MFbBszaMIeh=fzpbjfJt.sNtd@BAjfbyzlaLCsw!ur
ozutwxAvosCsd|Aoibcevhutvfw^.lapqeAuuKIiy$zuppbtxgoxQjv!kpjvktFz.sHt
uz_vjj	zqHNeg&gzhgu	rupsywe%oobvksygpytfp-fBpuuntsfszfp|ktpqfxrmsHGee+
kpjvktFbas@my| lQNFeAzaGIyd:nqahksssatwyd*tlfnghLypGChd[AnmkumAuhsztv
ztjubiAzdBJqm+kfadwyrzjFJqC!ztfbdjypoGCsk8flUjgeuvoOyww*uzaqhe8SEsBfw
kHpmgiruvFyws;ylvpcsLpdBJfx^jlrwgxLppGM,d!NAxbynDsaBHks/smukqsrifsOxi%b
3tbvbftvvMtsi:CAsmksycasWfr!ztfbtnyouLttj!glecvfthtxtgi!vDpvghLleo
Ytpwnirvoxtuv=zqdvbyzlaKCll:ylphbfrkbMuge|khabJtOgdtHem:fnfbofvl
gHbknftsfo

ZtpugeuvoOywx*tsaRNIrhmLIex/oqebvtrhwHCid:nqauksKgpyttq*yEjqp	rAitNem| 
kJdnwiAuhsJtv:oAoubtxguAyeg=rxfevnGutsIwd>nAmgbxwjuBIsw8flXjcyrhcHOyd:nq
oybigxnga96Id*ylgwnqrvgsCre"kE.butElatLjd^DFsgojDFaICty|
tuogvjwuuAahi+zGsAbwwwsxMjr:gFjqpxrvgsNmi!LmujgwKaaPBnp^fAujgwKgdHHye*t
nuhjnDrpoMywi|zuoibjDlnxHyw8flUjgeyvbEtBe|fFpbetNlssuqp!ztfbvjPAaHzeQ*mzf
[uoenzvpoztss:kE.bksrNsxypd@tpakpeZlcKyB{!ztfbnfLAfKttj!Ctjej	rpo
vmsvkhMsbKneg@AEfubuJvcEyrw!ozaetjsAjGAee!yqbtemrzuKOhx;xq-?bfDsaMBj
ozekejKaatHid^BqobvmwgjFuli| lxjkhzgbKyef^ozhbuhsuoxxem+fEfrcwsAfES
yqbtemsimxtkm-kE?

YqwgtfDgOHLyl!GyftkhsuaBHxx*zGukqsKguAuyd&gHfbrqsjfwtfg]AutkvnGuaKyvy^yFt
lAsbvmwgQ5Xeh@zmccujrobOyev^wGfuvjvgjMtnr!smhpgyAjayIwq!CuujqzLgtHzyA@xq.
CtjejeElbGMex&kKactjrhmKyfh,fDvppnFnaBNeA*ztpwveKvgMQfv^ lxkvmGBu
gzzvjnFnawyrs+yFscvjvgbMtyl^f9ptmxzvqn

3tbvbhsuoHNet/goukefDszsvjd%uzfbkxrnpsvfg)fmofbwwjpGPjv:fmofbww|fGwth^
jmuc?esguBGj[$uztwonFnatHid^DFsgojDFavIxx-ElfpvjJwsBMj	!fOBNCQ!JBsMji|
VXEbcxrhawuye#gEfbvmsAavus{!gzebumGBmwnef^fDvpbzFkfKtfd<gDjgvDrvg
xqutkjNhmsMtj:Cmsgu rgUACxd>oxmbrjJtjMtyl^fIjfgxLgqHMxm#rqaugfJjixM 
IAougvMloMFD{!ztfbpjwkaMIet/upvegesgDWaWShfAgbRQVaatMeA^rxacueLvawyAi-uB
yAgvyfJlaMBfx!iAvnfezhowFjd|uyfb3 &ghBAff,zqaqhezlbOCqC!kzdqfjvguxRy{
jqwgntHlesIzx!uraeqsNlsLuym=tEaykyzgdHFqi$zuppbiwCfEIuq^tFacpiryfyywi+iq
ructcwAhoLtBl=fIbpvjvgtHzyA@xqadqyzgdHGue|yuppcywgfGIzk&frptbyzl
vqeguyJpbGtgy:fmmuqeuhqtvqi!urakphGyqHLfx*tsavjjrtpLNeh^zmjngi
rqyketyybIBng@rltvwiAltsNme:fmawujJgexMnv^yluqbhGueNwy	!fUobvmwgfGx	d:nq
kzdqfnFnatHid$uzwgtxAvosIkd:nqafcysgxBFqd[xAwgbyzlaFIxx!kzewtnFn
zqtvcrwuusNtd:nqaxcqMlaHzex&klqtqowjun

ZtfbgsuveBHld=llujgevhutvfw^fIbubfDzpsuel@xp_hqzyousCxw;kaabFnvguAy
jmucdfKlaGyjh!zAadgewudHxjh9f9ftgeLofKyer=xybvkAwgtMLzg:ADfubkGyaxHhs%ozh
nGncpnKAaMyCx|blaUjtMsesCyd#klTIOQnga$Bfx!gnpwveLofs@JMT/IjnneAAaEuxx7
CumnbnLgqKIAi!AEfhwqngaVUQEg1OBbgCHyfLMjh!yAngbrAupKtis;hFtbcxrApsQmi:nqs
glecvfribGEeg@tlcgbkMsmRtYId/opphtJtbGN d!KHftAewmgHLyd$gzadgeEhexnef;z
ozavjjrlowtys!hqaVGN	jpGztv_gzubojsutsNtd@iofrveLofsHji%fFpbofClaLIri
lusobjFjpwCsk!jqdkunGutsNme:fobp?eAuexyi{!hqafkxHBuxx d!ZtfbVJ1gqHCsx|
ztfbrztsjLBjv!ozacbuJvqxLeh*xqdvktFgcNNeh=kEapqyrwsxMzq^fFpbofClatFqd:nq
jqdkunGutsztv!nunbqwrofKoed yEfpvnssmRnex&klhqcqrvgsysg=juoibBszaMI
kxjokssAfmtfw!sGdjbfKgqHMxm#rq.bvmwgiBHiv@tofubyGgjGztv_gFjqp]FluPIwo*ts.
yAavjfLgjytfr!oztvkyMAjHHee$wGjtgxrhawuye#gEf?bjNlsRvth,fmtuqhAhuxxeA*zt
ztfbksKAjMOym=tldcpezhwxtfg$kEtbvtrpun

IMMCNZUHawyrs+yFscvjvgbsJtv:oAobqkr3pEOri!7^~?bgwjbNMjd*zlicfeLofsGtw:
gzpocqAltsCsd*zgabVmwgtHzyA@xqaycxrjsxuyi%fnzbGqwjuKIsm$fNpqm
ZqdjptDvhByxd=llQtqAAkfGwj{!XU.bcsvgjLthe-rqebFDFhuxRy	!f6igbxGmuPuwi
CAsmueGumRtBm:nlTIOQ	jpwyid%gFb}

2ufyksygbsNff-klphbhGuuxHyw!uzavjjrzdKyjr7fFigbfMkjxHhi!ymxbjtOgERHfx^DF
zDfcvxrlbvBei-kyfpveszattgs=qlbpfesAuxGux|fFpbunEwmBzDd_uHfogsLguALty"nlb
BAmwojmgaYurm-omskvDrDjMBex&klQcvwGspzCfd*tlqtksLg)Boj	7fFigbywEumtnx|
yAvtejlgbGxex&klffkyAvoL eA*rxaocpwguAyeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^fHftunGutsBnk&rK
AEfhwqmga{!tj:CmsgbBAAisue1*tppyueswqEChe:oAobyfKgtHOll:frptbU4K.
IMMCNZUHaLunh7fnfeczKlaMBnw!CmtbvmwgntCsd:xqofbkGyaLwms-gDmAbzKl?	

IMMCNZUHatFxs!jqnqpxLybMyid&uIacbzKlsswfr!vqshqwEgbsPfv*kFzbqkrzftLhl^y
gzebszAjlESeq=BqavqesuzsJfv:fAgbceNvmNGj,!ztfbntGr_NJew$xqfpbuJvwBxjw
yAngbgszjvnew*sBmgbBGye Mje/itjpi 

IMMCNZUHatLly^jlujcyrvoxttj!ztfbofBvssxnj'oovnvnwzaBMer=zlujgeKvgMQfv^a
XmujgwlgjGthv^gFjpiesgqKIiy$zlujcyrDjEFef^fGtgfetFaLwms-gDtbtjHyfLysx*ts
glctqfvgtIyhx/AyaqheuvnIOyi/fEprjnKAjvuym=tfabwxwyawIhy_kzucvnGuaILtz^y
zAadgeLofsGtw:funrqwLhoMtxi/BudgbtFlavusd[xAwkfjm

IMMCNZUHaGyCx!oxmwuyJhuxxee!zDvpefLlesMje/itawpiwyaFSxx^xuvobBAAiBHex^t
CAsfueGmaOCwx;ylbpfezvxsIsi!CAvnfetlatvqi!zAahksvgjMMeg=tFfpvxrAiKIzk&uGu
ztfbgsLpsxtie:gnbug rgIxtxe*jlujcyrAixtjB$oFjpieLojGAee#uGubRQVgjLtyl@z
smoAbtxguAyee[vxjecyAvoLtnr!ztfbtjLyjxPfp!yAgvyfJlauynr"fIskvywuayIwd*z
CumnbjPjfxxex&kldcrftpmBNni|fAgbvmwgtHzyA@xqagouDvzxxer=ClgqteLofsWI[mUY
BqsuktFbas@mi!IP_TQRrmbvyxd"kzvkpjrsjFCye:oAou?eAuaMywq|fAgbuuwlesush
iAnrtjzloLCAi+kEt?bnFguAyeg/kmukqsrvgsuev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqavqeJBosCy	
IMMCNZUHaLunh!nqajquwkaMBfx!ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtueOpmEtis>txpcfeLofsxfx@ 
oravjjQgxBMm{!zAavjjAyaIyww=tmmbetEwvMyww7fmofbmsCfsLje%ElbeejKzaMI
oyqqtysuusNjB:ylppbfrjpGMye+zlccunKaaPBng&fFigAeOpmEtgi!gnmgbyGgvLyem+
ztfkteJltxuwg&fmofbkJvnsQmm$nlujgDrtjzByd^BqobdjrhcEyex=fBvdnnKo?

[OBNCQ!JBsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^fnmwgeFBnuyww!xqqtgxwuuxxeQ*mzf&ueuvmNGsd+Aycgtxl
CtjejesyfsNmi!yFbpffJkaLwms-gDmAbwwmfKysg^ygabRzDsjGAey[fmapqywaaAyew:gFff