involved in all of these projects were devoting their careers to
producing the work, the Packard Foundation's suggestion had a
revolutionary aspect:  Transcriptions of the entire corpus of the
Founding Fathers papers would be available on CD-ROM to public and
college libraries, even high schools, at a fraction of the cost--
$100-$150 for the annual license fee--to produce a limited university
press run of 1,000 of each volume of the published papers at $45-$150 per
printed volume.  Given the current budget crunch in educational systems
and the corresponding constraints on librarians in smaller institutions
who wish to add these volumes to their collections, producing the
documents on CD-ROM would likely open a greatly expanded audience for the
papers.  TWOHIG stressed, however, that development of the Founding
Fathers CD-ROM is still in its infancy.  Serious software problems remain
to be resolved before the material can be put into readable form.

Funding from the Packard Foundation resulted in a major push to
transcribe the 75,000 or so documents of the Washington papers remaining
to be transcribed onto computer disks.  Slides illustrated several of the
problems encountered, for example, the present inability of CD-ROM to
indicate the cross-outs (deleted material) in eighteenth century
documents.  TWOHIG next described documents from various periods in the
eighteenth century that have been transcribed in chronological order and
delivered to the Packard offices in California, where they are converted
to the CD-ROM, a process that is expected to consume five years to
complete (that is, reckoning from David Packard's suggestion made several
years ago, until about July 1994).  TWOHIG found an encouraging
indication of the project's benefits in the ongoing use made by scholars
of the search functions of the CD-ROM, particularly in reducing the time
spent in manually turning the pages of the Washington papers.

TWOHIG next furnished details concerning the accuracy of transcriptions.
For instance, the insertion of thousands of documents on the CD-ROM
currently does not permit each document to be verified against the
original manuscript several times as in the case of documents that appear
in the published edition.  However, the transcriptions receive a cursory
check for obvious typos, the misspellings of proper names, and other
errors from the WPP CD-ROM editor.  Eventually, all documents that appear
in the electronic version will be checked by project editors.  Although
this process has met with opposition from some of the editors on the
grounds that imperfect work may leave their offices, the advantages in
making this material available as a research tool outweigh  fears about the
misspelling of proper names and other relatively minor editorial matters.

Completion of all five Founding Fathers projects (i.e., retrievability
and searchability of all of the documents by proper names, alternate
spellings, or varieties of subjects) will provide one of the richest
sources of this size for the history of the United States in the latter
part of the eighteenth century.  Further, publication on CD-ROM will
allow editors to include even minutiae, such as laundry lists, not
included in the printed volumes.

It seems possible that the extensive annotation provided in the printed
volumes eventually will be added to the CD-ROM edition, pending
negotiations with the publishers of the papers.  At the moment, the
Founding Fathers CD-ROM is accessible only on the IBYCUS, a computer
developed out of the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae project and designed for
the use of classical scholars.  There are perhaps 400 IBYCUS computers in
the country, most of which are in university classics departments.
Ultimately, it is anticipated that the CD-ROM edition of the Founding
Fathers documents will run on any IBM-compatible or Macintosh computer
with a CD-ROM drive.  Numerous changes in the software will also occur
before the project is completed.  (Editor's note: an IBYCUS was
unavailable to demonstrate the CD-ROM.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Several additional features of WPP clarified *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Discussion following TWOHIG's presentation served to clarify several
additional features, including (1) that the project's primary
intellectual product consists in the electronic transcription of the
material; (2) that the text transmitted to the CD-ROM people is not
marked up; (3) that cataloging and subject-indexing of the material
remain to be worked out (though at this point material can be retrieved
by name); and (4) that because all the searching is done in the hardware,
the IBYCUS is designed to read a CD-ROM which contains only sequential
text files.  Technically, it then becomes very easy to read the material
off and put it on another device.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LEBRON * Overview of the history of the joint project between AAAS and
OCLC * Several practices the on-line environment shares with traditional
publishing on hard copy * Several technical and behavioral barriers to
electronic publishing * How AAAS and OCLC arrived at the subject of
clinical trials * Advantages of the electronic format and other features
of OJCCT * An illustrated tour of the journal *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Maria LEBRON, managing editor, The Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), presented an illustrated overview of the history aHzex&k
pAjpveHypCyhx!hquygjFguAyeE_kDjecsrHtLIhm@zuppbkGyaMBjd?jHbpejEloMttj
Yojgphwg)TUFWSfmofbyzla8Hqm+klDqouMAfKtQm#xmsAbHwuuxL	ddto?b-TUSD	oedonq
pAjpveNloMOwi!hquygjFgBTUXd@tpaQEQUgpPyxd*zEadglAuoBHld:ulb
xqptifFpAtNns+fxbwphzlesvDd:nqapgBrjiBykd^DqdwvnNlaHzkm$kDacve7JMVtff=AF
ztsggeQlbKMee"ulbpfeuvnuCsi|fFigbxLyfGAyl|fAgbvmwzfsNBs!jutrcwsAf
uDhcpnRhuBIsw8flJpbxzvsMneSeIOUbtjHyfLysx|fFigbuJvdxMxd=lltejtDhsES
vGcnkxzpozttr!ruog}

RQCTQSrufQNeh*yovuujvgtxPjv@rlqtchLpdxMex&klpp+qAufsysz*xAoogsLgtAuwi|
CuujbyJheBNns+gxarwgDptACsk!uzajcwvgdHJD[TlAsbgCstqEy	d[kqsbtjNpfPttj
smowuhJpqMM][:nmubcwwgiBAmp,funrqwLhoMtnr!ztfbchskfFChd>uDmf}erSFU`TR
tAugfeAuaIuwx*iGmcteLofsCrt-oobvktFzaHzeg*zmukqsrjpNHyw!lAsbvjFBsx
iAnokyLlfLtfr%fsscpyKgdHGrm:zqfu}erPosNmi!zDbfkyAvotFel@xp_equQ
kzwkttFtfGN	d$oFbvktFgdHOsx|fmsgbwwheBFDd%kyppuyJhcEy	d>nqsgcxrAix
uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpveJlqKyxi+zEacpewAixLje-fyffkzEguHtrs|zlbeciwtjvM 

RQCTQSryfFuwo^jltgxjJhmsNjg&tudcnesuesvjl@BuptcqribKLni/yluqbjDldMLtr*i
vGcnkxzpoznej=xljpuysudxnex&klqtqgDlnLtnr!zDbpurAztBIsd$xqbvgirizsMui$omm
itbtchLlsLttv!hKaeqrHsfQtlv@vtjeuesuesBfp'zAogu rgJGtfh%oFjqp	rzixtss:kp
koppqrAjaECrm:gFjqpxrzvvBee|fFigbxLvstAjd$uEuubtxgntCsx@ozjpiethdDtnw|Aqt
gzebofJrfMttv!gGekgsulaxxzg@zupp}

SmowuhJpqMMeg@tzpvbgwgvIFte%kpavqe7QDV@	dgKNSQPewEqEunr^jfadghsBtxtnx!oE
tAubcetBmEyym+fnpctirvssY]q@ox.bhtJttsIkd^rqdvttFpdsNwe+yyjuunGuaHz
ozgqtrsAjHHex&gFajcAwgdKyfx^jlbpbfEijxHhi!ixpwfnFnaIytt-k/tbwsvlsLNfr%ozh
urayjfLguAyen=ADocneAzatNyi_vFjpieLvawI d!UVDEV	rDiBwmd[Anmkumwz
vqft+wwCjxQjh!sqekefDgbKNng-kEafgfDpoztBm:nlujgeKBcCyhx!uraennFpdtF
zDjcnxlgjGwqy%kEavgCLaaMugy-gDaocywyjtF	d@tpaitfHojvM	d@rFiqwlzgbMtyl*y
zungbnLgdtHex/gztokyrvoESep*tqaknqMzuKuym=tE?

Tqyv?e4LC~9Sd%kEdtkgwkaAIBd?GMTbcsvgPV6Hd@xDjxgirhusNmi!yGclghLgpy
ixjpkhssaMLne-yaabKyrpts&[d@ftjijqQgtMuym|zudcnevptvCup*tqavjfLg3	tis^y
tAubtjIBjKyel@rruqpjKgcNNeg@tltcvnKmzsNmi!tqffueGmaBNxd@ApjgphwgxBNmd-ozf
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!gzebiwswiBweq@zqskcqlgbGxe7SfFigtjrptsuer^kpahqwrAixtxt^kpz
jutugrAubMCtr!urajklz|rNuqm:ElsgujsydAtwi|Axuu}erJmBHng@rlutkfDzatLj
xqtgcwuoatwym<oFjgueLobMtnr<uxwgbyzlatxrm+oEutcyAvosIkd@fFfuveLyftNri+z
zAauqrwgfQJjv*sqovcqrBoBNem+fAsfgwrApsNjw:fuuubzKlgNFsi|ylcghtJlaBNem|
smegbfNhjEugp^fFpbvmwghxHjv@rlqqrzDhuBIs	!fXFDTT6gqKIhi^jqebvtrnjOy
gpekvnGubEtnr'uDncvnGuaHHeSeIOUbetFjfKHnr"fuuubjvpuHL]m+/oikgklgfwCys/omm
hAbtf	rleBNtv*gxaeqsLloMnee+jlujgeLFqxMes'fmsvkhDltsCyd[Anmkumwz
[uoenzvpoztui^x\sgxnwDfwtwi|kmsejeJlqHLyw!gzebtjNpfPM[{!gEaygqDgbL
lqbvwwwzaLBfv^jlcAbtLofKtyv@juukqsssaAuwhTiAqAboGBsGuqw8

GyppieLofsuiz@tFbigxrvgsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smubcwwggtMyi/fpjuujEpotNns+fAg
ozgqtrsAjHH	d*tomwfnFnaKuBd%gFb?bfFkaMBjd@hEfpejrvgsMue$kldqpxLybBHyw
hqdcwxwgqtAjw!jAapqyrlyBMy	!f<UjkxrsbMNjv!lmdvbhJlbMyxd@tljpvjJltMCsk
yuuwcyAvosQmi+fuubetEltsNtd$oFbvktFz?	teR=xlbtgeLofKyee+Eljuuzwz?stFE?Y/t
imqcenLFaMIeh=CzmqcirtbMywm@rEafkwwjuESej/uyavjjrqpNLse-fFpbc
yGcuewAifK.xd[xuovgwlgitLid%xuwg?eGyayFtt[ElekuprofEJxd^tEvtgezphAFD
godwtfLlaMLfr|iDjrvnGu?stTx&kDahgfLBsxMes'f1KEEYrpovFzh^fAo+uhJlfGtfp^xFt
ztbvbfDspPtqm+qmhgbtxgtNvxi]AqovnDrwvuFnw&kpafqhMtfGNxd:ulujgeGyjzCse-
jAdwojFAtittrTruogbxwhsvBnr"fnzbuztqfvN	d@AFiqt	rAjMFj{!kFd}>eAuexRnr"fAg
kHftAeKpozFjd>uDebvmsAatJui@xEakpesuatLym$rq<bxnwDjGAee$iqtubyGgbG
gDukeqwgcRths_vAogpyr]buMyv@iF.bhzDsaMyCx7fAsbiwswiL .d+Aycgtjv
vmsciwswiLtys!xqqnchwgqtAjd$uGovu.rwvuFng@zuppbnFgTvCjr$klfxgwQguACwx,
jmzubtxgjGxjB*tsaqhessmsuwx*ixfubuMimBMmi%fuobvmwgkHOwr@rb
zKqgujL|rNuqm:Eltetjwutitfr%fTzrgwLlyMtqm+qEavjfLgfGugp^fEvduhJpcxLxd:u
hDjpieMwa6yip*tqacdxLybvNxd%oDfevqQgxBNms;zlmgcAAuhsNmi!pAvtpfDb

GrugtevlutCqm+mlujgeLDpsJwm_gDzbyfQzaMIek@ozacehwztsNtd:nqalqzJubEn
ztsqwlzguAyeS{ROapgyOvsDtfr%fOporzKlsOtnj!uzfbfjKpsxMek/gBikexrvssNmv=Asi
ztfbKsLlsGyyd*llkwuyrhosUXGdOlgknjrptsxjw*xqe?bQWIS88em-rGtvtfLlesNmi
yBfgfDrleBNtv*gxarttultLtfr%fFigbhGkjGAes'fFigbiGjvFysx!AEjpie~NN5tye"y
grugteAAaAuxd#kqobchulqMyid'uDarwgDpdtNns+alaUjjrhmLIek@BqacpeAsmNMyv@zqe
zAvtbtxguAyen=ADocn	rpuLtxi@xoi+csv|sxNwm^BmmbefHhcBFnx*kEakpeHhsMChy-gD.
hGubcqKvaBHhp;juoibuJvcEyrw!gEtqensAfwtBm:nltecsFpoztnr!oxmwuyJhuBIsw7
gzebvmwgjFJtv:gzdgbtxgpGaxg/kqobcqwyuLtys!ztfbojvpdtFet/urfuunGuaKy
xqutchLppGMes/fopttjuAjHHx{!uDaoqwwggKyvy^tFmA?ewkjMIwm@rE.bnjLAfKMex=
ztfbgiAApKM	d=xlgqnqGD_NJev^vAsvu rgTAyeg-uEffbgQgjGPnx*tsavjjrhvwCjr$k
zAalqnFgBTUXd=tl2bLzDF.sQmi+f1KEEYrDbLtxg&kpvngirApsAtd=t\mkpjm

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmszje:ADfubtxgP3WHX!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrsfGAyl,fpjuezKzjHHex&gFahqqDvxxxeP H4PP&xrwsxMjr:gFjqp	rAixM
