PERSONIUS made these additional points:

     * Re retrieval software, Cornell is developing a Unix-based server
     as well as clients for the server that support multiple platforms
     (Macintosh, IBM and Sun workstations), in the hope that people from
     any of those platforms will retrieve books; a further operating
     assumption is that standard interfaces will be used as much as
     possible, where standards can be put in place, because CLASS
     considers this retrieval software a library application and would
     like to be able to look at material not only at Cornell but at other
     institutions.

     * The phrase "digital file copyright by Cornell University" was
     added at the advice of Cornell's legal staff with the caveat that it
     probably would not hold up in court.  Cornell does not want people
     to copy its books and sell them but would like to keep them
     available for use in a library environment for library purposes.

     * In production the scanner can scan about 300 pages per hour,
     capturing 600 dots per inch.

     * The Xerox software has filters to scan halftone material and avoid
     the moire patterns that occur when halftone material is scanned.
     Xerox has been working on hardware and software that would enable
     the scanner itself to recognize this situation and deal with it
     appropriately--a kind of autosegmentation that would enable the
     scanner to handle halftone material as well as text on a single page.

     * The books subjected to the elaborate process described above were
     selected because CLASS is a preservation project, with the first 500
     books selected coming from Cornell's mathematics collection, because
     they were still being heavily used and because, although they were
     in need of preservation, the mathematics library and the mathematics
     faculty were uncomfortable having them microfilmed.  (They wanted a
     printed copy.)  Thus, these books became a logical choice for this
     project.  Other books were chosen by the project's selection committees
     for experiments with the technology, as well as to meet a demand or need.

     * Images will be decompressed before they are sent over the line; at
     this time they are compressed and sent to the image filing system
     and then sent to the printer as compressed images; they are returned
     to the workstation as compressed 600-dpi images and the workstation
     decompresses and scales them for display--an inefficient way to
     access the material though it works quite well for printing and
     other purposes.

     * CLASS is also decompressing on Macintosh and IBM, a slow process
     right now.  Eventually, compression and decompression will take
     place on an image conversion server.  Trade-offs will be made, based
     on future performance testing, concerning where the file is
     compressed and what resolution image is sent.

     * OCR has not been precluded; images are being stored that have been
     scanned at a high resolution, which presumably would suit them well
     to an OCR process.  Because the material being scanned is about 100
     years old and was printed with less-than-ideal technologies, very
     early and preliminary tests have not produced good results.  But the
     project is cacryMyjGAee+funcijrAitNem|fAgbuzxmjvCjr:fDfuqqMAjHHex=fnf
flabbxMikxwyi%fFpbQH0gjGtyl^frvvwwwbas7tv^uHft?eLofsMDw:kyacthzpuxwyy/k
flabbfFkaMBjd|EEugoeHsbGtme<klbbntypdtFet-gofbvtrzuHLjd@tlPETeAtbzyem'fuu
flabbmszauyjr!imqvwwwk?stGy:fFicveAzaGIyd#kuoibiGufsHtA8

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ23 d!JUTVTNT2U29S{!TQUYQW3Z.sUSH!TQUYQW3POZiedjV6JQPXrMP~
JUTUGR1UB!3TR

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UDJb+rPtLOjw!vqsvcnFpoztys!IP_TQRKg(s9ux*uztbhtJgqNvqm|nuoibnFgDWaWShf;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAcgtyr7JV2	d|vqdkcqrhtLCxx@tFavqeLofsuxw=iubvgeDpcKuwm@tlgqteKwfvCfp
vDplghLz.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|yfacpirtpwywe:uDaqheLojLtxi|yupp?expsLNer=zqe
ztfbdqwztxxef;zltqojOobMtfA)CmsfbhAydNGxx@tofbqkrobOCsk!lAvtbAwyz
jutvksyBjLBjh!vqprnjryfILjw^tFjpieFluPIwo|fmofbswAxHLpm+mlptbfLgmxuxx
rqbpksygjGtyl@zlektjuAjHH	d>numgbqsjlBHld@tKppgeLvaLJje)frsqoeLof
yFsqplwzusJtw|onmgbgsjlzLty+jljpbHV|S87x	!f`JEJewEqKyxw^jlujgezvqxtyl@z
sqndgwKgpytyl^fmvfkjFjfsQty-jlkqksrAixtim|iGtuktFbas2jd|zDfuujvguAy
yGcvkyDlaHzex&oEarcwLpdNFfv!yqtuktFaa.9ux*uztbhtJgEBMxi_ozbvktFa&sush7
iAoegwFpoztHHTX1Nu?eLofsCrt=xFbpejrvgsxjx^xyjpksygxAysd*zlxqwqvgcxtBm|k
zAaeqsKpexLeh*yEfokssAjHHem+fOE+TT5gwxLxy|fzfvytJrtnteE!ytprrnFnaECxx!ur
oEtwgxrwfKNfm+ozhbvtrJE `TQ|fuoenzvlehtex&klhtqzFktsztv!yqmgeyAuh
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKaatHid*t\iqwxwgqNvqm$gFjqpeOofKyet=yEjdnjrCfKMzw
tAorttxpusIwd"uHftprwuusJzf-oobvktFbasUew*sumcteDptMtks/fzfvytJrt
ozdnwiwk;stii:kDnkpnFnaPBjr!uzfbumGBmwths+yuegtevptLyrm+gFjqpeLosHOll!g
tquyqwCaaBxjr:orzkplrAixtri$nmokurKgpKtjr:oFjgueLobMtjB*yFavqeHsbvyem:kyt
uzapgyOvsDM	d*jqovkkQpoztyl^fBpqneGmaxRnw:ozhbpjLDpKEx{!jqugtrAujGAel=Clb
vDpfwhwyasQty-jldjqtKlauyyA^kzapgyOvsDM	d@tpakfjFAjySnr"fFigbjDlnxHyw!ur
glcwunFltLtfv/gzhgojFAaBHee!tquyqwCb

UBukqsKggHLet;hxjujnFnaBHeG	/4PO<erhosIzx|opfbrztsjLBjv!Bqsuwx
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz?bbNxgbGtty:yuegbuMimBMmi/futbwxwk.sCyd$gzadgeFvoILtj*zf
yGdjbfKguAyeK=BqspojFAa9Lnr:ozhbQkxpdxt=KkU>aqteLofs8fx*uzbnbYwjiGChe-
OzgqtrsAjHHeW^xHjege}UU2![{!ozavjjrjbLyes'fspxgwFtfGN d!ZtfbrwGzatHid$uzt
gEtqensAfwtBm:nlforqGFjGAee+fAvvunvlaIOgp*ytftbfJlaHvAm=AE?bbFEvoztyl^
vDpu?eLofKyem|fzpbvwGBcEyek^zFjpiesjdxJyi%alaQpjrwbRMex&klcknqrhownem+
krggeylghHyxd=tq"ubBsF?stFq=tsavjjrjpGM	d>nqobqswgqtSxd@tlpwvxAkf
vGcnkxzlssNtd[kDgqtrrAixtBs/qfavjfLgqNvqm|nqsbynDsaIywj=xyavjjrDpKEem:fut
unmkijvguHtis7fnvvbuwyitJxd>oFiqwyrAixtuv=jGdvktFgfQJjv:oEfbcsvgtDCqp!oz
smsmgyAuhsush!jutugrAubMCtr!ztbvbxGtfsQty-jltggpmga!Bjv^futbvmwgcHxDd=l
iAnogwupbEtuy#rutjgwKguAuyd%ulqquxwztsNme:fwjpfeGmaxRui/zutgbnF
jutvtntBuBIsd@tpaocwCluBHld#AFavjfLgpuPns;yxzbcwwgtxFjg:oHf}be1u
yqmh+uMimBwfx*uz.bqswgfQywg*yqtbhzDsavIsx/ux.bdzLguAysd=tqaowxLgitHip^
smuvgwKgtNwmd@ylekuyJpcNNns+fmofbrsylxNnr"alaUwhzgbKyew=sqaqheLofsIux*uzt
lAsbrztsjLBnr"fuobvmwgdtMjd=llDF+W7T?

OzavjjrjbLyes'fFfejsAjbEtfr%fpfuklFgjLMzi| lxjkhzgbKyee-yAakouGyutHy{
ztftgesyfsGfr,fybvvjJzaPBng&fybpAesAaMBjdruDlujtHgbELje%EllpgBrhazIth
jqbnbftvvMied/kFskgAssaLSxx^slsgszAyfFysx|fmofbhGzuLneA&gFavqevvatvty:
oybigxlguAyez@xupwueuhqtvnp*zufubfFkaIFfx'uDnu?eLofsNwe%k\phhxrifMQji+
iAtvbfFkaIywj=xybpejlgdHHhi/tEacdtMAaEIhe-/msgceFluPIwo@humkvDl
ozugttHlstvnp*zK.bgyub

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
R~OEJe?gDKyfx*tsapgyOvsDyid*trptofLppGtnw!jughgwwuuszws_fGtkplrufMQtv)y
gEacpesjdxMxd=xlekuxwtjGuym=tlwgjnusfs{eR^zIptmjvgnNFym_kpjcbtFgbsFfv"k
yobngevvfLtss:fKfvbBGyls{eX,vudcneUK_~9Rd[AnmkefLppGtrs%kxacbyOv_xxli%
yIptfe?gQNvqm|nuoibnFmpKGfx*uzaqpesgDWaWShfuobvmwgqKyxi+zlxqtqvgpy
oyncvzJlaLNfr%gDeub+rJpGNwe|zlcgvBwlosWI[mUYacpirufMQtv)fBskenFna}
KJborqwzawyrs+yFscvjvgftLqm^xljpbyzlawuDd@ylbbujLgpytnr|AxbtbnFmpKGfx*uz
mqnub+rWbKurs;tFapgjvguHtqm+qlecvfthtxMe_!RmzgtnFnaMIef^iAngbnFjsxuxm+mxz
tqdguxsyzs{eT/uvfeve6LFW!ee+jlujgeAztNyxd=lljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugesuesuhx*Bq
BqsuwxrwbLMnz^fGtgb+r5_$Csh=CEacuesgxtSes'fpjhhjJloMCfx*tsadgyOlfG
tquyqwCgbvwjw|fmofbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsdQfNbttnwytsNtd:nqafkxLyjuOym=t
urapgyOvsDyid_AxukojvpbsCsj=xybvktFg(s8ji%frptblGvemtwi@r\ukojrkfECAi/E
vDpvqhGsts{eX&klrwgxLppGttj!vDfugsLhuBIsd*tFfitnLFaBHeg-oqov+xwywxL
iAnrwyAuhsCsd:nqacefvlnBweA=xxeb)e0ldHGri+jmukqsKggHLet/upveksygnNFym_kpjc
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

IxjhhtJka5'SGc lektjuApKneP*hDbtAeSBuHGfx*uz.bWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@ 
uBfpgirojLtye-qlxkvmrAixtli+kDbnbttzfKPfx*uzavjfLgoxNBs/qqebksxvsFuym=t
iAouvnLBuxxee!jughkhMsusush!kxvukAwguHJng!hqdcwxwgjMtnw!yAngvmAuhsDzw:
yFbtvnFnaMIeh^BqmqresuesHtx!EqubhzDszsOsh^xEuqqimga5'SGcfoppvjFkfwtyl@z
iDfcvnFnazysy*tqmAbswAxHLpi%fuohqwEhuBIsd>gEafkkxlsxHyd'xAnbwxAuh
tquyqwCzatMee+fmdegxKgpKtim|yqnkpfLppGtAi&oomgbfFkaPuxd_uDfbutHojLNng@zqe
gzebotJlaLOgx-kgabJjrpoOCyi%fFigbrwtcxLxd=llujgesBeBysg^fFpbgCLybIIqe:kf
lDpobBzhusNmi,ftfctirhcHOyd:nqartjuleBHld%kyppuyJhuBIsd[xAkgeyKaaMIeA&gF
yAsvbtxgbsQtv-jlphbjDldMLtr*iEakpkGyntNns+/\tejtDhsES	d@xoikxfDa
iGmvwwss.syyg8/\ujgDrDjLBjh!zAagpirBqsQnx&fFfpbtJggBzyi^tlzgcwKggKIrd+uI?
R~OEJeKBhzyxx^jlujcyrApsyCx/gBpncywgeBLjg:rKahttEguAyxi!vDplghLzaPIzp%
vDpfwhwgvGJqi@ymovbwwzvENx	

VGuvksyguAyem|yGfbqkrJE `TQ!ozargwKwfvNnz^fnfhqwwghxNym+mljpvt
mqogtfDpuByxd=tlogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvomtQ3iITaqdxwywxxex&gFavjtKlaxHle"kp
ozaowqLpnxxne!zAecAeOopsQnw&fFpbumAwattuv=jGdv?eKvaMIew@EfarttthcESeh=
tAubjfNlaFOhl!itpkejrlyvyux!zAawujrJE `TQ2flogvBGylxxeq;rFjogiAhaHHee
rmsigeKjbEyef@yudcnqQgeHyxd+uFaAgyrDpKEef^imvugeLofsNjg&tAmqiDrkpxMer=z
kJjuv rgGHLei\gyqng	rhoRvth,fIiqbmszaMLni%fypxksygjFuli|fmsqwsvgpOywd:nq
OzugtswAaDHtA|fFicveLojLtnw!gzagzhAAjGAex=Aoi+csv|hHtuv=iqtu?es
lmtekssAjGAee+jlggtyAsfsuwi@frptbjPwfKCri+zmukqslgsxMje/it.bcsv
jqwgntHtfGN	d#AFapqyrzpFyyl*tsavjfLgpGyeg@tlcgetElawyjt-ElfpvmMzjtMym$
gnpwveuvnFCyx*tsavqeHypwOhx*uzauAxLlnLtfx!ztjubyAtfn

ZtjubxAAvtNns+fIjnneuobGAj{!R~OEJeKhjwoedcklekhkwyfGNne:kpaEF]0VNszws_
ztfbrwsjuBwjw!ztbvbmsCfsvji+frpnntOlesOud:uloqyeAuawCxx/onvvksygetNfd=t
IP_TQRmgaYIwdg5ZDJbyzlaILtf-kyaykyzgDWaWShfutbptLgjMMet=xFbdkqAAzsIwd*zE
yxpypjKzauOyd:nqavyt	lezyid|CAsfbtxgitPnr"fFigbwwAsByAe-fmqrnnuhuBIsd@tp
ztfbwxwyaBHyi/lmdgbnFlyMLng@hxzbdtMuesOud>oFibvmwgetNf{!CtjejeAzaMBj
zKqkefDgDWaWShfBvdnnuhuBIsd_upfn}erPusCxd+uFacbhszfsIkd[AnmkumAuhsxfx@
hGubqkrkjLNwm#AFjpiesguRJng@rxzbuysue uqs+kfavAuAjbEFDd$rAtgfeKFtMyr{
gxm++xGmuPuwi7fGtgteAuuxLke$kfacpirkbMu][=tlbbnnLAmxtim|qgabJjFjfmtfp-
ztfbdjLDfxH]h*ywapcAAnbMCtr@rljuuzwzatMeA^rxacueLofsCrt=yEjdkqAAzsCsd_uEu
imtgueGmaBHyi"xmukplrkbMues+fAogbiAzlsQnx&fFicveGuatHtx&kD?bbRGzusWI[mUY
xqutkjNhmsMtj:CmsgbiGltsHtx!tquyqwCgwxLDd"xmdghzDszsuyd[xqtgpymga1IBi<kD.
ozavjjrwsxMjr:fIptnirvgsCrq@zGsgbxLhowuwh|fmofbqsjlsIkd;tpftuysueBHld=l
CtbvbswAxHLpd*trptofLppGtnw!uDayjfLguAyek/uGofbwMsfLtfv^frptbhJlbMCsk!uD
AEjpieAA.sJzf-oEikplrpoyIwq@zuppbtFgbsWI[mUYafqjKgbwxez@rGfbksrhaOywC
xqbnbxwutxo

R~OEJevyfPtfd$uzutcxLgcxNBi^tlDF+W7TatHid+kFxqtprwsBwnr"fmofbnFgeHCsk!yA
nuhjnnyouxxew=squjksygcBTfv/kljpbnFmpKGfx*uzartnupozoed?fxbtij
oztvkyMAjHHew;itacueLofs#sm<kDtkvDrvgsWfp*lAspkfrobLtAi+jAsubBzvaPCqp
urggteLvaLyqp!ozgqtrsAjHHes+fOE+TT5ggHLee!vDjegeHlssSje/fuobhtMyawClm:yf
hGubhtJguAyew@sqafcysg)xol	7fmobcgKAstwym+mlbpfeAuexRnr"fpbvcgszf	ttr
smhpgyAjaMuui7fDficwvsfLMes'ftpybrsuzsJjs[rqaocDrBtxtnx!iAoewwJloMFD{
CumnbvMvuxtfd[xudgbnFgtBReh*muuu}

3tbvbnKgqtwpe"kpaykyzguAyeG	/4PObnFgpGyew^tEfbcivzaOuqy^/\bbetEwmxNj
godguxrzzLNjq7fzpvboMzusLfA7fGotgkAufwtnr'uDncvnGu_ uqx&uGhjbnLgjLtss:
mqogtfDszsJjv$kuwgfeLobMtBe,alaVjnKgjLtgi$gGtgbyzlatwhi|yltqhyOhsxn
gxujqzyoaBNee%jEaxcqMl.sCxd<oqxgfetFaLIri!vqprnjlgqtLym$AxbtnDrposNmi
AzjxgwKpuRtjr<oDppojFAaPBjv^fFigtjrptsuez^xKajgfNFavIrq*zyfpveLv
tquyqwCpoznee|fnfkplrkfOyqs[kpakpeLofsQws+mlektjuAjHH 

MuwgpeLobMths+zqyv?e46OV2eh^yoskdjvguAyei\gyqngxrkfFIsw:xmugfeszattxi:fAg
oztwnfJgjGztv_gFjqpeylnLa]T^xEfwu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eGmgxLxd+oofnAeDpoDyi
ozgqtrsAjHH	d#AFayqzDkauyez^xKafkkxpdNFyd:uljpvjyybMyeA*ztaqvmwy
jmucdfKltmtyl@zlju?eLvaECso!zAhgvmwyaLyfq-kEtnAeOpuAttx&kDauqzJjfsznp^y
lDpobtLofKtxs;xofu}erPusLjw^snmguesuaBMqe+jfacpirposNmm|fDfurjuAaBM
yunknfJguHtsy_kDpwueKAbGx]e-uzfbrwGqfvNxd:nmubcwwgctMjh!uzaxkiwveBMhw7
ztbvbnKaaHHex&kltkplDl_PIwo|zmukqsrjpGwjt:a

GEauemGsbKMmm[fqwqnAwzaBHee!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv	rAixtue/gypwpyrufxxeA*rx
hqavqeDpoDtie:gnbugxmga$yeq;yFanksCgqxLxs+gxafcysibLyxd:ulqwdqAj
jmucdfKltmtys!mDpwrevhutvfw^yfakpexhjKFDd|kmnngxKgxtSx[TCtjejeAz
kJutgrwszsxnj'oovnveAuaMBjd^tHjtqsEloMMey+jqsbfnKjvLMns+fIjvjeuvqByxd=l
jmucdfKltsJws-orftcyAuhsuqp!uHftbyzlaIFfg^a

ZtfbptLppGttj!rmzgtnFnatFxs!yFsweprSZ7WMd@ylmwtpAuhsCsd|kHftcqrvgsNmi
vDplghLzawyrs+yFscvjvbas!jz^xmmbffLhctMjw!ozacbxwutxths+yFjvwyw
ozgqtrsAjHHee/itjxgxrDjMBty:fmauklFpgBwfr:fmnqwsLgpytse<osbvktFgcNCqx!oz?
KpvecyGytmthv*zudu?esuesIyl^xEaykqDgxtHyd@fxbAgwwkaLNwy$zGsg+]GufsNme:
jqgkpjKgpKtqm+qEarcyzzaMBws;mtavjjrsbRyww!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbtjsji
yBfekkAjaIInr:ygabKsrSZ7WM(|fHjgy	rsbRywm+mlxknqrifvIri!ozdtgfKpozFD
tqdguxsyzmtfr%fzpvboMzusQnx&ozacbxAuhEyev^yAvtejrivMtfg/uEtbtjKvvKwjw
[q?i}	rAstwnr"fyzvjtDvhRtfr%fovnvzJhmsNmi_kEacewGztsMjz^xmmbeqsztBwx
jmucdfKltsuxd>kxmbcxrhawuye#gEfbqkrYfGunw|gzdgbhMsuNLj=8flUjkxrhcBFnx,fFp
uDhcpnRlaKyxs;xofu?eLvauOnp%fFikplKgpNNes'fyvnvnHsfsIyl^xlujksyzaHHex&k
tquyqwCgpKtxi-koubrnwjfLttj!oF.btjHyfLysx^jlgqte46OV2es+klphbyzlaDyD
gEqgeyKgpytsi:CAsmbnFmpKGfx*uz?

IAovgsvpoztyl@zljphtJtbMCtr!xqvugeuvoLNnx;zqebcsGAixLew*mzjhkhsuusCxw;kf
R~OEJeuvnFysh^jluqbyzlatOim^tof&uesAuxHym=tlQtqowjus8JI	Yl)k}jmaa7uym=tmm
KzhkpjwyjGAeI%AobvktFgExFnz^xKaUAxLln	oedonutbrwGqfvN)w!unkgeyACfsCxd:u
vDpfwhwgbsxfx@hmtgbtxgfGAnr^kDjpieuvvKMjA@xqacueOlmEtfw!ztfbetEwpGysx|
ztbvbhsuauyey|kpavqevlwxFtt!tqxbetMytxQfv^alaKpesgoNGgi/fAgbvmwgfQCxx*ts
gBqnkhsAjHHx{!R~OEJeKhjwnex&kljuuzwgpytwi;yqa-jtOgnNwmd=tqaecsrAbDyee[gDu
gzebtjMzfsCsd=ztftbfHwmBwfx*uzt_bBszaGIyd#kuoibBwsmswtr|opftgimga1yee-yA
xmjugirAixtnw|AqaqhesjuBPjd<kDtwueHhtLCAi!AEf?btFlatMui$zlphbBzpdAtem|
nAxbozuoaBHks/smukqsrDjEFef^fybpkuMsbMyid-uobnnDrizsOxi/ygabOtKAaIytt-kf
nqactlMlemtre,fppbceDpuMFjd#xAxuksygbGxex&kzaykqDgxBMmd:ulqtksLbas64R{N
CmtbwsulsMunr!nAxbvmwzfsLjw=ADdgueOvvExef^fGtgfetFaMBjd<gEubofBvsBNDd=l
AEftueAuaMBjd+kFxqtprloOCws+sqov}

R~OEJeFlyMtxe*jlbbhjOgxHLiw!gnpwve$|XBHis>ylbubfrDbRttj!jughgwwuuBuym+m
hquygjFgoxNBs/qlbeejKzatHid+kFxqtpwkaBHks/smukqsmgaTtsy_hqsbqkrAix
gBqnkhsAjHHxd%kyppuyJhuxxee:fFigb2GylLBtt!iAvnfetlaKyBv*zFfpbyGgvLye2
gosquxrAixtsi:CAsm?eKvaMBfx!uzfbetMsesLzr!ztfobkJvnsusC!4\dcrftsfsxjz*iq_
/mayqwCzutNns+ lbpb3rAfKGnr@r\_cpirAstHxe$zlxkvmrhawuye#gEfbchJvtLtyl^
tquyqwCbasUqx&uGhjbyzptsIui+ylvrbfujfLMee!ruuvnjlgbLMzq*tsaqpjrobLtjr=Asi
tquyqwCguHtme+jxfbkylgjMtis^yloqveHypOCii!gzakpywygtwjd:ulegxjDvqsu
vDpitfEguAuyd$uzwgpnwuuESem+zqhtcywzaBHks/smukqsrmsHGeq;rFjrnjrkbMuge|kE?
4ljubfrCjxQnr"fFfejsGspzSex&gFajcxrsjFCyw8flJpbfryftFew^tEf?bnLgjLtoy|zlb
mDbrjnuhmsPjv|oAobqkryfFIyi!rAh+ksrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKE d!4\uArjrhqIFng@zuppu
xqqtgxwuusIsp,fAogbxLlqsCsd:nqarttyyfLMns+fFpycwvzaKyfp!godguxm

R~OEJeFlyMtim|iGtugiribKLni/yluqbyzlawCxx/onvvktFgpytsi:CAsmgirtvENnq^jub
ozgqtrsAjHH d!ZtfbjjsyusIkd:nqartttsfFtnw!glmceprvgsMye+jmsfueLvaILtz*jq
ztfbcgAsjMSej=xldqouMAfKMex=fFbnmeLvaxuhl!uFigt	ryfMLni<kljphtJtbMCtr7
gzebumMmgEyem:fmsqwsvggtCwp,fobuwfDsznteE:fFigbrGtfGN	d-oFungeHypzLjw|fut
hqjpieEhexttr!yFbpffJktsztv!tquyqwClesCsj=xybvktF}ayIwd^DmnrnjlgqKyxi+z
yFbpffJktsxtd+uFaeqAwyaBGfk^yfafklAAbEtAs*iq.bcsvgeBAnx@rlwkfjGbasU
AEfhwqrApHFeo*zlphbjPjitHli!lAsocyKggHLef@yudbvjPAtsCxd=txzbptOgcxCsk
gEtgogDlenteX&kltAphzypGCEe:oAobqkrjpGNjr:fEutgfEza{C i8 ltAphzypGCEm+mlb
BAjegeLybvEex=fmaxkiwvaMLfg) lfuvftsjLBnr"fFfortJhmsLjp@zuppuetluPyjr
jughgwwuuswtq[uzfpvxrposueq;rFjogiAhaHvoi$z>aeqsKAjMOyi|fmoqvmwyaBMxy^
lAsbpjLDpKEjh!sGmvkrwkjttyl@zljuboMzusvjk*tzjpieLvaKyhi*BqacvywuuBIs	

1zegtqQpoztsi:CAsmbuJvuHwtp|fmmuqeFlfwtxs_klxqtphghHIi{!xqbn+yAtf
jqmkxjJFaILtx=iAmubtFguAyeM+zqspgyrkpsHtx!EqubgCAzunteM+fXZPEM\zaOCjA7
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFakpeLojLths+zqyvbnKguAyer=zuppbtxgoxNBs/qqebfnyputF
unkgeyrPELnex&klbdkqAAzsIkd=tqaqdowjusIsd:nqapgyOvsDtys!vAjpveLvatHtx&kD
unkgeyr]pKths_vAogpyrAixLjs']lppbyzlaGyyA=xw?bbXwyjHOxd#gzeykiLoaBMxy^y
gxtqbjPptMoedg5ZDJbBszaNHhi/zmjpbnxgcBFqm=t\ckv]Hls Mjg=tpapgyOvsDMeA=Axe
vDpxgeKBgyChm^tFakheFBnxLty|fBfqrqwgstHez*jqpbksrwbKuqp^rg

R~OEJeuvovFzh^jlcAbtxmfKCsk!gzakuxMlayIwd%gFbdcxwgdKyfx=xEavqeuvoLCii/ 
gEaygqDgbLtxi<kDbnbhGtnxHyw!gnpwveOobMtrm"nFaeqsKAjMOyi!mApfbyJpbE
sGmvkrwkjttjB[kDjogsLz?stNr!glogvBGylxxem+lAsocyAvosQtv-jlujgevhutvfw^
hGjnfjJgpKtxi/BudgbgMpmwywdRvGcnkxzls	tis^yloqvewEfKwnw^fFigbxstf
kJugpxACfswtr:xAmbqAwyaMBjd*tFfitnLFaHzex&klqtgxwuutNns+?ltvtfFnf
vDpitfEza.Gzr"k|aykyzgpGy)w!jmucbgwmpKyex&klvugwrzfxMem:alaUgwAvvL
ztpwimLgnNMyd#klhkxjFguHtBl@zlhwcwsuuxyxd*tFfitnLFaHzet/kEfpvfLppGoedkgDu
uravjfLgjLtwi-gFffbyGgxAywi!uzfbfwsDtsNmi!hAvpffJpfLtfv=AzebceFluPIwo^j
ozgqtrsAjHHew^xHjeg rgUACxd]AqtvktFgpytuv^yqovcyAvosCsx^mDjvAeAu
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!iAnrwyAuhsBfw!tAubdjwuaLNwi|yqebgsGBhAtnr!ztfbchskfFCh
CAsnf	rSZ7WMd@xsvgf	rAiHOll!iAnogwupbEtxi/BudgbuJvwBxjv|fpfcneOpuAtnx
xqhwnfJszn

IAoegwFpoztry-zungfnsaa5'SGcfAcugwNlesNme:fspqfeEBmMCri%omacveLofsGtq^tF
oEajkiwvvLFDd^DBfpunNlaMIet/upveg rgIxtwi$uyngpiwkaILth;iuoibrMsuBGjh*g
CuujbjAAixLez^xKajklzgttFjd<gxvg?eGyaFOqx*sqekceOpuAtfd<kDzbntFnaECki
yBbp?eGyaFOqx*sqekceLobMtBm-rlicxjrhaOywC!hDpcfeMzbzyef@yqacpirDiHMj
iAtvueLofKyks/kldcpetlatGtv:oLffbfEvoztqe/mqapwrtlsLttj!AEftu rgJGtyl*y
iAopghLppGnel*yFptkhssatHid&AybpkxLpdtFqC!uDjgpywkaFuyi/ommbofQgcxtfd"uA
