A primary goal of CXP has been to evaluate the paper output printed on
the Xerox DocuTech, a high-speed printer that produces 600-dpi pages from
scanned images at a rate of 135 pages a minute.  KENNEY recounted several
publishing challenges to represent faithful and legible reproductions of
the originals that the 600-dpi copy for the most part successfully
captured.  For example, many of the deteriorating volumes in the project
were heavily illustrated with fine line drawings or halftones or came in
languages such as Japanese, in which the buildup of characters comprised
of varying strokes is difficult to reproduce at lower resolutions; a
surprising number of them came with annotations and mathematical
formulas, which it was critical to be able to duplicate exactly.

KENNEY noted that 1) the copies are being printed on paper that meets the
ANSI standards for performance, 2) the DocuTech printer meets the machine
and toner requirements for proper adhesion of print to page, as described
by the National Archives, and thus 3) paper product is considered to be
the archival equivalent of preservation photocopy.

KENNEY then discussed several samples of the quality achieved in the
project that had been distributed in a handout, for example, a copy of a
print-on-demand version of the 1911 Reed lecture on the steam turbine,
which contains halftones, line drawings, and illustrations embedded in
text; the first four loose pages in the volume compared the capture
capabilities of scanning to photocopy for a standard test target, the
IEEE standard 167A 1987 test chart.  In all instances scanning proved
superior to photocopy, though only slightly more so in one.

Conceding the simplistic nature of her review of the quality of scanning
to photocopy, KENNEY described it as one representation of the kinds of
settings that could be used with scanning capabilities on the equipment
CXP uses.  KENNEY also pointed out that CXP investigated the quality
achieved with binary scanning only, and noted the great promise in gray
scale and color scanning, whose advantages and disadvantages need to be
examined.  She argued further that scanning resolutions and file formats
can represent a complex trade-off between the time it takes to capture
material, file size, fidelity to the original, and on-screen display; and
printing and equipment availability.  All these factors must be taken
into consideration.

CXP placed primary emphasis on the production in a timely and
cost-effective manner of printed facsimiles that consisted largely of
black-and-white text.  With binary scanning, large files may be
compressed efficiently and in a lossless manner (i.e., no data is lost in
the process of compressing [and decompressing] an image--the exact
bit-representation is maintained) using Group 4 CCITT (i.e., the French
acronym for International Consultative Committee for Telegraph and
Telephone) compression.  CXP was getting compression ratios of about
forty to one.  Gray-scale compression, which primarily uses JPEG, is much
less economical and can represent a lossy compression (i.e., not
lossless), so that as one compresses and decompresses, the illustration
is subtly changed.  While binary files produce a high-quality printed
version, it appears 1) that other combinations of spatial resolution with
gray and/or color hold great promise as well, and 2) that gray scale can
represent a tremendous advantage for on-screen viewing.  The quality
associated with binary and gray scale also depends on the equipment usedp?
LAsbksKAbGwj{!huoctDrzdtHsm+mlqtqiMjfLtfd_AoibdjLAfKths[ElppbfrijGuwC
vDjpvjJb

GyppieU5Q,Mej*tpjpixrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgqKIiy$zuppbtxgnBwws'oxnbhwGtawClm:gx
lumgu	rRF78J3!xqqqtywkaMBfx!ztfbfnyputFej*rqtbhtJguAyew@sqaTgjvgmxwyy/k
CqsgbzKlesNtd[xAewejrzbFJqi!lumobzKpoztfr!kxfevwGuauyfq!xqdqtiwy?stYl^
xqtwnyAuhsznp_fIbubkspuAzzp!zAavjjrpntAjd$gBuwtjrvgsNmi!juhkvfDggBFjw7
gzebymAsfsW3T!lqmvbyzhusNmi!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^fBbigxryfILjw^tFffbnFguAyeV^kp
rqdvwwwgxxLjd|ABftktJguHtyl@zlphbyzlaECll:/xfpuexpmFnex&klsgutDBuBIs
xqbfksyzayIwd:nqa8`#rkqBtBi/kloqveszaACll!gEauvfFkbKxeq*iDphkqEpozo
QQOPG4rhszOjh!ztbvbyzlaLNfr%gDeubiwmjGyid'uDanklzA_Eysw!zqdjptDvhRtfv^
tAubvtLhmESex/gzthgwsimxtys!glekinLhmsysz*xAoogsLbas7tv^uHft?eLofRtfv^
hmtgfeGuawykm+oFjqpeGmaJOfp*zKahqwrhaILjw^xHbvktFgdHJD	!fMmvjtMnisGfo*ts
ztjubhszfsQnp-fBsqxjrApsvjd@fxppi	rBqACqp!yFswilDl.sW3T!vxbpueLvavIsx*tGf
zAakpAwzuBAfx^fFigbnKzvxttz^xlujgeuvvKMjd=llujgeFlyMtDi@xg

QQOPG4rjpGwqy%kpavjnKgqHLym=tlphbmwyaMuqo!CuujbfrkjLwzw|oAobqkrAix
gpwcpysnfLttj!iDfcvnFnayCqq2fljvbhsuaLywz^fmtbceHyjFuwC!hmdmwurhowtfw!g
vDfugwNhuBIsd_gEugteLvaMBjd%osjvcqrmjEy.d*zldqwqvguAysd#kopogeLofsJwm+z
uDarttvBdMCtr!smtvgwrhowtxi/BudgbhGwjxMeg=AxebdjrwbIyw{!lumo?eGwuBwfp
jutmu	rtbzHjx*ilngfnsaaHLes+/EdtgjFgeBMup@Eg

LuocnqQaa4YSR 5lqtgxwuuxxeh^zmjnueJlaILth;iFjqp,

flabb+rKfOyqs[sqovbfFkaMyxx*tsaqhesgnHxjv@zqmA+mAnisLjw=rGukqsrwsHxzg:oAo
flabbxuhoGCsk!CAsmuysAjHHev^vDfugsLlesuex&oDebitssaHzeGsVbavqevhuxne57$*~
flabbAGsvFyxd&gHfbdjwuaLwfr+kp.bqwrhcHOydx$*.``#rpntAjw8

flabb+r1ixtwi|AxukplrkjzCye-frjngxrhsxtxx=xqebcsvgvLyid:ulqtqiMjf
flabbmsye wtt,fDfrnfulnxHyw!lAsbvmwgpKClm+gxtbcsvgbwxnx*uzbnbuJpoMMes+
flabbiwtbGx.d@rFiqwlzguAyem+oFjcneuvtMMee/klikimlgtvusr*tsavghzupEIlC
flabbtxmfKMee+fmghqwvhcEyeq^gztbhtJgsxztv_gFukplrisBNyp^fybvgwAhmn

flabb+rHaMyhl+oojcpeAuaILth;iFjqpeEvexthe+fEdcpe&%~sJfk^ylqgtezvvKtBl^t
flabbuwygHLrm+mltkplDl_LBji:fEdcpsAuhmtBl*itakuesgoxwjw|oFzbymwuaPIwo*ts
flabbBAAisNwy-ElctkyLsfsJft^xbavjnKggBAzv^futbgCHldMyid:uljpewwhtx
flabbxAnoBzng@tFmAbBAAisMzf|kCvgpyrpuxLfx*uztbqkrAixtxs'zIbtgexypFt3i/uJ<
flabbfrAiKyj[_uzujbyAtf ushTiAtvbxLBeRttj!yobppnFnayIzr%fFicveLofsuAi/gsf
flabb8=%_Iuli!hApmbBGBmwtye)klbdqzLgbGtms;xlbpfexvsMSeq*tGugueLvaLwfr
flabb=LojLtkm"ADfbksusvwyid:nqavkrwggHLew^zGq?bBzpdAtnr<uxwgueClzBHld*t
flabbuJpntLDd#onmkqlJhqAChd%gFb?blGpoztnr:ulrwcqAAzswtr:xAmbotvlaMI
flabbiwmjGyet@mqaukEwaaxMye#rutjksyggKIsxTzA_dchCgsxAnw:xmukqslgbGx
flabbxuhoGCsk!ymnrnjrwbzyxd:uljfgsLpgRtfd%krbwnyrybGAjd=lltgvyAuhLtks/
flabbyzlaxHym/klcqqp	|gNHhx*uztbptLgeBMxm_oxbtbyGguAIxi!vqshqwElesvD
flabbkAsnxLxd=xlujqxwgqKyue/ozhbcetvpDtks/fBiqvtuvqR  

flabb+r1ixtkm+gxauvjHgjGtyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbksNvmOyid/kEdcpxlgxAChl
flabbmswqBFDd>kDfbhjOgbGxej@xlcgvBwlomtwi[xqtgpyAuhsQjp-fGofgwr8aIywg^tF
flabbtxguAyex=zmmbrfyltsMhe+tqe}

OzacfiAAjHHex=fFfejsAjjtHex*sq.bE38gdHMyi%fAvvbjIBjIGjr: lboqwLpAxxes<kD
lAvtbDwhsLnex&kldquyrvgsMys/ozhbcsvgsxzwi|nuoibyzlawClm:gxahkqwzaxPjv,
lAvtbDwhsLnee+jlujgeuvtMttj!vDjpvnFnatHid#ozekpllgcHIp[$rAujbgAueBHl{!g
vmqgteJlqKIiy$zupp}er1ixtys:gxacotMuuxxex=fmankyLsfsOsh^xl%87eHlssMnr"rq
9*~+rfylaOIqy_kfaykyzg4[tui/iqovbtNlsAyfh!ozdnwiwk_ uej*mGsgbhGtqxNnx*Bq
CuujbyzlaILng^yldwtwwuuESeg&gDhgfetFaIBtx=iAqAbAwueHLx	

UraeqzJzfmtBm:nltecsFpoznem+fmefkyAvosNtd:nqarcuwyayuhw*sumg?eGufsCxd-kru
CuujbfrkjzCye-frjngexypFtBl*itauwgKlrNysx!iAqkgxrvgsNmi!hApmbhsuauy
vDpfwhwkayIwd@frsceyAvosIkd:nqaeqxLgpytul=zAdqrDlgxBNmd/kmegtxrhgyIwh^j
itpkejKgjGtyl^frptoeGmaMBjw^foprkjKb

QQOPG4rjpGwqy%kpavjfLgeBAnx@rlugemFvmHADd=lrftuesuaxFjg:xAokeeElbGMej=xlb
ructcwQgqKyxi/BmukqsrlgyIwx!zAarcDrmpKtnx|kxg}be1mattgv*zFmg+gGvlsJws"xmn
ozdnwiwkaMBjd_kmoubtxgeBMxi_ozbvksygsxJwm+zEaqhetvpDMex&gFactjrposxjq@tp
hKankgJhsByxd@tpatgxwhsvBjv|fmmkmjlguAyem+oFjcneAuwxMyq^tFakpeuhqMOwi
iAvnfetlaKyhs<kDffbfFkaNMjh!zAartjKlsOyee%juukqsssauOyd-kEtbrtHBmtL
hApmu rgTAyeh*yomqujvguAuyd@tlfeqsGtjvtrs%kxahqwrhaLyqjTyGtvcnFpoz
vDpitfEgdHOqh!hqafgAwspIyid'uDaEZU\zaKyus/zluqbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGu
VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwzts	HT?]g

QQOPG4rzuKyxw^jlujcyrAixtks$AEaqheU5QsBfw!hqfpbtFgpuNfm+ozhbjnyoaJOfp*zK
ozacbuJveNwym=tlfpxnJvoFysx8flUjgeMzfsIkd%osjvcqrAfvBss-uszbkxrCjxQjh!gE
gzachkGyetvqi!gxugtssAjOyex=fAujgwryfyIwq@zFjpieGwuBIsw8

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
GZETGe?gPOywz*kIacpirojLNtv,fAgbPF`KQs{eZ@xupwuesnsBwzp:ADbnbHV|S87
vDpfwhLzavLje:kpakpmGBtxtfr%fnzbujJCjvyef;xqbwue?gQBFtx!vDplghLgpG
OzugtswAaMLfr|sutuktFg(sUih*zuppcqrwsHxzg:yljpbuJvhKyxw!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VmngnfrHOW`J{!gEtqensAfsxnv^iFptbkGyatOys_gFjqp	rUbMCtr@rlBitnuBmMOwe-
ZqyvbIAnjMCEm+mlQtqlJhns	SEoJ2-?bSsAjHHfp!GsskezDAvKuqdgonsctDr]OT6[{
vDfugsLlesusd=BqsxkjOgpytSEoJ2.bymAjisBfw!hqfpbzFkfKQfC!gFaPCQrAixtqe|z
lAvtbDwhsLnef^lAsgbOMkjMBe4dJMSbfnKjvLMjh!ztfbvjuooBwfp!jquckqKbasUSHmK
jqgkpjvgbzLng;rFvtcqrpoyIwq@zuppbfKgbsvws@jlscplwgpytre:kDjcneyvjGAej/uy
hmtkeesuesuut-oqebtjKlbKwmd*tlujgezhswtxg*kzdgueLvaMBjd=tq_rclwgqtGul-kFt
ztbvbfJlawCxx/onvvgirizsNmi!iAprgwsAjOyew:gFfbgCLloLCtr!yqsxkhwzaHHew;it
ztjpixrhtsBtA!zAaittOgcEOjf^xDjgu 

TMUFRetlhtHem+fxbvge'$9-tBm:nlbbojwAjGAes'fDfrtjKloMuym<kEahttEguAy
rmof+lJhoMtqm#xmsAbhGtnNHnx,fFpbfjssaPCyl!ztfbkxKBfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
ozgqtrsAjHH d!TMMbcsvggHLyCTluwgbtxguAyxi!ructcwAltsvfr%kpavqlwAixLex=
kEucdqAzisNmm|fBsqljuA_ Ntd^BmmwcywguAyex^itoqntyFayIwd$uzwgtyAuhsQme:
CqsgbyzlosMty/iqafqhMtfGNxd*tlqcrjJggHLrd*tFpbgqwjuKIsm$frpto	rApsJws<opf
godguxrApsNme:fpjikyssaBHks/smukqslgbGxex&kzavqevptMLnf;zqakv 
JutvtntBuBHld:nmubofLlsBuqd:ulujgeuvnFOsm:E\_vjjrBoBPjv|oFzbetEtvGCyC!gE
CqmnbfKguAyei\zqouktFgtxLAm$kldqorMujMS	d[uFfpvnssmRtis>tluqbyzlavIzr:E
rqwgn]	jpGMym:AFffbyzlazLty[-EaejnwmavIsg^xz?

Yuoege2hoNuwC!7&90b=OofGtyl^fyjettuvnIOyi//nbugirzdtHsm+mltAuywtaPux
oztvcqDlesuydiGX-?bSS1E9tme|fpppgesgwtLni:ElphbyzpozM	d$uzdgtsAuhsQmm$n
6UECTeOvvExet/uHjfgexBsMBjv!jquckqKbasZtv!kJborqwaaMBjd'oDtvbywjiGIqs"E
iAoukiwyfwtnr!ztfbrwGqfvN)w!jutewxKppGtul@yqaycxrkjzCye-fHjfgtvptvneA&ooi
ozekefLltsBtA!rAoibfyvaBNeA@yldqphwpwxx 

UHftbyzlayIzv!EqbtueGmaMBnw!vDplghLaayIzv!yqqctfLlaVX]VjSlqtqiMjuLttr
lAvtbiAmgxLjr:fmhtkhMsuNLfp!zAqkexrDfKyeg/kmugf	rAxHtfx!g
yobppnFn_tHi[jI4auvfLppGtnr|zmmngirhus8FP7fmofbyOvauSew^xHjegetBsxuzw8
Ztvu?e6HUW0el@ylhckswkavIrt@xmukxjrpoyIwq@zuppbnFguxLrw!uravjtKlaKyqe:oHf
iAtvu rgFtwmd=llujgxwgqKIiy$zEaeqsLhjGyid:nqahwqDgB`WNM!zqyvbfKgxxFqd@y
vmhgbnEhhxMes'fFigbrsAfKCfp7fAsbdjLDfxHe87$*~bcsvg7m]#@!vmhgueGmaFuyi/omm
uzavjjKlawCxo|alaVquAjtsCsg-ApffbfIBbvOqx;xq.bhtGk.sulv*iGmvwwwgbGx
yojgphwg)Boj	7fuovgwFhuBIse-fmhtkhMsuNLjd@tpatgxwhsvB[{!gojfbwspomtfr%
Gsfpve7ybGAj{!CtjejeOhtsNmi!luocneHypwOhx!jutvtntBuxxe+@vBsqznEhuxFD
kuhjvjwuaFIsx&ylcghtJlaMBjdruDlujtH/?

ZtfbvmAyesJme|klphbSS1E9tks$AEffbtFgexFnz^xKaoghzhoBMrw!uFigteLobG
IP_TQRmgaTNex&kltwilwzuBIsd=llDnkkxvswtQ3iIT.bymGgxtMee!zqdjpnuhm
iAouwqLhoMtys!ztfbrwGqfvNee:fFikueHvjGN	diG6ERbgwjbFyem+BAmxgirDjMBex&k
OzugtswAatHid*tuukcywkattuv=pqdvbBAAisNmi!nqmrbtxgOHLyl!ImsqnnFha`Nfx^
1zjxgwKpuRnem+fIikemrmpNLyi^tlphbyzlaEushTmDbpveMujOyww*zKankgJhsByxd@xq
zDbpurAAuBHld%osjvcqrpntAjw!uHftbyzla2Hyi/tqubksryfLJtr|kluqbnFAfKFnf/gDz
rAbpbwwxvxMywT/mavquAjayIwd@tAujgwrtfxNnr"alaCveLojLtus*tF.bvmwgqBFtx
vDplghLgitxef^kzaeqrHsfMyid'uDacdtMAattDi@xlbpfeLofsznr@rlsgrtJAaPIzp%fnf
gHbknftsfsMms/zxzbckLlssNmi!3AsmumGw?stNr!ztfbojsuuBGj{!ztfbrwGqfvN)w
yGdegxKgitxep^jluqbnLzaxRyi+yupp}er]B7XWI!tAugfeLobMttr^fAgbvmwggBLxx
ztjpixrkpGyey+jqsbvmwgqKIlv@slukvqwgxtMex=fEfnghLgbsLjx/oqwcneHhdDuli!zA
AEfbynLoaLOgw^wGfpveHypwOhx|?lXkpiGDts0jv|uzbnbQAistLne+fIbubyzlaIuho@mq
uraejtAjfsukx^xlbbnjFnuASei<gxvcvnGu?	

ZtsggeskeBNns+gxarttvBdMMel@jlcggsrwmtHsi%fmofbBwyfsCsd[xAhtgxK?

flabb6{gBGtfv/gzhgojFAaPCyl!ztfbCrwyjvusdnuojgvDrvgsUlv=tAnA+]s
flabbuJvgxMxm=tmmbutupfMSex&gFajcxrwvuFnw&kpavjjrHhKIss_ElKqwwFhmsMnr$k
flabbftvvMt6!E@\_vqeKjbGtfr%fosgcywgcBN]q@vBffbnEhhxMes'fuuuboGBsGuq	
flabbF~HazLfr:kpargwEptLCtr!lusuveLvaIOyd@tpavjjFguHtim|zDjdwywguACx
flabbrsAfKCfp!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAso?eLvaAIqh!oFacve6HMmtfr%fFpbwxwguAyxi
flabbjDldMLtr*iljoclwzatMee!sqdjcsAznsNtd%kxjxgwrkpvOri+zEaqteHyjGNes;z
flabbrsAfKCfp!lAsbrfLypGM	d@sAoibtLofKtzw^ygabGkxldMCAi-EfaPCQrobLtyl^
flabbwAniMtys!AEfbvmAzaFuyi/ommbksrzvIJtv:fAgbkyKgqKIlv@sg
flabb=~phGCkm$gzunA	rAiBMee/xmoigrwuusIkj^xEacbuGAfGNne-fopqrjJhuBPj
flabbrGkfEtks/fIptmnFnaPCyl!uFigteHypyyxw*uzbnbxGjjxNni|fuobclJpdNFyy/k
flabbyGguKSex=fppbvmwgttGjd:nuoi+]HBusNmi!pAvtpfDzaHzet@xFjewqsyaBHyi/kEu
flabbyGgbzLng;rFvtgeJltxuwg&fuovqewsfvNws+ooahqwEb-

flabb7{gBGtjB:kztkqsrvgsNmi!kmsnkjJgqKIiy$zlppbfIBbvOqx;xq?

flabb8{gUAyeK^uDhgb2sziBHlx=tlDctAwya9uui/y\_cboGpoMtuv=pqdvbBAAi
flabbYMzlxAji!1zjxgwKpuRtys!yobpbfFkavIsz^xFahttEgnBwws'oxnbutEla*n0@E
flabbnEhhxMes'fObtxjJ_tsJft^xE.bnjLAfKM	d@tpaftfOpozM 

OFaycxrhoMChm[gFffbyzhusuqp!uravjjKlaILth;iFtbytMsesuut^gDapqeEvsxtyl@t
yuybotFAiLtfj:kDavjjr4pKExl=vg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UECTe?g)Ttxi[gDbvgesyfGuej=xltecsFpoz e_!YFfrueAuavLje:ozhbcevhutvfw^f;
OybigeuhqMOwi7fIjvjesuesQnx&uGubrjJmpKGnr"f1DTb+rRfRCsk!ozavtfurjGAeh@zm
=lTecsFpozneA*ztagnjuAsHHng!gzebofFBbEtyv@iwjpie?gBwDzw:sqovuevBsBHl
yobppnFnaILtg^yEa)bXuhoGCsk!xqtqnzLppGMe_!IAnrtjKzjHHe_!Jq_umjOpoztfr%
lumvgwAuhs{eM_gsfbefHAvKyej/uyaokhJvgHLr\!fFigbuswfKMee+jlmgvywytsIk
Mqptijr4bLBnr"zAobEfJCfKt+d wGjrojFAaNMjh!lAsbceKjbGHnr"fEzuvjEg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PGekvmr7JWUW{!iAptfnFhuHL	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqr1fQNeH*muukBnFna9Ltk/gy
[ZBVFU{aa7uym=tmmbClJpdNFyy/gxaNkgJhsRt=R?R>.bkqDBtMLfx^jlujgeLldAHng@r
jquckqKgpytSEoJ2.bksusvwCsk!nqsbrwAtbKSev^yBppuntpmBND{!yobppnFnatHi
iDfcvnFnawuye#gEfubtFgbsNtt*ilbpfeHBuMCsk!ztfobtFgDWaWSha

[`JFCWryfFuwo^jlbbujHhstNjd@xqocbkJvnsNmi!IP_TQRrwsHDjg:yfacnyzvvzBex&k
vDpegxKpozttj!ztfbofLlsBuqd*ylogcwDFaBxjr:oobn?eAuaPBng&fZBVFUrptsuqw=
yobppnFnaFuyi/ommbcsvgmHuim+mljvbtFgbs8jB:fyjettuvnIOyi/ lxjkhzgjGtyy/t
oEanksClesNtdiGX"ubnFAfzLfx^jlmkdwsyzsMDw:ky?bbYzBtmtxi@xoigueAua7UQ(|
hucnktyybIBng!jmucdfKlaPCqp!kzbdnjrwfHJqi!zAarwqDgvItfg:AmmbrfylaBGfk^y
gzebvjPAayIwd@tKafqhMtfGNxd:nmubjfNlauyjr!kzugtjvb-

OzacehGyetHhi!CuujbyzlaLyxw*uz"ubyGwjvne4dJMSbhtuBtxxel^xljnnzKAstNjh
zmmmbtFgjFuli!imqvwwwaaHzki/ozhbceHyjFywd=tlujgeLosxyeq@ozauvjHzaBHex&k
vDpegxK?as&[d@yEfodqwguAyet/ozugfeHBcEChe:oAou>e"/awyxm"tlujgevhutvfw^
[pbvcgszfsxjw*mzaqehMytsCsd:nqarttultLttj!vDfrcwAuhsNmi!smugtnssayIw
yobppnFn<sNmm|fEugrewuutCqw!xqwkgBAuhsush!uDhcpnRpoztyl^fybvgwAhmm
jqgkpnFnaMBjd$uzugpyK|_PBfx!CumnbhGutMCyy:klbbtjuvswneA&gFamksvzaHz
lufnfxrDjEFef^fobrvzJlesCsd:kDnubtxgbNNms/ lukvqwaaxNh	S?l4_buwygHLrd@
iqsvcnFgbFIzr:fAgbofJrvIttr!ztfbrfHlssJzf-oobvktFz?stSEgfBfthtJttsNmm|
zmtmbwwjpKxef,fDfeqwvaaILjt@xuoibBGylsMmi^zEaqteKvnxttx&kDauqwLgpy
zDbemnFnaFuyi/ommbcsvgexMnk+ozhbfjKjsBJys/ylbpfeGAixLei+nmoegrwuuLtys!hq
gpegfeLvaMBjd%gFbbvmsAaPCqp!tAubdjrjbINzv^jlgtqrrAixtuv*tFffbuMimBwfx*uz?
VmsvbtxguACxd[xAdguxrhmLIem+BAmxgxrkfMywq*tuoibSS1E9.xd'oxfbcsvgeBLjg:uDz
yFsweyMyfhteR?ZPQbcyLlnINxd:ulbxqnvgqNNym+mlnqtjrAitHee[vDpzkrsAfESe5E$
oybigxrposueh*xqdvqwQaauyhe;yqarnfupoztrs/klujcsrAitNes+fmaEF]0VNsQty-j
xqewejrAixtfg$kEtbuuwlen

ZtjubzH|gKIsx!vDpegxKgutEjw!gBqtqCAtbMyqC!zIpbyjwrtsztv!g
`f~``]-a~[]]t@mqafcysibLy d!ZtfbpjPAaLNjt!oEavqeuhqMOwi!ztfbrfylaBGfk^yg
NAxbntFnaMBnw!vDpegxKgutEjw!oEafgywynBHjh!hKavjjrkfvCxm=tlxjgyzlssIwd+uF
zAargwxvsFtTGmalaPqyrwfKztv_ozhbQH0gtIyjh|fFigbuJvdxMx{!CtftgfKguxRy
imqvwwwgsxKzm/kEaitjsAfKthe/klcgefMzfsIkd:nqaswfDpuRttj!ztfbkrsnfhtem:
nmtbvtrifsMyv@osivgwrhowtfp-uIbpejrtvLNef^fybfgexvssNjB:fAobceHhhxner=z
pGtvbkGyaMBjd$gBuwtjrvgsJms:usscrmKb

TMUFReClzLtnr!zDbemnFnawuye7fFicveAz.suew:gzectirijuFns"xmqjkhryfvIwh
ozdnwiAuhsNmi!zuungeGmaMBjd#uAlbcsvguAyex*zxfbqkrAixthl@vFft?eOojvBeA*rx
rmugtewpuAywd#kopogeLofsuhg^yEakpkGyntNns+fAsbynDsauyee:zmdjgirApsNmi
lDppveGmattky-r\ugzyryfvIwh!yAavjfLgjMtnw!yqbtemsimxo

Oybigxrhsxtxg@tzffbkJvnsuef=AzebqwrBouIzr%fBvdnnuhuBIs{!itjghqQggKIr
hAvpfeHBcEChe:oAoubnFguAyeg@yqaqhe6HUW0	d&uIfxgwlgcxwfy|klphvjFguAyDd@xq
ztfbqsDFavIum^ylbpfeLofsJzf-oobvktFzatLjd/kFvtpjvguHtyl^fEignAwz?stSEoJ2
AEvcnqQgtvusw!uzfbtjuvswtfx!glukojlgcxwfy|kljvuevhutvfw^fFscepAuhsMDw:ky
zDbemxrAixtis$AyfpveAuaMBfx!CmzbcsvgeHyxd+uFatgvMpsxtky/ztftbqGnjvuq
yqqctfLpozttj!ztfbkrsnfLoed?lFftbuwygHLrm+mlprvnuhmswme/gougt
xqdqisAAjHH	diG6ERbrGCfLtyl^funcijKgpyzex&klictirkjLEee+jlncksLhjGMee
BAmwojrzixyy	!f6iqwlzguAyew,yFfobyJhdDMei-koutqsAjbEFD{!gxmbvmw
vDpegxKpoztxx^vEactjrhmLIex/golgfeEhoNuqp,fIjvjesgmHAew&kqu}

6UECTeFlyMtnp-AEutcywkaMBjd)ozeubtxgbwDzw:sqovueLobMttr^fobpbrsrfsQmi+
yobppnFnayLtq!vmqgtesuesGng/urjno	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eJleHCsk!oybigxrAitNer^kp
yBfekfDgitHip*ts.bujLAjGAej=xlekvmwyjGAes/fsscAeKjbEy	d@tpacfoMzuBHld'uD
hDjijyFltLttv!lAsbvmwgxAIqi!hApmbfLgpGyex*sq?

TMUFReAzaLwfr+ozhbcyr0~[tis:ylqgteAudAnee!yFbpffJkaLwfr+ozhbtjKvmNNns+a
ZtpwimrhexKze:klgqteuhqMOwm+mlugzyrAitNem|fmmnbtxgbsMye+jmsfbxAGfmt8@E
jBjbkxrBoLOnx@hxfbhtJgbGSeo*tpaqheHopMIlv@vtjebrsAfKCfp!uDahqwrCfKSew_gxm
zqyv}erTbGSew$gzogtxrhmEIBd'uDafkkxlsxHyd*smhgbkGyntNx{!ZUGH?eGmavIzv|kf
hqjpiesgextke$zAauvfFkbKx d!HGubkkrvoxtnr:kzeubyGgfQwme+mqakofyltsQnx&
uFigteHlpIFj{!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fEdcpeGAixLem_gsfbhtJtbMM	d^BqobkkrAixSee/k
rqtubhGtnHH	d#kopogxrojzBqC!jqtktftsfn

IOJVVeYypNJe8!oEavjjrzutHie/jldqouJltLCtr!lAsbptJtbEtgp@iw_cpi	DiBNj
oybigxlgK9YLd'uDaitfQgtvuqi!uDaeqqGy?ste4dJMSbtjuvnFysh^jl2_bzKpoztyl^
yFbpffJkavIrt/kEtkqsKaaIuwx*iGmctqQgjyttr^fmuvgrHAtsNtd_gwfbofLlsBuq
gHbknftsfsush!zAacnqGDaNMjv|fFpbftOumHuid*smhguesuesLjy|klujgrrmsHG
IP_TQRK}atHidw]lncksLhjGCsk!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fAvvrzLgbGtzr$uyqtgxKlesCre"kf
hqdcwxwgjGtnq@mqagzhzhozyey+iAnrtjKzfwtnq@mqtbcwwgnHLjd-owfnAeLvauyee#rq
zAaettKzaIFfx'uDnu}

6UECTewtqAuxm.kpavjjrpnIIwx@tofbqkrkf Mpi>ozhbcsvggBFyi/ozhbcx
xqrwkwwtfGNxd=tlOCVI8_tsOuk/gpffbxQzuxG d!LAsbksKAbGwj{!yobppnFnauIzr%
hApmu	rwbKNng;rmsnAetvpDMet;hxjujjvgcRtyl^frffgwssazIAi/tyfpveOopLyet@mqt
gDfbupwDfwnee+jlutAnFnaMIew$gzavjjEgtMLfm"nFakhe7JSsCxd:ulcgbuwygHLri% 
oEagzyJlnxFDd:oyf+etFzvFCsk8flUjgeKhnxtms-jEahqwrmjENjv*tsaqh
vApt+vMhmBNDd=xlpnfjJgntNjv*gxt}

6UECTevltvLnf^jljoclwgdtJyy/klgtqrrtjvLtj=xy.bwxAuhsuxd@tlfzcrHsfsNmv^k
xqfnuexypFtfd|oJuA+xwCfGawi^rltgveGmaMBjd[gBftuesuesFjx:kDtbqkrNfHLli
3mtjksyApGtHe/BqsbvmsAaAuid#kqobrwGkvvyid#ElUwupwnfxtZr*BqsukyQbas@mi|k
xqtwnywkaBHee[vDpzkrsAfESe77~*~bkrsnfLneA&ooibPF`KQsBfh!nmebuhsuoxxef,
oFtbujJCjvyeg=tFsceyGy.s!hm^tofbCuHsjvuym=tEaKpywyotNns+gxaEqwHvstNns+
[5BKE[mga7UYHkfmmuqeuyftNjh!hucnktyybIBng!xqdqtiKggHLee$iqtu}er]OT@IT!jue
tAubjfNlaLOhl!yBfekfDpAxxei]AuqogsLgbLtfd_oosqhnDtaLwfr+kD?

1zgqtyMubMyqC7fFigbuJvdxMxd=lltecsFpoztkv=slnkewGmjEGeA@yloqvesu
AzrwcqAmjxxew;iofuu	r7JWUWd/kBptvjv?asvjg@AEfbonuypyCqq!lDbogeKpAxMez@xK.
uodcunGubEFDd|uyfbhwstfLtBi/klnkuxwk.sQmm$nlxkvmGBusMui+juoibrMjisNnq^
gzebotFlzswty-jloqvetlaKyhe[zGsgf 

UOSbetMsesHtx!hqargwxvsFyid'xAnbvmwgtvusr^jljoclwzaHzex&klgtcrwz?stYl^
hxfgfnFnaBHex&klugzyrzjFJqC!uGurwyrAfQN	d>nqobQH0gxtMev;tfavjfLgdHOqh!tAu
kHfpbgwgfwCyi%alaPCYVWaMyxx^jlgqteFlhtNnz^fHftuzKgqHMnx*Bqakofyltm
rmofuhswfsPjv|AEarqwLybBNes/oqovcyAvomtfr%fEjpiqw|aOyww;ylewcq	wbzy
sudtqkAsnmtss+klphbBzpdAtxi^sqebvtrhgyyhx!ztfbszssjMSes'fFigbnEhhxjef;z
gxtqbtFgoHHjd=llujgrrjpNFidjI4adgeHlsyIwq^jg

OzaugqwjuBHld:nqaokhJvgBFrd:nqzbytMsesOxi7fFigtjxvsxneR?ZPQbjfvgpMBjv
lmdvqwKgjGtrm+jgab2NVHSsHtx^jluyqexhdMIww!ztbvbnFmmNysg^jlujgeIBbECyC!ur
ztfbkrsnfLiedv]lujgeAuixLjr:fCvcnnLFaHzex&klptklAubEtfr%f@-bvmwgbFIzr:fAg
yuAgbwwkvvNns+fAobvmwgqtAjw8

ZtfbEfJCfKtue[kDtbyjJlaLyqi$zqebdjuhvLyex&kKactjrpoyIwq@zuwgbfFkaOCxy@rxz
ozugtjKAjGA	d:xqbvbfrzjGAqi!yGclghLaatHid@xqaxcqMhcEyem+fFigkwrvxGtwm"nF?
ZtfbkrsnfLtBi/kltecsFlesush!juwkfjvgjGNtd-usjecqryfvIwh|fnzbUF1J.sNmi+
jqmkxjJlemtfr%fxpcfjvgpGNtdiG6ER&xrzzLNjq7fIigtjrijuFns"xmqjkh
ozgqtrsAjHHex@qqobfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgjFuli|fIbubfvkfwoednimopksygxtM
iAnrnjLlesCsd|Ayngte'$0"tfr%fnzbvmwgfGxes'fEvoojJg2=[7d:nqafkxCgxtM
yoigfzDlesNtd#klqwdqAzixx 

VDpdnjEzaxHhs;tFftgirkvKCsk!vDpegxKpoztnr$rGegfeLofsztp-uIjpi,rgCxwfy|k
ztfbonuypyCqq!yobppnFnaAuid:ulcgbiGufsCsd@fnbvemlgbwDzw:sqovbkGy
ozekxnvBbEtue"klwctnsAjHHxd>gEapqyrwpLMnf-kgabVmwggKuri!yuAgbAsyjxxes+
godqwsLgpytyl^fzbvwwwgpytyl^fybvgwAhmmtfr%fFigtjxvsxtxs_klphbyzlayLfq^y
CqsgbrAztxxeA&oxfbqyzlsLtBi/klkwuyrwbKNne-frscojKbas@mi!uzmAbBsFaMIek=
hmdmbfFkavuux;xqavjnKgntNjv*gxaycxrApsJwm+zlpwveLofsJfk^fIjvjeLof
sudtqkAsnsLje%kDahttEguAyeq*yEjpiexybFyee+jlujgsrzdtHem:fuobhwGtaMBj
vmhg?eOojvBeA@ylfzvwwtfESex*sq_eqsKBnBHl	!f6igbvMhmBNDd=llujgeAtbzyx
yobppjvggKIrd:nqartnFApNNes'fFigbrAjsHznp_foporfJlesOsj@BAscdqQgxBNmd:nmu
uravjjrvsBAnr@rljoclwzavuux;xqebfnJldMFDd'xAnbvmwgnBwws'oxn}be`of
ozbdkqAAzsNtd[kDgqtrrVD~tfp|ulxcuesgntDtv!jutcruGpoMGjr:alaCveLofsNnq^ 
iAnrwywyaHOyt;zlnkewGmjEGeA@ylvpcAspmtvqi!zAavgxLb

ZtfbgvMpqFysx!AEffbkGyattxg@tzjpieKFtMyrd>gEavjjrsbLNex=vudbcivyfLMjh!hK
6UECT rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlujcyrvoxtBs;rparwwuobLyej=xlbbuhsuoBHl
yKtvgrrpovFzh^jaabceEpdKIhs_vGugt	rhusFje|zlbb5!)aauOyd[xqggtftszsue8C`b
glmctlwgitLid%oEl?b8_%aFyle#EFfbcyrtjGCry_?lbbozDAj Nfw)ozhbquwybMCsk
yKtvgrrAitNee-rAxubtFlaMIev;tltqojrAiBHlw!ozadcyuoaBHex&klccepyypNHi
CtjngeKjbGHnr"fAsbftAuhsNjB:fqekvnFn.sztv!kJborqwaa@HnB!uDaQU>"gbGx	
ztfqtjLpdtFqC7f9jpftOz<suel*mt_urjwkaLwfr+kDacpirzdtHsm+mltqhyOhsxtyl@z
gxmqyxrvoxtys!smlgbyzlaOuwm=AEacfoMzuFysx|fyfpvnGufwtje/ruft>es
nuhj+wwzpEOym=tlnqpnLvss	69Efpqkb[hgPV`ew=lFxctjrhowtme/jIbtgeLvaIywj=xy
zqyvbwwjpzHnx*uz<bcsrvqMChe-fpjumeKBcLSxx^slppbBzpdAtys!gDdjkAwgbEFex&k
oybigxrhtsNmi!vDpegxKpoztnw!jAog>expmxtre+gsfogsLgbGxex/golkplrzpyNBe/kg

6UECTeGwjGyid:nmubvmwgtHzyA@xqaqpjrwvKwme|kEaycxrtpKyem_vAsvcsLguAusd:nq
nmsfyfJlatHid_osivbfDzpswtw:fyptgeLobGtyl^ftbtfBsyfmtgy:fuubyfKgmBEjp,fFp
vDpxgeuyjMChe-fFpbvmwgtNwhi|ylptbkspmNLjd=llppg)KgtRMyi_alaKpeskeBNns+fFp
gltvcsv|bEIsi!yobppnFnaPIwo|zmukqsrmpKtnq@mqaecuLBsxnex&kz.bvjPAavuux;xq
xqrwkwwzaHHjd=xluyqewkjMCsk!yFbvktFzaGyyA=xwffbyGguACxd|imopksygtMuym=t
zAargwxvsFtjh*zuoi}erLeBNnr"fFigbywEusNfo^yluyqeGyaMBwi^fFjogxrhtsFtr"fmt
imqvwwAuhsNmi!oybigxm

LuocnqQaa'3IEmfEutgxKlesNmi!oyqqtysudxttj!hGzkplrhosIui+fEzuvjEguAuyd@rxpyu
lAsbotJlaMBfr!uzfbxjFkpKneg=sBmkgxrDjMBew:gzectiKaatHid$gzadgeMwhKuii%a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
3MUGTXr[ZtFjdptuwgtxAAzs6nf/gDz&ueEhtMywd[rmobvtrjpGPjv:fyjettxpmFtys
juhkvfDgjFuli/El)RQG{g(s@mi!vxbegeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLvpEMem+fFigbqAistLDd=l
ztfbhzLBsxt+donqawujKgpytnq@mqtbcsvgbGtnq@mqankgJhsRt+dkxunctDrpoIOyd'xAn
vDfugwNhuBIsd_oosqhnDta}tKi@zGsguevptMCsk;oEikplrWPUtkv=slDZResuesEjC
nKqqvmwzfLtly*juoibU7Ia}tZw^fAgbxjFkpKtxi-koukqsrwsHwjw|fFpbhfupmBNfx^
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme?gDKCyi/omahqwrzfEyhx*tsaxgsvvss{eJ*tmmkuyKgbGx
xqtwnyKgpytuv=iqtubkGya^uqi!=lLgAexhdMIwd%oEukplMptACsk!BqofqwKg(
IAnrqswuuLneh^yuhpbuJpovCup^yfacpirzpFyei|zuncvjvgdHMyw!uraRQGr[a~Iqi!ur
vDfugwNhuBIsd_gFftkfDzaBHeh^BqmqrnFnaBGfk*tsaocwClus{eJ@iFptuesmgxwym+m
wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFa)bKsjuHLxd@lrfevnFnaMBjd;ymcknnLFaHzeg=sBmgzevvdNGjr:y
ozakofylayIwq!=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JAocnir4B!YWW7ftfcfeGmaMBjdnEEugoxrVgyChi7f~bnge!ujOyww*zKaNkgJhsRn
xqqqtywkaHHex&klqtqlJltLttj!glncuywyaIFfr!lAsbceHypCyhx!gFa1cqwguH
iAoxgwLgnBwws'oxnbvtrkjzCye-funcijJF.s0ws(koubQuwuaUIto![2PD_ rgTMuym+m
ztbvbU7IaPuxd*tlbpbfvCbGwjh!yFbigeGmaIFfr+ozh?b2S1F~!eh^zmjngilgjG
vmsvkhMsbKnex&klqtqhwztsIkd|kxfevnFnattAi+jAsbrfJAoxLee+jltgxjJhmsEjC
oEtwgxrBowywd%oEdwuxAvosuxdtgxfbrwwwbKyxd:ulnqxjrpoMIex&klqtqowjusCyw^rr?
NqaeqrEloMyid'oDtvbtFguAyez*yuppbyzhusMjv<kEacueLofswtr:kJubqkrWPUtfr%
ztfpbiwzdKCgi%fuuubuMyqHMjd@tpauetHl?

3MUGTXrzfxMex&klmkdwsyzsIkd:nqahwyMyfsHtx!tqdguxsyjESee|fmobgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQgcNNee|fmarnfulaMBfx!mqogtfLltmtuv^yqsxgxlgbGxem_vDpxgxrmpKtnx|
ixjgpyKgsxuiC!godguxrApsvtx&fuovgqDldMOfp!gzebrmQzjvuqd/koptfjv
qzpynjvnfnteI-koutqsAjaMItp|fyvuvexpowtfd[rmdgbnFguAyep*hDbtAeAuaMBj
iAovgCLgpytyl*ylwkunGu?stXi<kDbnbwGsfLtks/fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbksusvwy
yqsxksygbLied*tpjtghLgtHOwg^ylphbjDldMLtr*illpqBDlezyes/fmtb*kAueBHl)
gueub=LofsIs[-ozfbefLhmHAzi| lujgesyuBwqiTrqwgneAueBwjw7fDfikxLlsLtks/
jAdwojFAtsush!gDdjkAwz-itim/koubutMydxMes'fDfeqwvlesEss>rqeig.rmvEF]x^DF
oybigxhgbGxez@xupwueCpowMes'foportMuesMty/iqtbqkryfvIwh^jllpqBDlezye+:nq
yA_ecqDleswtq[uGofbiGjvFysx|fAgbJDHlsMyCx7fyjzgirAfQNee+jljoclwa
suygf]LlyMtnq@mqahqwEhumtfr%fyvnvnEleBu[	

V1CbkxrspHEnr"fBbtvnuBmtLqC!gFakofyltsush!gzakofylaECgv@xK.bvmwgvLyxd:u
CtjejeAtbzyxd>oxmbdjrwvMt=i8mg.buyGybzy	d[xuovksyaauLtA|ozh?bfFkaMBjr!AEf
gEakpuMAayIwd=ztftbuJvdxMxi|]faQEWrhtsuew;hEfswjFAaILtg^yEavqeAtbzy
imqvwwwaaHLeg/kmukplrhosCre"klmkdwsyzmtfr%fmmuqeHvtLCgp,fsfpgwsAjGA
sudtqkAsnn

3tjngeAuqNNeA*rxaeqrwggKIrd@fHbtkjLFaHzew=ADdgu	rWPUtnw!iAoukiwyjGA
kEqgenssmRtnr[AFahttEgqKyxi/BmukqsrtjvLtj*ry?bbFrwpLMnf-klpwvhGtfsCxd:nmu
ztfbhnDtatHid[gBftbBzpdAtuv=BuegbyzlaBHuy:frptbyzlaBGfk^fxjdtfJF
kHfpvzssmRtre,fspbqkxgjGNtd/kypvgeKApKuli7fmofbyzhusNmi!oybigeDpcKuwC!smz
hqavjjrwsBGfv,fmdegxKguHIq	

ZtfbrzJwpLyee+jltequwgpytUS}frpewxrvosCre"ozh}be`opNAmd/kxbvgirApsW3T7
V1CbjfKguPIej^gFvtgxrDiBwmd%oEukplMptAtnx2fl2_bxuhmxa]g=tHftunGuaHz
7*.``#rCpEOri|fuovqevphBNfp!oybigexvsFjee+jl3_bxGBsvy][$uzwgtxAvoszws_
sudtqkAsnnteK*Bqobvmwzfszje:ADfu?eKlwxLfp!qqzbytJrjGAel,vAujgxwzazOnh^
V1C?bnFjmNxnr".la3_e~povyeTjHljubzKpoztrm$xAgknrlgjMtnw!tAubetFjfKHjh!Cuuj
ztfbkrsnfsFnf/gDzbcxrhaILjw^xHbvktFgnxxny_ala4_eVphBNfp!oybigwQgdtHem_vDpxg
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fFitqzyoaILnr:ozhbcsvgoxNBs/qlekuyJpcNNns+fmu
glnqfjKAaBHhv^sqovcqrjpLNes'fyjettxpmFoedx]lDcryMyjGAee+jltvqwAuhsxtg;sqovu
ozacbiAnjMuqd*smhgbkGynsCxd+kofuufJFaMIej;xFigteAtqKIAi_kzuubnFgbvwjw|a
[2PDbiAzuBHly*ytfubgwAxxysd:nqakofypozneh*muukBnFnaILtg^yEacpirVD~n
CtjejesAaMBnw!yFbigeAAawIjw!tAubrqsuaMIet^xrpto {

IGstgsLszsCsd*zEahkwKAaHLes/mmokBfLppGuqd[nmtg?e8VCszty+jlujcyrpuswty-j
AEfbceNlowIwd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEavqexhdBFnx@zqacblGvesxje-fAgbvmw
uDhcpnRhuBIse-fIptme}l?zo	d$xqbvksygbsJws(koubvjstatHid@jHjuqwQgcHuwh7
iAohkwEpoztyl^fHbnkiAAzsIkd:nqarnfFaaxMye#rutjksyguAyeg=yFaqheLofsJws(kou
gzebcetBezyy{!yqmgeyAuhsNmi!smugtnsstsNtd$uzwgtylgbGxex&kzatcnKpoztyl^
tqdguxsyzszzr%y>?

V1CbfjNlmHJjh!tGngttMzaLyqi$zuppbhJpuxLne7fuoenzvpozied@frjtoeuvnFCyx^j
zAakofyl_wIhy_kzubofFhhxGjr: lujgesijECyC!zAaugwNlatMew,yFfoueAuuxAwe:uD
ozacbqsyhxaxg@rqarttBldMttz^xltgxjJhmsSje/yfakpywyfLNem+fpfxgqGwjGAex&k
xqrwkxAAfsMtj:CmsgbfKgbsMye+jmsfbwsAixLex&gzacbhMzuHGet/upvev	rhowtf
CumnksyufLMex=fuoxgxLgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^yljpbyzlaILtn^iFakvxwsgn

ZIpbxjFkpKM	d	KOacpir5fKIC{!CqsgbxwsfvNjh!gEahksssjLNxd*tlPevttlss&@!v 
gzebynLoaMBjd|ABqqtyrvgsNmi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtje$n
CmtbetEtjLMns+kpavqeyloxLfx^fmafgyspmxxev^wGjtgrwuuLtfr@rKtkuexvssNmi
vDplghLgbGxex&kzavqeKBcFCyd@frptofDgqKIus|gxahqwrAixths_vxfvktFgpytyl^
vDplghLaaPBng&fuoenzvlesuef;jsfvbfFkavIxx|alUjgeLlsFMeA^xqavjfLgQ8VeA=Axe
vmzbvmwgmHMjv8flUjgeJltNFyw!lAsb1fDlaHzem+BAmxksygbsPjr%uDakphDBexx,
hDpcfeAuwHFAi_kzubqkr6bEyew:grgbchJvtLtyl^fnpctirhusuev^rmukxjDFaEIB
iAtv?eOojvBeq@ElicxjrspGA]x^xyauklFpgBwfr$kljpbhsysRCsk!uGubvmwgqKIoi$z
[FxgpyQ|gBPjd:ulujkwLFaNHnz^xEjvAeHlpIFjd@xqagplsnfwtnr!V1C_>etluMyw
AzegtxLhowCsk!uravjjrmbvNtv|fFicvesmgxwyd$uDqqtfLlaKyxt=tEfbvtrtbKEjx|
lAsbkrsnjGAet/upvevxhgbswtq[kFjvkAwgqKIus|gx<bcsvgbsGtv^fEprjnKAjvuyi%
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw8

ZtfbotKAaBGus/zmovbksjuHLex&gFafkxLpozOnw&kpavjjrCfGxtv|fGofgw
iAoukiwybMCtr!CmtbvmwpssCii+zugkefLppGtBm:nlujgeuBtMIri/alaVjjrzjSyee+j
ozugtsssavIrt-kJjvAeGmaMBjd$uyqcpDrhmLIeA@ylbpbnEwpKNfr:frbevtJbas0TF!Cmt
rApmksygbMtqe/mqaeqrHhoByxd:nmubjfvgtNvxx@tFjcneJltHOwg^ygabKsrAixtjr% 
ztfbrwGjfLMek^tqscvjvggHLe3@rqavytrjpFJjx*zuwgbuJvqHMfp| lxkvmr5fKIC(|
ztfbeqwhssQnr+kD?bb2S1F~!ex&kzafgxuyjuyid:nqaeqrHvoxHyw!uravjjrwsHJtw@rf
ztfbfjKphGtuv*tojrnjKaatHid|uyfbqkrAixths|zEaguyAtbMyid'uDavjjrwsHwjw|a

IAnrqswuuLtfv^fqtugsLpbEFDd'uGs<besgdHHAi/yuppbxMitRMyi_ lb
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd|AntAuywtayIwdv$f~``etvpDMe+@tpaRQGrlyIyhx|
8*~bvtr!~[tit*fEuqtfyl-mtgv=CEjpieKAbMCtr|fpjuvwAivMyid=tlujgeuhnIOx
tquyqwCaatHid+kFxqtprhdvyxw!zAavjjrpntAjd[xuovgwKb

GyppieLofsxjw*mzartnFjjIFjw7f2PDbBsuuxxeg=tHftunGuatNex&klikimwzu
vAtukgDlaKyxs-AFjqp rgBLMzq*tsaVKKXggBFjw7f6JHHexpmxMeA*ztaIttMwa(
iAnrtjKzjHH	doI2|KR	rhowtjx&kDogveFluPIwo!uzaecrHBtmtUS}fIbpvjvgb
ixjgpy	zfKPjv!gBqtqfuoaPCyl!oybigevvdNGjr:ylekuyJpcNNjh!zAavjj
CAsmuysAjHHxd@tpaociwgbvwjw|onmgbyzypNAmd+gFjxgeOvsDMye:oAobksLlsyuhi|
yGdjbfKgXBHis>ygabRTTgbEMtd*tEjuvjvgpGtfd[nmtgfeswqKIfg&fFp
oyqngrwuutNns+.la3_esgtMushTgxppg	rzjGAqiTAEft?eDvx wtw:fqovtDrpoMIex&k
hGtkpjKzaPCyl!glxqtpKAbMCtr!lAdwujvgpGths+BqsuktFgbGxee-rAxkplrWPUtys
kJqnqwwgvLywd@iofuu.r9-sGtz^sqovbnFApsuel*mtft+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGuaPCyl
tquyqwC|bvwjw|onmgbxLvstAjd@tpaowqLpqEyee$iqtubxLhuBIsw3fmofb8{gb
nuhj+AGsvFyeg=tHftunGu.szzp-/obrchAAzsMys/gsf?bfFkaFOqx*vxfbdwGDtBHl
yFbvktFzawCxx/onvvgirAiKIzk&uGubvmwgdtGuy|a

ZtfbetKAtsJws[uEffbkGyaLNfv:/GqbcxKBnxxex&klfzkxLlovyes'fFigb4ssfsHjx>uDl
gzebkyKguPIeH=iGUgemrpntAjd[xuovgwKbas9yl^xltvcwL|vIths|zEactjrltMCre:kp
gFa^3eEpmECtr!uHftbyzlaMBwi^fBicujKbasUyd:nqagpirvgsNmi!vDplghLaaMBjd@tzvcn
uBftcyAuhswtw:ylfuvnEhuxxet/oybtkqQggHLex&kltqhyOhsxtfr%ftbtfBsyfsJws[uEff
iAngbyGgbuIzx!*^~?`#=aauOyd:nqtgbjPjmNxjd$uEuubkGyaEugs/fzfgfjvgjGtyl^
iAoxgwKppGtuv=iqtu?eFluPIwo!gzebrwAuuxLey|gsf?bfFkayuhm-oFjgueEhotAjq^tF?

LuocnqQaaMBjd|kxfevnGuaILtg^yEarttvBdxxej=xlZcnjrhaFIwi!yAqjkxLpdtNjh
BufybtxguAyem_gsjpieEhsDyyw2flujgeEhotAjq^tFaqheuvnIFjB!jAdwojFAtsCs
oybigexvsFtnw!tAubceHyfLywz@zuppbuJvcEyr{!tAubceDpcKuwC!vDpdnjEaauOyd@
mqogtfDgqKIgp^sljpbfrisHui{!mqogtfDgjGxzw:xK?bbUJltxLAe:oAobofLlsBuqw!gDf
AEfhwqrmpKtii<kxprksyguAuyd_gDlgvetldtOxi!uravjjrxvtFnx*kEaqheLof
smugtnss?stKs/fqycouDl.sGzg&fAgbkyrptsIzx!uraequQyjzBy	!f6igbwwzpEOym=t
uramgDrptLOjw!yGdjbfKguAyeu;gxjvAeGmaLwfr+ozhbcsvgjFuli!hDpyunFnatFxs
CumnbfxmfvNeh^BqmqrrwuusIkd:nmubofJrfMo

ZtfbvjuooHFtk,futbtjskjESee<gumcdqwgcNNeg&gzhkplrybICip,alaKpeLojL
iAovgCLgpytwe[opaejfFnfmtxi<kDbnbksjuHLxd@lrfeveIBbECyC!gzebetKA.sNt
Ctjeje8VCsCsx^tptbvtrwbRtue/zudwnfJgbMNjr:oAo?bkGyaxRfq[rq.bvmwgwtLns;y
rqwgnxrvgsLjw=rGukqsrAitNeg@tlcgbfuojxPjh8flQQDetlmByAi|fuubefFgcKCsk
xqtqnzLppGtzt!zAa8`#rkqBnef;zlbpbnFAfKJtp@zuppbuJvdxMxd'xAnb6#=guHt~@Efut
sAsgbqArfES d!ZtfbxfJpbMCtr!wGbnkyQgjGtrm$xAgknrrDjEFet/uHfbvtrifsu
nuhjnDrpnIIwx@tFahchLvsnteTjHlncAeJlfQurm+klujgeKAbGxfv%ylvugirApsznp_fuo
ztfbhnJzusJqe$klcAbqGvlBHld@zlujkxrwsHwjw|fmtbcexvmEIB[=tluqbrAjsHznp_ozh}

UFigteAtqHLye+zlgceyGytsCsg-Apf<beLofsNjg&turwgxrhwtCqe#rqavqeLof
uBftcyGyayIwd&gzenksygntNjv*gx.bvmwgxtSxd=lljpvjyybMCsk!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
ozuqbyzlawClm:oLjpieOvsDtkp=CfacpirhaPIwo!lxpybyzhusCsg-ApfubnFkfQCsk!gze
yFptclwbas0TFNylsgszAyfFysx!Cmtbvtrifsugp^fFpbfjssaPCyl!wGbnkyQgdHHyv=r
gFavjjrwpBHyd=lltecsFpozoedonGt?byzhoDMex=f0ftqClgQ8Vee+zudkrfLltsBfz*ts
glngemsujLGeA&ooibynDsatFqs>fuubptLgpGFDd:ultecsrposvfx$nlgqtrlgcNNex=
xqwkgBrAixtre:kDjcneszaBNek=kEavjwGBhAtyl^fEdcpswyatHid$uzutqqrxvtFnx,
lDpobyzlaHOyw^zg

ZtfbuysuetLiw!lAsbojszvKCsk!wGbnkyQgbGxeg=yFtbfjHlowtlv^gFmAbtFguAyey|kE
uravjjrtbMywm@rfakphDBeBHld|Antgszwuus9HV7fEuqtfyl.sJwm+zuoi?esue
hDpyunFn?stGy:fqtrghAhmESee:futuwjrmpKtUS}futbvmwggtwnp*zKahqwrisHQxm+mg
ZtjubksjjECyC7f9BVGW~gttCi{!oEargwzhqLtyl^fIfcmjKAatMui$zlphbnEhhBHl
zqdjptDvhRtfr%fFigbrGzusCsd+kqebqkrkfOyqs[sqov}

GlwctnwAzsIkd'gouqtxrhgyyhx!ztfbwxsijECyC!uraeqrHsfQtis$AyfpvxrposCre"k
lAso?estpGAex&ky;bb6{guAyee#oxjvAeGmaMBjd|EEugoeLvaAush-klujgexBmEtwe+mq
urafqhMtfGNex,vqt?bsGAaCOxx!sAoqiwswiLtgy:fEftkfDz.sGzp:o\qcty
sAoqiwswiLnee+jlncpzKjsBJyw3f@-bvmwgmHwfx*uzaqheLofsxfx@hmtgbtxgsxwtv%
lAsbdntsjHAwe[nudbksxvsFuym=tlbdqzLguAyem_gsfbftuBnxHy{!Ctjeje8VCsQfr:y
zAagpywyaHHhi!gzebksrAixtrs|zlvugkMsaIFfg^ lujgeGu_ECsi!imucnty}a* ee
jAdwojFAaBxjr:orjgtexvssLjj^xqoeksyguAyef*hxjqiwswiBwem+lAsocyAvosCsd=tq
vxbegesuesNmi!oybigxrposuss:nqs>b9{guAyex^itokszwggHLeq@quoibyzlauuxm$
ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgbtxguAyeh=iGngpyrhdvyxw*hxfbvtrAixtwi@jqs>bfFkayCse-rK.
~>avjjrwiRMng@rlqtgxwuutNns+fAobvmwgD~@es'fFiqujrkpvOri+zE?bbU7IaBMev^gpz
zAaeqrHsfMyex&oEarjfKlaGIB	!f1ogbqszusxjg*yuppbnFCpEPjw!jqdkfnFnaPBng&
smugtnssaMIew$gz?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+doORGbhnDltswtr|zuuwvjrkfszfg:ultvcsvhswt+diG4B&uewEqxLni+iq
CuujbnEhhxths+BqsuktFgtHzyA@xqacpirAfQNeg=tHftunGua}tWJ{f!436e?
IAoukiwybuFjd'rGybetFjfKHnr"fmwckqsimxtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbxGsvMCtr|f;
TMMbvmJvvzB]t;zlscvjrkvKCsk!yobppnFna}t2m+jAxbofFhhxGjr:fCvguyAvoLt+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

OzavjjrxvxMym=t\bpf]sutPywd[kDjqfeLobMtks-rAxgfe#HUX`X(|fBsgujFAbMCtr7
ztfbhtDspPCsk!vAjpvxrlnxLli%.

flabb+r7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtff=AFawunFna!3KJ!lumgueszattxx@tpbtfeElbGNeh^
flabbksjuHtxx@tpbtf rgUACxd*ylxjcyrtpLNet^uBmgbzKlatHid:EBjecqDFaxRhl@tsf
flabbBAAisIyl^xlhtqzHz.suhv=yEarnfLmpKGx{!uDagxjFgpvwfw*uzbnnDrhdKIxw
flabbiAzqEuDd|uruycwwb

flabb+rOP57JW!iAnogsLlesIsd:nqawpxMjdxMxj;rlfzrjJpfGwjd=llOCTFrpo
flabbfLAfFJym+mluqbwMuaBGfk^/oppxjJzjHHew=lFxctjrvssNtd^DoicplwgcxNBi^t
flabbfHwmBwfx*uzt<be#obMtfv^fEvrrtKleESeXdLRahkqwzazIem+zAaqvmwyaLIkx>gDf
flabbyzhusCxd|ABqqujvguHtgi!gnmgbyGgbvwjt:f6JHHetBuswfr+uFatghGnoBTjd:nq
flabbkGyntNee+jldcpsGAawyfp!CuujbnLaatHid:nGtbtjFkfKMex&klfzemsuhx
flabbzKlmxMx	!f4fbvjPAavIsz^xEjqp	rofsHtx^jlujgevpgyywi+zlsgetyujMCtr
flabbwsAfLttf:guogfetFaLOgw:oFvvksyguAyeq@qqacpirtpwyqd=lltecsFlsLtnr
flabbSSYB,Mev^iqovbywzusIkd@tl&kpywsmBAjr:_ldjcwsjuxL]v^iAhpkyAvosJws%Aou
flabbkGyattsi>foporfFF?stNr!ztfbujDldMCtr!urajcwvDbKyee+jltqhyOhsxn
flabbM7SNX!ee/mGff?eKvgMQfv^fzpbntFnfKths+yFjvwywzaMBjd=BqstkiAuhszfg:uD
flabbnLgeBxey+zumbcgGBusueC^gDacithgstNmi/fuubkxrwfKBft|funrqwLhoMtys
flabbqGvlsuyd#uFibptOb

flabb+rKbGHDd{utfpbfFkaTFfr!QmuBbtxguAyeY+oHftunLFaHzeW=AFigtsrJbECks/tub
flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxMeM+yFjvwywgcxAfr!iusewqsAjGAee|fmobKsLlsGyydmLO
flabb=0MDs&85y]lbdqzLgbsGtr:nlbiqesgtMush@xpahqwrha!3KJ!ozugthzhozy
flabbkGyntNej=xlJpvjJufMtim|zDjdwyAvosIkd_uzpejwGtfsvnxTsmqrgirpntAjw7
flabbBzpdAtQ3iITaucnvgixtgi-oqwgfeOvvExef^fGtgfeszattii!lmdvqeKAbGxfv%a

flabb+rMMX3XGcNMVGT)KgjFJwi|yuppbkJvnsBje/ozhbvmwzfsLjt=xFtbcsvguACso*ts
flabbftvvMtFQNylfzrjJpfGwjd>gEavjfLguAywi!oEaeqsKpexLff-klgnwCrjpGwjv+ozh
flabbfNhjEugp^ftbtfBsyfsush!yAgvyfJlaLIqy:oAou}erOP8@TR!gssggirhow
flabbhGtnxHyi%fmubvmwgttGjd:oyfbqsr7JWUW(|fEucvjEloMtyl@zlujgewxvBJri+z
flabbjEwmHSjh!grggeyKguAyev^yGmvueHypwOhi%alaQpjrjbGHtx!jDbybfrjpFJqi:k
flabbhGudEOxm=tlcAbxsFjGAem:futbfnxmjvOqx!uDakouGztBvqi!zAargwxvsFtTGm
flabbkJvnsMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_ lgqtewEbFJqi7fIjvjeLobMtii<oof?beLobMtxi:fAg
flabbusybFyyi/yfacpirzzLNjq!xqrwkwwtfGNx{!hqdcwxwgoNGjv=AEaqvmwyaIytt-k
flabbfJlatwhs_vxjujnFnaCOxx!ztbv?eMzjGAes:nqsbetEwpGysx| lqgtmswtn
flabbM7VU88es[ozffbyzhusvtx&fFigbmsyePuwi!gzebvmwgtHzyA@xqaygwwgiBAmp,
flabbnEwpKNfr:alaOqxLgpytyl^fBsqdqwttsxnw$AEtgfeLvetSel@BqadgjFgtHFAi%fuo
flabbsMtfKIzw!jughgwwuusQfC|fnzbqyzlssJjs[rq?bbYzvvzBem:futbitGkaMIef^
flabbhGnoBTfr:fAgbxfJppNMei\vqskgsultmtyl*yljubsGAaMIew@ElujcyrpusQnp-
flabbfDDbRMef^fFiwu 

flabb+rHus8FP7fFigbyzypNAm[[AFatcywgpytyl^fEdcpsAuhsJws$kEtbhtJgqtJjv7
flabbusnfsvDd[gsf?buwygHLrm+mlPET	rybGAjw!lDpob8=%aMIe0E$lqcijKgqxLeh@Eb
flabbsGAaIywj=xyjpie7JSsCxd$uztkfjJhcESej@yFft?essuAIzk&ftpybrMjiszfw:kD
flabbnKgoHNeo+uIo}be`ojLtnw!lAsbuhsuoBHld'xAnbdtMuesvts)yfayjnuoaBMeq;it
flabbxDvxxL 

flabb+r4B!YWW!iAnogsLlesIsd>ozeqyeEhotAjq^tFaswjKAjHHx\!fPFEbuJvqHMjh!gz
flabb3	4jGxtA|fEpnwyAvosQmm$nlxcueHypuFjq@zudcnexvssNBs!xqbuqsKbas9si!Cmt
flabbU7I"Ltwi]AusgojFAaMIef^fmcngeLvaFusm[AxbvgeAtbzyxd=tlujgeOvsDMye:oAo
flabbfFkauLnr"fFigoevvxGtys!ztfbytJrtMuym=tljvujDmatHid:nqaqvmwyaPux
flabbswAxHLpd;ymhg}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
ZTPOCe?gJEFzw:xmukqsrvgsxjj*iufpenwzaBHew$gzokplrhowtxx=xmhgbuJvdxMxdQ
OybigeIBbECyC!ozavjnKgqKIhi|yl(bFnxmfKysx!iAtvuewuutCqi%fnzbdjLAfKtnq@mq
wGbnkyQg(s@jg&turwgxrmpKttz^xopoksygwtLns;yleg+kAjjxHhm^yaabhnPl
