followed by the number and title of the standard.

BARONAS then illustrated the domain of AIIM's standardization work.  For
example, AIIM is the administrator of the U.S. Technical Advisory Group
(TAG) to the International Standards Organization's (ISO) technical
committee, TC l7l Micrographics and Optical Memories for Document and
Image Recording, Storage, and Use.  AIIM officially works through ANSI in
the international standardization process.

BARONAS described AIIM's structure, including its board of directors, its
standards board of twelve individuals active in the image-management
industry, its strategic planning and legal admissibility task forces, and
its National Standards Council, which is comprised of the members of a
number of organizations who vote on every AIIM standard before it is
published.  BARONAS pointed out that AIIM's liaisons deal with numerous
other standards developers, including the optical disk community, office
and publishing systems, image-codes-and-character set committees, and the
National Information Standards Organization (NISO).

BARONAS illustrated the procedures of TC l7l, which covers all aspects of
image management.  When AIIM's national program has conceptualized a new
project, it is usually submitted to the international level, so that the
member countries of TC l7l can simultaneously work on the development of
the standard or the technical report.  BARONAS also illustrated a classic
microfilm standard, MS23, which deals with numerous imaging concepts that
apply to electronic imaging.  Originally developed in the l970s, revised
in the l980s, and revised again in l991, this standard is scheduled for
another revision.  MS23 is an active standard whereby users may propose
new density ranges and new methods of evaluating film images in the
standard's revision.

BARONAS detailed several electronic image-management standards, for
instance, ANSI/AIIM MS44, a quality-control guideline for scanning 8.5"
by 11" black-and-white office documents.  This standard is used with the
IEEE fax image--a continuous tone photographic image with gray scales,
text, and several continuous tone pictures--and AIIM test target number
2, a representative document used in office document management.

BARONAS next outlined the four categories of EIM standardization in which
AIIM standards are being developed:  transfer and retrieval, evaluation,
optical disc and document scanning applications, and design and
conversion of documents.  She detailed several of the main projects of
each:  1) in the category of image transfer and retrieval, a bi-level
image transfer format, ANSI/AIIM MS53, which is a proposed standard that
describes a file header for image transfer between unlike systems when
the images are compressed using G3 and G4 compression; 2) the category of
image evaluation, which includes the AIIM-proposed TR26 tutorial on image
resolution (this technical report will treat the differences and
similarities between classical or photographic and electronic imaging);
3) design and conversion, which includes a proposed technical report
called "Forms Design Optimization for EIM" (this report considers how
general-purpose business forms can be best designed so that scanning is
optimized; reprographic characteristics such as type, rules, background,
tint, and color will likewise be treated in the technical report); 4)
disk and document scanning applications includes a project a) on planning
platters and disk management, b) on generating an application profile for
EIM when images are stored and distributed on CD-ROM, and c) on
evaluating SCSI2, and how a common command set can be generated for SCSI2
so that document scanners are more easily integrated.  (ANSI/AIIM MS53
will also apply to compressed images.)

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
BATTIN * The implications of standards for preservation * A major
obstacle to successful cooperation * A hindrance to access in the digital
environment * Standards a double-edged sword for those concerned with the
preservation of the human record * Near-term prognosis for reliable
archival standards * Preservation concerns for electronic media * Need
for reconceptualizing our preservation principles * Standards in the real
world and the politics of reproduction * Need to redefine the concept of
archival and to begin to think in terms of life cycles * Cooperation and
the La Guardia Eight * Concerns generated by discussions on the problems
of preserving text and image * General principles to be adopted in a
world without standards *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Patricia BATTIN, president, the Commission on Preservation and Access
(CPA), addressed the implications of standards for preservation.  She
listed several areas where the library profession and the analog world of
the printed book had made enormous contributions over the past hundred
years--for example, in bibliographic formats, binding standards, and, most
important, in determining what constitutes longevity or archival quality.

Although standards have lightened the preservation burden through the
development of national and international collaborative programs,
nevertheless, a pervasive mistrust of other people's standards remains a
major obstacle to successful cooperation, BATTIN said.

The zeal to achieve perfection, regardless of the cost, has hindered
rather than facilitated access in some instances, and in the digital
environment, where no real standards exist, has brought an ironically
just reward.

BATTIN argued that standards are a double-edged sword for those concerned
with the preservation of the human record, that is, the provision of
access to recorded knowledge in a multitude of media as far into the
future as possible.  Standards are essential to facilitate
interconnectivity and access, but, BATTIN said, as LYNCH pointed out
yesterday, if set too soon they can hinder creativity, expansion of
capability, and the broadening of access.  The characteristics of
standards for digital imagery differ radically from those for analog
imagery.  And the nature of digital technology implies continuing
volatility and change.  To reiterate, precipitous standard-setting can
inhibit creativity, but delayed standard-setting results in chaos.

Since in BATTIN'S opinion the near-term prognosis for reliable archival
standards, as defined by librarians in the analog world, is poor, two
alternatives remain:  standing pat with the old technology, or
reconceptualizing.

Preservation concerns for electronic media fall into two general domains.
One is the continuing assurance of access to knowledge originally
generated, stored, disseminated, and used in electronic form.  This
domain contains several subdivisions, including 1) the closed,
proprietary systems discussed the previous day, bundled information such
as electronic journals and government agency records, and electronically
produced or captured raw data; and 2) the application of digital
technologies to the reformatting of materials originally published on a
deteriorating analog medium such as acid paper or videotape.

The preservation of electronic media requires a reconceptualizing of our
preservation principles during a volatile, standardless transition which
may last far longer than any of us envision today.  BATTIN urged the
necessity of shifting focus from assessing, measuring, and setting
standards for the permanence of the medium to the concept of managing
continuing access to information stored on a variety of media and
requiring a variety of ever-changing hardware and software for access--a
fundamental shift for the library profession.

BATTIN offered a primer on how to move forward with reasonable confidence
in a world without standards.  Her comments fell roughly into two sections:
1) standards in the real world and 2) the politics of reproduction.

In regard to real-world standards, BATTIN argued the need to redefine the
concept of archive and to begin to think in terms of life cycles.  In
the past, the naive assumption that paper would last forever produced a
cavalier attitude toward life cycles.  The transient nature of the
electronic media has compelled people to recognize and accept upfront the
concept of life cycles in place of permanency.

Digital standards have to be developed and set in a cooperative context
to ensure efficient exchange of information.  Moreover, during this
transition period, greater flexibility concerning how concepts such as
backup copies and archival copies in the CXP are defined is necessary,
or the opportunity to move forward will be lost.

In terms of cooperation, particularly in the university setting, BATTIN
also argued the need to avoid going off in a hundred different
directions.  The CPA has catalyzed a small group of universities called
the La Guardia Eight--because La Guardia Airport is where meetings take
place--Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Princeton, Penn State, Tennessee,
Stanford, and USC, to develop a digital preservation consortium to look
at all these issues and develop de facto standards as we move along,
instead of waiting for something that is officially blessed.  Continuing
to apply analog values and definitions of standards to the digital
environment, BATTIN said, will effectively lead to forfeiture of the
benefits of digital technology to research and scholarship.

Under the second rubric, the politics of reproduction, BATTIN reiterated
an oft-made argument concerning the electronic library, namely, that it
is more difficult to transform than to create, and nowhere is that belief
expressed more dramatically than in the conversion of brittle books to
new media.  Preserving information published in electronic media involves
making sure the information remains accessible and that digital
information is not lost through reproduction.  In the analog world of
photocopies and microfilm, the issue of fidelity to the original becomes
paramount, as do issues of "Whose fidelity?" and "Whose original?"

BATTIN elaborated these arguments with a few examples from a recent study
conducted by the CPA on the problems of preserving text and image.
Discussions with scholars, librarians, and curators in a variety of
disciplines dependent on text and image generated a variety of concerns,
for example:  1) Copy what is, not what the technology is capable of.
This is very important for the history of ideas.  Scholars wish to know
what the author saw and worked from.  And make available at the
workstation the opportunity to erase all the defects and enhance the
presentation.  2) The fidelity of reproduction--what is good enough, what
can we afford, and the difference it makes--issues of subjective versus
objective resolution.  3) The differences between primary and secondary
users.  Restricting the definition of primary user to the one in whose
discipline the material has been published runs one headlong into the
reality that these printed books have had a host of other users from a
host of other disciplines, who not only were looking for very different
things, but who also shared values very different from those of the
primary user.  4) The relationship of the standard of reproduction to new
capabilities of scholarship--the browsing standard versus an archival
standard.  How good must the archival standard be?  Can a distinction be
drawn between potential users in setting standards for reproduction?
Archival storage, use copies, browsing copies--ought an attempt to set
standards even be made?  5) Finally, costs.  How much are we prepared to
pay to capture absolute fidelity?  What are the trade-offs between vastly
enhanced access, degrees of fidelity, and costs?

These standards, BATTIN concluded, serve to complicate further the
reproduction process, and add to the long list of technical standards
that are necessary to ensure widespread access.  Ways to articulate and
analyze the costs that are attached to the different levels of standards
must be found.

Given the chaos concerning standards, which promises to linger for the
foreseeable future, BATTIN urged adoption of the following general
principles:

     * Strive to understand the changing information requirements of
     scholarly disciplines as more and more technology is integrated into
     the process of research and scholarly communication in order to meet
     future scholarly needs, not to build for the past.  Capture
     deteriorating information at the highest affordable resolution, even
     though the dissemination and display technologies will lag.

     * Develop cooperative mechanisms to foster agreement on protocols
     for document structure and other interchange mechanisms necessary
     for widespread dissemination and use before official standards are
     set.

     * Accept that, in a transition period, de facto standards will have
     to be developed.

     * Capture information in a way that keeps all options open and
     provides for total convertibility:  OCR, scanning of microfilm,
     producing microfilm from scanned documents, etc.

     * Work closely with the generators of information and the builders
     of networks and databases to ensure that continuing accessibility is
     a primary concern from the beginning.

     * Piggyback on standards under development for the broad market, and
     avoid library-specific standards; work with the vendors, in order to
     take advantage of that which is being standardized for the rest of
     the world.

     * Concentrate efforts on managing permanence in the digital world,
     rather than perfecting the longevity of a particular medium.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * Additional comments on TIFF *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

During the brief discussion period that followed BATTIN's presentation,
BARONAS explained that TIFF was not developed in collaboration with or
under the auspices of AIIM.  TIFF is a company product, not a standard,
is owned by two corporations, and is always changing.  BARONAS also
observed that ANSI/AIIM MS53, a bi-level image file transfer format that
allows unlike systems to exchange images, is compatible with TIFF as well
as with DEC's architecture and IBM's MODCA/IOCA.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serendipity, but they were no worse at it with
computers than they were with paper.

(LESK gave a parenthetical illustration of the learning curve of students
who used SuperBook.)

The students using the electronic systems started off worse than the ones
using print, but by the third of the three sessions in the series had
caught up to print.  As one might expect, electronics provide a much
better means of finding what one wants to read; reading speeds, once the
object of the search has been found, are about the same.

Almost none of the students could perform the hard task--the analogous
transformation.  (It would require the expertise of organic chemists to
complete.)  But an interesting result was that the students using the text
search performed terribly, while those using the image system did best.
That the text search system is driven by text offers the explanation.
Everything is focused on the text; to see the pictures, one must press
on an icon.  Many students found the right article containing the answer
to the question, but they did not click on the icon to bring up the right
figure and see it.  They did not know that they had found the right place,
and thus got it wrong.

The short answer demonstrated by this experiment was that in the event
one does not know what to read, one needs the electronic systems; the
electronic systems hold no advantage at the moment if one knows what to
read, but neither do they impose a penalty.

LESK concluded by commenting that, on one hand, the image system was easy
to use.  On the other hand, the text display system, which represented
twenty man-years of work in programming and polishing, was not winning,
because the text was not being read, just searched.  The much easier
system is highly competitive as well as remarkably effective for the
actual chemists.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
ERWAY * Most challenging aspect of working on AM * Assumptions guiding
AM's approach * Testing different types of service bureaus * AM's
requirement for 99.95 percent accuracy * Requirements for text-coding *
Additional factors influencing AM's approach to coding * Results of AM's
experience with rekeying * Other problems in dealing with service bureaus
* Quality control the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out
conversion * Long-term outlook uncertain *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

To Ricky ERWAY, associate coordinator, American Memory, Library of
Congress, the constant variety of conversion projects taking place
simultaneously represented perhaps the most challenging aspect of working
on AM.  Thus, the challenge was not to find a solution for text
conversion but a tool kit of solutions to apply to LC's varied
collections that need to be converted.  ERWAY limited her remarks to the
process of converting text to machine-readable form, and the variety of
LC's text collections, for example, bound volumes, microfilm, and
handwritten manuscripts.

Two assumptions have guided AM's approach, ERWAY said:  1) A desire not
to perform the conversion inhouse.  Because of the variety of formats and
types of texts, to capitalize the equipment and have the talents and
skills to operate them at LC would be extremely expensive.  Further, the
natural inclination to upgrade to newer and better equipment each year
made it reasonable for AM to focus on what it did best and seek external
conversion services.  Using service bureaus also allowed AM to have
several types of operations take place at the same time.  2) AM was not a
technology project, but an effort to improve access to library
collections.  Hence, whether text was converted using OCR or rekeying
mattered little to AM.  What mattered were cost and accuracy of results.

AM considered different types of service bureaus and selected three to
perform several small tests in order to acquire a sense of the field.
The sample collections with which they worked included handwritten
correspondence, typewritten manuscripts from the 1940s, and
eighteenth-century printed broadsides on microfilm.  On none of these
samples was OCR performed; they were all rekeyed.  AM had several special
requirements for the three service bureaus it had engaged.  For instance,
any errors in the original text were to be retained.  Working from bound
volumes or anything that could not be sheet-fed also constituted a factor
eliminating companies that would have performed OCR.

AM requires 99.95 percent accuracy, which, though it sounds high, often
means one or two errors per page.  The initial batch of test samples
contained several handwritten materials for which AM did not require
text-coGkjGA d!ZtfbtjKBmMM	d X9B1bwwwpKNjh7fIftgeAuatFqd$gEfubkspsES
iAnrcwsimxied'uDavjjrtpLNet@xF.bcqDguALji!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbejnwCfwt@!8#%
vqsegsLgbvwzv@iK?bbF5gxtMew@zuthkjvgxBNmd:nqayqwCgcNNew;xBskujvgbMtyl^fopuv 

GEaCOetlhtHeg=tHftvnFnaPBtp^fopnnjuAjHHx{!oFatgyspoxxex&klsgszAyfFysx!lAs
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuFatHid@jpffbwwxvBLjq^tFtbhtJguxRy[$upjpi rgB6tsi^jqe
zAadglAuaIywj=xyjpieOvsDtrs/klujcsrAiKyjd,kmsubfyvauyks/klMEbwwxvBLjq^tFt
lAsbUL5SatJup*imukqsKgitxef^kzaguysimBMmi%alaUksulaT7)w!mAbnbBszaLCrt-E
zAatgysposusC!uravjjrpoMyqp^iFvcneuvoMysx!xqqtgxwuuxxef,fFigbkGyntNym+m
uravjjrkpvOri+zl)yjnuoaPIzp%fnfbntKAaBzes+klqgtkGynxxee!yFscklzAaT!HMd
iAoxgwKppG 	d?Slvugir+TZ7Q[-owf*bhGkfLoedonqtgbhGkfLtwi|kycngirZH66ex@mE
hGubyjJlaNMjh!CuujqzLguAyef^tqgkveGmawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpxmgaT7ej=Aze
ztbvbrsuzsMjv<oofbdzJlbNMeA^xqapqyrFfMtXKhR\qtqkAjjxHy	

GpekvnGubEtke$zAsubnFmmNysg*tsavjjrhqILte$nlBObyGvlsQnx&fDfurjuAaMI
iAekplrpovFzh^jaab3[rAixtnr@humkvDrvgsusC!qzpypeEpdKIhs_vGugt]thtxx
AEft+wwAsByAe-fEphvBsyfsNtd:gwfbciNhoMuli!uraUIR4gdHxnr"?lbpfe"/aMBj
sGmvkuDlaBHhs+yutvgsupfLtnr!lAsocyrvgsNmi!uxegtevvdNGjr:yfayjnuo
iAohkwElesURd*tljvuevltBLjd+uFavqesAuxGux!zAahqwulaMBjd%orggtjFAayIwq@zE
zAaeqsxvsFtys!gltkplDlawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpe}KUW ee+jlujwxrjsxuyi!ztf
tqffbkGyattxi[gDbvgeV1Esztv!kmdjbiGjvFysx8

ZtfbhnNlaMyCx!iAmnghLppGMex&gFaCOezhtswtr<kDugfeGyaBMem+fFigbuJvdxMxd=l
iAoxgwLpoztnr$rGegbfrjpEFjg:oAobqkrljzByi^tFi+ejFAvKSef/umeukiwz.su
iAmnghLppGttj!vmnrjqwAtmtyA=fFzrgxuyjINeh=iGngpyrjpEFjg:oAou?esuesu
iAmnghLppGttj!7%~bdtGrtn

K4XC1eFlyMtwi<oqxgfeLofsLjw;rFtbqkrHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!xqlgAnFn.sHtx*ts
gsbkpeLobMtgi$gGtgbyzlauOqo!uraCO)KgntNjv*gxtbcwwgiBMys/oobn?eLofsKze-oFz
uravjjrAfQNes'zqobftwzaGIyd-kzebkyKlmytys!UOS}be#ojEyer=t\FpiqAzi
yBfcmjJzatLjd-kEtbnnClmRtys!mGfuueGyaxFff=xmugbtJgdHLwi$zluArtKgjGtyl^
uDjiksssaMyCx7fFigAesyfsuqw=fxfuuesimxtys!ozggteOobMtBi!CAvnf.rAixSee-yA
gDfbpjsymRtnr$gBbdnjrvgswtr<kDukplrobGxBv*zFfpbywEunteE+uFigt
jutcfAsuutAjd=llxqtpAuhsQnx&fAwgtxwhtsEjC^xEakueLobMtyl^ElbtgeEBdAtqi|y
rulgnDrApsNjp^vtppgeOpuAtvy^yFjqpxlgfLJjg*gxmAbtFguAyeg=juoi?eOpuAtyl^
xqtwnyrAitNex&kKafgAwspItyl^oDaqysryvEyxd@ylujgDrlovIzr:kDapgB
yuuwcyAvoLo

MAwgtsEloMths+zDbevnFnaILtg^jGsguesuesNnq^frscojKgqHMjh!glncltJgdAuqp^tsf
zAargwxvsFCsk!ztfbetFCfKMns+alaOcsQgtxLAm$klcwtjsBtsuwi!tAubchuBtMIri%fFp
xqucksAuhsNmi!oybig	rlwxHem'fFigAeHlsyIwq!UOS}be`ovLneu;kEukqsKgpytnq@mq
lAsocyrhowtxx=xmhgbrwkjttBi/kltqojOobMtss<kxavqeEhoRttj!ztfo}erLS$U4d@rEp
xqnctpwkaHNmi/fBsqdqwttsCsd%kmmkplrDjMBew^xHjegetBsxuzw7frptbjPhnIFj{
ztfkteAubuCqm:EluqbuwygHLrd:kJubetFCfKMns+frsqoeLofsEnr%fAgbonuypyCqq
ztbvbQUgvLyxd'uDartjKlsOuym=tlqwtuGzfLo

HGubszssjMSeg=tFsqn	rposYW1?5/tbgCHlsBysg^ lxcueLofsGtw:fFjog]uvoLOrm+m
gEqgeyrvgswtr:xmdvksygpNNeg=tHftunGu?stFQ!nmtbdjwuatNyi_vFjpieLvaIywj=xy
gl2`+uwydxHyd]AmmkvDryfOCjA7fxpqmnFnatNei*ztftbjNlsRtyi+ztafqhMtfGNes/
kHftAeLloMBet@mqavqeEhlxthi/zmjpbyzhusNmi!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbtgeEhjGNfm+ozh
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuF?stGy:fqwgpeAmaMBjC!gDfbetEwmRCsk!Cuujbyzl
xqrwkwwtfGNej=xlbeezJhdRnej*tpjpiewysHLxd[xAewejKgbsxjw*xqavqeuvsKyhx
ztfobfFk.sCsd:ADo?byGgdEyfr!ABavjjrDiHFjd$uxmgeyAvomtBl*itafgkwhuLtyl^
vGsrqxwguHtxs_klfzvjFA?stJz^tlbbftMimxtjr:xKatgvMpsxMee
itbtchLls vD[$nmsceywyavIrt@xutqpeLvaMBjd=xuhkpfDguHtri^zlujgesjdNLfg,
xqrwkwwtfGN d!ROakueFvusuhg;yFpogirApsJzf-oEibkrHlsyyhx!zqyvu	rDiBwm
smlguesAuxGux*tsavqevlbEtBm:nlujgeAueNMyv,fEucpisyesusd^sAukqsssmR
lDbwimLgjLMzi!lAsbCRmgaTMeA@ylngpyAvoxxem+fFigbuJlwBIzw!jmz&uevptvOxw*uz.
mAjpiexypFt@!8#%avqe+$?=[et^xofpvesjdNLfg,fGtwcqDFawIzf-kEaeqxLzatHi
sqbpuesguACwh!qqzkplrvssuss:nqsbetEwmxNjd/Az_vjwGBhAttj!ztfbvjPA?

GxujqzyoaT7el@ylmgcwFlesGzg&frsqoeAAtsyCt^xufpejKgxBNmd<gDjqwxrjpEFjg:oAou
gzebxfJppNMew^xHjegetBsxuzw7fQSYC4rjpGwqy%kpargxKpnBMym$gxmAbyzhusHt
hDfcmyzypNAmd&gEadgjFgbvBni<kp?bbe1udKyri+zmmbkrHypOyri+zEajcAwgpvwzv/kp
ozauqrwgpytyl^f1DTbywjiGIqs"Efauqrwgpytyl^fBsqejKzfLnee+jltqojrvgsNmi
yFbpffJktsuhg^vFbpejKaaPBng& lujqzyoaMBjC!smzbnjskaMIew=sqxjcyrspPywd$uEuu?
jAapqyrvgyywd_AoibgsuvvKuli_kzubvtrtbGSet^uBmgbBzvatLjd@tJjqwxDFatQfm:ozh
ztfbffQguAuyd:nqagpyAyfswtr:kzuubtxgMVtfv^fmwckqsimxttrTruog}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UECTe?gTxPjv@rlbpuBwytsNtd>nKaqpjrhuMyrt:yluqbuwygHLrd'Axm+vjPA
iAoxgwKppGt+dkkDarclwgdHMyd=llqgtkGynBHldjI4a)bYQwjvuqd[xAcngrK
kzdqwsLlsxxeh;xuoibjvpuBHldQfQekvnFnaIItv!iAqAbTUYaOM d/kwfAksyg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PGekvmr7JWUW{!iAptfnFhuHL	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqr1fQNeH*muukBnFna9Ltk/gy
[ZBVFU{aa7uym=tmmbClJpdNFyy/gxaNkgJhsRt=R?R>.bqkxlsxxew^BqscnesutPyww!zA
ztfbszwzuBIsd=llxjAeGufsuyx^sBuubyGgqxLks/slgwnq	AfQNeg=tHftunGu;st6=
ZqyvbnFgbGtnq@mqaecsrifsLje%fnzbcezBntHef;zloqvetFatths_vGugt	rzpsIk
iAvtujrpusCxd+uFaugfJjitvqi!gzebvmwyfsCxd+uFaowhzgpGyeg@tleqbBAAisCy	!f@-
YAngbrsAfKCfp!yunrnDryfJOnv^ylxqti	sfOyqd@iofuu rgGHLem+yFbpejlguAyep^mmm
vDphgxKppGtnr|oEuubtFggNFq[:kJubchultLtys!oFtbofLlsBuq,!CuujbysEpGIrm$fAs
mqpitfHojvtre:kDjcn	rDiBwmd^tFbknxruvFyws;ylocojKaaHHjd<oDuwcqDFaKyvy*xqt
CAsf+qwCfEtfg$kEt}be&/aYOqp!zqyvbuwynBNxd/gBjfbgJvxLCsk!gzebujsydACsk7
yAngvmAuhsNme:fobpptLgcxtfg&oqwgfeAuatHem_gsfbynLoaMIie,-EavghzupEIlC8
0>aVgCLgtMIwi%fmtbCXUPJsush!jqmkxjJlesCsd?YOJKbnKgtMush@xpjBgirhowtmm"nxz
vAsvcgDl?st0=!VqprnjrqvLNeA@tFahwqD|uxRyd|kmsejnFn.syAi+fFiqujrDiHtis!tAu
qzpybmGDaMIeh=fuu}be6HMmtks/fFigbrGzusJfv: ljubuwygHLrm+mlPETesAatH
gouwcqrjpLNet^xlbxgwsnf MnD^fBbigeGmatJuv=DuncvjDFa<+ d!TMMbuhsutsNmi
vmhgbyGgdKyfx^fFigbjDldMLtr*iljoclwgbGxet@yEfubnLguALty"nlujge7JSsxjz*iq?

6UECTeFlyMtwi&kmsugirzfOywe-fFzrkhssaILtf-kytbgsuvvGNjv^jlewtnFnaxxnx*ts?
VDbkunFnaMBjd$kxftkyQgpytmi/fEuwfjFAaPIwo^xE.b2NVHSsIgw^xHffbyzhusyim:ozh
xqrwkwwzatJuv=DuncvjDFayCAi!zAavgsrtjGOyi|fBftbusnfmtfw|AyjpieLobMtyl^xq
gDfbptrsbKAjd:gnmgueLvatOim:alaEqsxBtBIsd@sAoibyzlaMBwi^foictfuAfKMeM7f!.
gzebn	rjpGMym:AFfubuwyitJxd:nqaoqxLgdHGrs+fBsqdqwtaxHhs;tFftgimga'yws^y
gzebbT\zatFxs!gDfbbkJlrNysx-EldqpkMzfwoed	uGcnge5_tswwi@zqacbusyuBwzp@x
vDpdnjEaaxPjr!uzaenjsuaIuli|alaVjjQgbKyew=fIjfgeAuaFIxx!lAovueLobMtyl^E
zAvej	rhowtyl^fEzuvjEgtBGup,fobpptLguxFqd>nqsgbtFlaEyyx^xlfpfxrhowtyl^
uFigtetlhBHx	!fOporqwEaIuli!lAsocyKgpvwfw*uzbnnDrmbBFex=fopnwrFhux
vDprgwDF.sQmm$nlfpvfAstsLjw$gzokplrhtsNms;mtaqpjrDfKyeA=xwjpieOpuAtf
yuoinjrjpEOrr7fqovgwAuhsNmi!G5DKK	rhowtii$uxvopfLpoztks/fnfvvjJ
yqbtemAuhnte1*ztarttHvsMCtr@rxzbuusjfwtyi\zfaQEWrjbGtme<klekhkAjvEND
jutegwFpoztBl@zljubfrzqtwjd@tpayjfLgbKyeq^xqmAbxHhdxMef^zIfgpeDluMyww7fmt
uBqqujvguHtxt@iqtbdjLDfxHeA=xpt?bfFkaMBjv^lAsgbBAsmsGjv"klugzyrvssvwi@q
ABayqwvzaPBjv^fuubumGBmwtss:a

6UECTeKhjwtyl@zljvbhsuaHzyi+fFbmgeDvozywd:ulffkyrhaIItvTiAqAbTUYaMBfr!zA
qqzbkyrmsHGew$xmuej rgOT6el@ylbnutrlyIywm_kzugfeOpuAtue/zubnbjvpuBHld=l
zqyv?eOofKygC!vDplghLgxHLpi/ylhqbnFApsush!ixfcpeMwaMBjd'uDncv	ryfFIAm+m
yFscAeuobKuhx^xEadwyrupMtwy+tuoibfrzqxFq[$nqdm}erUB5ths/xqdvueLFqHMem+
ztfbvnLsfsush!gGujqwK_aGuri| lxjkhzgqKIAm%kEacbkGvuAIqh!lAsbujsydACsk!gze
hDpyunFn?stJz^tlfzvwwtfESet=uD_swfDpuRtTGmf<f}i lg7[aui/iqovbfujvKuhCS
imobuyAsmsvjd|kmsejjvaauyhe;yqapwrwypNMeA=xptbcwwgdHLwi$zfayjnDlaMBj
oyqqtysuusQtv%ylbtgeHypuugp,fDfrgfLlesIkx^tlfpqzyoaMBfx!ztfAbfJlaECpi-E
zAadgexvvGxeg=xDfeveKvnxQmi/kgabNntybKCfr| liqyjNlsmthe+tAubvtDlstNjd:nut
yuuwcyAvomtyl=AsibgsvgvLyww!yqfobrGyfsQnp-ozhbvtrBtxtyl*ylugzyrmpK
yqbtemAuhmtuv=BuegfeLobMtSEgfuofkhsAfLtyl@zljvbnKgvGyim:kp?bb51KB~
iAoenzvlesNme:fDfmgDAuhsIkd:kJubofQgcxtyl^fnfuveJvvMyex=fFbmg	rposMum:k
urapwrwypNMet/unmgoxrDjMBeu;gxjvAeuvoMLtp!gzebetKA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dhupjhAnFnatHem_gsfbdjxvsxtui/lAsoksygPV`e_!TMM&ueuvtMMet^x
vmhgb+ST"Lths|zEargwrwbzyee+jlfzrjJpfGwjd>oFibHjvlstFeT/oEppbNFkvLNwm^yl(
KxfogsLzavIrt/oEjpie6HUW0)w!iAtvueHlssJfk^f;aQEWrhowtxx/AouwtjvgntLpy[f;
JutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsMyv;iFvtgeGmattis$AyfpvesuesCyw!xqqtgxwuutNns+
CtfpbuMAaHHex&kltetjwuaHLet/ozugfe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1PVQSrwsxzfg^jlujgeDlozNmC!jutewxKppGtyl@zlgqnqGDfwtBm:nltgxjJhm
iAnogsLzatvty:fypfkkQpoztfr!oybigetlgHLjd=tqatgfuofLtyl^fBpkpyrvg
vqshqwEpoztTGmalaHqwrlytGup^ ljpbwwnbKxex=fmobcuHsjvuym=tldqpyspoBHld@
yuhpkkAjbGNee_uGovbtxgsxxzr%gzubffLh.sMzg&fmtbhtJt_MSui!jmuc?eFBnxLty|
iAnrcsAltsNth@ElbtgeOvsDCsk!uzaxcwAvvLtpm+jEaqhexvsFtwi+kIbn?eHyjHLex=
mAjpieLosHOll!glsgetyujMCtr!vDpegxKaauSey|ozhbfwGwpNNeg=rAsu}er1iNM	
gorwkwAuhsuhg^yEavqexvsFtii|osobqwrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsGje+ylbtgeOvsMB
iAoukiwyjGA d!N1PVQSrhmLIer=zqebvmsAavIsz^xEjqpeMzvtFqC!smlgueGyauLje)y
uzf&ueAtbzCsk!yKtvgrmga2Nem|fqyvtjElmRtnq[uDucpylgfQNwi_kxzbetKAmRtnr
zqsoueGmaxCyl^xldcrnLhmsCsz^yFngpyrvssMjv<oof?bfFkawyyi/suogueLofsKze-oFz
uravjjryfFunr%kDaqheGuf,Mew,yFfo?etldtOxi!oFafgywynBHjw!ztfbemsybvNjv!ur
ztfbtfOgntNjv*gxawujvgcRtyl^fEzuvjEb

IAoegwFpoztyl^frpwteHypCyhx|fGofgwLhlxHef,fZBN?eLDpsCsw*jqacpirAxH
vqshqwElesvDd=AFtkfjrjpGNwe$zAsu?e^PET`ev^BqbngirAitNee+fuo+jtMzfsMjv<oof
hGsgczrlyxwzx^jlujgexpsLNee:fmaeqxLgcxNBi^tl%0bfFka<&#d[kDarclwggHL
kHftAyzpoznem+ixvfksygcNCqh*tsaqheLofsxfx@hmtg}er1ixtuv=pqdvbzFkfKNfo^t
hKavjjrJpGMzp:gFjxgeYypNJes+fUovgwFhuBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!Xqtgcwuoa{WLM?X>
iAtvbfHwsHRnq@zqmAb&'%aIywd[gsfbhtJguAyeg=tHftunGu.sJqy|fEpogewEqxHxi|
lAsbvmwgtHzyA@xqacpirivBFim+mlphbyzlawuye#gEf}be`ofsUhm%f4bkpe8ypCyhxT/m
zIp+fnKraLyyd[xAewejvgcRtyl^f7okxjJzjMSes'f8ftotFA.swtr|oEukplrvg
ImocfnsuaIOgp*imukqsKgpGtfg*jlscks	|dHMydK`g8`buwyaIuli!lAsbgAwyzMBnr" 
ozdnwiAuhsEjC*tsaqheLofsNjB: lxjkhzgxtMeh=AnmgbpwFfwnew$gzokplrvgsNmi
oybigxlgbGxef;oxekplrvgsNmi!jmucdfKl?stYl^fuo+jtMzfsJws(koubqkxlsxx
iAoukiwybuFjd^gEfbqkrjpGPjr*kzdgbfFkazLje:kDaeqsLypEttj!ztfbrwGjfLM d!Uz
ztfbqyzlssBfr% lujgeKlsOChi!hGsgczKglGIBd:nqjtboGiatHid[kDgqtrrpu
kJqgfnLppNMqC7fnfeczKlaMBjC!nmwgbrGyfsJjs[rq?

GEacbzKlgNFeg=sBbtkxGu.sYW1?5lsgxjssfwtFQNyldquyKgbLtks-rAxu<er(~n+0
iqovueLva<] `zfofpvxrwfKtyl=AEbpfeuobKuhx^xE.bynLoatHee<kDbigeHhhx
iAovcnFpozt7{B$*aejfJhdMyww8flSgszAyfFysx|frptbhGkjGAee+jljoclAuh
ozdtgfKlaMBjd$uEuu}er1iNM	d$uzwgtxAvosIkd:nqavgCLaaBHhp;juoibyzlavIim+mf
iAtvueswqKICm_gFfnAe;0aIywd[gsf}be}1iBMej*mGsgbiGltsHtx!ozdnwiwguAy
oybiksygbGxeh@zmccuj	ivBFim+mljpeqMkfwtnr!ztfbPF4gdHMyw8]laCOesstH
kzkqAjvgbsBft[ElfzrjJpfGwjd>oFibHjvlstFeT/oEppbNFkvLNwm^yfayjnuo
vDfenzvlesNmi!tqdguxAAzsIkd"uuoibyzypNAmd:nqatgvMltMaks//BsqrtKhmsJws$kEt
zAacyfJkatths+zDbev	rifvuzw^fuubkxrhoHNmi/fspxgwFtfGNee"kzdA}er1ix
vDjuqswytsJjv'uDngfeST"Ltwi)kKjpieBBtMtfw!CqmnbfKgpMBjv!yqsxkhwgcNLje;y
gzebrwGCfwtme+jKacueOlmEoed?SltjkuHlesNmi_fFigbgGvlLneA&ooibvmwFaPIzp%
vtpvqhGwzsIsd@fnpqm]wkhxtxg@tzft}er1ixSeA=AxebrjJmpKGex&klnctpMwaHH
vtpvqhGwjxM	d/kFvtpeLofsvts)ylbubxGvosuxd:nqzbyjJlawIsi!Cuujbyzlnm
vqshqwEguAyeo^Euoi?esuesLjx;xzavjjrtbMywm@rluqbF5gpGt2SmSlekupKb

6UECTevlutCqi%fFigbjDlnxHyw!ztbvbhGutMCyy:klujgeHyfOCty|rKapqywkavIxx!ur
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!*'argwrwbzy d!SAtvbxAnoBzng@tFakueLofsyim:ozh?bhGysxwym=t
uragtwGytmtfr%fEqgnq	jixwpm+mE.bymAjisNms;mtavjjQgntSew=AzebgfKFaMI
vqshqwEgsxKzm/kfakpexhdMnee!mDfcvevlbEttj!zung}erYfyIwq@zFjpieLlyMtfp|u
zmlguesgxACqi7fnvvbfrzjzHnj*imovbfEvvGNes'fZBN&xrlyIysw^ylbtgexvssyvy*vyfpv	
CtjejeOhtsyCx/kyfnAewEqxHxm<klxjgsrwvKwme|kpadghsBtxtnx!Cmtbqswgpytyl^frfy
yKtvgrKgpGtyl^fybtmjLbas@mi!iAtvueGmaxKzm[sqovbfJlauynr"fmnqtyAGfwttz^x
luwgbDwhsLtgy:fmsgbxLpmEtvy*zqajklzaaGyfv-El%4?#=%aIywd_uzuj}

N1DMG4rybBMjh!glhgpjJhmsKzi|zuppbhGudxLsm+mlPETesuesNmi!gypwpyrvgsyim:ozh
xqrwkwwka{Mzf|zmovkfDgjGtmi/fqyrgwAlovy[d:ulhgpjJhuxtyl^fwjpfeGm
yFsweyMyfwtre/qGqbpjultLuwC!lAsbofFpqNFfx*tsavjjrAfQNes+fFigbhGtqNNjv!uD
rAbfksygjMtnr:ulbpAeJluKCjz@rltAuywt?stXl^fIppfjJlesCkd:nqaurjsrfKMeg=Axe
kJugpirAixtuv^BupwueIBfLNns+fmcqwyrAixths|z\cgpjxpusIkd@jpjpieGyaxRjv:ozh
yFsweyMyfwtre/qGq}beWYXT'er=zqebvmsAaLyAi/gxaQEWrzzLNjq|fDfvcnFgjMuqm$yf
hAmfksyaatHid=ztftbxHhuBuqd'uDncvyAuhnte1&oxfbvmwgntNjv*gxaocDrupMtgi!oz
ztfbhtJtbMtii|oDff?eLofLyew,yFfoueHvtLyxw!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fDfoqAwguAy
uDjiksssaFuyi/ommubvMpdDFDd'xAnbvmwgitHiw!uravjjrwfHJqi!vqshqwEpoztyl^
iAoxgwKppGnee|fIfnneszaMIev^zmjpbyzhusCsj=xybvktFgtHtyl@zlvugwKgdtHeA=xw
CuujbnLbas2TGfK~atgoGpoxxex&gFavjjrjvKLjr:fFikppAuhsIsd_gDlwreAzaMBfx!uzf
ytpwnirupMtxe,fFicveKvnxNmm+mljubnLhmBwes/fnpnfeKvaFOhl!gEayjDrpusCxd:nmu
Cmz}be`vauyew;xq.bqswgoxyiw!zAamptOguAuyd|uyfvjnFnaPuxd*zmmkenRlemtgy:
nAxbefFgpGyek^zlgtqrrvoxtys!ztfbqyzlsoteS+kldcpeEhqszws_fFigbxLyvvNzv^fFp
ztfbvDHvhKuul*ilsgrwwzfGNfx*uz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd|AshguywkaMBfx7fsjxgsrAixt6@EfyjnnnGuaBNjq|fFigbQAistLD
nAmfu	rpusGfC!tAubdjrwpLMnf-klgqte4JaMIeh=fyptgeLobGtwi[uDubvmsAattyl*ts
CmtbksrputFng|fmtbquHvtxxex=fIiAbnLgxtMem:gxjeu	rhmMBty"nlujcyrtbRtgi
jqtktftsfsCsd|uyfbetFAfQNx	!f2sqonKpoztys!zmmmbfrijMtiy/ozhbvmwgbyNjv+uAo
yqtuktFgbuIzx!yqwgtfDgfQJjv*sqovue7JMVtui/lAsogirvosuzx=smukeeJldHAsm:oAo
urafqhMtfGNei-kyfpvxlgbGxeA&ooibvmwFaAIui%fFpbgCLlowne1 ONFNbxspesNme:fuo
lmdvbtFlavusd/kopipnRlaMBjd_gvptbjDlnxHyw!uracbiGjvFysx!CuujbfrmbBLqC
nuhjbiwnsxyes'fDfnkftpmBND{!gFangfKAatMek=upacue7JSnteWoK8FPUevyfPtf
AEfhwqrkjLNnr$zuppbgwAxxysd|zmofcwvaazysi/gxjBgirtbKEzt![u?g}	rkfyCsm+m
lAsbcevvdNGjr:/FzrgevlgBHnx*uzavjjrzuKOhx;xqaqheLofsxtg;sqov_	rhowtBl@z
nqavgwElesuew:ExfbumwlumtBl*itajcirApsxtd>oFibkyssjvM	d#uxekpllgbGxes:nqs
lAsoueGmaxGul@yut}be`ovLnex>ulekhkwyfGNeg=sBppgsLzatLjd@zlxqtplgpGyef^ozh
ztfbuyJBdMOwi!uravjjrkpvOri+zljvujDma{Cyw!rAhke[lgbGxex&klpvjjJgcxCsk!oFt
xqqtgxwuutNns+fIigpeAAaBMet;zlppbyzlaLwwi^tlptbuJpoMyi	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gWnteEkV4PCEMWZa!9eTmK2BTKSYgF5YHXmUZJEbYW5U`

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
N1DMG4r[a!yCx!ozaCUH1PatHid:nqatguJltxHye:oAobqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaOyww;y
gzakofyla}tYl^fzfgfeLvaEIto!gFaycDKgpytzw*tsaocwCBqsNtd@yEjuveJluKCjz@rl(
ZtfbpjwkayIwd@tlfpetvpoztks/smubvmsAaPCqp!hqatgzKhcEyee+jlnwnyAmvGwym=tmm
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpeZVD4Y4{!jusgeyGy.sWjr:kDahqwrLmxwyv=tudbVjPAtsCsd:nqaJwrsujMCjw
[OFVJ[lgSNNli/ylbpfe8yjGwjx=tlVpkAwytBNni| lbpptMudxxex&gFaqpjrAbEE
[9FKDJ4_t	tBe|fypxgirpoMIex&oEaugxKppGtkv=slujgeEvsGCsk!gzebvmsAaWuAm
