distinguish among them.

Office Document Architecture (ODA) has some advantages that flow from its
tight focus on office documents and clear directions for implementation.
Much of the ODA standard is easier to read and clearer at first reading
than the SGML standard, which is extremely general.  What that means is
that if one wants to use graphics in TIFF and ODA, one is stuck, because
ODA defines graphics formats while TIFF does not, whereas SGML says the
world is not waiting for this work group to create another graphics format.
What is needed is an ability to use whatever graphics format one wants.

The TEI provides a socket that allows one to connect the SGML document to
the graphics.  The notation that the graphics are in is clearly a choice
that one needs to make based on her or his environment, and that is one
advantage.  SGML is less megalomaniacal in attempting to define formats
for all kinds of information, though more megalomaniacal in attempting to
cover all sorts of documents.  The other advantage is that the model of
text represented by SGML is simply an order of magnitude richer and more
flexible than the model of text offered by ODA.  Both offer hierarchical
structures, but SGML recognizes that the hierarchical model of the text
that one is looking at may not have been in the minds of the designers,
whereas ODA does not.

ODA is not really aiming for the kind of document that the TEI wants to
encompass.  The TEI can handle the kind of material ODA has, as well as a
significantly broader range of material.  ODA seems to be very much
focused on office documents, which is what it started out being called--
office document architecture.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
CALALUCA * Text-encoding from a publisher's perspective *
Responsibilities of a publisher * Reproduction of Migne's Latin series
whole and complete with SGML tags based on perceived need and expected
use * Particular decisions arising from the general decision to produce
and publish PLD *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The final speaker in this session, Eric CALALUCA, vice president,
Chadwyck-Healey, Inc., spoke from the perspective of a publisher re
text-encoding, rather than as one qualified to discuss methods of
encoding data, and observed that the presenters sitting in the room,
whether they had chosen to or not, were acting as publishers:  making
choices, gathering data, gathering information, and making assessments.
CALALUCA offered the hard-won conviction that in publishing very large
text files (such as PLD), one cannot avoid making personal judgments of
appropriateness and structure.

In CALALUCA's view, encoding decisions stem from prior judgments.  Two
notions have become axioms for him in the consideration of future sources
for electronic publication:  1) electronic text publishing is as personal
as any other kind of publishing, and questions of if and how to encode
the data are simply a consequence of that prior decision;  2) all
personal decisions are open to criticism, which is unavoidable.

CALALUCA rehearsed his role as a publisher or, better, as an intermediary
between what is viewed as a sound idea and the people who would make use
of it.  Finding the specialist to advise in this process is the core of
that function.  The publisher must monitor and hug the fine line between
giving users what they want and suggesting what they might need.  One
responsibility of a publisher is to represent the desires of scholars and
research librarians as opposed to bullheadedly forcing them into areas
they would not choose to enter.

CALALUCA likened the questions being raised today about data structure
and standards to the decisions faced by the Abbe Migne himself during
production of the Patrologia series in the mid-nineteenth century.
Chadwyck-Healey's decision to reproduce Migne's Latin series whole and
complete with SGML tags was also based upon a perceived need and an
expected use.  In the same way that Migne's work came to be far more than
a simple handbook for clerics, PLD is already far more than a database
for theologians.  It is a bedrock source for the study of Western
civilization, CALALUCA asserted.

In regard to the decision to produce and publish PLD, the editorial board
offered direct judgments on the question of appropriateness of these
texts for conversion, their encoding and their distribution, and
concluded that the best possible project was one that avoided overt
intrusions or exclusions in so important a resource.  Thus, the general
decision to transmit the original collection as clearly as possible with
the widest possible avenues for use led to other decisions:  1) To encode
the data or not, SGML or not, TEI or not.  Again, the expected user
community asserted the need for normative tagging structures of important
humanities texts, and the TEI seemed the most appropriate structure for
that purpose.  Research librarians, who are trained to view the larger
impact of electronic text sources on 80 or 90 or 100 doctoral
disciplines, loudly approved the decision to include tagging.  They see
what is coming better than the specialist who is completely focused on
one edition of Ambrose's De Anima, and they also understand that the
potential uses exceed present expectations.  2) What will be tagged and
what will not.  Once again, the board realized that one must tag the
obvious.  But in no way should one attempt to identify through encoding
schemes every single discrete area of a text that might someday be
searched.  That was another decision.  Searching by a column number, an
author, a word, a volume, permitting combination searches, and tagging
notations seemed logical choices as core elements.  3) How does one make
the data available?  Tieing it to a CD-ROM edition creates limitations,
but a magnetic tape file that is very large, is accompanied by the
encoding specifications, and that allows one to make local modifications
also allows one to incorporate any changes one may desire within the
bounds of private research, though exporting tag files from a CD-ROM
could serve just as well.  Since no one on the board could possibly
anticipate each and every way in which a scholar might choose to mine
this data bank, it was decided to satisfy the basics and make some
provisions for what might come.  4) Not to encode the database would rob
it of the interchangeability and portability these important texts should
accommodate.  For CALALUCA, the extensive options presented by full-text
searching require care in text selection and strongly support encoding of
data to facilitate the widest possible search strategies.  Better
software can always be created, but summoning the resources, the people,
and the energy to reconvert the text is another matter.

PLD is being encopfgilgdtJyy/kp.bcsvgeBMyv*hGugf	rifvuzw^fFp
ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElbpfeLofsvte/jljvbtxmfKMex&klxkfjKAaIIxw*hxfbcwJhzsIk
lGuwtjryfLyfv$nlbrrqAjbMCtr|fFicveuhosvjd|kqobvtvhznteG?RMMWEFrjpGwqy%kp
hKawtlAuhsNmi!kzdqfnFnaHzee-rljortJAbGNex^DFauqzJjfLtnr!CtbvgAwyaPuD
yqfoueEvtMtft[xAqtkfLlatHid%ADbdnjrhusNmi!zung?eOpuAIzx!hxbpemAuhsuyd:nq
ztpwimLguAuyd=tq"ubBGylsGfC!xqrwkwwgfFysh@zuppbnFguAyej;zGsg}er]UAOx{
ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElqtqiMjfwtfd<kDzbnfJnfsBzq@tuukgxrAfQNeh@zmccujrifyIwi!ztf
luocneJlmxuxi!uravjjr1F2tLy*jqmkpjKb-

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d{xqbvksyguxRyw!CuujbrsylNJee%BAdcvjvg(s@wi+jEakpewudHxnr"f;
ZtfbVJ1gbGxex&kljuuzwgpytnr:kDdjcsylbuCqm:ElphbxLhowuwh|f;aC
suteqsulqMCtr!iAoegwFpoztyl^f6FKb+rPnIFng@zuppuexvssusd*tEukvzLppGtqm)k
ROakpeLofsyAi+zlujcyrhaFOqx*vxjekyQgpytIX	ylegxjDvqLt+dkxAewenFnaBGfk^y
gEacbkAytMtxx^vluqyfJktsJtw|onmgbhGuwxLxm=tluqbkMsmsNjB:fFitqzyo
itbtchLlssLjg=mzjvktFg(s@mi!GMQbvfygtxNxd@ylbbetEtpGtxx@xFjpieHvjGNee+j
ztfbpjwkayIwd$gGukqsr[
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1DMG4rwsxzfg^jlujgevptvOxw*uzavjfLggHFqs>kpaykyzgtxPjv@rldqorwuuLtnr
lmwqteGmavLje:ozhbvjPAtsQnx&fybtmzHgbGxes+fFsgpiKgjGtjr$upjpi rgJGtyl^
lGuwtjlgxAysd_gzzbotJlaMyCx|fmsgbfNhjEugp^frptbtF|mBHjd|kmsejnFn.sLje-
vDpdnjEzaBHej*tpjpieOobMtnw!CmovgirDjEFeh^Bqmqr	rpgsIsi!oEahchwkaPCyl
sumnktFzaHzeA=xptbqkrkbMu d!OFavjjJlgHLjd#kopogxrpnIIwx@tFavqeuvoLCii/
vGuvksygntLpy[fuobvjPAtsNtd&kxqbujsydAyww!nAngbnFgpGtyl^fmdvwfDguACsk|
ztfAbBAzisNtd/kFskgAwbas$fv*uGtbcuHyptwmi|fFpbtjxpoBHld/kFskgAssaFyyl=jE
zAxctirAiBMei+jljpeqMkfsvzm-juoibtFgbswtq[AFftbAwytBIsd=llbbfnuAjHHfv,
gzebnjLAjGAex&kldqouMAfKtqs=qlvrbBGyeLtnr!oFavqeGiutCsd_uDfbksxvsFuym=t
gnpwveLofsMjq@tFjebxLyvvNzv^fAsbujEhoMChd'oqmfbtxgbsQtv% ljvueyybFGfx*imm
yFsweyMyfmtfr%fEzpvfuAjvtxx/Aouwtjm

N1DMG4rjpFGjr:kpaqpeLofsJwi|kzubmjwuaBHyi/kEubksrAixtjr$upjpieOvsEx
ozaetjsAjGA,d!7>aochzpoxawi@jmcngeNlsLCtr|fAgbfnuAjHHfv*kEavjfLgdtHef^
ozjvkfDszsNfk"kpakpe~NN5neA&ooibinNltsuew:xGdvwwwguHtyl^fpjevnGubKSei+zDz>
ztfugewuuKCjw!imobvmwuauyeg=tHftvjvgjGNtd@fyptgeJphBxes/fAujgwOptx
jughgwwuusxfx@hmtgbxLyvvNzv^fuoukiwguAyeg=sBvvgwlgxAChl!imobdjrAsxuyi%fmt
gleApfEpdsNts-frptbxwhsvBnr"fyfejfFptFM.dw]lmctlwgcHxni|fAgbvjPAaMIew:Apz
ztfbnfFnvtAj	!fUobqwvlssNtd*toptrtJhuxtrs/kltqrmAzuBwfx^jlngemsujLGx{
sAsgbftvvMtms>fIptfxrifAuAi!tqffueLvauyeo+uIo?bBzpdAthe+fnfbnjsyoxxem+
vmsvbkJvnsCsj=xybvktFgjGtim$zuppcwAltnteL=Cqwgt	rAixtqe|zlugpeQlbKMel@Bq
yqfpbrMjisCsx^xqtvbnFgtMOiC*tsavjjrzuKOhx;xqaqheHyjGNjh!judvktFhsByx
iAoxgwLlesCsx=foporzLls Lje%gnmgbkGynnteX&kljphtJtbMCtr!uzfbfjJpwxMee#uGu
smoAbBGyeLtkv=slujqxwgjLttr-ElqctyAhmmttr^fAsbvBGgexznr*zuppueGmaMBj
iAnoqsrvssNmi!AEvcneElbGCsk!uracbBGyemtfr%fFigpeFBnxLty|fpfhksAAjHHxd=l
AzvuwfDgvLuli|alaKheLofswtq[AFftbnKgvLCsk!glekeyAvotLDd:ulignuryfMLni<k
CAsfueAuattyi\zfakveFlfwMeq;itaoqwwgjGztv_gFjqpesipNNex&kldqorGuaNMfk^yf