          Eric M. Calaluca, Vice President, Chadwyck-Healey, Inc.

3:30-
4:00 PM   Break

4:00 PM   Session VI.  Copyright Issues.

          Marybeth Peters, Policy Planning Adviser to the Register of
             Copyrights, Library of Congress

5:00 PM   Session VII. Conclusion.

          General discussion.
          What topics were omitted or given short shrift that anyone
             would like to talk about now?
          Is there a "group" here?  What should the group do next, if
             anything?  What should the Library of Congress do next, if
             anything?
          Moderator:  Prosser Gifford, Director for Scholarly Programs,
             Library of Congress

6:00 PM   Adjourn


               ***   ***   ***   ******   ***   ***   ***


                         Appendix II:  ABSTRACTS


SESSION I

Avra MICHELSON           Forecasting the Use of Electronic Texts by
                         Social Sciences and Humanities Scholars

This presentation explores the ways in which electronic texts are likely
to be used by the non-scientific scholarly community.  Many of the
remarks are drawn from a report the speaker coauthored with Jeff
Rothenberg, a computer scientist at The RAND Corporation.

The speaker assesses 1) current scholarly use of information technology
and 2) the key trends in information technology most relevant to the
research process, in order to predict how social sciences and humanities
scholars are apt to use electronic texts.  In introducing the topic,
current use of electronic texts is explored broadly within the context of
scholarly communication.  From the perspective of scholarly
communication, the work of humanities and social sciences scholars
involves five processes:  1) identification of sources, 2) communication
with colleagues, 3) interpretation and analysis of data, 4) dissemination
of research findings, and 5) curriculum development and instruction.  The
extent to which computation currently permeates aspects of scholarly
communication represents a viable indicator of the prospects for
electronic texts.

The discussion of current practice is balanced by an analysis of key
trends in the scholarly use of information technology.  These include the
trends toward end-user computing and connectivity, which provide a
framework for forecasting the use of electronic texts through this
millennium.  The presentation concludes with a summary of the ways in
which the nonscientific scholarly community can be expected to use
electronic texts, and the implications of that use for information
providers.

Susan VECCIA and Joanne FREEMAN    Electronic Archives for the Public:
                                   Use of American Memory in Public and
                                   School Libraries

This joint discussion focuses on nonscholarly applications of electronic
library materials, specifically addressing use of the Library of Congress
American Memory (AM) program in a small number of public and school
libraries throughout the United States.  AM consists of selected Library
of Congress primary archival materials, stored on optical media
(CD-ROM/videodisc), and presented with little or no editing.  Many
collections are accompanied by electronic introductions and user's guides
offering background information and historical context.  Collections
represent a variety of formats including photographs, graphic arts,
motion pictures, recorded sound, music, broadsides and manuscripts,
books, and pamphlets.

In 1991, the Library of Congress began a nationwide evaluation of AM in
different types of institutions.  Test sites include public libraries,
elementary and secondary school libraries, college and university
libraries, state libraries, and special libraries.  Susan VECCIA and
Joanne FREEMAN will discuss their observations on the use of AM by the
nonscholarly community, using evidence gleaned from this ongoing
evaluation effort.

VECCIA will comment on the overall goals of the evaluation project, and
the types of public and school libraries included in this study.  Her
comments on nonscholarly use of AM will focus on the public library as a
cultural and community institution, often bridging the gap between formal
and informal education.  FREEMAN will discuss the use of AM in school
libraries.  Use by students and teachers has revealed some broad
questions about the use of electronic resources, as well as definite
benefits gained by the "nonscholar."  Topics will include the problem of
grasping content and context in an electronic environment, the stumbling
blocks created by "new" technologies, and the unique skills and interests
awakened through use of electronic resources.

SESSION II

Elli MYLONAS             The Perseus Project:  Interactive Sources and
                         Studies in Classical Greece

The Perseus Project (5) has just released Perseus 1.0, the first publicly
available version of its hypertextual database of multimedia materials on
classical Greece.  Perseus is designed to be used by a wide audience,
comprised of readers at the student and scholar levels.  As such, it must
be able to locate information using different strategies, and it must
contain enough detail to serve the different needs of its users.  In
addition, it must be delivered so that it is affordable to its target
audience.  [These problems and the solutions we chose are described in
Mylonas, "An Interface to Classical Greek Civilization," JASIS 43:2,
March 1992.]

In order to achieve its objective, the project staff decided to make a
conscious separation between selecting and converting textual, database,
and image data on the one hand, and putting it into a delivery system on
the other.  That way, it is possible to create the electronic data
without thinking about the restrictions of the delivery system.  We have
made a great effort to choose system-independent formats for our data,
and to put as much thought and work as possible into structuring it so
that the translation from paper to electronic form will enhance the value
of the data. [A discussion of these solutions as of two years ago is in
Elli Mylonas, Gregory Crane, Kenneth Morrell, and D. Neel Smith, "The
Perseus Project:  Data in the Electronic Age," in Accessing Antiquity:
The Computerization of Classical Databases, J. Solomon and T. Worthen
(eds.),  University of Arizona Press, in press.]

Much of the work on Perseus is focused on collecting and converting the
data on which the project is based.  At the same time, it is necessary to
provide means of access to the information, in order to make it usable,
and them to investigate how it is used.  As we learn more about what
students and scholars from different backgrounds do with Perseus, we can
adjust our data collection, and also modify the system to accommodate
them.  In creating a delivery system for general use, we have tried to
avoid favoring any one type of use by allowing multiple forms of access
to and navigation through the system.

The way text is handled exemplifies some of these principles.  All text
in Perseus is tagged using SGML, following the guidelines of the Text
Encoding Initiative (TEI).  This markup is used to index the text, and
process it so that it can be imported into HyperCard.  No SGML markup
remains in the text that reaches the user, because currently it would be
too expensive to create a system that acts on SGML in real time.
However, the regularity provided by SGML is essential for verifying the
content of the texts, and greatly speeds all the processing performed on
them.  The fact that the texts exist in SGML ensures that they will be
relatively easy to port to different hardware and software, and so will
outlast the current delivery platform.  Finally, the SGML markup
incorporates existing canonical reference systems (chapter, verse, line,
etc.); indexing and navigation are based on these features.  This ensures
that the same canonical reference will always resolve to the same point
within a text, and that all versions of our texts, regardless of delivery
platform (even paper printouts) will function the same way.

In order to provide tools for users, the text is processed by a
morphological analyzer, and the results are stored in a database.
Together with the index, the Greek-English Lexicon, and the index of all
the English words in the definitions of the lexicon, the morphological
analyses comprise a set of linguistic tools that allow users of all
levels to work with the textual information, and to accomplish different
tasks.  For example, students who read no Greek may explore a concept as
it appears in Greek texts by using the English-Greek index, and then
looking up works in the textsylbpfeLybGMqe:oAou?eGyaLwms-gDtbofQgeH
jquckqwkaFIwt&uxpikhssaLNzh*kEaqheOvswtzw^fnzbwxAuhsNmi!sAsrjtDvhBwfp
gzbnAxwzaHzex&klugzyKbasVjg@AEfbvmwzfsNts-ylxgtjrupMtii|osogfexvssusC!uzf
AEf?byzlaLuri!zApnuesuesNmi!ymngbisAbswfr!hqawujvgcRtgs:nltvwiwuuLtfr%
yoiqnfJz?

T1UGU,
flabb=(/as0jv|kGtbkxribLyid@zlIctAsyes#sm<kDtkvDlgxBNmd$uxmcdtJhuHLxd@z
flabbxwCfKuqd=ztftbzFpwxLxm:oqt}be`ofsJws(koubjfKgcxysd'AzegfeHyjFuwm-E
flabbgQguAyeE+tqodgwy,D9VeT/uvfev	rhtsQjp-fmtbdDrObKPfv%f7okxjJzjMS	
flabbFHwmxtHs_vGugt	rhowttx&kDt}be1AaBMet;hxjujjvgcRt4e-klVpkAwytBND
flabbUJltLoedkkDtgwxryvGMes+fYbeksLvtAths_vGugtxlgvGxjv!ztfbJDHlsVuwh
flabbuJvhKur	

KDjebHSSB5#HE

ItbfyDur_1yfp^ElfodfJrfwtqe|zlzgcwrvosNBs!jutvksuAaRyyd/kxbvgirmvEF]x^DF
nGncpnLpfLtie:gnbugeHypCyhx|a

ZtfbGsysjLBeT=kFsAbKMsm @jB:fPbvcgszfsush!ztfbRfLypEIlm@fXbvkssgEtNff@yq
xqqtgxwuusHjA!gBqtqfuofLtys!ruoiwnKAjvtwi|kmsejeJltHOwg^ygabVmwgtBTjd@tp
iAnrnjPpuRttj!ztfbrwGqfvNxd[xqtgpyrwsHvqi_ylgqtewsfvNws+ooarwgDptAyww7
hGubuzJtpNHye#rqaqpjKgjytyl^ElsgofAuatvwi@yFaqheLofsFfx^yFarqxKpcBFnx*kE
ozafcysgdtJyy/klbpfeJluKCjz@rltqhyOhsxtyi$nzjswjKb

ZtfbkxKBfLtBl*itatgvMpsxxee%jDfuueHyjHLex=fFigbhGtnxHhi_kzubqkrAix
vDplghLzaPywi!rqhkqsg

flabb6mgasYim:uDjcneKlmxwym=tl)qtewEdEOxm=t>aqheEhuxLne-yljpbjsji
flabbergasxfx@hmtg

flabb7mgasXjg*juoibBzluAywd=xloqveLvaBHhs/vAscvjrhaGIwq@zuwgbjFjpwCsk
flabbergasMyv;iFvtgeAuuHtyl^fpbvcgszfLp
flabbergasted!fM?bbNxgpGyem|fEfnghLlemtxl=Axebkyrifs!LQgb
flabbergasted!fN?bbNxgTZ7Q{!ztfpbyzla!YN 

flabb8mgasXjp*BqsbcxrJE `TQ7fybipjLpdsNft^ lptbgGAio

flabb9mgasWfr!uzfbrwGkvvyev^zDjgxfDgtHzyA@xqacfAsudxxei+uGhjbkGyaMBj
flabbergasJtw:jAdvqwssaECsk;oEu?bDwAatwhi|yucngewupNAmd'uDawpfLAfGxjh
flabbergasAjr^xmmbwxwcas!ms;rpaqpjrAsRp

flabb0mgas`jd'gusbcsvgmBvjv@rlogvBGylBHld[uxjekjKaaPBfx!gDfbvmwgsBMpw!zA
flabbergasusd^rqdvttFpdsJzf-oEigta

flabb~mgas2tA!jAfubyzlaxGjv"kzdgbtxgotNns+gxacpirpoMywr@zuppcqrleNwfx*uz
flabbergasHjx>uDlubfxmfvNex&klvugesuesPne#oxjvAeGmaKyxi@xoibrwGqfvNx
flabbergasLju;oDjpiezphAtnr<kEuogsLcasXtd:nqapgBrLvKIui@tlDqorMujMS
flabbergasxnv^iFjxgxrjpGwjv+ozhbffLhctMjd[xAugeyAvosHjg^yEjvcywguPI
flabbergasxnw:ozdvbuMimBMmm+mlqtqowjuLnes+klgqte6vsMBeE_kDjecesuesIsi!lAs
flabbergasIAi/yqbu{

LDpobswDaGIym=tEaqhe,zdAIqe/rKahcnJgvLy-d:ulujgexBuNLjd=llprvnuhmsGjh*gf
BusvwfDszsyAi/EljuuzwgsxFfx^jluqbjDldMLtr*ilqwdqAziBHld>gEackwwk?stYl^
xqtwnyrptsNBs!vDplghLzaPBng&ftbxgetlfGths+yFsweywkaMIet/uHjfgeLofsKze-oFz
xqtgcwuoaKyxs;xofubBAAisNmi!lqxguyrlovOrf/gzdgueLvaNMjd#ElugchzlsLtfr%
vDjxcywgtvBtp@xE?

JAsqvmQgU$9MMb

OzaurwAuhs&@`CfFigbjvpuHLxd=llujgeHhqxLxd=llHgqwyla$uxl*tsuqp	rQpAH
Gpbou	r1iHGfw!PqghgwKvomtOe_kEaOciAzpGnee+jlCgpostjGtKv@twmkpeOlsx
gBqtqfuofwtgC!ixbuunuzaLwms-gDaFcAAka9uho@xpaqpetlitFkd=llujge8hdDuwh
NGncpnLpfLtKs;tpbvktFgxBNmd@fBsqrtKhmsNtd[xAewejrhaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkd:nq
iAnrnjLlaIuui/ylphbjsjisIkd:nqaHqzFkjGAeJ@ztftu rgUACxd^rqdvttFpdsyim:oAo
CumnbxMwqEyri+zlujgeHBcECxl^jlwqnzEltmtre)ozhbvmwgeHwzq^tFtbynvlmR
gHbknftsfsNtd|zGegpyKgbGxev^yqbtemwytsuyd/kmtqpftsfswtw:alaYgewzuBGfx^
ztbvbtMyaVX]VjSlffkyAvosIkdrgEikplLvo,MeT@vqsubBAsmsvjd|AntvcsLpbEFD
iAnrnjLlesQnx&ozavjjrufQNex>ulzgcwKgbGxev^gpzbhtJgqNvqm$gFjqp rgXBNmm+
ztfbpjPAaMysd,kmsubtJgtHnew*sumcteUK_~9Rd^juukqsKgpytyl^fRscppDpomtFh@sE.
PqghgwKvomtfr%fYbfkxGuaIuui/ylbnutrDjEFef^fmwckqsimxoed?zlujge4pcKuwC!ur
IAoitjKz"Ltxi|yuppbtFguxwmr=rAhA?e1gxHOqh!rulgbyGgeBMhy|yloqveGumRtyl^
kJqgtnwudxttj!ztfbYfKojGAys+f2brgwKgjGtuv=jGdkplrAixtHHTX1NbgiAAjHH	d#AF
ztfbkrHhdMtyi$nzpnqlQgitMel@jlppbyzltxtre(uDagfnLvsBuqd[xAkgeyKb
GxsgciQaaPyee/klffkyAuhsIzv!BAmwojKgxBNmd@tlfAgeLvaMBjd_gFftkfDguAuyd>oxm
hqatgfvpmRtfz@oxbdnjrposNmi!IP_TQRrleBNns+alaVjjrjpFJqi:kpagnjuAsHHng
kpjvktFgxBFqd[xAwkfjrpnFysw^fBpuuntpmBNni|frptbyzlaLyfv$nuoibtxgeHwzq^tFt
lAsbksxvsFuym=tljpbfrDbRtsi<kDarqxKpcEyef^lAsg}er1ixtpm+jlphbywjiGChe-
ozoqxfLppGMex&gFactjrjvKLjr:rKacxfAsbuFjd@tpaqpeLofsxwe>ozhbdtsyesQnp-
yAppbwwCpEOym=tuAgbmAzuHLng@rlsgujsydAtfr%fFigbuJveNwym=tlphbmAzuHLng@r
jAdwojFAtnteY+lAsvwssAfES	d_AoibqkrAiBMer^ClugemFvmHADd*yloqvetljGAey|kp
ozavjjrwmtHsm+mltvclwzaHzel*yFptkhssaILtn^iFt?bxAtqESef^imvugeEhoR
nutvqwAhoLtfv^fmxctjrvoESem+fFigbAsnvxMyd>gKaqheAAtsyCm|zqoeg rgBMtqi@yF
zIpbofBvssHjA!nutvqwAjbEtjh*zuoibuJvkxwyw!gDfbetFzjwywm+mlnkewGmjEG
kpjvktFz.sMnq[rKadghsBtxtyl^ElbtgeFvusuBe/klphbyzlaIIxw*humkvnwzaHz
kxfevwGujvtfp:kDocvnNltsush!ztfbciNhoMuli|fAgbvmwgoxQex^itoqntyFaBHex^xyt
urahnjPpcBFnx,fmofbwwzftLhl!vAugpyAhmswtq[gDffbyGgnBwws'oxn}be1uayuhx7
zApbofFFaHzey|fuobjnKApKSee+jlmkvjJhuNLjd@xqauvnDsatNex&kltvclwgpy
yFswilDpoztBm:nlpwte8JtnteX&kDfbcwwgntHDd&oEuqtnuhmsyim:uDjcneHypCyhx|fuo
vDpitjKzaILjw^tFmA?esuesusd^wGbnbsMtcxLes'fxjvgwsyzsJws(kouu}er4iBFjd:nq
zIpbhnwseLtme<kltqojOobMtim'lqsgpyrhqILte$nqtbvtrAfQNze-fqekvnFn.sNmi/k
gDfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibgqwjuKIsm$fFfejsGspzSeg@tlcgbtxgtxLAm$kluqbgGAin

YuoegexlxsIkd:nqagfnLvsLtnr<uxwgfeAuaMBjdauGofksygGtNmi/ylDF+W7Taxxnx*uzt
gDfbvjuooBwfp!kJqgtyKgjGtfr,fEfpujlgJsBtt^fFpbrtAuusIzx!ozaoAevptvOxw*uz
uraqwwrlyIywm^tofbjtOgntHDd=llujgxwgfEyhx/uzjebnFupOuym=tEaecsrifsOxi%
yGdegxKmvEFDd#EltejtDhsLtBl=fmsgbsGCjvyxd*tlujgeOvsExes'fzfybywjiGIqs"Eg
UzfbqkrAixtre(uDaeqsulsGMes'fFigbxHvoLIww!uravjjrtvENnx;jqaqheFlx
yoiqnfJszsyim:oAoubnKguAyep*suugfesBeBysg^fDfcemwkauSex&klqwdqAzixx
BAmwojKbas7tw:fAgbvmwzfsyim:oAoubfJlauynr"fBvdnnKofwtnr!yybnneIBbGNnx*kE
gzebvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&eHyjvyej=xlujgrrwvMMex&kyaqwyrvgsNmi!xqbejeFvusIsp,fAg
ozekxnvBbEtxg&uxbtuetBusIkd_uEubrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrhowtfp-fnvvbyzlaEuwk^yF
kpvecyAvotFem+yFjvwyAvoLoedcuIfxgwlgmBNyp^fmuvgsLppGtnw!hqjpieypwxHex=
CmzubnFgxAChl!zqdjptDvhRthe+fnzrcxKgdHHAi+zuppcqrwvuFng@zuppbyGgntEj
nutvqwAjbEtfr%fxjvgwsyzsxtg;sqovueEvsxtBm%kxzbcAspmtvqi8

3tbvbfLAstwyi%fGtbotKAaMIex&klDF+W7Taxxnx*uzaqhe`ofs0ft^xEaqheYlpKAj
3mtjksyApGtBe|fFigbksjusNme:fPbxkirWbvEfv%-EackrrDbLtys!smlgbfrjpFJqi:k
kpjvktFgpytfp-fAgbvmwg2*-	@E$leqezEloMMeA^ftbxgeuvmEyhx^jlbxcnDhcEyem+fmo
ozfzrjFzjOyej=xybvbyzhusQty-jlcgbuDhdxxem+fBvdnnugmBvwe/oqt?bxEhmE
iAmnglwz.sush!kHfpbmAnisMhl=uxt}be`ojLtBs;rparttNpextfr!gGekgsulayuw
hqzqpirvvKtuv^yqovb6l%~[ahs[Efa^60rwvuFnw&kpagfnLppGoednozdgbyzlaVX]VjS
kpjvktFgxBFqd$gDsAbsGufsIkd:nqagzuDhotNtv,fmopqysAjHHex&gFacruwhsLtnr!ztf
vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt?bBwgbEMtd'kqmbvmsAaMBjd;yqaqheLofsWI[mUYaykqDgmxuid_gzz
xqtgcwuofKMex=fEfgmeGBusNmi!vGcnkxzlesPtp;sqt}

OzacfiAAjHHex=fuhpqwsudxttj!tqxbvjuooBwfp!gpwcphwz.s3el@BqahqzFkaMBfx!zAp
smoAbjvpuHLx[TgzebjnKApKCfr|fmofbqAAfKuwC!yoiqnfJz_ uwi!xqtkuysuusush
kHfpbmGzuBFjd:ultwilwzuBIsw!ztbvbjDldMLtr*ilugemFvmHADd_gKagpmsudxtyl^oD
CAsm}erPaBHyi+jluqbiAzdNMxd|uyfbqkrAixtfv"AyfpvxrAstxnx*uzbnkxLzatLj
gpwcphAuhsNtd/kEjuveLldAHtp=mK.btfFnjGAej/uyafkxLyvLNes'fFigbxHlfwtBm:n
CtjejeAAavBfr"kEa-yjrhsxtfp/kmeAbBGuexLnr"fIicveAzaHOyd:nqsgbyzhusCx
hquvgwrAitHeG	/4PO_eLvaLOxt*iuppbtxguAyex^itokefDgmtHly@mqawujvguH
jqtetntlaxFjg:xAokeevlwxFtt_kzuu}

Smskce4LC~9S

ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+zlDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bfrqpBHyd<kzuwtjrvgsNmi
GyftkhsuaTMxs$omukqsrmpKtyl^fMexcsulnxHyd=llTekjFjfs	FE?Y>acpirAixtTr-ozf
IAnrwywya5Cgv@xKaEgsLlsmtNr$al)QEQU/.sCxd:nqahkwKAaIyjvTxqwkgBwkaCIzv+gx
zAarttNpextky-rlugzylgutvzp@xlncvjJpbEnee+jlmkpjrpmEOxx/gFjqpxrvosFnr^a
ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobynDsawCxg;yEavjjrnfGyxm|fmofbxLhsMazt!vqskqirvgsNmi
pAvtpfDbas@tt*iEaqhevptvOxw*uzaykqDgjGwqy%klikuyGyjvuqd=BqsxkjOa
jmz+vt	kbRtre+gsfogsLgpytyl^fqekvtJpbEtui^xlsgxnwD.sush!smowuhJpqM
zmhiksygbGxet;hxjecyAvonteE!jqnqpxLybMCtr!uravjjrqpNLse-fmofbnLzayyfx;xqt
CumnbfujpFJfr,fFigbuJltxHye:oAo}

RKopge8LS`9SMpY

IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuAbQAistLD{!IAspgqDgJGztv_gFjqpe`ldAHtp=mufu?esues^jv=D
IAsrqwsAjHH	d>oFibvmwgtNJus/zlphbyzlaVIrq*yEjqpeGua9Ljw^xHbvktFgbGx
GodguxlgbGxeW;tlNkewGzzLNjq| lJpe lgitPjd#kqobetDsbuIwe:ozhbksrhaILtn^iF
zAavgxLgbsJws:uFzrgeKFtMyrd'uDatghGyeBHld#xuuvnjripHExd@ylekinLhmsCre"kE
gzebrwGkvvCsk7fAobfjEhownel*mt_swfDpuRtfv$nuwcneHhqxLev^vxbegrwuuLoedonq
vDplghLghHyxd#kKppfeLobMnel=Cqwgt	rApsCsz^yFjicywgtHGjd=llujgeAztNyx
yGstqzFkjGAew$gzokpllgtMIwm+mfatgyJpfOCsk7fmofbuJvwBxnr"fmdegxKguH
juhkvfDgjFuli|fuobceFluPIwo!kzwkttFtfGN 

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHef^mmobksrQbGOfv,f!0~` rgYxLtB
vDpxkiwkaMBjd{uxmgijrSjuLfv,fMdegxKgbGxeW:uDbige~FtMyrdRIXBUU[rzpyNBe/kf
glqtqyGAzIye0E$\eqvx	wfKanr$nl)frn{gtvusr^xfacpirAixtme/jIbtgeFldxMxe/E
zAauwuHvsMtsi:CAsmbuJpoMCsk!uzavjjrKpvOYi$nlqtksLlssBty|kpakpeUvsGyqpNy
IAnrwyAuhsush!IAnowsAjbMCtr|fOfpvjJg)VWH=8

ZtfbEtJufEFew:grgbwxAuhsNmi!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgcxwfq^fmobksLlhKuqd[gDu
uravjjrkfOyqs[sqovbfFkaMyxx*tsarttultLtks/fqojcsulnxHyw!zAavjjrJMT!X
yAgvyfJlaLSxx^sgabVmwgdHFqe#uDbvkAwgotNzv^fAgbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgjL
xqtwnyAuhsCsd@fEzuvjEguAuyd*yltrghAmjvuqp,fFbkntJlesNtd:nqartjKlsOuym=t
gBqnkhsAjHH 

GlekinLhmsFnf/gDzbqkr8.[]#d<uxvogxr]pKtft[xAykofLlmRt8@E *~`bnEhhxM[d&gE
hqfpbhJlbMyid@tpakueKApKyid=tlbpbtHAjvuqd(AwfdqCrAitNev^yuegueAuaVWH	
ZtfbnntybKSem+ixvfgxrhavIqp^iFjqpeGmaLyqi$zlncvmwtbMChw!sAoqiwswiLtyl@z
vDpxkiwzaFuyl^smukexrmbvOqx,fIjvjesuaHJus/zGokvDrApsOxi!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$
ructcwQbas@mi!xqncksAuhsPtp;sqtbyjJlavBtw^tlgqteLofsFnf/gDzbvtrAfLNex&k
BmskqzKgdtJff*ruukgxrvgsNmi!yobppnFnaLSxx^sg

UzfbrwGqfvNes#pqdvkAwgjLtys!vDpxkiwgvLyww!uravjjrJpKHjp-fxjdtfJFatHid:nq
ructcwQgtMukj!Cuujbyzlatvnp*zKavqeJlrNyxx!lmdukrAsfLttj!juhkvnRlesCre"kE
uDavqeJluKCjz^fFigbfuAvtFei-koutqsAjaBGfk^frptbgJvxLCsk8flBbrwGApMSui
BufyksygxHLpw:gFjqpezhtsvji+fosgcywkauSe2^xAy?bBAAisCst;zljpvtrAixtii|oso
hKacbhGtnBNyi^fAgbEtJufEFep*hDbtkfFzatHid$uyqwvjJgqKIki|yuppcqKbas@mm|
CumnbfDspPtzw!zAagzuwyjFysx!CuujbusAsHHee$iqtubyGguAyem_gsfubyzhusGfo^fGq
ztfbfnyputFep*hDbtA rgUAyez*kIjpieKAbMCtr!vDpxkiwzaLyfv$nfatgyJpfOuq{!gze
[GmvkrsAfES[d[xuovksyggNHhx*uztbynLoaxHme+iqngpyKguHtke$oxjvcyw
tmwkifLppGtyl/uGhjbrMsuBJqi!jAdwojFAtn

IAspgqDgdNLwi+zxzbkxrDpKEnr"fFpbgCLlowtfg$kEtbvtrAixtim"oFbnbqAistLDd:u
xqbfgwKgvLCsk!CAsmuysAjHHxd'xAnbvmwpssIkj*iqt}be`ojLtDi@xljubiwCpMyid:u
ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufMQtv)fDfukiwuusCre"kldqpAwytBIsd@tpafgqACfKS
yqsxgwlgbGxeg-oqovbxGmuPuwi!ztbvbBAsmsMzt[uDubtjskfKMeA&ulvugeSwqEy
SmdkpyGziswtq[AFftu	rPC6tBm+jAxubuDhuyIwq| lbpfe~BosQtv)yFbvktFz?
KCvkrrwuusztv!ztjubiwCfEIuq^tFaycxrwsHPnh^jlcAbXMua6Chv=yKtvgrKgxBNm
yGqrqwLggKIrd:nqaEqrEptLCtr!uzaRtjKlsOuym=tlbpfeSjdxMx	

JGskplrAixtxl=C\bpf]LlmEtxi|yuppbtxguAye1=xwtjqurvosYqi$zDppkhr1fQNx{!g
vDpvqyQwfsPni>fEucvnGuaPCqp!hqafgrGutMLfx^jgabKsrhewCym=tfacbiAzqEuDd=l
uDjiksssaECgv@xKadqtCzaMBfx!nmwgbgwlosxnk*zuAgfeOpmEtgi!gHbknftsfsztv
xqwkgBrDjMBee|yAdkcywkaILnr:kpaequAltsztv!iAnrcwAzpGoedonqahkkLlfGarm+AFf
uHftxnwDaHzex&klqtqowjusQnp-fuoenzvlattxp*jqartjKloMuym=tlujcy
iAouvnLBuxMee!_Fpwt-rvgsNmi!vDfugwNhuBIsd%osjvkEAuhsJws$kEt}

ZtfbhnFhmsHjx>uDl+etFufvNjh!BqsuktFgpytyl^fHjgynFnaLNfx*uzaykqDgqKIAm%k
ructcwQgvLyww!CuujbfFvuAywd_koicpnKtayIwd@iofuunFnaMBjd%osjvcqrsjuLfv, 
gzebynDsatFxs!vDpxkiwguAyeg@vmcknnLFaHzez*kIjpieAtbzyxd%oDfevqQbas@mm|
CumnbsGAaKyvy*xqaurjupbEtxs'zIbtg	rhmMBty"nlbbrtOlsyOqd$uyqwvjJgxBNmd"uAe
mDbrjnuzaPCqp!hqapgjvlen

ZtfbLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHel@ylhgpjJhuxxee!mDfcvevlbEttj
ozugtjKAaBHex&klmkdwsyzswtq_AzjvA rgVGztv:AzbvgqQaaHLet^xtbru
lAsvwssAfES	d:nutbrwGqfvNew^xHfubyGgstCxi!glwcuyruvFvjv!uraqvmwyaBMxy^y
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmawClm:gxavghzupEIlC!lAsbvmwgqKyxi/Bmukqsrhowtzw^fAg
jqugtnGybMCsk!ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bBzpdAtxy#yqrwgsLgqKIoi$zEaykqDgoxyid:u
kJbokswbas7zg&fIptmeJlntCsw8

YQTUKT6gJ23

NAxctirIF`!JV!flabbergasted!flabberUfMQtv)ozhbOzDAjFyim@fPbvcgszfL

3tbvbiGgxxtme<kluqbhGutBxjv!ozadwnDkjGAee+jlekuyJpcNNnr"fpbvcgszfLttj
ButwcqrtbMywm@rEakpesgnNFymTAEftbjFCjKIsq^tF}bbYzptsJwi|kzucvnGuaxRfq*tqt
glwctnwAzsIkd$uzdgtsKguAuyd+kqebvtrifsuih/kEtgfetlgHLjd@fyvnvnEleBu
jmucdfKlavusd#kltgveMwaBHee!tquyqwClesysz*xAoogsLb

OzavjjrwbLNem:ftbubsGAauyjr!lqbukgDlaMIem_vxfogsLgetNff@yqtbqkrCjLOfp
smugtnsstsCsd|nmsgf]MzfKtjr<oDppojFAtsvjg@AEfbqkrAfvBss-usjecqribKLni/yg
KmdjbtxguAyex>ulccunugnHxjp|frptbrMsuBazw^xlnwnyAtfwCfd%gFbdcxwzaAux
vAtgfeAAtsIBr!vDpdnjEbas@mi!gzbnqlrtvENnq^jubbuyGybzyeq=jqmb-wwwsxMjr:kp
hKaRttBldMtFx&kzb&ueHhstFqi-fmocntygbGxeh*muucneFluPIwo|]licueJlrNCwi%fmo
ozdtgiAimRths_vxfzb=suesyCt^tEjxg[rpoyLfw:xGdvwwwbas@mi!koppqrAltsIk
yobngeLobMtre)klnwnyA|vLywd|kFvrueuoftJjv!vqsbwxwyaLywz^jleqbsGAaHJjv@zq
ozacpewuwBLtr_kzubvmsAaKyvy*xqtbceuvnIOyi/fIptmxLhuBIs{!BuegqiAzdsJqe,kD.
gzebvBGgeBMup@Elegxnultsztv!kmdjbzKlsn

ZtfbfnyputFeq;rFjogiAhaLNtv@mqaoqiwsaAuxd/kCvktjvgwtMyd@sAvpvxrvgsMys/gsf
yBbege}htsGzg&fmtbqswghBAff,zqargwrAiBLyC!yFjnneAtbzyx=8flJpbyzlaIuxx!ztf
iAtvbtxgtNwmd@fxbtijrhnHOsx!urauvtJhhxtxt@iqaociwguACxd_upfnbf
vDpjkgAAjOyeg&uudgbfKgxxFq	!fNvvbuDBozCsk!yFptclwgdHMyw!gDfbhnFhmES
smlkplrAiBMew^iAofbfDAfKHfx*Bqaxkftsfn

OrauvtJhhxtss!rAoigwrwpLyxd|AoibcsrpnIyim_kzu?bBzhusxtd>kloggirAp
iAoukiwyaBHef;oxekplrkjzCye-rKauvtJlesGzp:o\vugwrkbMuge|kEaqheNptNuq
smugtnsstoteX&oEartjKloMuym=tlxknqrlytGnr^fFigbswAxHLpm+mlbpf
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAobetFzuKunr:ylujcyrtvLNef^fAwgthGtfsvjj=xqauwhzgetNff@yqt
imobdjuvnxths_sAornfulatHid;yqgwneLvattqe/mqapwrtlssIkd[kAqng 

ZtfbmjQgqKIgp^sljubyzlaOuxx!yuAgbtxgnNFym_kpjcbiGjvFysx| lbpfezvxsNmm|
grggeyKgoHNes+rKauvtJhhxtgy:fFfnghGtnNHng@zuppueLybGMrm|yuppbyAtfn
GzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsr1_"txt^kpakueAtqKuhx*immbhtJggBFjw!ura3brwnbuSyi!uD
rmsigwr]xAChl!oEankpwszsNtd#kltocqDggHLee!sGmvkrwkjttis$Ayfpv[mgaYIw
oztvcsul.syAi+fAobce(!a4vep*tqakveOvvExex@qqavjwwlaFCsy:kEavqeLybGMki/fm
7\ngiftFuxtkm-kgabCsvguAyxi!luhwtjKgbLMzq^fuegcqrjjKwzq|zmoegxlgbGxeh=
tAubvfClaBHys!iAoukiwybMCtr!uFigteMzfKMeg=tFfpfnFnayIwd+kFxqtpribGxBm%zt.
jutmbfujfLMex*sq.bqwrAixtym_kloggiwkayIwd/kypvgevptIFfC8flDwtwwuuswtq_uz
zqmgrmGufsNwe+yyjuunGuaKuyi|fIpwnirifswtq[rqugnDrpnILfg:oobn>exlxsOxi/y
CAvnfetlaPCqp*tsavqeOhjMtyl^ftpwteFldxMxe/EluqbyJhoLGnx!gltkplDlaBGfk^fmu
8$~`bgsBen

ZtjubswjfLMnx@zqtbetEwsxMxm=tfayjnuoaBNxi-llsckxwzattsy_hqsbqkrvuAyw
oEtwgxmga2Hes/jqsbvtrkfvLje|klgknjrzjSyxd|osokhnuhoMFD{!CqaowxLgfFJqs,
rAtuAeuvnILjw|oAobcqyvsBNmq|alaDwyropPtry$nlrwcqAAzswfr!CqachkGyesNt
rAtg{er1psxfx^fFigtjrobLtgi^tlppnDrvoxtxm"tugkefFAaLNzh,fpppgeGm
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffuexvssuet@xFjewqsyaNMjv!mDpwr	rhowtyl*yltvwiQgeBxer=z
rApmbfLgmHMxd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!iAnrtjKzjHH d!UzmAbfxAfKtnh^tFjhAnFn
oybig]IBbECyC!tqffueuhosQjd#ksjpbyGgbwxwi|yltvqwsnfsush!tquyqwCgctHiA*jFi
tqffu 

KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlY+YnFkpPM]f@yqebcuHsjvuym=tEa-uzuoatMeM_gsfswjJF.sNmi
1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujttfx!HqsmgqwFaBGfk^fpbvcgszf	tii_uztvtfLltsNmi
AFjnkyQgpytfd$rufpv]KlsOywd:uBpnqlQaauOyd@rEpbrtAuuLtys!ztfbnnEputNns+fAg
iGstgsLgtHzyA@xqahqwrhawCxx/onvvgirloOCws+sqov}erMpKtjB@sBmg?
gBqnkhsAjHHxd-owfbKrsnfJOjv,fobpbnFjpKJtv@zqaeqrHyfLMns+ lcwveuBsKysx!4
oyqngrwuutNns+yleqbsGAaIywq*zlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaxHid;yqs&u
CAsmuysAjHH d!YGdjbiwjpFJwi|yuppbfLguAyel=yFaeqrHBuxLee-rqwkcywzaLNtv@mq
imqcenLFaILtf-kytbymAsfsxtm+mloqvmAuhsNtd@jpsguxrwsHvqi_ylph
zqmgetEtvGChe:oAoubgsuePCix&a

3qapgjvguHtjB@suogbyzlaxzki$zEaqpeFluPIwo!ztsqwlz|qNNes'fypxksy
sGmvkrwkjttis$AyfpvxrhsHOsh!uzacbswAxHLp	!f9fbpjwkaMIei\gyjpgeNhsBIzw
zAqqntypfLtyl@zlxknqrofEJey|fmwqkiripMNqi+kolubfJvvGxew^xHftuesue
mmugyfQz?stJB[kDjgphwgxBNmd@vBmkefLppGMew;itacueLofLyev@oEfbuyAsmsvws@jqs
wGfuvnGutntMs>fomqujDFaBMex&klnwnyAtfwCfd%uovogsLguByid:ulujgeKvgMQfv^
lAsbxnwDjGAem:blaEcsrpusvjd@iofuujvgbGxez*kIffbkJvnsIyl^xlbrrqAjbMCtr|b
KJqgtnwudxtBm:nlujge5HSVtks/smub-fFkaFIwi!xqdgpyDFaPCyl!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGst	txl=CEajqBrBtxzzp!oFaecsrifsNtd|zAsgbiGjvFysx|fuobcexvsFtnr
CtjejeLofRthe+fnfbchultLyid#ElbbxfJpfMSes'fmqrnnuhuBIsd|uruycwwb

LuocnqQaayLtq!gzakpywsmxwyy@r\beejKzaLNfr%vAjpv	rDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLMex&k
oEtwgeGmaILtz*juoibfujfLMex=fFigujrtvENnq^jubbftuBnxHyw!oz
ozugtiAzdBJqm+gDzbgsNpsHHri+zE?bb2wgoxyid:ulfzcrAufsNjv_ozpnqlQgbGx
ozegznFnaLNwe:ksjgueLobMtBm-rlbnntOgvLtys!vDpxkiwgbvwjw|fFpbvmAzaFuyi/omm
ozacbhJvtLaim|iuqnkssyzsQfC8

XAocnirSB~!JR!flabbergastIm/koukqsKgjGtMm"n\QgtkGyntHhi!TquyqwCpoztks/
flabbergasted!flabbergastQm#xmskgx

ZtfbrfulatNeA&ooibetEwvMCsk!zqdjptDvhRtme|fmexcsulesIAi/fFigbuszusztv:E
EqbtueKopPMer=fEjipeGmatvfx*ts?bbWGBhAFDd|vqbmksyaaxuhl!luwg+DwhssJjv*up
nmtbAnwsexxee+fAsfgw	vg Gfk+oFvfgeAtqKIAi_kzubksrwsBwjd@tpargwxvsFusg^fAg
iAnrwyAuhsyvy*vyfpv rgOHtky+jmngpyssaAOwh-kEactjrsjDyqC!zAartjNloMtyl*y
vmdgbkJvnswtr:ozvkplrmpKtfx!rqbuveLofsHjB:fpfeciwbas3yd*ylppnDrposNmi
vmtvbkACfsSje/yfavjtMnimtyl@zldqouMAjGAel@ylcgetElaNvnu;oFpwueAu
ructcwAltmtfj'koukplrhmEtxx@lracpirwbMLtr| lektjuAmRttv!ozektjuAmRo

JGskplrAixMjd|gyfbhnNlaRyfv| ldqorMujvuym=tEatcywzaHHex&klJpvjJufMnex&k
vDjpenHhmsuhe%kyjebhGtqNNnr"fzfvytJr.sBfz^fssqysrmsHGe9AfwcrueLva"o0
Snqu?esuesNmi!T5GPgyribvEgs+kljubsGDaKOsr*tsa67e5iqLoedjBqsbvmwgoxRyd'oHf
Eqbtu	rjpFGzr*imukqsrybMyxd=tlujgethdDvtr^fmsgbjPwfvNjh!zAagzhwles&eK#vE?
MDpyvmrposvtx&fFigbuGwvEuym=tlphbswAxHLpd;yqsubfFkaMBjd<uxvogeGmaGyyA=xw
zDbhhnugaAuxd$uzukpzwkaMIek/uIaigtEluKChe-rK.bcyrybMyxd@vBsqchzpozt69
vqsegsLgqxLeq=tFi}be`ojLtkp=upaqheuhqtwnx,fmofbzKl.sFno^tqebdDrzpFyex=
_pskppAuhszws_fmahkwwopLy	)!fosgcywzaBGri+yqaqruGyuNHnx*kEacpirjitFqi+mqt
lAsbnntybKCjw8flMkdwsyjxMeq;yFacpyAjjIuyi!ztfbhzLBsxtnq[rudcvnGutsIkd:nut
zqdjptDvhRnet@xFjekusAfsCsd*zEafgAwspIGjr: lbpfevlqEIDd*zluqbjFzvKy
godguxrApsNmi!CAsnf)KgjGztv_gFjqpeJltHOwg^yg

ZtfbksxybLNwy$zGsgbkGyaMBjd*trptofLppGtfk^futbdjAuhsJzx!ozarnful?
RuctcwAltszfg^fEutcywnjvtii$oEjqpxrhcHOyd:nqjtbwGsfsCsd:nqafgAwspIGjr: 
jqqnqDEloMnee+jlvugeGmaMBnw!ozgtcxLyvvNzv^alaVjjrlnxLlm+mljphwszuKOhx;xq
oEaowhzgnHLjd:nmobetEwvMyww!gzebetEtvGChe:oAobnnFltnteM:futbotJlaMBfr!ztf
gnjnkyQguHths_vGugbfLgbsLjq=zqaukywaaLysh!kxfevwGujvtre*rluqbfrwfxL
gosquxrAixths;tFsA?eGyaFIAi!glgknjrmsHGes+klmkdwsyzsNtd@tAujgwmga!Bjd+kJu
luwgbDwhsLtBm-rlxkvswztsMzf|zmovkfDgexPjp=vyfpveGmaMBjd*trptofLppG
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbvmwgoxNBs/qg

OzaqtiwyaMIet/uHjfgeswqKIuv*gFfbnjskfKMmm[ lmkdwsyzsJws'kEtkqssstsGzw:
nmwgbfrmvGxfq^tFbnbzFkfKMye+juoibtxgbGxee[vDfekfLppGtks/foporzLls
tquyqwCpoznej/uyanqhssatLje!tquyqwCzaMIex&klOcvnGubEtWi|kmsejesue
KpvecyAvos8jx>uDlb-S0LO	oedonutbrwwzfGNfx*uzacfiJltLyxd:nqtg
lGofcrwuutFx{!gzebjtOguAyDd/kxbvgeLvaECgv@xufubyGkbRtfr%fuobvmwgoxuw
lGuwtjm

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMlabbergasted!flFnghLypGChdgonsctDr3jLCtr|fmofbWwhmBNni|

ZtfbgqwjuKIsm$fxjdtfJFaAuxd#kqobceNptBIsd%kEjtgirizsGfr,/\bpfeJlkxwyi%fnz
yAng+]KpovyeZ@tzfxcwrIvLBeg=ozffbyzlaMywq!sqngzeLvawyxg/onfbcsrhvMIre:kp.
ozugnqAnfGN	d[kDtqpfDgjGztv_gFjqpeKFtMyr	!f8btkfLppGMes+fFikueNptBIsd&gHf
ozdnwiwka!yidikxtqp)KgYtHfh@AfaCnfFgLtS)w!JKocdtGr.sush!RmoecxLls,M
_BbrgwDltLtqm#xmsA?-rDjMBex&klnquyryfvysx!ozdctssAjHHef^ozhbvmw
_WoqyqwkhxtSe<osbvqw,gexMhv*hqebdDrQpAHeW$AxmAbtxgBIJqi8flCwveLofsLje-oFz
urankgJhsRtxi/Budgbmszauyjr!rqtubAAzjHHfv,fmofbyzlaEyft!zAavjjrlmxwyv=tud
ructcwQgitMei-ApffbzFpwxLxm:oqt?buMimBMmi/yfacpirpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
lumgu 

ZtfbOjElys`jw^gDdjbNFzuBNzx^f<NgoW1/.susd*tpfrgsvloMner=tBsqhnLgsxMje/it
gzebfjNlmHJri+zlptifFpAtNns+ licueuyftNjh!gzaGnjuAsHHng!RuctcwQgQKIlv@s
uraujfJlesLjw^gDdjbfFkawyAi-uBngpyrposIwh^xluqbrsrfsNmi!iAmnghLpwxtAm|oAo
sAsgbhGudKyyi8flUjgeHypzLfq!oEayqwCpoztys>gDebvmwgdKyfx*uzaqheDhszy	
ozegzjvgqNvqm$rKacxfAsbuFjd^rqdvttFpdsCre"kldqnqwjuBIsw!urarwgDptAyi
jAdwojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaLJjg*gx.bcsvgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfLoedonutbuyJhuxAng
vxbpbnKguAyev^yGmvbtxguAyej*xEubuysnfsIkd:nqarttyybFneA&ooibjfKgcxysd@t
ozwguyAnbMCtr!uravjjrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"oqtbcAspmtvqi!zAauwuHvsMtxy$n
gzaghkGyumtyl^fqdqptEpdsJfv@squgtxrvgsyqi$zDppkhrzfKPng^foporfJlesNt
zDbfkyAvotFep*hDbtAeGwfKuym=tE.bcsvguAyef;yuoguxrhowtus-oFjecqrmbvNtv|
grggeyAuhsNmi!ytjhvexypFtuv*tFafkxLyjuOym=tluqbjDldMLtr*ilogvBGylxx
godguxm

ZtfbuyJhuxAng!vxbpbjFCjLCtr|fmaeqrtpotNns+fAgbrztsjvFDd|kmsejftsfsuhg^yE
jmucdfKltmtnq@mqa-csvguxRy=!jAdwojFAavIqp^iFjqpxrzuHLjh!uzapgyOvsDt-j*rq
yqsxgwKa&sFtg@rlbpfeJlnHNjd+kFxqtprhdvyxw7fmofbfFgjGNjp-kouwcqrwsHJjv:E
smocijEloMahs+zDpnbxQzuxG d!ZtjubhGtcBHfx*uzaqheLldAHtp=mKacpi
ozgqtrsAjHHeg=tFfpveAzawykm+kpakpeLojLtup@tlbubfFgF Fnf/gDzbqwrL_ECgv@xK
iAmnghLppGoednuyfbrfJAjvCue:ozhbuuGutHLxd@xqacnwwheRtii<kxprksygqKIoi$zE
hmtgfeGua6yrVd-EatghGtnxHii%fpjtghLppGM 

ZtfbG]DpcKuwC!yFscvjyFaILtn^iFffbnFguACxd[rmobkxrhaOCxm=tmsAbtFlaMBfx!imo
kzbdnjrtbCIwd$nmoigxrhowtnq[xAwgojFAtsCsd@imegonuaaIOgp*ifacpirzqxwne-
ructcwQgtxLAm$kgabVmAzaOCxm=tlju?eLopNAm{!uzfbvmsAavusd#klsgcqAGfwtBm:n
zAecA)Kguxwmr=rAhA}erHusNmi!ymngbyAtfmtnx!CumnbhzhmEysk^fFigbuGsjMChe-
gzebutupbEtxx/AouwtjrDjMBnr!CtjejeDpcKuwm^ylprgwsAfhtem+fmdcfjEpd
ructcwAltmtyl^fFscfnLppGuqd^sBicunKgpGtqs$gxaeqqDldMCtr| lfzvjFkjGAex=
godtgiAAbMCtr!oEtwgxhgjGtuy#rudbnntybKCjw7fFigbuGAfGNne-fAgbgqwjuKIsm$
hDbpemrhowthi+zDbnbqAistLni|frvnnDrhwtCqe#rqavqeLofsJzf-oo<bcsvggHL
yBfekfDgmBvwe/oqt?bswDaHJus/zGokvnwzayIwd|nmsgfeuvmEyhx*uztbcsvgoxNBs/qE?

ZtfbgsNpsHHri+zljpbBzpdAtyl*yltvtfLlhBwet-gzajcxrifxHeh^BqmqrjvgjLnee:
ztfbotEloMneh=suocvjvgcRtfd|kztgbtxgmBvwe/ElmkonLz?stYl^foppvnFBfw
kJqcpxAvosush!xmqkfeyypPNmd=llmqefDgbvuii_ooankgJhsRths-rqdvktFzaBMer=C
ixfctqQgbMtfr!kze}beUvsIIwe:klmkdwsyjxM	d@tpagxjFgmtQep*hDbtkjKaatLj
lmdgfeOpuAttt^xmukplrDjMBnr!glekhkAjvENei$uzpokhrjmBGfx^ lbubBwsmsuxd>oFi
BqsAbfuAjOyeg=sBfvkyAvoszws_fopoojJjjtFem+lAsocyAvosMty/iqt}beXvs
kJborqwaaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeq@Elcgbxwlosuxd@fpfukwsimxtgy:fzpvbhJpuBwfp
sGokenHhmsMjv<oofbksrhaMCri!CtfpbyzlauOik^zEaqheKhgxNDd@tpajgfDAi
gsfpenwzatLjd#kuoibhMAauuho8

LGsvjjJaaECgv@xufubnFghxHjv@rlicxjrhaOywC!nuhjbqsipKaysTiAtvbwsAjHtnr
ztfktetBezyyw7fmofbqsipKths|zEactjrzuBFqd*tosgcxAuhmtss:CuujuysueBHl
gGuqofLppGtnr<kEuogsLz?stNx!oEafkkxpdNFyd'uDankgJhsByxd:ulpdvfAuavuum:gx.
yFbtvzHaaHLew^kpahwsvpoztks/fuopqAsAjOyee$zuwkvnwz.sush!ztpug
zqdjptDvhRanr:kztkxjrpoBNne:oHfubyzhusIkj^xlujgeHvuxHym@rlphbiwjsxuxi%
rmcqteuvtMMeg@tlqtqAGrfsNmi!uBqqunLppGttj!ructcwQgtMukj8

NAxgxjJaaECgv@xufubmsCfsuhl*kHffbxGtfswtr|opftcgDlaLOhg^yEfubnFguAyet@yF
zIpbfjuhexMef,funrttNpoztgs:nlujgnJgtxLAm$klbpfeLofBLeg/kpjdkqAAzsQnx&oz
ztfkteGyhtHnD@zuppu]	howtyl^yqarqxAAjOyeg&gzhguezhwxtgi^tlbeetEwmBMmi%
sAtvnDrDjMBen;judkqzKgvLyes'fuohqwEhuBIsd:koipqqGnjxM d!ZtfbciNhovyxd*t
iAnrwyAuhsush!ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaAuAi!hqfpbBwsm wmv=tudngiggaMBj
iAovksMpoztuv^iuqkvtMzawLtt!ozaeqrHBuBHld$uEuu?eLofsAws>ztaqheLof
OzugtswAatHid[xuwcvjrufMQtv)yfacpirAixtjB[rAtkxjrpovLje|kljpbuMimBwqC
gHbknftsfsCsj=xybvktFgetNff@yqt}

LAsbgCstqEy	djIXDbjfKgcxwtq^fAogbtxguAyep@xsfuveuvnIOyi/fzfvytJr
uDhcpnRhuBIsw!ozavjjrDpKFid#EldtgfLpoztfd$uAqgtfLpwxthe:gxpiksygoxNBs/q
uraoqwwguAusdA *~`bqAistLni|fIptniOpexoedjt\mkpjrwvuFng!godguxrjbMuqs"y
tAxbujJCfsGnp-oAoubtxgvLyww!uzaoqwwguAusdz$f~``evleBwfx^jlugtrAubEMem+
ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcqGufnteX&klVpkAwytBNDd=llDcnnxvsGCfdhKXW1NeGu_ECsi
imucntygtRMyi_ftbubsGDaxRue+jqebksLvatHem+jqybffLhctMjd/krftgsulaLywz*iq
gzebuzHwpKNxd_uDfbvmsuaLCCd_oxmkqsrzftLhl^ylbbAjsy?stFr% lmkdwsyjxMel@Bq
hqdqojrAixtqe/mqtvblJvvIttj!iGtvqrwytsIkd{J\SQOeHBcECxl*tsavghzupEIlC3
sAsgbyzhos(#{E$*aqryAjbEtri%omarwgDpdtNns+yltwemrhtsNms|klphhjJlesvD
OzgqVwsjatHidnoxwgte8sbMNjv!gDfbuztzdKCgi%fFpbdDr2?`oep*hDbtkjKb

ZtjubrsydAttj!zqdjptDvhRths+zuowgxrhowtnr!ztfbpjPAawyhe%klxknqryfLOqx!oz
lGsvjjJgjGHtz@zuppueLobMtfv^fqyvtjElmRtim'ludwnyrApsJwi%oou}be#obMtnw
ixfcteAzaMBfx!ructcwAltswfr!tAxbitrifRIsh!gGuqofLppGttj!ztfkteGyexLej*rqt
gzebefLhmHAxd:ulbwvtEhuBIsd=llujgnJgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kE_+csvgjMtnw
vAtukgDlaMIeg*xovoxjFAaMBjd'oEdcneDpnBNfx*uztbvmsAatJui@xluqbttAbBH
zAecA 

ZtjubJDldMLtr*ilMkdwsyzs!yv@zqhkee8sbGtwi$uyngpiKgbsJfv@juhobxzpgMtnr
ructcwQgtxLAm$kfacpirkfFIsw:xmugueLofsMyi[ylogejKzbKSex=fBsqxnvlaBGuv=Bqe
ructcwQgtxLAm$kEaykyzgmBGnx^jldcrfupuByxd@tpaqrjJhuBHld*tHfuvrwuuLo

YQTUKT6gJ#aF

GzogbPWUOX'

ZtfbEtJufEF>2^xAybLtAuus!yy%EljpbIAnjMuqdkxqtgtAsAjHHev^yGmvgirposNmi
xqdqtiAuhsIkdv *~`bgJpuMFjd#uAlubfKg7[]]h[olekinLhmsCre"kEacpirAix
vDpfwhLppGnes+fpfocsvaaHzel*mt_swfDpuRtfr%fmsejnNhmESew=AzebrfHls
xqqnchwtfGNx	!f6igbuJvkxwy{!CtjejeOhtsMzt[uDugfetFaMBjd{uynkuxAvosIs
VDfugwNhuBIsd@tpaCehwztmtfp|uljpxjKAjzuyi%fEpogeGmaMBjd*yEvgueKBsKIzr%ozh
yobppnFn.sMys/ozh?bwwAsByAm+mfacpirwsHPnh*tsacehwztsNtd%osjvcqrpntAjw!oz
glogvBGylsysz*xAoogsLb

GzogbPwuoxSeA*rxahqhMzaHHew=sqaqheLofsCxw;kEauwwJvvGxnr"fpjtghLgtvusr*ts
gEakfjFAjyCjh!ozavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:alaCotFnaMBtw^fFpbdjrkjLwzw|kp
gDf<beAtbzyez^xEvubywEuswft:ADf>bnFkfQCsk!gzebchultLjem_gsf+efHAvKy
imqcdnDpuByx,!gldqousyjLIsd:ulqjqyGjpISee+jlnkewGmjEG.d[xAeweyAvosush
iAtvbfFhmRMnw3fEuqtfylayIwq@zE.brwGApvIqw7fmofbxLhowuwh|?lbpfeLofsOxi!ur
ztjubxuhoGCsk!zqdjptDvhRtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!vGsrqxwz?

Ztfb8#=|eICeh*muucneAtbzyxd[xAewejvgjGtyl^fOptpjDsa%yws\f2sqljuAaILtz^j
nuhjnDrhdvyux@hxfbhtJgdKyfx*tsarcuwyaKyup@iqngpyKgpytii:kDjqtfLpoz
uDjikssstnteX&kl2?`#=gtvusr^jlwqnzEltsJws<opffbfFgbKLfC!urakofyl_vuux;xq
itbnnjFnfLtyl@zlbtgeuvnFIsd:ulokpjLlfGNm[$kzuwtDrwsBHym+mlugemFprNyxd@tp
kyctkyLsfwtre:kDjcn	rhowtyl@zleghDrAixtzw^fAgbvjPA_vIsz^xEjqpeHypvyxw^yg
ZtfugeuobEFjr"kEakphDBextim_ozjujjvgdHHyv@yFadgyOlfGtyi\zlbpfethdDAws;tp.
lDbikqwgbGxeh^zqskqwsAfwtue"kE.bwswCfGtuv*tFjpi	rlmtvtv@zqavAuwggtwjw7
lmjpvesuesvtp%fFfzveskktwjr$EfajcsvDsBNyi+fFfzvesuesusr=zmukqsKaaGIsV=smo
rmoiwfyltmtfr%fmarttDpgxLfx*uzaqheAsmNMyv@zqebofLlsBuqd^snfffjvgjGtyi\zg
ZtfbnfLAfKthe:ksptAeAudEOii%ftjij]xyfJOjr$ElbpfeDvx zwi]AqoeAezhmyNtr^yf
iAovksMvvLtys+klqjqyGnstJmw7fuovtnuhuxtre:nqncvnuhmsxwe>ozhu?eEhqLn
kFdjksyz.sLjz^xEf+rtDhsBNDd%xmxkplKaatHid^tsscxnFntn

ZtfbZjJvysJws:uFzrgeKjbGHnr"fEzuvjEgqKIAm%kpacbsMtcxLes'funrqwLhoM
lqbvwwwzayIwd$gBuwtnFnaMBnw!juwgtxwgntNjv*gx?bbYwjiGChm@tEawujvgnNFym[rq
ztsgumGsesMjx:ozhu?expmMyww7fxjpgesyusush!nmmhvtFlawykm+oFjqpxl
gGuqujytfGNfx*uz.bynFkpPCsk7fmofbxGmuPuwiTkpjvksygqKIlv@sEavqeGwuBGnD^
oybigeuhqMOwi8flBvbyzlaLuri!zung?eLojLtuv=pqdvbkGjvLyid=tlqtqiMjuBIs	
ZtfbitssaPuxd:ulncmjrzdtHsm+mlbubfxmpKxff-klbpfesjdxJye#rqacu
vtpvqhGwzBHld@tpaokhJvgBFrm+mlgqteHyfLywz@zuppbwwmpKGfx:ozh}beS
zung+fFk_vIxx!yFvfAeuvowOhx^jlewtnFnaMBjd-gEubvmJlfsGtr:nEaqheLojL
vDplghLgdHHkm/sqebvmwgfvIss_ooaxkftpmBNDd=llekinLhmsMhe+tuoi?esuesNmi|k
luofksyzaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyid&kDf}

LDpobyzlaHOyw^zfavjjrJpKHjp-f0ftqCrWsHDjg:fIbubuJleBwfx^jlppbyzlaNMjd=l
tAorttHyjxNfv,fEucpisyeLtfr%fFigbzKlaHzeg=syppbuJvuHwtp|fIigpeKAbGxfv%y
juebptLgfQCxx8flEkinLhmsznp^ylxgtjrjsxuyi%fmtbVNXMaBGfk^ylxjkhzgxxLj
iAnrtjKzfwtuv*uDavqeKApKuli!AEjpieYypNJe8!IOJVVeuvnILjw|oAo}be`ofs^jv=D
yAgvyfJlaBMeQnfPPUbgszfwtfr%fGuknnRltsIkjTztfbumwsgsJws"xmnubxMjisux
SudtqxGmus%nr%uItbcsvgXtHlddsmhgb2AGbKx d!ZtfbfnyputFep*hDbtAeAzawyxm"tqe
zAadgezhswQfv^/uofguwuexHyd@tpavqeHypOCii!ozugthzhozyff*ruuAbBAAisIyl^x
oztvkyMAjHHxd:nDpwimrufMQtv)fopppjuAjHHx	!fMdegxKguHtyl^fpjikyssayCqi|
ztfoujDCfLtnw!zIp+vnwyfwied}onmkqlJhqAChd/koptfxrmpKtyl^foporzLlssznp^y
gDfbewwhuxxem+f4MKPesuesWtv+kxm&ueDvdtFew,yFfobfFkatwhi|yljpvtrAixtfg:Amm
juhkvfDgjFuli|foporwAzjGAee!hApmbnKgqKIAm%kpavjwGBhAtfd%uovogsLgdHHyv=r
yFsweyMyfsush!glogvBGylxxem_gsfbhnDl_Lywz^xfadqyzgpytBl*itaykqDgcx
jqtetntlen

ZtfbrwwzfGNfx*uzaykqDgdHHhp;jqaykyzgbsxnw$AEtkqsrvgsMtq^fAgbvmwgjLMzi|
yGstqzFkjGAex&klvugeGmaMBnw!zqdjptDvhRtfw!glqtgxwywtNns+fFpqne}zuHLfk^ 
xqgtgxzpoznef@iwvr_ 

VmngnfrHOW`Jd@tpaLwiAAis"NH?X

ZtfbPfLppGuqd?mDjewqLBstFeP*hDbtAe}UB5 el@ylicfewEuxHxm<klfzrjJpfGwjd>oFi
xmtvgwrzdtHsm+mlphbuJpoMyid_gFftkfDz?stXm+iqa3~!-aaMBjdgonsctDrobL
vmsvkhAwbMyid*tlujge6huBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!ZqyvbIAnjMCEm+mlQtqowjus	SEoJ2-
gldqquwybMCAi!krgqtyrifMQji+fZBNbfFkayIwx,/rjxgeDhowtlv@tFawpnNlsLCyC
ructcwAltnteE+fAwgtAAlxsIkd:nqarttBldMtBm-rlcgbuJltxHyi% lhkxnFnaBNx
nutvqwQgbGxeR?R/tbuyJhuxADd'uDavjjrmvMOwi8

Gzakp]vlqMBeh*yovuunGuaHzeR?ZPQbynDsayIqp=CfakphDBeBHld@fpfuewAwuBIsd=l
ztfbuhsuoBHld[xAdguxlggKIrd:nqaicyzlsBHld=llujgeHyjGNjh!smugtnsstsNtd:nq
gDdjkAAuhsIkd:nqagnjuAsHHng!vmhgu rgUAyex,vqaqhewxvBJri+zlsgszAyfwtks/fm
yFbpf]sspGyew$gzokplrDpKExx@zuppbfFkaMBjd*sBptvfFjfsIkd'oxfbofFhhxGjr:
yAgvyfJlaPCqp!hqafkxuBtLyi	!fUtuwjKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaBGfk^ylujgrKlmOyxd>oxm
hqacfiJltLyid#xufhnDlgtNwmd@yljoclwggHLre:?lcnchCgbGxeA&oFfbxjJzvLths-uD<
mDbAbxuhmxtAi/yGtbfnLofKCsk3fmofbwwzpEOym=tg

GxtqbiwzdKCgi%fIjnnetlattxx;jKaewwJloMFDd*tlqtqlJltLtgC!TMMbvtrlwtFze:k
ztfbwxwmvEHjw|fAgbetFCfKNnr"fyjettxpmFtys!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbksrvswywd:u
oyqtqAwgbvwjw|alaYkyzguAyeg=uBftcyAvosIkdoAElgijwgVGCAi/yuuA?e6HMsBfw
yqmgeywkaMBwi^fDfgnxrvgsGng/urjnoexypFtfd$uxmgeyAvosIkd|oJuA+xwCfGtwi^rE
iAovcnFpoztyl^fBbrgwKaaEyyx^xE.bcsvgeKuBm+mEaqheYlpKAjdrgEikplLvosWfv<kD?
ZtfbvmJlfsLji-ylxgtjrjpGPjv:kpakpyGg4m-#@!kxfevwGujvtnq@mqtbwxAuhsu
yBfekfDpAxxeq*iDphkqEgtvusr^xgabVmwgtxFjg:oAo?bkAsnBHl{!gzebksvlyBHld=l
ztjubrsAfKCfp!CumnbgwgeBMhy|yqe}

JAocnir4B!YWW

VDplghLgPIysd}uAl?byzla^uqi!1zjxgwKpuRtQm#xmsA&xrlgyIwx!zAaeqsNlsMt6@7
$*~bdtGrtszws_fyjettxpmFtys!juhkvfDgjFuli/EfakueuBsKysx-EljpbfFgbwPfr$kp
yFbvgeGmaIFfr+ozhbcsvgpKAfr*Fmukqsmga!BjdtgxfbNntybKSel@yltgnjuAfwtf
smkqteNlowIwd:ultgtAwgbLtfd[gDupgwrposNmi!vDplghLgbGxee|fEzuvjEz
ozugiwsApKoeddtljvueHypIIxe- lujgeKBdvyxw'AxaxgsvvssBjp[kpakutDhuxtfv^gE
uratkxCgbGxey+iqsvcnFAzsuxd>kxmbcxrrfRtnw|Aqtbvtrifsuih/kEtgfevBsBHld:nq
ruggbtxguAyet/uvfev rgUAye3@rqaNkgJhsRtnw!tAxbrtAzfwtys!jqdkfjrDitN
smugtnssaBNeA*rxaeqsNlsMtys!juhkvfDgjFuli!lAsobfFkaMIew^kwahwsvpozn
ozjvkfDszsztv!ztfbhnJzusJme|klbpfeLofGtks/fFigbjFAjKyet/uvfev 

ZtfbrwGwpLuqd:nmub1fDlatwhi[zqebhtJguAyem_vxfogsLhuBIsd=llQtqowjus9ui+
HApmbBAsmsJws<opfbcyrAixtjr%fAgbvmJlfsJme|kEacbhGuwxLxm=tltwdxQzuxG	
hDpyunFnaLNfx*uztbfnKAsBvzx^jlppbyzlavurt;ylogvBGylsQnx&ozavjjr6bEy
RuctcwQaattxy#yKtvgrrmpKtxx=xuoib6=a~[]ef=uwtbcyr9~[tfr%f^~`biGAtsJjv
ozdj?esuesHjx>uDlbchultLtys!ztfbkrsnfsJwm+zqsu}erWsBwnr"frptbyzlaLSxx^s
oyqngrwuutNns+fmtuwrwzaMBjd^DutvgsulaHze3@rq"ubhstqNMei:nqspgyrufMQtv)
gzebkyKgiBAm[|vqffbnEhhxtuv*tFftu	rhowtnr$rGegueGAixLev^wGjukywgitLiA@xq
gzebutxAxtLj{!gEaygqDgbLtxC|zqnbksLlhKuym=tltgtAAjfLoedkxAqqujvgpIywe:ozh
iAtvueAudEOii!nmsfyfJlatHid|uruycwwgntCsx^tmoeg	rivMtis!tAubksusvwy
kEukofLltsztv!ztfbhfupmBNni|fybpclwtfGNes'fFigbxLvstAjd%kHjegxrhowtnq@mq
yqsxgwKb

5mmgbxwsfvNjh!oFtbxjFkpKtue/zzftbnFgbsztv_gxarttultLnet@xFmAbkMuexxef,
ztfbEtEtjLMns+frptbUJltxLAe:oAobcsvgBvwjw|alaHqqDvxBHld@fDfswjKAayIw
vDprqxss.sNmi!5mmgbQAistLDd|kxfevjvguPIez^tpptueszayCse-oEuubyGgxHLpd>oFi
5mmgbxLhgytys!mqogtfLlattii:gumgfesubESxm|fAgbtjIBjKyri+zEahqwrWsHDjg:
UBfpbGGvlnteI@itaxgsvvssOxi%fFigbwwzvENxd=llujgeJlrNCwi_kzuubfFhmRMnw!zA
mqogtfLlatHid|AnnkvesggHLre-fBsqrtKhmsztv!ztfbgsLpsxtuv=pqdv}er1iBM
iAnrgyAAjOyet/uofuueFvusIsp,fqocdqwkaMBjdtgxfbNntybKSex=fEfnghLgjMM
vDjocwQgwxHis/fBbtvswyauOyd@rEpbtjNlbEyid_AoibcgGBusNmi!yFbvgeGmaMBj
oybiksygjGxzw:xK.bcgGBusNmi!BmsAksyaavIwt=xmugbhGtnBNri+zEavqeLofsGfv)kFt
lAsbkrsnjGAex^itoqntyF.sush!gnpwveLofsPfv,ozhbqwyhoBTfx*uzbnbiQubFChw
ztsqwlzgxAChl!smkqteuvnIusm^ylbtgeJltIIsh*tsavqesuesMji)ozhbvtrkfOyqs[
ztfugeEhsDyyw8

VDplghLgPIysd}uAlbkxrmpvOxi%fEqgenxpdtFqC!uzavjjrjpGPjv|oAobqkrpntAjw
lDpobrAjsHznp_fFpbfnyputFej=xy?bbYzlaMyhl+uxpiAexvssMhe+tuoibrAjsHznp_fut
xqbfkqQgbOunp@hxfbdzLgjLthl@tsjpieJhqBxqC8flJpbnLzaILtn^iFatgvMpsxGjr:yf
ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKagouzhtBTjh!lqbvwwwzaHzex&klugemFvmHADd:nmubckxldMtyl^
zqdjpnuhmsKze-oFzbqkrkjzCye-funcijrwsHxzg:oAobcsvguAyeg=yFtbqkrjsxuym+m
gzebuyGyjGAex&kljoclwgmBvwe/EaabYmsAaEyAi-ylphbiAnjMuqd/kEpnwyAvoswfr!hq
goikgAwkauSew$gzokplrtjvLtj*ry}bbMGDawIjw!BmskcyAvosCsd:nqaswfDpuRttj
sudtqkAsnmtue/zudwnfJszsCsd'oxnbrwGkvvyid:ulqtgxwywtNns+fEucpisyeLn
grggeyrAixtvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyx !f9icveLldAHtp=mufubhsuatH
uBftcyGyaxzki$zuwgnDrhowtjg=tAnkefDszsuut-ElxjgsrzdtHsm+mlgknrrAp
yqqctfLlaMQt[;vljoclwzatHid:uldqpyJvmsztv!gzebetJyfvNem_gsf
oyqgtkwjuBIsw9flIqyeuhosKze-oFzbetFAsHFef^yFadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyG
juhkvnRpoztBs/qlgnqBrAitNem+ixvfgxrkpvOri+zljpfjPpoztfr%fEuqtfyl}

ZtfbchLBbEtfr%fqyrghLlesOxi|fAgbfnyputFem_gsfu+]KApKuli7fnsqyxAuhm
vDjpvnFn.sush!UOS++mwsqsxjx^xyjpgeLofsMye+jmsfuexvssGje|ADjpieLofBL
wGbnkyQbasVws>yuoibnKgfLJjg*gxmAbnEwpKNfr: lcwveLofszfg*ruukgxrhwtCqe#rq
lAsbtjskfKMex=fnsqyxwgjFuli!jAdwojFAtsCxd[kDicrxrAixtBi@qqtvbfKwfvNes'
oybiksyguxwmr=rAhAbfFkaFIxx!ozapgjvgpytii<kxprojFA?stFw!oFafgkAufwtnx|
xqrwkwwtfGNx{!ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKaeqsuloMLfx^jlppbxGtfszzr%gyfpvfDgbLJjg:y
urawuftpmBNDd'uDakofylawIhy_kzuu<erKpxMex&kltAuywtaAuAi!yGghkhAloM
lxfzkgAsjMSex=ftbpfqwguAyej;rxatcsylaHzeh=iGngpyrAzIyx{!ozdnwiAuh
sAoqiwswiLneq;rFj+rfJAatHid_AxukxtDBnxtxi:yfacpirzfKCfp| lbubBwsmsux
smowuhJpqMths-rqdvktFz}st2l@zldqpAwuuBIsw!gDfbpjultLuwC!zAakfjFAjySee
jAdwojFAaNHnu;kxzbhtJgtMIwe"klbpfeJluKCjz@rhabYmwyfsCxd:nqafcysibLyes'
xqdqtirmpKtxx=xuoibgAimBIlv@vtjebnFmpKGfx*uzacdtMAaMBjd*smhgbiGjvFysx9
NAxbcwwgctMng!ozugtsssaLNwy$zGsgueGmawIhy_kzuu?eKBdAtfw!vmhkpfLppGneq@jq
godguxAimxtys!ztfbtjskfKpedcuIactjrAixtnq@mqafqhMtfGNxd[nKtkefDsz
vDfugsLlesIsd:nqauewwlosNtd:nqatgfvlso

Ztfb1fDla5Cgv@xKafgxAnoxxeT/uvfeve7wfGtGs=qlppbyzlatMxy_vFjqpeLobM
sudtqkAsnsCxd_uDfbvmsuatxju;gFfbcxrhaFyim;slgqteHyfLywz*tsavjjrjpGNjr:fAg
jqugtnGybMyid-onsctDrtbMywm@rE?bbFKgqEusr*tsakpeLofsJws(koubjfKgbwPfr$kp.
oFakueAudKyfw*tsmAbhDlbKtyl@zlujgeuobEFjr"klphbiAnjMuqd*smhgbywjiGIqs"E
gzebvmwglxSex=fFigbxMjdxMxd=llfhhtJAtsFno^f2sqljuAa8Jjr!HApmbnKguH
vDpxkiwgbsGje+ylphbgGAisJwi|kDwkplrhowtnq[xAwkplrhdvyxw!zAavjtKl
jqugtnGybMyid_gFftkfDz?

YQTUKT6gJ#aG

Mqptijr1I87F

OzavjjrBtxttj!kxfevwGujvtnq@muoibkGyawIhy_kzubrwwzfKPfx*uz.bvmwyfsuwi
yqwgtfDgjLMzi|fFpbetFzjwyw{!yGdjbfK?asysw;xuoibfvlrNuyi!oybigeIBbECyC7
smjpvfAujGAew;hEucpyAhmswtr<kDtkqsrybMyxdRztsqwlz|qNN[{!vDpxkiAuhsOsm]Aq
opfpvnxpdtNns+frptbfMApFuyi%fmdegxKgbGxev^zDjgxfDaatHid@iopootvhuBHl
hAvpfeNvmNGjw!gzebhwsnjEyeq@zqskcqm

ZAaocnFAbBHel*mtakofylaJOfp*zK.bkrsnfsJws$kEtkplrmvGwym=tEactjryfJOnv^j
zAaeqwJldMtyl^fpfhkhAlovCjw!ozavjjrzdtHsi%funcijmga`Iri!iAnogwupbEFD
gHbknftsfsMDw:kytbksusvwyex&kEfbhzFjuBIsw7fIiknjrzpFyeh=fzpv}er1ix
yobppjvgstQem_gsfbozKAauyet/uofuujvguHths/xqdvbhGuuKuxx!jqgkenwudByx[T
hAujbuGvssIAi/gxmbetFAstMyd/kEvnvnFnayLtq!ruhjveHyjGNee+j	ptbisyl
hmdmiwGBownee+jlwctnsimxths+zDbuveJltNFym+mlgtqrrzutCsw!gze
hxfgf]LosHOll8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fFigbxuhosxjr|oFzbozKAauyee%kCvcvjrApsuqp=C
rqhkdnDpuRttj!vDjpvesuesMzj'oojgpyrmjwyqm:EljpbyzlaIMjy%u\icnkLvoxxek/gK
smugtnss?stGs/jqsubtJgqtAj[^jsfbgkxldMMeq;yFadgeJlnHPjh!lAsbdtLo
iAnrchLpcBFnx,fmofbfwzuAyym$ygabRfylaLEjA!sGtvbgwgdHLwi$zqebhtJgbxMyl^zud
xqbuqsKgbGxex=fqocdqwgbvwzv@zqaejfJhdMywd/kopipnLppGtnj!jqtktjvb
IAnrqzFkaBGfk^yldqpxAzuBHld=llcqvmrAxHays+kpavgCLgbGxek/gK_uefDl
oxmwuyJhuBIsw!sGtvbgwgqKIhi|yqebcuHypILne:kxzbvtryfMunr!ztfbszssjMSes'
kmdj}

YQTUKT6gJ#aH

PqbpbGSYP7UX

YFbpffJktsJzf-oobvktFzauynr"fpfxgqGwfwtgC!yojgpyAzuLnei+muoggwKaatHi
hGtkpjKzaFuse"kDtbksrHtLIhm@zuppbkGya2Hks/smukqsrhowtNq@mqaOcssnfFysx
[MJKO[rzutHie/jEaeqrEpuMyjw!imobdjrhqIFni%fFpbgqwjuKIsm$funcijrtbGuli_kzu
[QJO_eHypvyxw^yljpeqMkjGA,d!jAdwojFAa{Cre"k>avtfFzgxL	d/kFskgAssatHi
kHbnwfLppGjes[zudcnevptDtfr%fppewrwuusMhe+tuoi>esuesxtg;sqovbiwzjzHee+j
iAoxgwKppGoedrnqobetEijGyid>oFibGN5gtRMyi_fBmcpsAuhsush!uBftcyAvoLn
yFbpffJktswfr!gEtkuyrposAjr^xmukplrpntAjd%gFbdcxwzaMBfx!gDf
ozugthzhozyff-klboqsygbsPfv*kFzbqkrzzLNjq|alaVjjrhqIFng@zuppueGm
jughgwwuusuut/umdjgxrmpKtnq@mq_vclypoznem+jqykpllgdHGuv^yEjqp	rhow
zDbpukwyaHzyi+fobwujrBovywx@ozuAbhGudxLsm+mlFKOeKFtMyrd$uyqcvntpmBND{
immkdwsAjHH	d[kDgqtrsudxnee+jlvryfJkavIrt@zucknnLF.sOsx*rltvcsvhsw
oyqngrwuutNns+fBbtcrwAfKMee/klfuvftsjLBjh8flUjgeSPJ6txx@tpbtfxrAitNee/k
hqjpievlwxFtt^jlgqteLofLyee[vxjecyAvoLthe+fnfbwxwkaMIeh^iDfcujrAix
AzdgtyspoMS	d|AodguxxBmESem+zqhtcywgjFulm+mlqtqhwztxM	d@tparttEvuxt-s[kz
yKtvgrKb&stFMdSljubfFgbvwwi%oFffbFElsBwfr!Tmukqsssa`Nfr%gDeubNFzuBNzx^
[MOUK[rzutHie/jEafgAwspIywd>oFibotJlaMBfr!zIfpvDrjpFGnx:kqtbetEwsBMjh!ur
9*~bxtDBoMyjv|fDfrtjKloMCsk!AEftu	rCfGxtv| lbpfeEhoNzfg:ADftu rgUAy