was used in the preparation of this edition. Population figures are estimates
for 1 July 1992, with population growth rates estimated for mid-1992 through
mid-1993. Major political events have been updated through 30 June 1992.
Military age figures are for 1992.

Death rate: The average annual number of deaths during a year per l,000
population at midyear; also known as crude death rate.

Diplomatic representation: The US Government has diplomatic relations with
176 nations (the US has not yet established full diplomatic relations with
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia). The US has diplomatic
relations with 167 of the 178 UN members - the exceptions are Angola, Bhutan,
Bosnia and Hercegovina, Croatia, Cuba, Iran, Iraq, North Korea, Slovenia,
and Vietnam. In addition, the US has diplomatic relations with 9 nations
that are not in the UN - Andorra, Kiribati, Monaco, Nauru, San Marino,
Switzerland, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vatican City.

Disputes: This category includes a wide variety of situations that range from
traditional bilateral boundary disputes to unilateral claims of one sort or
another. Every international land boundary dispute in the ``Guide to Interna-
tional Boundaries,'' a map published by the Department of State, is included.
References to other situations may also be included that are border or
frontier relevant, such as maritime disputes, geopolitical questions, or
irredentist issues. However, inclusion does not necessarily constitute
official acceptance or recognition by the US Government.

Economic aid: This entry refers to bilateral commitments of official develop-
ment assistance (ODA), which is defined as governmtfGNek/gzuubyzhusuwi
gpnkpnKAfKyid>oFibvmwgqKIrs:oAobqkrldHHtq*ilegxjDvqFysx!gzebyjDmbKyes'fXEEu
gEavjjAyaFunr!unkgeyACfsush!gDfbetFjfLMns+gxakpeuobKuhx^xlbpfeuvoMunr!g
mDbpvewsfFysx!uracveDlbLNe6z(facpirvuAywd=lrjekfDggEIBw![1PH_eGyaMLfr|goukqsK
hKavjjrvgyChm@rltgeyGyaPBtw^fybkpeGikxwym<kljubtLofKtyl@tlegxjDvqFysx
sAukxfLlesIwd>nAtgblJhoMtjp^sqovbnKgcxFtA!ztfb40<guALjw&uxebhtJgPWU djUR
zDbpufuAjHHxd*tomwfjrvgyChm@rlfzrtJAavLjh*zEa-uzuoatMeI\oyccpprjsxxnx|]f
urgkenssaxKzm:ElbpfeHvsMztp*uljpxjKAnxHy{!gzebfjtAaKytv"gzjBcyAvosvDd:nq
urgkenssaLyhx=xlujcyrkpxMer=zlnggyrjpGwjw|oAocneLlsFM d?opakueuvoLCii/kpavq
nmwgbgwloswtq_oFugfeOofGtfk/kqngpyKgbKyem+oFjcnjvgcRtyl^fBbtvnwzaBHAs-Bqebcsv
iAouvnLBuxtfd'uDncnevldEuwe:oAobqkrpoMysx8

Kzukvnwz;s!tq^fAgbvmwgotNns+yfafguwuexHyd@xqbu?esyftMes'fEqgenssaLIAi/kuhpvDl
gzebitNlsGGjr:yljpeqMkfwtnr!ztjubuMimBwfx*uzactjrupMtnr%kBfpfjFA.sush!uFigtx
gDfbptLgpyzng*gxmAbwwjpzHnD^jlcAbyzla@!eK=BqspojFA?s|%R@zupp&)ryfyyww!zAac
vqprnjrwpECym$gxmAbtJnbGCEi%fuovqesgtHPjv^osobuysAfsQnx&fmafgkAujMyex^xDjvqwQb
^)EgrjFkfGN)(!gDfcbwwmfKMex=fmadttskavuyi"uDzbqkrwpECym$gxagpyAAjxMex&gFactj
gEtqensAfwtnr!yAngbBsFaPCyl!glocvnGu?s8fq^ylvugirmpKtue"kligciAuhLtfv^fGtwcqDF
ztfbumGyu ztv_fzbogxrhtsuut/uHffbgQguAyeYnfNpctirvos1js"xmqjkhrUbFyx	!Ztf
rAoi+kGynsHfq^futbksusvwyid*tlujge]'HHPjv+sqov&)rzfvNns+ lbpfesuaxHyv,fAg
^)oqpj\_aBHim$gFfubfrspGA]j=xyapcrwgeHyxd+uFagznKA?s3sd|uyfbksKAbGwjw7fzp
ytptv]xvsFtse_klfzkxLza tyl^tlujgeDvozaks/slocojrtvLNew^xHfbhtJgbEFey|gsfu}
Ztftgesyfs*~8!kzukvnwzaBHeX&klXqtqvgGtwyf=uwavjfLgntSef^fobvglGyjSyid@y
lAmnqBK?

TMUKQS~

7'8bWSrtfFvjv|f<fzeqMkjGAe3;mAtncAAh-

7!apcyAvoLtyl@zlbtgeFvusGjq#kDtbqkrAixtZR!/lBpftJybmtLi=xsjc?e3psBvfx* 
SmdgftFpbmtRs+gop?bSsBsNneW^xnjcbfFka6Isx^tqhtq	rZxBNEi/rmof?e`vozu	doAHbnw	
2mukefFgDBNDdRNAmAbXwl-

U6IGT

7lUckBsu

JQQGPIWUUsUWI?Y

`lBwuyJhmBue[!GEioqwwgbGxeG@xFjgte1zmtHiw7fOitkxLtbLtNw-gze?bHGjpLt=O^kxjpi[
OEmcpiKaaVIwe-f5fcbNKsbGxx{!Nqbtfe1zmtHid@tpaOeIGubExeM|rmofu	rUpKztp)fUtncsv

8lEgprsylsaeJ@xAfbKxDhowM	dbxqfpnfFk

7^aHtfFjfsaeF@yEbubisgJGxne7fOmkruwyuHHeM|rmof?eWBsHJfddyxbpf	rMsxHhl!MGjcpfl
LDfpemrWpESsi|om.bHwwudAtXs;ztftpesuesUsx@xoukee4howM	dbrAskqxGgJLFfr%yf
MGbfgqGBqxneN;gzafge6vwttNw-gze?bRsyuBHnu;kfaOcDGAuxneR^ClDcnjvvoBu	dmkGokqsl
Ymjpve8pfKLjd@tpaOkvMlmHH	doxAngnnFgJLFfr% lXcnqAzatHidaAFvpc

8lOgvmwymtHiw!/lBtwgsaa7yyl^xxbpfxrHoMCqp^y

9lOgye^lbEush!/lDqqprPtEush| lOkwjlgUHEjp@A

9lOqtBsFa tGs;BqubKxDhowneN@tlNcAjFaa`Pfp#gDe

7lQqtyMnbEt]dhgobw

7^aWpnLles5nr"jAnb+eSuhNCqp@ lCgtrMkbmtGv*zutjbNFkjtHeS$kmobVjJyjMIwC7fNskvnKo
2usiksrPtEush| lDcArsua2Mqe+jE.bHfDrmtHiddyxbpfxlgHBvwe-zms?bLMlsGMjC7
NAoibPGuhmtNw-klphbRsu.s4jv|kK.bOtFAtxLwe: lQkvhspsGtNw-gzeu?e~hjGNeL^rqoc?
YAvvjeYlpKAne!gzebvmwgTHOyl!Ymofynuoa2Mqe+jE.bVzJrtsush!ImjeqxrPtEush|

7%aWpnLles!ye:kEa+bFElsBwfr!Ymnqc	rIbDywddyxbpf	rNvtG	dcuImcpirPtEush7fVbtxnK
OEmcpilgKHBsw:uzaCvtDs.s5nr"smobTjwm.s7nh>gKaKuqsueLneR@Bmtuce1zmtHi{!TAsvjjJu
SmskcssgJLFfr%yfaRcqEFsttFx=rx.bRzwyuHtWm$ufaVtzKAa!ywv*zAsAbtxguAyeT@iugke
OEmcpiKg)9uqe;]faXkwypos3xp@tpt?b2srfs3xp@tp

SUTEGQ4HOX9ZW

`lBpvfJjuBwf{!MmAcbXLyjIneT@xmdgne1zmtHiw7f5qtcyDFa2Mqe+jE.bYjKAaUuso7f9fuvjJu
Ymictf

U6IGTeWUU2@NIn

0lpegfFza tFv$zudbQhwhomtFx-gzukee7jftH	ddtpjcpe7jftH	dkgojhkhrVdxus

7lXqtqv

8^5bvtLhm

tAug<e`ofs#XdbuHftprwuusxti|fzpvbwwjpzHnD^fFigbkGBssMt[$gxmgfeAuexJjr%kzu
nAngnfFktsIkd}uBiwvmsAtPuse7fOjumjAaa!Lfr|qqj?bfFka#ysh@fuobUtMAisUkv*im?

MDpuuevvnxMym$fBsqfzuAa{1ITS.lUjgeNhmNyes'fmmnblGveLtfr%fEftxnultsJws%Aoff
jAnguyAjbEFD	

MDpuueFhuBIse-fBsqfzuAa{1STS.lUjgeNhmNyes'fmmnblGveLtfr%fEftxnultsJws%Aoff
jAnguyAjbEFDd[rGtbksuvnxtje/tqebcgJvbwneq*tGtbksuvnxtje/tqebdDrmpKynk+kDt
lDpobiGtfLNng!vDpfwhLppGo

MZQ:II8gnxNms%uxpiA,rPosNmi!^)FeqsGtz,.ew^iFjqp	rNO9gLHkfppnnfJgfLNnq@zqtbhtJ
ztfbQJUKavIzr:xufu?eLofsztv_kDaUqAAlusLjt;hxjeu	rhowtyl^fQbuveWBsHJje+
iAvpvwAltsuwi!jqskxjvggKIrd[ADdjcxAuhsJtA^xlqctnLFa{0UTSfobnezDhuBIsw!xmujgw
ztbpbkJvnswtr<kDtkqsKgbMttj'oojcneuBsKysg,fqyejfFnfsLfx^ygaVjjrWQ9tri:nAe
tAsocqDFaBHAs-BqtbvmwgvLyes'fuovgwFhuBIse-fppnnfJgqKChi!CqjijyKaaPBng&fmsg
gBqnkjvguHtyl^fCvcpyAAjxMes'fspqfxrhowtxi/BudgueHypwOhi%fuobceypwxHei$uzpoA 
OzacfiAAjHHex=fFigbqsjlsIkd/kxjcdqwgetNfd'xAnbvmwgntDtv*zKaqheuvvGNwm^yfavjj
yFbvkxLpdBusd'gofubfrtbCIwd%orgkezDAzsCsd|vqdkhDAuhmtnh^tFjhAnFn.sush!gxmqynFn
lAsbvmwgrNuqm:ElphblGveLtfr%fEftxnultntYl^fpjxkxAvosIkd@f2QRbL6W|ZXUd^yFjocyw
ozafqqDhsLtgC!ztfbetJyfLJtr%ozhbgxLpntNjd*tlujgeDvdtFeg;xDfpeDrnjOyxd:nqaRRU
iAoxgwKppGtwe:kgaQpjrAiHOxe+jleqnqsytsQnp-fnvAbyzlaLuri!smsmgyribLEjx!uraiqtvz
ozavjjr2Tsuxd=tqavjtMzbGxeh=rxbtue	gdHHAi/zqebvtrAixtqs$gxaewwJlovSee:fFigbU8W
iAoxgwKppGtwe:kl_bynDsauODd*tlujgeGAixLeg=AzutA rNO9gLHkfqtvkrsAfLtks/fFig
RPDu?eGuaMBjd=ztftbmsuemtfv^fnbugirvosNmi!iAoxgwKppGttj!MZQ:II8gfLNnq@zqtbks
rAdcneuBsKysg*kEavqevvmEuww!gFavjjrvgyChm@rldwtwwudRtjB$nmoigeJhuxM djtq
imvvktF?aMBjd[xAqqtyAvosIk{!ymz?biwmfGMjd^DBfpfnLBsxMee|fmargwuloMttj!MZQ:II8
ozanqhssavOwv^tozbchuvvGNxd_gKafkkxlssMzf|zmovkfDszszws_fFigbuJvqHLym=tlxjgs
MZQ:II8gbvwty+zEactjrlyILjw|kpakpe8WQsNjv_yfacu	rmpKtjB@sBmg?eOofGtfr!untgtAwy
kEukofLltsNmi!jAmncwrsfOyqd=llSwuxAhosIwdegBbpgxwgnBFnx@xKagzuwueBNzv^yb
yunknfJgqKIgp^sEagznKAaPBjr!iAnrqswuuLtfv^fqyrtjKzfwtnr!jAmncwKgvGxjv!iGstgsuF
kJdjcsylaKuyi!vDpegiMyfLoeJ*tmmnA	rhtsuhe%kyjebwwzftLhl!sAwguexvsPuwh!uzavjj
V2QbojLopwneA^ftprgeLvavIsz^xFacnqrNO9gLHkfqtvkrsAfLtys!ztjubrwAiHxem+frvvwww
kpjvktFzaHzeX&klXqtqvgGtwyf=uw?

MDpyvmrybMye+[uBvncyAvo	ieX&klbppzssaIywg^tFaejfFnfsCsd:nqarquMsbMCtr7
xqtwnyAuhszws_fmauwwHsvLt=s/fpfhkhAA-sIkd#oDujueGCfKtii@zttbcsvguAyef@rmoeg
uraoklJhoMMei+zqskplrhowtqi@BuoibfrjpNHyv,alUjgeJhuxtre,fnfbrtKpuBPjd=x
tqhcvnNl?

OxmkenLgeKOlw2f6igtjrhsxtkm<kldcvjyvsByxd=lljnnnupusxwy"yl_bpfJjpMChw7
yFjowqsuuLneh^vDfuufFAts	xi%gFjxgx{aaAuqp;iuoqijFz.sush!imopcgAz?s@mi|k
imugitJpfLtnr$rGegbrsuzsxwy"ylmgifDszsJws%AoffbfFkaILjw$xucgfetFawIhx=xEacu
CqmnbfKguAIxi!oxmgifDszsJws%AoffbfFkaLIqh!uGuukiwgnxxng@rldjcsFlmLo

ImopcgAza{Wfr+gnjubxsAjOu[d*ylujgeuvnFIsd&kyqbrqsuumtBl*itarttNpexM
nmmnwhAupzysw!CuujbxGtfsMjh@zuwgbuJvqxLym^yfacpirpovFzh^ylnctnBBbGue+[uF.
GobrwquvazIqh7fsscuxlgsxyki/]favgyJhiRxws$gzocdnFvms	YL{ lNctnFvm	nel@ytjuj
[tbuj[lgbGxel@ytjujeGpms	me|nlpkn[m

IAdcb=WyzMBws\ExppbhGjb	tnw!glcwumlgbGxex&klmgcAwzavIsx@ozavjjrzuBGzp@tF
iAdckswbaVIhe!oEapqyrApsvjd$uzgwujvgxBNmd$uopc?eOojvBeg=sqtbhwGtavuhe=fEfgfx
gzebkxrBtxxem+fybmksygdAIhs-gFf?bhGjptnee+jldqetsgcNNyi/a

IAdckswgjLtfd|zunwnfFAawywm<kpahttEguAyep^gHfubtxguAyeg=imadwxzb

JqqtgxKhoMMe+|kpbvkAwz-suwi!jDviueLobMtwi%AofbvjFzjHHee+jlbpznwAzsush!ozdnwiw
itmqtfDgiRxwe:kfadcwtpuNLfx^yl)CoDLhmmtSi_hGucn	rZfvIse- lqjgsGibKvnx@r>.
hqoBqiAhAxJnr^yl)NkgJpvFneZ@ruvo_	rtfMBfu;gxppge}Xvtuqy%k>.biqMAfMBnq*jq
[Pptkiwu-mtfr%fAujgwKg)XKze+ox.bRqsjjwSq{!2mmoki{b

JDviuesyfsusC!itfokhssaLOgw:gzdgueLobMtjj'koubceHozLChe- lngpyss.syrs:oAocn	
uDadgmsCjHLfp!itbpijrposusd*tpjxkiMhmn

JDvibftBtxtnw!ztfbwxwgpytfr,fxjekyrvssCqp*iuubemwtjvuqd|AntvcsulaMBfx!xqtwnyK
ozarjDKpdtF	d_kzucn	rlnHNns+gx.bqwrifAuAm=xmmbkrHhjKGjr:fuobcsrpowCAm%Amm}

NmmnwhAupzysw!gDfbfwMntsNme:fmghghLgtxHxe:oAo?byzpoDCsk7fEfnh]sDbKysi|yfacpi
kypvktFb

NmmnwhAupzysw!ozdnwiwgM`Xe+@iue?brAjsHxtxS lnguhssjGyee+jlqgAtLla{GjB$ 
hGuvqsKaavuhx;y>.bcrHofMurm+klwctnsuuLt=ThGfaUVUlgE8V[{!vtfpeDusjwCsi![2DR?
gzhgnevBtMnel=m>.brmwudRwqm%ozfbcssspzOjw![2DG?e8JQRneX{V>.bcsvgpMBjv|
[BtkntuFcBH	d[yumqeDF/?

NmtjkxzgjLtyl^fDfuksGBtsyCy%gFfbqkrAixthe+tmckueGyaAyrt!vxbpve}JbGHff*y
ymukxf{b

Nqsqksrptsuew^sutApyzluBweh^xuwcvnNlaHzeq=xBikpjm

SmsklzsubsCxd:nqaftnwkaEyfz^ylphbyzlavusr@hutbqwrofFJet-gzub-Hsuotvnw!ymukxf{b

TmseqyAjtsuwi!jDviueLobMtwi-oqwgbuspomttj:kzakpiMjfsMqi^vfacpiryfyywd:ulprkzEa
uBjwoevlsBPfx*Bqt?bfFkaLSsx&kFjebxMitMCyy:kE?bPfLBstFer@xopvkhKgjGwqy%klprkzE
[BbtglGyjvnet@xqqgeyGsjG 	d_uDqjkswg)6!]G=tFjp?e0vytHtpS ldqfjAufs	YC-kzpn
C	dqfjAufmtJq[oDjpbBejpwynr^ lSqdnLBtLusd?/O-?bfFkaMBjf@ozf}bXwtjLSsx&kFje
tmseqyAjtsCsg-ApfbjjJvjGt=l=xEf?bxEhdD 	d@tpajAiJvnHLul=tqa-FnDhvwCi=8
YKovjjLpdsHfv$uFjeueAudEOii!sqqgtnvpoxttv!VqujkiAufs	Ii_kDpn?e5lqxLle+]f
squjciGufs	Is-uBikpjlgNxNme%uEf_?esuesIyl^xEa-FfJCpGneP=sAukn[m

UBjwoeAzaMBjd_oxlAbjPBetNjd=llujgeAudBMjh7fGotkuwgtxyit=jlphbyzlaHJny_fBprrDm

UBjwoeHvqISe+kgBbxgwrzpFHnj^xGn_bnKguAyew=ADdgbkGyaFusC!tmuwtfDgbGx
yqnkuDFAixNng!tmseqyAjtn

VAqrAeKAstQeg=tofpvwsAfsCxd:nqacnpsspBxeh^xuwgfexypFtyl^fybvwwwgeKCjh!uBjwo
vAqrA 

Wmub-psA.sEme:]ljubfrzuBGzp@tFahttEguAyef;jEaqteDlbOyxd=llDcvmsgfwOqm|fFicv
oEaejjOlesIwd%xGombfKguxu 

YFjowqsuuLtfv^fpswixrAitNev^rufxgeEpmwtii[xqtuktFaaBHhv^gEfbgswyhRtfr%
goukxnLF.sush!ozdnwiwgdHwfm+kl)eqpwaaLHtA7foscep{aatGul^zmnkpjKg)Wyxs\Ez.
JqygfwAuf	net&kzngvwsGjGye+kxqmwfnF/.sGjx&ExqjgsAkbMye+moFbnks{aatHid=ztftu
[OzngwLaa`uss/kJ.bVjFBbMy[	

OzgcpyrtpKNfp*zKatcyw?a!Bjd+AycgteGmawyfx&yluqbnFmbGNxd;tpftbtFlaRyfv!uxebks
glhkxjFgzxuwd[kDan?#=%aECAi!husvjxrvdvOwv*tsakpeLofsMfq^fKfct 

RmofbzKl;s2zq@tlvugeGmaMBjd-gzebuzJmbvyem|fobvglGyjSyid@ylbtcgDlaEush!/lmcpi
iGmvkAsAfwtks/fosqrxrAitNee/klsgrqsuuxxee'zqsbgfuoaAuwz^yFa-ymwhumtre*Fq.
xudg_.rwfKGfr^tFaettHza tqe+jldwnyACbMyid'uDaettHzaMBfx!gDfbptLgsxJqe+zqe
grugtewhdAtme/Bqtvb=upuKOx{!iAghgjlgsNvgi/]baogfvvxLtfr%fBbuvzJltsaep@tp
vqsocswuuESey|kpahqwrofKvfg^uGtbhtJhhxthv=vE<bhtJltMtfr%fIpqfqsuesaep@tp
AzegtevloLyes/fAqgpeKAbGxxd=llutgjK}atHid=ztftb]rhoRtqe+jluArjrupMtxt^iugk+
immnAeEloMCtr^jlbdqAwg)NLge+fmsgcxlgsHuiw7fpfugwL/?s@mi!vqsegsLhhxtkm"ADfbhtJ
oDskifLlesFfr%fDfhgwKguHtyl^fBptvnGuaHzex&klfpvnJlatGty+zlphbqsuesuwi@fFicv
oEactyAmjvCfp-EltwruDpfwtBm:nlxcvjJb

RqbfgwK?a!Bjd$nufhbtxgtMuyi!oEavjjrAjMOqe/fxfcfjJgpytyl^fopwpyJFaPBt
xqqtgxwuuLtyl^fEucvjrhusIkj*iubnbfFkavywi_uzjcnexBovCtr|fnvvbnKgoHNem+BAmxgi
CuujbyzlawuD[:u\ecAesjuBPnx*kEaqheLofsAtz^xzngpymgUAyel^gpaqheyvwxLsq^tFaku
ztfbciEpoBMyv@zuwgbqwhexLeA&ulncpfyltsNmi!jmz+vt	kbRtfg:oHjvkjKgpytyl^
mAwgtsEloMoeM+fFigbZ3aaMBjd_uzbtemrptsNmi!itjgheGmaLNfx^ lbpfeLofs0wm_k
SuokuywyaBMex&kligcirvgsAtz^xzngpymgJGtyl^f7T?byzla9Ljw*jqovbnKgcHNmd:nq
itjgheGmaLNfx^fmofbyzlaAyfh!uraiqAwyoFysx8

RuggbjPwfvNfr$ElbvbgAyuAieX&klbxgwsnfsHzq#kDaqheQlbKMex=fnfbnnNlesvDd@fssqwu
urargtHsfsuqp!hAspbnFguAyew@sqaAgfJaaBzeq=xFbnkyQgbMtje$nlbigeJlntCsw
iAouvfFAaBHex&klgwvzJl?

RuugtfuF;s@mi/klbtgeFvaNHnz^xEbnbiwmjGCym=tEacpirzutHie/jEaqheDpuxLfg,a
1zmguxrvuAywA*yqapqywk.suqp!xmuguesyfsvfw^jlppbyzlaFIxx!iAnoqsrkfyCsm:oAob+
ztfbcgAsjMSex=fDfcfesuesQwm:klbvbfrzqxwnj*kpacijmgExNfm-ozhbvmwgtMush@xpt
ztbvbnFkjOCiy@rldqwsLyjxMey|kluqbfKzfLMex&klbdkqAAzsNtd/kmebcsvgxKCyi!oE
hqzqpirAixtxg=vqaqheLojLtuy#rudcvnGu?

Smqu<eSsmsGft|fIjnnetlatPfm-gnmgbtFszsCsd:nqartnFAfwtAi/yuppbkGyaMBjd'uDf+
yqfcdqwggNNzv^a

SmskvnElavFfm_yaaVjjrwsHRnq*zKaqheFljzBgs/ozhbuysAfLtre,fBsgxjFAaLIri
tmukqsssavFfm_ylgtqrrifBHld'AxmAbjPAfGxjh8

SqsejfFAaFuwm+kaaCnqrziBJxd^tsbigirposNmi!imstkfylaHzek=upt}bFDsavIrq^xojcn
BqtugqKg)tMes[vAtgfeLvatFqd+uznknnLhsRtxl*vE-?bBzpdAtjB$rGegueLBhLnej*ytjpi
BqtugqKaaHzkw&uDfbqnDgsBAx{!kFd}>esstHnee!mDpwrnFnaHzeq^xoicpyrziBJxd#E
tmukqsssjMSes/fDfikxLlsn

ImqvkAwgsxAnw:kDa+bFryfzCxx^xlphbxzpqLtre*tFbkpjvgcRtfd:kDskvtJF.sJtw|kEtkqsl
uDaeqqGuzsJwm_gDjnAeGyaxRhp;yuwgnDrmpKtyl^fGtgbtxgtACuw!uIogfeAuaMBjd[gDfpv
iAvpvwQ}atFxs!xqggtwwkaMIee|fmobqkxziHLjd/ksjuvjJaaMBjd=lrtjqwwgfJOnz@rqov
uracpeAuuxLse-fDfikxLlsntXl*vEaqpesgdtJym<klsginKAfKtBm-rlgnAeLofsMfq^frmci
gEavjjrwbKysx!iAvpvwQaaHLee!rAdcneNhsBusx!urakv	rivMtBm-rlcgbxMikxwyd:ulujg
smskvnElaEuBw!gzebvfPhuBIsd/AxfubtxguAyes'lEiqtjrAfKLnx=xK?bCqLopNAmd:nq
tmuwtjrvgsueg@vFjxgeJlhBMyi/fybmgxrpusyxt^iubnnDrkfLCwe#rqahqwrziBJxd=CzffbnF
ztfbrfJloMths;tFsA?eBBtMtfw!ozavjjrpoMywr@rlsginKAfKnex&kltjkuKgntSee-yAadg
uIogfesisHui	!ZtfbefHAjOyev^mutvgwrAixHee$zEacuesggEuld=lldqpAwujxHhi
xqhkuywy.syCg^vFavjfLgjMtnw!tAubvmwgsxAnw:kDaqhesuaBHii[kzegpyrzutNj	

LxbibtxgdHHAi+oqoegeJlhBMyi/f\aCbssAjHHfp!xqhkuywyaHzki/ozhbtjyptMLfx*uzavqes
sqsejfFAaLBnt!tAubqBFlesCsd:nqahnfygtMuyi8f6igbrsqpKtkp@mEaqheuvoOysm^tof
[RPE_esAuKuhx!ytjrueLvaMBjm/fDfikxLlssvDd<oDuwgeGmaEIBd'kqt?bqGDaHL
tAogznKAfGNex@DmukqsrvgsJws'oFt?bfFkaECgi/gxaocsFpoztwi]AusgojFAtntYv;klGQE
xqhkuywytsuwi!itbtchLlsBTjh!hKajcAAuhsLjp@zuwgnDrmfPttj!ztfbumAwtsLjk*yFftgi
gouwcqDFaHQsi%fuobvmwggEuld|zmug}e`ovLneA&oxfbxnJAvtFqC!gzzbhqsnavusd#klvugi
lAsbumAwtsOsh^xlbbinNlosMjx!uraekwuBnLNfr$kE.bcsrMPVtwi"oEugteAzaHHjd>nqsg
ztfbofBvsBNDd=llujgeElsvBfr:frmggyrptsIBr^jlbdttsk?
OFakuesstHtwi'kDsgfeLvatMee+fAqgpeJlhBMyi/a

LxbibxLhuxt]donqapcyAvosCsd>nudjbfrziBJem|fDfikxLlsxxee+jlxjkhzgiHFiw!rqhcn
pGskuiAjuBIsd=BqsbquwybMCtr!uravjjrziBJ	d>nqujgwrhusBtq^fAsbcgJvbwo
JughgwwudxMem+frmcieKAbMyeq@xuukojrsfzCxp@zuppbiwAfKGnr^ftpybfrziBJem|fybppjv
gzebvfPlesush!CtfvjjJgbsztv^oso+qBFlesMmm[fybAbgwgqEuhi%fAobvmwgsxAnw:kD?

OzugtsssaKylm|zqsb+eSgsxAnw:kDaqheKojIMeq@ozuckswkatMee!yGcugyrvgsuer@zuppcq
xqhkuywy?s!mm[ylppbyzlaBHyi/tmmbtjyptMywd'rKavjjrubMCtr@rlgnclrhowtme<klujcy
tmukqsssjMSef;zlbtgeKBcCyhx!zAacbxwwbKuyi!yqubqkrtbKCym_klswnjKggKIrd:nAtgbtF
ztfbofAuaGuym=tmmbtjyptMyw	!Ztfugevpgyywi+iqtbwxMhmESem+ixvfgeDvxxLex@Dmukqs
urarttxpuLneq@tzjpietFayIwi*mzapcyAvotFx{!gze?bzKBbEFD{!uIogtxzpqsIzx|opfbvmw
lxbibxLhuxt=A&kzakvexBovNns+ylbubfFgG8Wev^mutvgw{ba!BjdiuDxginsua2Hyi/tmukqsss
YtjrbWwnjLNjv!gzebFfFptAtNr:kDocvnGubEtXl*vlSginKAfKtfv^fFigbrGzusHtx@hxf
kJborqwzaHzee+fuovgwFhmsLjk*yFft}
HAujbmsCfsvji+fuouvwMtfGNfp!ozauvjEtjGAej-osivbkJvnsNmi!tmukqsssayFfk!zA
lxbiueGmavIsz^tufpejrhowtnr!gFutchLpoztks/kuhp+tOufwtxl*vEavqeLofs8tv>ksjcp
gzebFfFptAtkp@mE?

SqsejfFAaLBnt!/lBbxjKzfEtyl@zldctwAltsAts%ylbicnFzusJfC_kzubqkrmsxCll:?
iAnoqsDFaNMjh!zAafgsGAfsusC!tAookqAAbKSew&oBadwyrhdvOwe:kxzbtjKAsBwyi%fFp
iAnogwupbEtAi|yqmubtFszn

Xqhkuywya tYl^fDfeqwvgpytfd|nuq&ueGDoxLxl*vlbpfeFhuBIse-oFzbcxrsjLNjh!Cuuj
ztfbofJpuBGjd@AFiqtnLpfLttj!gldqwsLyzitfp|ufavjjrjpFJjr%oGnbqkrzvvBem+juwkfzss
ytjru)ryfzCxx/gFjqpxmgSxAnw:xmukqsrvgsuew&oBarttNpexMem:fIjvjesgotNns+gxjvA
gzebofCltsCyd|AnkgeyrApsNmi!rmxubtxguAyeg=AzutAeAuaPBng&fDfikxLlsxxe+:nqahnfy
yFbvg[ryfzuwh-kEtbqkrAixtse:oAocnnLFaHzex&kltjku\zaNFym_gFfbqBFlsn

SAogAexphNLjw2fMmnbfJlaxRuv^yEffbnFgdHHyi_vAscpjGBts#Xd%uxmctxrBoEyxw
uFigtBAzfsCsh*imugf 

TqubonyybMCtr!xmug<e`ofsvfp@tofbdjLDfxHex&klowogwyaHzet^xEppuewuuxLnr"fmof
rqbxksygbswty+zDzbfzJpoztyl^fKfcteHlss&	@E$lqgtxGuts	ge|kpaqpeEpeRyfv
vAqwnfLppG  d?tlfzejKzaHzet^xEppuewuuxLnr"fFigbhGBoMLDd*ylsghjJyfwtys!gEapgy
oynkiwsAjHHe+xa%7bonyybGNx<v *~`buGwvEuym=t><bcsrlyvyxw!urargwKvoLtqi@Buoibyzl
iAvpvwQgbLtsi:fqnkiwsAjHHe+T#g38brAnstHywZ7f~``eHvqNFfx*uz-}

VAqwnfLppGieJ*mGsguesyfsyxx*smuguexypFtyl^fNvtgfMgpytyl^fOfpuzKgctMjh!uz
yFbvkxLpdLtkv=slqqrzDhuBIsd$kztwujKaaOCye-fDfikxLybMCtr!yKtvgrKaaHLew@sBmg
yGsxgDKgqxLye*tuoibyGguAyev^iqovbuszumtfr%fAobcxKBnINns+ylbdqzLggNNzv^fFsgpiKb

ZAucnexlsMCqm:ElscvjggUAyee<kDbigeFBnuywd=lldjkqvyfGtyl@zlxqwqvgcxtgs/tlqgt
CAncpeAmatFqd>uyfpbqACfwtys!ztfbgsvgpytyl^oDaejnDkcxuwm+mlzgcwKgbGxef=xq
itjnfwwuatwhs/juoibyGgbsAnz^tlggtyAsjMSev@zqacvewhdAtfk^a

5qbtu,rHmEtDi@xlsghjJlovyxd@xqahqwrAixthe-kzecteQlbKt=Gt]lvpnjKzaBHim$gFffbfK
lutecqrFftLe+a5>?

TAug<e1ugHLre:oAobhtJguAyeYnfmofbZ~gexJjr%kzdkgxrDbLths_vumgfexypFtre:kDjcn
ozavjjrwvuFng!jAncksrhowtis^yloqveJlqKyxi+zlJpvjDsjzysg^fOpoozFpuRtjw:oybvgxm
ZtfbJfFkcHIpd=llJpvjJubMCtr@rlFeqsGtjvtfr%fQoxkwGunxHye-f5ucvnKAjvM	
vGcnkxzlesusr;gxmAbnFgTxJyi_hqsbdDrAixtHi+zDbnbNFAfEFnk^tofbClwudRneg=tFbkpx
jquckqwkaxwtr=sudbksxvsFuym=tlgqteLofs9wk@tuAcvnGuayIwd iAoqonugDHIui/gFjqp
gzebFjNlmHJri+zl)QGHV/avIzr:xufu?eWhtMywr!KGsqrjlguAyer^CxzbksvlqxHii+z
xqqwdqAjtsIkd:nqahqwElssHfx*uztbqkr6vzIxp@BubbcsvguAyeW=BufvbZFppGnee+j
yqmgeywkaHNmi/fopwpyJpfLoeX&klIcpitvpDthe+fnfbqgLhjGyid>nqsgxjJgUAye1=xxe
LmdvdtGraBMee<gumcdqwb


GBqgpiAEaTi

f6igbZFpuxxeR@zuppue~FtMyr

flabVmwgV7tnw!iAnrqxwkaHzew*DlqtksupqtFes/mmoubfFkaGOri/uGtbuztvswCse:k
gsfpenwzatHid#upjgueszayIqp=CE;

7>aUghJlutLne:

8>aIgswybEtFw|kycnA,
flabbZ6JI`ted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOfpvjJggHLeL;smobUjLAmxGjr:yl)JcgAAbM 
flabbZ6JUTXed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOpphjJlovyes+f6scfjrhowtIi<kxprojFA
flabbZ6KQsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fPfxgqGwnxHydkxAhtcr
flabbZ6LQsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fQoxkwGunxHydkxAhtcr
flabbZ6MQTted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f2prwqsAjHHeJ;tp
flabbZ6OD~ted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f1ghkhwgpytMm"nlDqorAztBIsi/frptbWwmvzyjw
flabbZ6PDXZed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fOikniJlo,MeJ;tp
flabbZ6PUT`ed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fUouvnLBuxtks/f6scksAuhsush!Xqtgcwuo
flabbZ6YXTted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f4fnkjxgbGxe1=xwtbClwudRtks/f2bngxLpox
flabbergasted!XqgwijwzaBHex&klOgcwrLbLN
flabbZ6ZGsted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f5qgenssaYOsh
flabbZ62asted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f7okxjJzjMS
flabb2XJasted!3AsnfeXvpwtHs;tojn
flabb2XWasted!3AsnfeXvpwtUv=mDbo

9>aUghMyjMSeG=Azdkn,
flabbZ6HWX7ed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fMoiqqsgWxLnj*imukqsrTjLMns+
flabbZ6KPYted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fPjugsyhhxGjr:f1cugwNlssZtv$k
flabbZ6MJV'Ud!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fRptejrposWDt/AE
flabbZ6PG26ed!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fUovgwAtaYIwg^fuobNjthoHH
flabbZ6PJ69Ld!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fUscp]1ybJtRm-oFbtAe7itxLAi/fSsqwu
flabbZ6TPZ3Ud!1zjvgirUbMCtr|fYjnkysyzs9gw^xHftbLJvvItnr!Ozekcesue
flabbergasted!Vmlkuysu
flabbZ61T8ted!1zjvgirUbMCtr|f6swejrZvIywz*yuppbTJnbGCEe:oAo

0>aGetFvnBwee+jlTqenssaVIzr$oxa-GH7ZPV ,
flabbXHldBuqm.kpacijFjjxM
flabberMB8ted!flGqqirhowtFk/oovnvzJla8Lle+oLbvktFgpytyl^f7okvjvgOtNns+y
flabberPC~Xed!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlCcpprmpKtWi$uztvtzuAjHHee+jlEgxjDvqFysx
flabberPDT9ed!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlDkxnDgBOCfx*uzaQtlsujSuym=t
flabberPETted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlEgxjDvqFysx!GEtqensAjHH
flabberPGTXed!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlGwpirmpKtFk/oovnvzJhmsXjz^rAqogsL
flabberPGVted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlGkpfFjfsWtv[uDbvktF
flabberPM8ted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlMcdtJgPKAfr*Fmukqs
flabberPNYted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlNqpjLhsRtKy+j
flabberPN8ted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlNctnLpnxtTv"gzjBcyAvo
flabberPU@ted!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlUgnjuvnFOsm$gFjqpe!ujHH
flabber2OX!HS!flVpkywka7uym=tEaGfzuhuBIse- lTekjFAjyCh{!gzebEzDAvKuq
flabbergasted!flPtifFpAtNns+
flabber2O2XTd!flVpkywka7uym=tEaKpiMzuKCfp!JqwgntHtfGNeS/mmokBfLppG
flabber2Q@ted!flVpkAwyttFeT=yFbnbZFppG
flabber4I8ted!flXqtqvgIxuqx&f1sicsAGbMCtr
flabber4J99ed!flXqtqvgJGNjp-kouwcqrWsHJjv:ElPtifFpAtNns+
flabber4N8ted!flXqtqvgNxNjs/uxpikhssa8Lle+oLbvktF
flabbergasted!flSgnfLlesIwk@tuAcvnGut
flabberNB!@ed!flHgpjJhmsUlv^kyfpveGua!uwm'lEacpir1stxj
flabberPBXUed!flJpvjJubMCtr@rlBvqrAjaXHjv"ElBigsuF
flabbWwnjHHfp!iAnokxKppGM
flabberLDTted!flFeqsGtjvtHs_sutuktFggHLeE'xudc
flabberLDXted!flFeqsGtjvtHs_sutuktFggHLeI;xAqg
flabberLD5UHd!flFeqsGtjvtHs_sutuktFggHLeP@zuobCrwyjvuee+jlujgeUhsBvgi@t
flabberLTVUUd!flFeqsGtjvtfr%f5pekfDgDHGrm|yuppbkGyaTMne!gzebvmwgQtwnj*i
flabberLTV%Fd!flFeqsGtjvtfr%f5pekfDgDHGrm|yuppbkGya$yxx^xzaCuns
flabbKMudMCtr@rldqorAztBIsw
flabberJpFGnw|oAobqsrOvFusdmosivu
flabberJpFGnw|oAobqsrUbKwtx*ilEtwlK
flabberJpFGnw|oAobhtJgTHwne-fPfxgqGwnxHy
flabberJpFGnw|oAobqsrAixtXx@zGtbqkr4pFys
flabberWpIOqe:oAobEtEtjLMns+
flabberZutNnw:oobnbHGtnBMxm=t

~>aVtzKAfxMmm[fOpwphAs

`>aKpywyotNns+gxaEqzJAaHzeN;yFjege}PD3 

GBqgpiAEaU

GnctgAAhuBIsw!lAsbKsLlsGuym=tmmbQwyhoBTfx*uztbcsvgHKIzt|

GNFFCergaTLff!HmombkGyaXwtr=sudbFjNlmHJri+zljpbFxyjvu
GODbbergaTLff!IAprgwsAjHHeG=Azdkn
GODVbergaTAjr$ElgqteUBmMOwe-fmofbYwjiGChe-fOpqrjJhuBIs
GOQbbergaTzwm$gz.bEfJpcuyfr7fmofbUsjjyChd{uGovtnwz
GrEDbergaTzwm$gzaFgAwspIGjr:fNbpm
GRFUFergaTLff!LGofbkGyaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fPfxgqGwnxHy
GSabbergaTHii@tlHtqzH
GXabbergaTLff!Rqbiwj
GXBFKergaTMtg*gojqpe4huBHte_kDjecssgextNr:ksscenGu<sMji!Rmukp
flabbergaTGjv*imobKsLlhKuym=tlBuutupbMCtr![XBKC[
GYGbbergaTLff!SAogvfJFaYOsh
GYVbbergaTLff!SmhjtjtgVGCtr
GZ1WUergaTOxx/gxjc+SwDa'yfp@tp_WpnLles!ye:kEaUghMyjMSeX/kmuA
G2FEbergaTMne!VmdkhnugFvIss_ooaEqtHlstNns+
GEEDbergaTMne+fPfxgqGwnxHyd}gzl
G5FCPergaTMxs$omukqsrvgs!ty:nqbuveSzjtHeR@zuppu

HMEbbergaUusu;klBhtnuhjGyeh^fPfxgqGwqxGjr:?
flabbergaLyjd?lDjecsrKfOyqs[sqovbGsuls	Fj	H>
HMEGCergaUusu;klBtcgwgextIi<kxprrjEloMtJg=tAnkszwgfGtFj/oCvg>
flabbergaLyjd?xmcbDfFrayIwd iAoqonugExPjp=vyfpveAuaTzwm$gl)CDJVH-
HOJGbergaUusg=fOfpvwGhnxLng@tAafge1uuxAwe$oAobGhGupFChs3fEfgbHwuuKuq
flabbergaTGjv*imobDfFrayIwd iAoqonugJGNjk/gFjqpe}ID2Y[
HPFCEergaUusu;klegbIwCfEIut_kzubfjKgFMuyw!jqan&FxyjJOjd{kzutcqw}aLyj
flabbergaVysx/gxaChwAjbGtXx@zqtbFjNlmHJri+zlCcppr]CWYFGS
HqognzPgaUysi-AJaGetFvnBweY+oAo
HUEbbergaUusg=fUovgwstfKChe+ulegbIwzbKPtp-ubaugjrPoMyw[?sqskefF
flabbergaWyAi-uBngpyrIbGEe+dGPC_
HUTbbergaUuso!lAsbKsLlsGuym=tmmbUjLAmxGjr:y
H1BFbergaUusu;klPwgxL|ByLng@ozfbfjrKfOyqs[vqngpyhgtxye1^yFaChwAjbG
flabbergaWyAi-uBngpyrIbGEe+rGPC_

IlabbergaVIrq=tIfcnyz
IMDObergaVysx/gxaCojJpdtHeG=syppbRsylxN
IMFWbergaVIzr$oxaqheSybutJg=tAnkee!ujMS
IMSKET5gaVuwm#hqbpbHGtnNHnx,fmofbHGtnHHeQ@xwfv
IODbbergaVOxx=sEaEqtHlstNns+fOpwphAs
IPCbbergaVuwm#hqbpbIwCfEIuq^tFaDcsC
IQabbergaVIzr$oxaqheWBsHJj
IQBQbergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgeD_ByLnu;klegbq\VvxMy,!yqfbYjKA
flabbergaTzwm$gzaGetFvnBweG=syvpkyQg)VYFSS
IQFCEergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgxrLutNxd%klm&CkJprNyeG^tFscnjhgtxy
flabbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtvGCyC!uraEgsLybEtFj/oobpbXLhuxMe+{KQBE_
IQNCbergaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoeg.rhmLIeo+uIobcxrJNXUes/
flabbergaVIri$uz<bcgGsjLBjh!7lKcpzsyzs&@!v
IQQINergaVIrq;tmvvgeWjpGIrm]AqafgxrWbRMeh^ylHtcsvza5uhw3fEfgbJuvoHGng
flabbergaVIrq;tuuAbtxguAyeK/kmubNfCltsWty+zDjgue}JF91Q=
IQSPbergaVIsw^oxaGwwGwfxHet=ADance0ldAywg&klOweqwhjKy.d|kqaGwwGwftH
flabberga8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeR;ixfcte0ltxuwg&f<DGTS{
ISabbergaVIsx@jAscbLJvvI
IUTbbergaVIrq=tIfcnyzgpytNr%kBfpfjFAa`Nfx^y
IYFCbergaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoege}JF6U[,!gxtqbpFvxGtfw
flabbergaVIri$uz<bcgGsjLBjh!7lKcpzsyzs&@!v
I1DQOergaVItv%ozbvksygDHGrm:zqfbqsrLyIIwx!IAovttDz
IAngetFgaVIzr$oxahqwrTvMOfp!KoppqrAjaTMxm|zmoege}JF6U[,!gxtqbpFvxGtfw
flabbergaV7JE3fmcqnnKofwt6degzvctDr80=&
I2abbergaVIqs_hAaRnfF
I5DGbergaVIsj^xqoegeGua`yhy/oFzbcsvgDHIui/gFjqpeAuaXOws[k

JOabbergawyAi-uBffbhGBoMLD

KMEDbergaXuxx!GrskefFgExPjp=vyfpveThoD
KNSFbergaXOws[kmobDfFrayIwdmkoppuyJBdMCtr!gzebFjNlmHJri+z
KOabbergaXOws[kmobEtEtvGCyC
KOBbbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbFxyjvu
KOBHGergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbFKpbsush!ztfbHfJgFtMy,!yqfbGhGupFChd@tp
flabberga`Ihm@rlDqorAztBIsd'uDaCunsgbGxex&klQcenxpds	JW{G2-
KOFbbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbJMypIy
KOMCbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbQsAjGtFq^xudc>eKlfsYhs+uyjebHGtnBMxm=t
flabbergayIwdggFjpbFElsBwfd@tpavjjrJbKCgf^gza-GH4HD	
KOMCEergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptbQsAjGtFq^xudcbfFkaMBjd{gDjddjsu
KOPUQHrgaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpwphAs
KOPYCXrgaXwtr=sudbEtEtvGCyC!uraYgxLgByLng@tlTvcywz
KOXCbergaXwtr=sudbEtEtjLMns+frptb2wzuxLsd?yub>bxwlaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-
flabbergaVIrq*yEjqpexvss%jw:kDobCxAha{YXGrG>
KRUCbergaXOws[kmobHwwla!Lfh^fMtuqhAhuBIs
KUCbbergaXOws[kmobKsNltMGjr:fNbpm
KzugpywgaVIzr$oxaqheLofsYsx^tFf
K5BbbergaXOws[kmobUusjfsUli+iK
K5DCRergaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpoonKzjHHej=xlBukfrhowtyl^f2bekkAj
K5DYCergaXwtr=sudbcsvgTHwne-fOpoonKzjHHej=xlXguywyosUxm@

LMPbbergaYIth!gzebClJpdNFyy/klPtifFpAtNns+
LXTbbergaYLtr:fXjpge~AbMyx
L`abbergaYLfr$f`ppg

M\3bbergaZLty[fAgb4
M\4bbergaZLty[fAgb5
M\6bbergaZLty[fAgb7
M\7bbergaZLty[fAgb8e}upMtys!hqaeqsxBtxxeA*ztavjjrIjztXm\]
M\8bbergaZLty[fAgb9
M\9bbergaZLty[fAgb0
M\0bbergaZLty[fAgb~
M\2`bergaZLty[fAgb3#
M\23bergaZLty[fAgb36
M\27bergaZLty[fAgb30
M\2~bergaZLty[fAgb3@
M\36bergaZLty[fAgb49
M\4`bergaZLty[fAgb5#
M\45bergaZLty[fAgb58
M\89bergaZLty[fAgb9`
MMUVbergaZysi/gxaCiwwlnxHyd=tlUctnxmtsush!ZDbfg
MODbbergaZOqj!IAprgwsAjHHeG=Azdkn

NmckvfLgaLyjdptuugfe6huBIsw!IqovgwrmpKtMy_gzaUgyLsfFysx|f<VPEM~/
NSabberga1yCe"uzbnbLJvvI

OMEDberga2Hyi//MngtnuhosXjz^rAqogsLgCtHp
OMFCberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaTNtq*ilFpgwyFaTAjr$E
ONFEberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaUuso!lAsbGhGupFChd{uAqgtfLppG
ONSFberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaUuso!lAsbTjuvoLNwy$zuppbfFkaWyAi-uBngpy
OOBQberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaVCAm-fMwkcyAvos9wk@tuAcvnGu
OODbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaVBfq#kDaqheUvnFywg^
OOFOberga2Hyi/mAwgtsEloMuqd{uynkvywlayIwd ADprgfFgNBAwe:oAo>bxwl
flabberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeQ*mDbvktFg)29R=
OOGVWerga2Hyi/tmukqsssaVIsj^jqscvnGuaHzeJ/kqaVtfvla@Hns+y
OOKbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaVIzv:fAgbLzKAjvy
OONbberga2Hyi/mAwgtsEloMuqd{uynkvywlayIwdhosscvnGu<sMji
flabberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeQ*mDbvktFg)29R=
OOSEberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaVIrq*zFfgbtxguAyeV^jlDtqxK
OPBbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaWyAi-uBngpyrHtLIhm@zupp
OPCbberga2Mqe_ooaFgAwspIGjr:fNbpm
OQBbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaXHjv"ElBigsuF
ORBFberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaYOsh!lAsbClJpdNFyy/gxaFgAwspIGjr:
ORDbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssaYCse+iqaEqwHvstNns+
OSBFFerga2Hyi//SpxgwFtfGNfp!GGujqwAAzsIsd	xAvijyrhowtIi<kxprojFA
OUCbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa2HAi|zyfpveThoD
OXPbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa5ugs/f1sicsAGbMCtr
OYDQberga2Hyi/mAwgtsEloMuqdhgDjvkrwgDHHxy-zmukxjrVszusm.gFjqp.rzfx
flabberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa6uwm:oyfbQwyhoBTfx*uza-KR7/
OYGbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa6Isi:gDzbHzFk
OYPbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa6uwm:oyfbQwyhoBTfx*uz
OZNCTXS1a2Hyi/tmukqsssa6uwm:oyfbUfLlmECyi!UDhcpnRhuBIs
OZUGNXS1a2Hyi/tmukqsssa!yqi$uynwpnuhuBIsw!YmugnqAAfs9wk@tuAcvnGu
OZUGTU7Sa2Hyi/tmukqsssaVLnq*tmmbRtDpdxtTv"gzjBcyAvo
O1Dbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa8FDq[ooaEqrEpuMyj
O1Nbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeQ*mDbvktF
O5Pbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeW:gzectiAGbMCtr
O6Vbberga2Hyi/tmukqsssa!yqi$uynwpnuhuBIsdptupp

RMFUberga5uym+fMngtnuhosYhs+uyjebXQzuxG
RMJCberga5uym+fMngtnuhos3sx^mDbvktFgBLMtg*gFjqp
RMTbberga5yfk;klphbFJhcs!ye:kE<bujwgBKugdgkmhwge}HM	
RPDbbergaEyxw!jqwgntHleswty+zDz
RXEEbergaEyfw:fpfxgqGwfwths;tFsA
R1SEUerga5yfk;klphbWwkaVLtw|fmofbWwkaVLjw$kzubUtupfMCjw

SQSEQX!Ya`Izx&kDobEtFlaVIrq=tlNctpwA
S6DTberga6Cxw*rqaVghzupEIlC!IAovttDgSxAnq^

TMDEberga7Iwx&fMuncsLpdsWts[kDbvktFgDHOsg*r
TMNbberga7Ise-osogfe5vwxGjr:
TMUQberga7Iwx&fMuncsLpds@wi@zKaQtlsujSuym=t
TOabberga7Iwh*ilDqwsupm
TQBbberga7Ohp^gDaGpjJnzsUli+iK
TUCbberga7Iwh*ilJpxjKAnxHyd}gzl
TUDbbergaGyBp,fuofwxLyjtFnD*tsaeqzFAsRjew^klogyqQgjGxzw:xubnkEAuh
flabbergaxwtr=sKa-PNW/
TUFbbergaGyBp,fuofwxLyjtFnD*tsagetFvnR
T5Hbberga7Ohp^gDaUwuHsjxLxdbxAvr

UMQGEerga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytFv@hlQgvwGsfNGeI\vAsvksygDHOsx/oqt
UMTbberga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytFq^xudcpe~AbMyx
UMVbberga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytFj/oobpbZFpuR
UQDFberga8Lle+oLbvktFggHLeI$uzpokhrJpHJjv@zuppbfFkaWyAi-uBngpy
UQDUberga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytJe|zqspbHsyjuvje+f5ucvjK
UUDbberga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytyl^fUtncrAjaVIsj^xqoeg
U2BPCQrgaTAjr$ElgqteLofs0ws&onjvktFgpytSy$rqbtb2whqHHxd*tlMcvnFgBFywm$g
flabbergatHid:nqaEcwAicxus
U2FEberga8Lle+oLbvktFgpytUi:xAmgwrrLyIIwx*tsaEqzFAsByx

VOBbberga9ywq@tqovbHGBsMttj!GDckvwsAjHH

XSabberga~CtdbxAvr

YMBTEerga`Izx&fMtkcsrHtLIhm@zuppbkGya~ylm=tmmbEtGwfKuym=t
YMDWberga`Izx&kDobCkJpdtHeG;yFpoue!ujHH
YMEEEerga`Izx&kDobCkJpdtHeH^BqmqrrwuusWts/juocvnGuaVIsj^xqoeg
YQMCberga`Cxx^smaGetFvnBwtdggFjpqfElsBwfr@?ltgge4huBHeE_kDjecsrLdHHtq*i
flabberga`Sxx^sl)NCJ~/
Y2Dbberga`Izx&f2bekkAjaVIrq*yEjqp
Y2Gbberga`Izx&f2bekkAjaYIwy_

1PFCEerga@Hns+fPpwcsAlsxtjx!KoppqrAxvxtii!r/BhtnIBfsWjr:xmmg>eKlf
flabbergaVysx/gxaChwAjbGtHy|zAnubfFkaXwtr=sudbWsAvos	ZH GO-
1Zabberga@Hnx^jlOcvnGut
1ZBXGRrga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsUsk=rmaXgwAmjvuym=tlNkuxAvo
1ZDJUerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGubEtHi+zqsbhtJgINGfr!YquvnjEloMMe+@rEp
flabbergaDHtA+fmtbJftputN[
1ZDVCIrga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsWtr'kDfpejrvos@we%klbpfeVlwxFtt_kzu
1ZEQHerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsXnw^tsbigrwuus9gw^xHftbKGydx
1ZERberga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsXjz^rAqogsLgQKIlv@s
1ZFRberga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsYsz*xAoogsLgQKIlv@s
1ZFUETrga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsYiy$gFjqpfDaa`wni+zugke	rhowtHy-zGscn
flabberga8Lle+oLbvktF
1ZGKE48ga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsZtv$kljpbHQwsNM
1ZGRCerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsZzr%frptbUGwvEuym=tlBevnNpuByx,!yqfbWSrWpIOqe:oAo
flabbergaYOsh![7OHRF{
1ZIETerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts9kj*iqaqheLofs2nk&fOpoonKzjHHjv!lAsbTjxBhxyx
1ZJEGKrga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts3sx^xzbvktFhmsWmm-jDfp&xrLnxLli+iKaHwsv}aLyj
flabberga@Hnx^jlOcvnGutsWmm-jDfp&xrMvGxe+pTUDGH[
1ZJFQerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts3sh;yFskcqrKfOyqs[sqovbTJnbGCEe:oAo
1ZJHKQrga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts3sx^xunbHtJjfsCsdgknbpqs
1ZJKOTYga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts3we+/Uscse5pmBNfv,f1cugwNlss1ws;v
1ZNQIN8ga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts7np*zmsAbTtzfKPjv!MDpwreAua2Him@fmofbUsrjLNfr
1ZSYCerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts`jp*kracpir4pKExd?mqoeAexvss0fp^yFjpge0lgNAji|
flabbergaBHex&klOgcwrLbLN
1ZUUQerga@Hnx^jlOcvnGuts@wy$klTwrjJCjLCtr!UDhcpnRhuBIs
12Vbberga@Hnz^xEbnbUGzutFeY+oAo
15TT:JWga@!XVZKmtvgwFgFNLtt^

3MEDberga$yxx!GrskefFgExPjp=vyfpveThoD
3OMbberga$Iwp%fOpphjvlstNns+fAgbNftvs
3QVbberga$yxx^xzaGwwGwftHeY+oAo
3RDbberga$Iwp%fRpqfeUvvGwnp
3RQbberga$Iwp%fRpqfe8ypzLfq
3RUWberga$Iwp%fRffgwsAjHHes'f6scfjr2oBIsw
3TPbberga$Iwp%fTfcnyzgPKAfr*Fmukqs
3UQQberga$Iwp%fUovgqDldMOfp!VDprgwLFa8Lle+oLbvktF
3YPbberga$Iwp%fYfvgtJvmHAng@rlPtifFpAtNns+
32abberga$uww@ClQceyr]nxGgi/ylngve'gKNFDdv#&2bvtrkjLMtp<klujgessmBusg^]
36Pbberga$Iwp%f6pwtnKta8Lle+oLbvktF

6Oabberga'usk"kDaEqrEpuMyj

tAug<eFvusuqp!ozugtssAjHHfp!uDhcpnRhuBIsw!gzebiwGBqLtme<klbddwwCjtNns+y

GBqgpiAEaVi

OzugtssAjHHfp!UDhcpnRhuBIsw!gzebIwGBqL


=;())+?[(}

gpwcphwkawyAi-uBjpieuvvGNwm^y

TAugb]rhoHNmi/fFftoexvssNms|klmguxrkfOyqs[kpaeqzFAsByxdRRPDu_
CuujbusyuBwzp@xxzbtfHpesCsh;yFskcqrkfOyqs[sqov>eKlfsHjA-E
ozewuyJpbECEm+mlfeqsGtjxMe+iOQt_

=;())+?[(}

GrskefFaaVuwm#hqbp?esues0fg*ludbEtMuuKCjw![MDR_

kEucdqAzixxe[!7lBrtnDg2=+~

gunb+eElnuyww!nmwgbfrwsxzjv^tFjcnewjpGIrm$fmofbfAkaKyqe:oAoujnH
CuujbyzlaXW

sqndgwKg_s	~!SfMoiqqsaaTHym"AmacpirIbKvzh@ lUjgeThitGfw7
HmsdciGz.sVjp*Fq.bDjFpomtGs|Cmoc?eTBsDCse7fNvtwsvp.sWfq^xApp?
Imqgb1wyexneG^tFscneSmsBwfr!XqqwdqAj.sWme% lDqotJvtmtHs+mA.
JvjdqzLp.sXtq*tudc?eVvnBHng@tlSgrztsjvneI]AmuqtnssaZOnr^gf
KFikquAh.sZnn* lHcdtFaa!Bjdbgyckc	rNitHf{!MDfpcisaaZOnr^gf
MGjpgf	IjLMfy7fSvAcssaa1unx* lJxqwQgDHuxx7fVbocnuh.s5jr,gf
QuskdfLp.s6jw=ztp?bQAifKCf{!SmecifKjbKneQ@rmxk?e5hmBneQ@ADjvcsAh.
SmvtkyABtmtRs.gyckszwaa7urm#om.bPnylsmtSm"kDjc?e8hqNueR^ClHwkswh.
XIbpfflgTtCsx!Quuvuesues8jz*yfaUcnFAa5Ohm@ lTcksLgWBHhi+zlbpfeLof
MDfpciAufLneW@ulUqojrhowtUv*tojrg	rZfGyle- lTgAhzlmEyx{!Yufttf
Rqppg	rZpEIrs+fUtncsvz.s!tq@rub?bXMkbGneW;xuocojlgTPuEm-gze?
ZmoBcsAh.s@tk= lUqplsaa!Lnr*jmebcsvgUHvfk= lUwxfDB.s#le+jm.
2mowcyMaa$yxx^xzaUcrGh.s"fm/kfa2crtpbmt5m_hmcyg

=;())+?[(}

GrskefFgExPjp=vyfpveThoDt=E'JN-?bfDzpsEss>tlbubGsurNyeE'xudcksw
jqaFgAwspIJjq^tFa-DFV/

kEucdqAzixxe[!0lBwizKAa"[~7

gunb+eLvaILtq=zqagetFvnBwee+jltqenssawyAi-uBngpy

xqhkqsssaFyrf^xEa+b=(8-sUqk^xub?bFFnpEu	d}kzjp?eTvuLQfr@ 
HGsmkssaaUOwy+ju.bEfElsHIs{!Imqgb1wyexneG^tFscneSmsBwfr!XqqwdqAj.
Itbf?eUvnHLtw7fOppitlgECCgs;zu.bGlQwumtJu;gFptkfDgHNCsi@ 
KFikquAh.s1ff=tfaVjjrNbFvne7fSicpflgHNCsi@ lHwkswh_UCxw@AfaKxtJF
IAbuv	rRfGSf{!RqtqvmGaa5Cgi/om.bNntFbmtRe%gsbuefJaa6uqe>ofaOcqAa
SmvtkysujtneQ@ADjvkzKaa6Iws$iA.bOtRhnuCvy^ lOcontpbmtSm"kD.
Tuhgtnsaa~Qfr%gfaUctr1pFyee+jlQtksupqxneW^tqhcn	rZfRwmi-rqt?
YufttfrSfHHj{!YAncnnsaa`Oie+ lTycEAsbGx	dogzAcpnsaa!Ils7f6vpkxAh.
1sbpfflg1tCwi7f`bodnsaa'Crf@hIf

tAotglAvotFeq^snftue	g)&-[d?xsfpvnFh.sUzw:xmmkc	rHvLNwm@ 
HqmikzEaaULfD*rfaEcsskbmtHl*tm.bFjFtbKE	daozmcpilgGKusg^ 
MqsocsQaa2Him@ lJvcqQaa3uue+ lTqwyzgLHLje7fWvycnLaa7yyl^xxbpfxl
TAsycDlgQHLyy"gx.bUfMkjsUwe#om.bUBwkfGneW>oFAgtqsuemtZO7f7T?
5GhquqsCjt

=;())+?[(}

GsfpejrkfsWts[kDbvktFgDNFyy/kxmgbjLgUxwmr*wGfb-FUJU	

TAugb]rzfxtFk^tozbhtJgDNFyy/gxacpir1fvBsm$gxaEqtHlstNns+f<BEEY{

=;())+?[(}

GsfpeDrmpKtHy-zGscnesues@jg&tudcneUvpIywe:oAob-FUJU	

TAugb]rhdKIsC_frsqoeSnfGwjd%klDqquwybMCtr!IGmvwwwsmxtjx!ZqdjpnIBf

kEucdqAzixxe[!8!aOcwuoa"[`@

gunb+eLvaILtq=zqaewqLBstFee+jlugemFpdtFeg=uBftcyAvosurs+mlGtgsuo_
yBfcmnFnavIzr:xufu

sqndgwKg_s	86SfNfninMt.sVjr*tfaDwwCpotneF;xGofk	rJbGuie7fOfpvwss
GrskefFgSxJzf-oo.bEmsk.sWtq=xAt?bHGuhHneH(onpwvnlgEHGnr*im.
LDbpejlgHtvtr7fSvkpjsaa1unx* lJxqwQgDHuxx7fXfdcsGu.s6zB^snpwtll
SmecifKjbKneQ@ru.bOfMyjMCzw7fYppchGaa7Cli/ lSycsvh.s!fs!ZAngbfFk
VDjpenHl.s!jr^mmm?bXwFdAyqp^yfaVqlGaa!Osm|om.bXfFBbMO	dqoqupcrl
6mjtg

gEtqensAfsGjq#kDtb+e}@-sWfq^xApp?eWnzIN	dbAuogc]TptLuz{!Rmpu?
SmvtkysujtneQ=xAdeq	rZbBHydgAojc

vmsvkhAwbMCsk!mAwgtsEloMMe[![@-bPjOgCKOsw>oolb-Hsubwu[{!WGfdgh
[Obpcis/

=;())+?[(}

GsfpeDrmpKtyl^f2sqjntpuBIsd=llOweqwhss%je[uztbksrSbMCsd?sqskef
gzebvmwgDtLnf#kmob-T8HOT6[

TAugb]rhdKIsC_frsqoe7yhtHnw_ulqctfrsbs0ws|iDjrenGuawyep@ylBtofK
TGdngfJltsysd-glBogwAjbs6fx*tmaAbjDgDtLnf^f<PRCSSS-

kEucdqAzixxe[!7$aHggJBbKSe5D`'

gunb+eLvaxHhs;xmhgbyzlaIyfg^lGmbwxwzaHzee:uyjebjFlszSee+j
vDpjkgAAaGOhp^gDaygfHvoL

sqndgwKg_s	78SfMovklMhatHid}gDcwfflgUAyeF@nmncu	rIbKvfh=yf
HAmkxnsaaVBnp^ lDqntEijtneG=yFbbTnuh.sXtq*tudcpe0lqNvqm$ 
KovcftJaaXFeW@rHbfqwlgHKyse%gfaIwfLlntFf{!Nmjvk	rOpGxzv@yf
Pmnckhsaa6yCm$ufaPkhsybzOf{!VmocoflgQtLfk;gK.bRjJB.s!zv*tmng?
ZDjpkiskatHidounbiq	r2sNAze, lWgpjRBfEu

=;())+?[(}
