then!--Bill's to go down--Here, Bill! the master says you're to
go down the chimney!'

  `Oh! So Bill's got to come down the chimney, has he?' said
Alice to herself.  `Shy, they seem to put everything upon Bill!
I wouldn't be in Bill's place for a good deal:  this fireplace is
narrow, to be sure; but I THINK I can kick a little!'

  She drew her foot as far down the chimney as she could, and
waited till she heard a little animal (she couldn't guess of what
sort it was) scratching and scrambling about in the chimney close
above her:  then, saying to herself `This is Bill,' she gave one
sharp kick, and waited to see what would happen next.

  The first thing she heard was a general chorus of `There goes
Bill!' then the Rabbit's voice along--`Catch him, you by the
hedge!' then silence, and then another confusion of voices--`Hold
up his head--Brandy now--Don't choke him--How was it, old fellow?
What happened to you?  Tell us all about it!'

  Last came a little feeble, squeaking voice, (`That's Bill,'
thought Alice,) `Well, I hardly know--No more, thank ye; I'm
better now--but I'm a deal too flustered to tell you--all I know
is, something comes at me like a Jack-in-the-box, and up I goes
like a sky-rocket!'

  `So you did, old fellow!' said the others.

  `We must burn the house down!' said the Rabbit's voice; and
Alice called out as loud as she could, `If you do.  I'll set
Dinah at you!'

  There was a dead silence instantly, and Alice thought to
herself, `I wonder what they WILL do next!  If they had any
sense, they'd take the roof off.'  After a minute or two, they
began moving about again, and Alice heard the Rabbit say, `A
barrowful will do, to begin with.'

  `A barrowful of WHAT?' thought Alice; but she had not long to
doubt, for the next moment a shower of little pebbles came
rattling in at the window, and some of them hit her in the face.
`I'll put a stop to this,' she said to herself, and shouted out,
`You'd better not do that again!' which produced another dead
silence.

  Alice noticed with some surprise that the pebbles were all
turning into little cakes as they lay on the floor, and a bright
idea came into her head.  `If I eat one of these cakes,' she
thought, `it's sure to make SOME change in my size; and as it
can't possibly make me larger, it must make me smaller, I
suppose.'

  So she swallowed one of the cakes, and was delighted to find
that she began shrinking directly.  As soon as she was small
enough to get through the door, she ran out of the house, and
found quite a crowd of little animals and birds waiting outside.
The poor little Lizard, Bill, was in the middle, being held up by
two guinea-pigs, who were giving it something out of a bottle.
They all made a rush at Alice the moment she appeared; but she
ran off as hard as she could, and soon found herself safe in a
thick wood.

  `The first thing I've got to do,' said Alice to herself, as she
wandered about in the wood, `is to grow to my right size again;
and the second thing is to find my way into that lovely garden.
I think that will be the best plan.'

  It sounded an excellent plan, no doubt, and very neatly and
simply arranged; the only difficulty was, that she had not the
smallest idea how to set about it; and while she was peering
about anxiously among the trees, a little sharp bark just over
her head made her look up in a great hurry.

  An enormous puppy was looking down at her with large round
eyes, and feebly stretching out one paw, trying to touch her.
`Poor little thing!' said Alice, in a coaxing tone, and she tried
hard to whistle to it; but she was terribly frightened all the
time at the thought that it might be hungry, in which case it
would be very likely to eat her up in spite of all her coaxing.

  Hardly knowing what she did, she picked up a little bit of
stick, and held it out to the puppy; whereupon the puppy jumped
into the air off all its feet at once, with a yelp of delight,
and rushed at the stick, and made believe to worry it; then Alice
dodged behind a great thistle, to keep herself from being run
over; and the moment she appeared on the other side, the puppy
made another rush at the stick, and tumbled head over heels in
its hurry to get hold of it; then Alice, thinking it was very
like having a game of play with a cart-horse, and expecting every
moment to be trampled under its feet, ran round the thistle
again; then the puppy began a series of short charges at the
stick,	ryvGHnr"fmaxgwQgmBNyp^fIbAbkGyxtLiw!kmdjbyAtfsush!glmqpl
Cmzbdfur.sush!hmsmksygiHuww^rKacnqrAixtBl*rq.bvnDsatNep@yFakveKhu
jAxpbfrnpHxeA@Elphh	rwbGNnr" lxkvmrpuLtys+mGfbjfFnjGAes;zlphbnLz
sAvvj	rhowtnx|fssgcyrlzxMel@rraujzLb

flUjkxrzfxGjh!zAaCnnulattls=jlprrtJAvGCyC!lAsbofCpoztmi/fqtecuw}
yAaujjrzfMttj'fmubqsul.sush!xmobvnDsaLBjd>gEaswnLlaMCwi%fmofbtMA
uradtjsAimtfr%fFjnneLofsJzt[E/tbdfJraLIzr%kpaswnLlayunr:fuobvmw
jutvcsul?

fl!CpirFfMtBl@zlbbfjsyaECyx-klqwruQgjMtBe|'/aucnvgBEChi7fmtbumw
rqbpvesnbBHxx!glcwvywydNJex=fDfuvezlsLyqj7fmofbksuoxxel^xEfnh
CuujbtFlaHzex&klmgcAwz;st%M!ytpwnirobOyep*qqebvjsjiBHld*zlutkhCz
BqsAbrMjimtnjT/ugbK)vgpGFDd#kqobvmwgsBAmx!yuAgbyGgeHtnxHflPj
jqbt#erP"wtsi@xxzbhtJnpMNjr!ztbvbN\CfsAtx!zAaittOgvItfk@oz@bbQwA
sqaugj	|iHQeMnfuubvtrifsGfr@mqe{be1gtNJus|klJbqzyousNtd^gFaqt
jDjpmeKvnxNmm+mlptbtLofKjef;zlujgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrptmtBl@zh"

flUjgeyyftNeu;kEukqsrjfKNfm+rKaycxlgxAuy !fMmkejrspHEjh!gxmbttMue
nqsbcyrAixtkp=CqsubfFkaMBjd#rmegueGmazLfw| lcwveKofsxnh!tAubujw
gzzvjnFnaMBfx!rApmgirsjDyex&klskimLguACsk!zAagcyrvssxwm+qlvpfjJ
ztfbenJjvFMye+iqt}be`ofKyeA@ylbbnfJnfsGzw&xApoblJvxBHld+kmsbjjJa
gnpwveLofsMfq^ftfkimLgbLtmi/yqmh>esuesQmi+fEigbmskaEIto^jlvpfjJ
oF.bcsvgpGtgs:nltkfjKgpytnx7fmofbgwojGxem: ljvbtujvKLjh!zAajgw
ztbvbxzlaFCll:fmtbyjDsaEIto!gzebujwgxAuyd>gEaqpeLofsNtt!urakv 

flTjgeKAsxNhl^jligtxwsgsOud=tlukryGl.sush!vqfrgirvwxLex&klffijrvg
ztfbozKosHIr{!gzebjjJgfRyxd*syffkfLlmRtri:fFiqujrvgsuep@xsf
imugtuAsmtL	d:nmubyfKgtBNym+mlppbyzlaMIud>oFibkyKgbKGxd'uxegf	
wGjgvqQgtFIpm+mlbbntFnaAIto@nfacpirAbDCsk!tAubvmwgtFuqp^yFapqyAjf
urajgwrvssIkd@tKujksygfEMj	



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gW

flabbergasted!flabbeSkwBwjd'xAnbceUhuxLum-rms


flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbcsvgBEChi!rApmgirhusyfg&fAujgwrmpKtxs_klukojrpo
yumgphw?asuyd-gEubvmwgDtNjv[oxmcteLvpDtyl^ftpqmfzgpNNes'fuuu
sAvvj	rhowtfh%xqtugirofKtnr!glmcplMpemtxp^kBzbxtAjfn

fl!Yjtrhsxt4Spb/aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

flUjkxrDbLtss:fmobgsuvvKulm+mlprgsAuhsztv!gldqpAwyttNns+alaCnnul
xqqnkjvaaKuyl^xltjAqQaa/3][dftbtfqQglGIB{!yus?boMzusuyd[xqtgpy	|
gFangfKAa2tpr=Clxjqe1gXT!eA&kzaKblGAaNJex&oEaoqwFpoznef;zlJbvmAul
OlnwuyrobOyef^kzaejfFnfwtxi<kDbnbyAtfLtxm+iqavjjFb"

fl!YjfLgeHtDs;fyfcpetFaMBfx9-ltckirAixtHe:kDqknqsyaLNjv+rK?
^QyrnfAuaRIzv|kxg#&

fl!Kbhsu"MtjB[rmjpbR%ZF5Z	dd-yachwspemtxm/-ltckirHmBwj{!^nfeczKl
O/nbptLgnRMjp' lzqweKlfn.

fl!KbiGu"Mtxi^ /aucnvguAyeG@zqsrkqDhsn

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oldcp)LgqNNem:fyptgeusftLqC7-lBnkhwgsxJqm^jlwgtD
vAmkvjDF.s|ks/fUaecs\AaNHii/yFbpfeAAaFSxi-lluqbgwnjGtBm:nbacpi
hqjpieKvaFusC!jughgwwuusMnD^yljpbfrkbRtnw!BqsAbhGugNMnr"a/

fl!KveAzo,N	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzrobOys(:frpwpirpusMtd,kF.&bxspesUqm$kba@dzL
CtfpbDGBaAuAi!zAavwwFgjGNtd@foitAxssjLa]C=AlxknqrzpFyeh@EfaAqz
qzpy+]suesNmi+fmgvgwrAitNem+zAacbgMAuxLkp, lJbumGBmwtyl*twaAqz\sm
lqfnbnLgbsFnx:rqaswjwy.sQtrNzlzqwa\

fl!PqyrhauCy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

fl!YgqDaaIywl@vEaAqzJggxyqm+mEaocDrifsxnj'kDfpv	\gttCid?rudg>
^mmnbNrroHQem| ljvbBGBmwtki^rlwgtDrxvxywd:ulNG})

fl!1qz/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xldqpywtqMOty|rK?bb%#opsuwi!51V{&

flXjkhzgcKIzk&zlujgrribvEee"guobvtrAixtgi"ozokplrvgsNmi
iAoxgwKhuBIs	!fMmkejrmfENee!ruuvnjrpsKCye:kpacveLofsWfx^xBjnnfJ_t
smlkplrzvvBeZ X~aujtJAaKyre/qE.bcsvgtAyeh/kIajgwKlmytzt!gzebufAk.
BqsAblJhwxFD{!^UavjnFr.sSty!uGhjveLvaMyqp!sqayjtr6P@tfv^ lgktxLb"

fl!YjDn_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@xg

flIgtjrDbLtfr=ztftbuMGAECsk!wGfuvnGu<sush!gEaCnnulavIzp%fzpv
ztjpmeGmatHDd"uAebtjszpGnee+jlbubyzlaVuyi/vumncwrzfxGjh!zAadgeAu
glWGT4rBoIFje|gzubuysAfsIkd_oze?bxzlaMOwr^jlbycDm

fl!Eqrwgctwp%NfFigbHsAfKJnp-gDaecqDlesukx^xligt rg!2.Ai!yAngvmAuh
oyqqtysuusNtd|gK@&

flUjkxrzpNHii%fBsqonKpozneg^xFbkpqQ?asUqm$kluwtswkatHid$gyfbdfur
gsbkp 

fl!MgjHgzHOwd:kyqgt	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

fl!KueLobMtfp-b/aucnvgBEChi7fExcnqGDjGAeh=Czajgwrhozywd@ylxgnqrht
ytfbetMsen

fl!Pq	\gttCid:nqaEcywyqBFqe/a

flBnkhwguAIzk&zltjgeEphANee|fIfnneOhjMnee|fEigbmskaGIyl*tsagnxw
zAafq	rhowtui/nmqubfxAfKtfp-fuubonyousNjp-ftftbxGtfMBnr"fIptvm
nqbtksybasZtv!yAngbrAuvMyxd*zlqwhkwkatQfC!CuujqzLgtIyfo*ts.bdzL
gFancxLgjMtzr'uxegfeAAtsuwq| luqqprAixtms=qmibqzLgpytnx|fypwvm
gsbkp	rhowtxe*jfa@UtrFpNtyl*twaAqz\yfswme+mqe?biGgzHOa(

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Olbo?eKpsm.ew@opaCnnul<s|Nd$gz"vbwwtfFvjv!ztjpixrht
Olvugi	|bGxeM!jAo&veClfItyl^fEbogeKpAxtks/fFfpbrAuvMyxd:usfvjjJ""

fl!Ecs\AaKyri_hqsbYMS1aMBnr"yh"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

fl!YgqDaa2.Ai!zDjgfeLvaLuDdON1XbFT`Oa!2JdgO6UNGeT2T^tGI  |adwyrpu
gxmbefElawCkj^xqov#)rHmBwjd/kBmkgirposuez^xKaogqsudAIqC!BAjeg 

fl!Tguwhumt-3j1lBTGe7SEmtKEoNQSbYN4SJT7	)NfEbkfeLofsWfx^xBjnnfJb

flBnkhwggHFii%ftftbmsueLnee+jlcgifF?_ 

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.bHfLofKt2m-rubo?)rAixtDs;tsaocsrzbBx	
flabbe]HowtDs;xlickwrobLtgi$uyfbxjJFaPBnx^?
flabCsvgzxNeC=AljpejKzbGNqC!yFbpfeGuaRIzv!nqbf+]
flabbeVvaRIzd:nuom?esAaRIzv!gsf?bnLgjLtwm"nF}&

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bKsAixLe1*rxjcoeJlqECjh!zAajkxrzpGn
flabbe]Payyfv^jljvbrAniMtnr(ADfbvmwgcKunr3
flabDzLaaGIBd:nmubK)EgqxLki$zxzbuzJla2tme<kloqpjl
flabbe#ozmtNd%uljvbfyhjGtfr%fmhcksm_

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bLtNd_kzukqswkauyks/kf
flabbeSuesBfz^fssqysrtpLNey+iAnoqsDFayuy,
flab1jLgzHOex;xzffbfribvE]w=sqsuczDAaBHee:fFigbiGvs a
flabbe8ybRneA&gFakueLofsLje|uzaqheLobMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesNmi!ymhg?eszaAyew&uAlbjnKghKyDd-uolu?
flabbe]PaDyux!gxmboDrsjFvxd<kDzbuzHwmx
flabDDrAixtzw^fAgbvmAzaHCsx_kzu++tFlaLBnp-ozhbvmwgcHR][
flabbeSsmHQeq^fFpbujDsaRIzd@fopwrqwc"

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'bGxeC=ADalcBKgbKyex=ulxgcp
flabbeXvssusC:nuoibyGBhAywd:nmobuzwA<
flab1jLgzHOej*tutjgirAixtls=yq.bynLoaMBjd#uzfubfFkaMBjd#kml++
flabbe8ybRtms>fpjfbDGBaFuse"kluqbiGgjMp)

flab@NFgnRtDs;zt.&bxspesBnw!lmujgwlg!2tys=qluqbyzlaEuB{
flabbeSuesuwk;kpagchzgdtMjd>oFiboDrDjyy.
flabCsvguAyeq;yovncwrzuKysk:nfayjnuoaBNek@BqavqeEFaCuB{
flabbeZhtsFfw:kpavjjryfLNes'fyzbnnxl?,

flab@4GBatLjd=rp.&bxspesNmi!EAvvj	r'pGyeA=AxebjfJkmRtxy[vAtg
flabbe`obMtDs;xlfAgeOhtsuxd|zqbfAeszaxPjv3
flab1jLgzHOef@rmoegirhosyjp!uzavjjrlowttj!EAvtbsGzf a
flabbe#obMtre%klzqweKvatQky-rKaenjNlso.

flab@NrobOyee+yIftgirAiKyjd]AqtvktFz.sush!ztbvbnKgfGIzk& /
flabbe~hjwtmm|frbvjjJ}a/xtrNzlhkxjrFpNLxi-llbktx/
flabFtrFpNtyl*twaKbhsuaECxx^tlbnnevhzsNtd|AoibuyMmgo
flabbeTlaHzk{!uDaK&qDglBwpd,uGafqBFgtMunv|'/


fl!VjfLgjLtss:fEbkfeJphAN	(!ymjfbyzlaVuyi/vumncwm

fl!PqyrXV2@Jd/osiv?e1_nsukv@op.&bxspesUqm$kfavkrAkmRje$|uyfbqkrAix
CAsfuezhwxtls:fmmvgwwk?,

fl!KveAzaPLtr"frsqoetlhBHsm+mluqbjFk.,txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms
jqdkfjvszmtfr%fFigtjrDbLtxm-kzdgbkGyaLIri!suowvjKb

flUjgeUhuxLum-rmsbyfKguAyej*xEubvtrzqxup	

fl!YjfLgtBTjd%ulzqweOhoMtys!hq}&bnLgbLEjh8

fl!Qj	rP"Ftss:fBbtvnuBmtLee|fFpbunRl.,tFp*iqajcxLpmRtwi[ruff>
^AonAeGufsxti|t/ubnnClavBfr"ozhbutrvgMys{!EAvbmsGD?,

fl!KbI7U"!tpr=Cf"bufAkaMBjd{gFftrnDsbKo

flBnkhwgttCid+uFikplggaLBjd&gpapgAwyauyjr!yAaowhzgdHHyv@judvgirpo
nqsbnnxlauyks/kfacpirzixtki-zlujcyrzixtBe|fxpuksygixLex^sBft}

fl!CtjrFpNths+zqovbsGD},txe*jlujgeUhuxLum-rms}

fl!YgqDaa2txl=AxebnnClaMIef^fmaNKY`SFsFfv"kD.bunJaaBzeC=A
CAvnfs\AaFCsh7-ltckirHmBwj\!f)ujtjwgjGwmi|futbuzuoattBv^zoigf
nqjijyrApsvj	N

fl!KveAzattAi/ElhqqirofBAmx!ozeggi/_aLunh!ztfbEfLlsICqp@x
gzhtkqQaaKyfv*tsakvxwsgsOuv*mtubcxrpusMus)kl)kveOhtsyCe$zxzbvmJlf
ozdjgxrojzB[	

fl!DwyrP"Ftss:fGtgfeLvaBN^(!vxfcfjvgqHIwd?rudgbnFgbsJnx^uGtbvtFl?
GzebumwguAIzk&zlphbmwytxFk{!^UaykxzguAyeg/kmuwtjKgxHOqh+-FadgeKv
kmtknDrvgyysh^j-"

fl!1qz\smsAjx!AEffbyGgjMtnr!zung?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv3fmofbnL
vGubvmwgiHIpe&fuovqeAAtsGty:nlbpfetlhtHew_uwjpiesnbBH 

flUjkxrAjFyeE-oofbyfAAfwtue:oqovnDrBoMCqd*zldjqxwguHtxt^gwacifAu?
OzacbrAuvMyes/fFxqbyzlaVuyi/vumncwrApHEex&kliqqpsoaHOyd=lljvu
sAvvjesuesSfA+kpaqphwgpKtyA*iq.bcsvgtAIto!oFtgnkmga!Bjr!oFaiqy
jAxpbtxmaMBjd_AEitqtEaatHid$xmxngirhxtSem+fFigblJhtLneq^xqmA
xqnctpAuhsuxd*zlxgpylg!8Hjd|opfbynDsaFupi!EAvbiwGDaMuqp^xfacpi
ztfbqyzlssMnh^fIjnneEhlxtDs;fssqyeKopKNjv8-

fl!Qpjrzjwyes'f9ICVargUAyes:nqsbunvlaHze1cG6}&byzvvzByd?rudgbyG
nqsugqxb

fl!QheLofsGzw&xApo?)rzbBxex&klDcvjJwjEFfv7fvvuveszaBzew&klicf
gElgfeAAatFty%?lbpfeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuusCyd>gEaqwyrvgsMnk&zg

flBnkhwgsxGfm+kpanqtCpoztyl=AsivhzDszsuyd:nqaowxzypHGej=xlb
suowvjlguKSnr"fFpbofClaHOyd>nudjbBwyfsNmi!zIpbunvltsIkd*zbacpirht
oFaycxrwfKzjg:rKatqzFk.sMmi!lAvpfeLojLtfd<kDzbfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGu?
NAxgxjJaatNep@yFaujjrzuKyyg&kpajgwrhsFMev=Azebkyrhtszfv!gEavjjQ
CAvnfeyv.sush!hDpmgeGmgsuef*zlphbyzlaxxli!CuujbjsjisBfr%a

fl!CpirupPtBl*itakueOojvBa(!ytfbufAkaMIel^xEfnh	rhowtsm#hxffbf
ruuvnjrvgsNmi!xuhjv]zhowtgm:fFpbvwQguAyei'lqdv<erAixtsi\zlnqojFA
ytfbhjDAattAm=rqovbgDvxsOsh^xzfcvmrofKthl*taabkyrobwtxx/AolbjjJ
lApv#

flTjgeOhtsuek=upafgfDggKCll:kzffbgQguACxd<kDzbuzvkfGthl@tsf?bgMA
ytfbhjDAaMBfx!ztftgeOhtsHtd:oyfbvtrifsFtw: lbubxzlaPuxd|nDjpmnFn
xmqkfqQ}aLIew&kltgveLvaPIwo!gFaqphwguHtje:fEpogeGmaMBjd=ztftbgAA?
NqsbemAuaPuxd[xqtugirzpswqs|kxzbclspoLNel^xlgqqylguAuyd:nqsgbBsz
nmsfnDrypHGex=fAqgpezlssGty:nbadwyrzixtim%fuubcyrsbLN	d@tp
smocijvguHtxA@rxpybfrtpKMjp!uravjjrsfyNme+jlckv 


flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

flabberga}ted!fla)bergast+d!flabb+rgastedQflabber[

flabb+rgastedQflabber[asted!f;abberga}ted!fla)bergast+

fl!EqrwaaFSel^gp"ubkJlfsuyd-gEu#&eKhjwtFp*iqakpesguHHjd=l
jqmkimLaaPBng&foicplwkaBHys!gxbtoeAuatHtx&kDaoqrwuumtBl^tltjg
lAvpfeLobMtmi/fEiqwqvlsLtBi/kloqymwyfsNtd#klgqwsv?asuqp!ytfbetMse
yqf?bBzlosMmi!rApmgirkpPH	d>gEacpeAtnxHxi!rqoivmrvgsHjg) lxjkhz
yqfogirApsLnw^fxjmgesgtMuqo!uGubqkrhaLyfd=llhtgjFgmxuAi|fFicveDhz
lmsbdjDvxsBjv8

fl!YjfLgDT8ee-rlujcyrnsxysd|zGghbgwc"sMfm%fMmkejmga/Ush!Ctftg
NMWGbrQgtAIzp%kDtbitLguHped?tpaqj	rtzsJts/ftbpfxlgiHQem|fuubK
imo&veKlfsSty9-laUjjrDbLtrs<ozhbvmwtatvty:fmtbumwgtIIpi7fnvvbsG
xqtwnyrzfxGjh!zAahqqDvxmtjB$kBubceDpuMFjd|nmlkplrhnHHld:nq
jutvcsLghKyjr!rqbxgxm

flBubyzlsxtxi^sqebvtrifsHtd$nmoegeGmazyyx*tsajgwrobGxxd;vluqbmwy
nqbf?eKofsNwm^jluqblwAaAywd&kmebftOuaMIex&ky.bcsvgxtMeh^ruhjvjv
zAahksvguAuyd&kDapghCgxHOqh!hqofbftvvMtje|oxzbksrhoRtim/koukqsl
rulgbfrzfKJjr:alaUjjrobwtoy|zltwehwlexxem+fovtxnFnaBNeh=CzakpyGgb
mDbegkMsaSClD@mfacpirDbLtls*tsavqevpwxtnr!gyppieLofsFje<kE.bymAji
ytfbhtMuesNtd#kloqvmAuhsvzx!ztfbvtHzaHzex&klutgjKgvGxjv!CtjejeKof
nmebdjwuaPush^xuoi?eOofGtfd|nmsrbmAztsGfh^ftftbiJhxsvfg)fuobc
nGstA,rgbsFfv"klqkijGuaAuid'rAxpbnFApsBjv!lmdg?esuesQfw!hqbvksy
nqsbxnGsfGNqC!CuujbnLzaPCsk|a

fl!UgwHloM:)d|iDfcojvguAyeT*mqpp}

fl!K&rrUP!tfd|kDqgpy/_aLunh!GxjegeAueBAse+zxz}be]SfMtri!gxppg^\

fl!UgwHloMneM!ymzbclspo|.ev^vqbvgirAixtUm"kAo?bgMAaBHee!sAsg
yGcfwjvguHHj{!gzebcivlesQnx&fmamksvgpytxs# l!K&AwguKCjh!kHftA
Cmz?bfFkaGIyl*tsaugjEzaMIew;oFavjjE""

fl!KbmsCfG.yd:nqangfKAaBxje!CtbvbDGB"Kyex@rwjpiesipNN	(!ymjf
Gxjeg 

fl!K&AwguKCjh!ztfbttGAtsIkd:xqfu?esues3)z^fFskgiribGEx{!gzebK)Nl
zDjgfezlezyx{NfFigbUAnfHHeA^tFaqp	rDjMBty:fmuvgsvpoztys!nqs>b%tBu
ztpugeKlsIysx|'laVjjJl"Ltss!vxfcunFnaMBjqH-

flBnkhwgxtMeq=xqacpirtpKyet;FLmgf	rivMtxl^fFiqwlzAaMBjv^fIbubsG
AEfbksrzbRCsk!gzzvjnFnaFIwi!zumnbyzla9Cli=tlicfexpoBMmi%a

fl!CueAmaBNeA@yz"vbyJvvuFjd^tAvijezhuvBnr"fFigbjyntm.ew@opavjj
Vuhgqshg!uOyddfyvuvetlaHHex&klmqqp	vvMtks/fEftrjFAtsHnk&zlbpf
jmz#be#ozmtNd&gHfp&yrobwtfd>ozlbqkrzmxyud:nqtgbyzyfxtBi^qE@&

fl!K&rrCfKSew=xDzbAtM_wxtgi^tlbpptQlem.ew@opaCnnul.sQms!Cmt
hqhkpsAuhsNtd|kqakvxrtftHnr"a

fl!CpirqvLNee|fU"fbysrfGtyl^ftjijjKAaMLji!ozavjjrDpHx	(!iAovksMle
ztfbRnylpGnev@oEjpieAAtsPtm$kluqbfrziKCjo7f)bpfeBBtMtfw!Olxcu
ztjpmnFna2txl=Axebdjrmsxyes'fFigoesAaEuxx7fFigAeEBtMtsi^jEaeqrw
CDjiiqAuhsxtA+frsqoeLofsMpCHflVij	rZfKJjr:'/

fl!DwyrP"FtSSofmaugwHloMneM!zqmnbDGB@,txe*jlBnkhwbas|N(_fm_+K)E
g\_&

fl!YgqD"as%MEofmsgbDGB},txe*jlujge8phxIs	!f)JbefFgtxyeC=A/sg
zDzkplrApsCsz^tFauqrwAiBHl%N

fl!K+]1_nsuep*zFmgblAymm.ew@opaCnnul.sLfx&kDafqztAgNFqC7fmtbumw
xqngogwyfwtyl^fzvodjJgpythl@tsfubxzlaAuid"uzfbvmJvvzBex&gFafcDm

fl!CbqArfESew:uDzbksvlfw:)d|guebvmwgQBAjs+fuobceLvoxttj!ztf
jqfrgxLgdHHyi_vF?bb%1_wxtxi^tlbbitGkaFusC!ruuvnjrnjKFxd*tlnA
zung?etBusHjz^xlPPGeOpuAtxy$nlbbpjuratMex&gF@bbSGaaGI^d!5Av&tjrh
yqsrgsL}atHid:nqsg&xrupsOxi!jqoAksygjMoeddfEvrrtKlaRIz(-rlcg
zqmnksygnxtsi\zlujcyrFpNtsi<kDavcxLlesusd^ms@&

fl!KbMS3FsNfw:kpagilKaavywx@ozmA?)rzbBxeE-oof?bBzvaPuxd@fHftA
zDvvjkMsavBnp%?l!dwyrsjMNqi!musnuewhusylk|fCvkvjrhtsGzg&fmt
yqsrgsLzawI	d,uGamptOb"

fl!KbiGu"Mtgi-oqwgbnLa"sMfm%fFigbUAnfHH.dGhGubkkrAixSeh= lxjA
ztfpbyzlz,Ljd@fwjpfeGmaLywt^tF.bvmsA"Ltfp-fUaecsrzbRo)

flUjkxrDbLtxy$nlbbpjOgjwyfd:ulBnkhwaaMBfx!ytfbyfKgrNCyi!yumgpy
lAsbceEpoNNjd=xluyq	rDiBwmd"gHfbvmwgQBAjs+fFigbtHwpKNzr*zKaqh
gpekpllg!^Iz(/klmqqpAuhsztv!kshu?e1glGIBdoNMUbyjDsaxHty"nbacpi
CtbvbiGltsCyd_gFugteLvaFyeA&kFigteQvv,Ljd@fxjvvqwghBLqd=xlb
yqsrgsLc"

fl!KveEhuMyww!glhqqirkftFex=fYF?&eKhjwtFp*iqajcxLpmRje$#AFaK&r
tAubntGrjGAej=xlfiixlgbLtnx!nmqrgsK}atHid*llJbyfKaa2txl=Axep&y
Cmovb472S`ieddfppp&yrsjDyex&kyatcBm_

fl!YgqDaauyes'lfavjjF""sMfm%fFigbUAnfHHem+fmauwqCFaMIsi7fmtbky
yquvnjvgeHQsd@mmjpbnFApsCyw!tqtv}erHmBwjd$xAvejjvgeHQsd@sAoibyzl
zDfgueszaPyqp!gEaujjrjpNFi{!lAsbjjJgoxwpd)kBubijLAjGAei+zmoinjv
gyppieLofsvwe+itfu?esuesyAi/EloqyesuesNmi+fEigbmskaMIew:uBacpi
AzuykxLgjMoed?lFftbfrDiBFjd|nqatgrwtcxLjh!ztbvbxzlaLNnp-ftfnfeLof
vufegxrvgsGzw&xApobnFgixLel@tpt?bfFkaLBjd|kFavqeOvsDtAi/E
imsghzDszmtsm#hxjpiexpsLNee:fAogbfFkaMBjr!gFavjjrvuAyw{!gze
mDpyksygtHGjx*sqtbvfDsfKtfr%fEpogyAtfLtxl=xFft?eMuuBFew&klicf
yGdegjvlesCsd#xuoiksygixLxi-lleqysrApsBjv!AEvcnezljzBy	

flJvbBszaLIep=tsauksulaLBjd&gpadgjFgbGSyl*tsapgfJguAyev*mtubunRl.
ztbvbnLggxFyd]AuugbxLybGAjd@zlgktxL}auOyd|nqaiqyrBtxxex=fuubksrh
lqxbonFBuxM	d@tpadglsuaMuqo*tsavqezlsLyqj7fmtbwxMhmnte${uyf?
ztftg)KgitFkd_ElqncsrkpGyer=C-abJtOgqNTEp*tsacnqrAixMjd$nmoigx
gDf#be1_nsHjz^xltwtjrDitNeMNslhqksyguHtgi7frsqoeGufsGnr;zqavq
gzpvjjJ"as2tA^Bqs?bN\CfsAtx!hmdmbyGgnRtwm"nFaukEw?asNmi!tqyv
ztjpieAz.sNtd"kFakpyGguAuyd#kmvvkkMsazuwh^t\_jqBrPTsNme:fFpbdj
jAog?e1gxHHii/b/abCxrzixtxe*jlujkxlgtAyeg@sqauwivloESey[uzacp
uBfpbuDhdxneA*ztacbqAAuEyel=AEfbksrpusugs;zlgqwwrmfxNel*mt?
^9iqgAwyaECAi|fFigtjl_aMBty"nFaCnnul.s|nxNrxapgAwyawIex=fopog
ABppbyzlns@MMnfEjBg,rgxAS	ddfEiqwqvggKCll:kzavjjEgpNNes'fFigkw
Cuuu#)rgTHtxl^fnficsrujuvqm+mlbvbyzlaKCll:nmofbgAAatAfm+ lbpfevpe
tAubxjFAvKyex=fspbpjsyaMBjd&uGtgbyAsmsMmi!nmebdwGBhANel^xEfnh
jAxpbyGgoBHjd*toiguezphAo



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr3J

flabbergasted!flabbergastUm"fmofbUwwqxL


flGqtesgnBHzx^fAsbvBGgtAyew:uAebntGrjGAee:fFigbmGBtxnee+j
CAofgwAuhsQme:fFpbftrufQN	d>nqobuzvkfGFDd@frpqvrsuaBHep*BqsAbhstf
xGopksygpNNes'fFigbBGve a=w&kldqpxAkfKyid&oyavqetlattks=zybp
hqdcwxwgixtBe|fuobnnNlsRied=ztftynKl.sDzh"ozhbdDrojLtke$klppnDl
ytfbytMsesBfz^fobnnjvgiBGee!lutj_]	howtwe[vqebntMkmRtfx!ztfbftGy
CuujbmAzaDHzg)rqt}be1AaPuxd=vqogfetFatHtx&kDahqtLtbGtnr!ruwgtDl
CuujbfrypNHid'gof?bfFkaEuwk^fqzgueDplxtfd'xAh>bfFkauIyl!lApvojFa
GxjegeFvuBwjh7ftbfbuGDexLjh!nmjtbyzhuswzv-kpacnqrvwxLex&kus
nqbfu rgTAyej^rFaxgwQgdNLns;yluqbpFvxsQme:fuubyfKgbEFee#uGu?bfFk
iDfrvesgmBNyp^fIbAbtMAaHzex&klxqqirApsFnw:kz?

flUjgeXptAaKs=zybpbgwnbGtgC!vDpfwhAuhszws_fGofgwrojLtfv_fmaitjsA
rquvgwlgoxuwp,fmtbnfJnfsuxd&oytgnklgbGxex&oEajgezhowyid=Bqsbvt
ztfbqyzlsmtxe,ozh?bnFgbsMtp^szavqswaa/Ztv!ztfbFzuofLM d!Gz
ozwkvfLppGtkv=slujge9BfxHex=fBmcAeuypJOjx8-laVjjrMsHA]J=uFncp
xqqgcywk.sCsd:nqaucrwgtHFjq+fFppg	rvoESeg&gzhkplrAixttv%kDaqheLof
CAsfuesgmBNyp^ l!HttEguAyeU;kqo}beSuaBHAm:gFjqpexvssNmi!JGdjgxK
zAarnfQgdKIvy^zg"

flUjgsrAixSef=ztadqBwkaEIB{!gzebvmwpsswzv-ylhqvewuutHlp^j
zAhgvmwy?

flBnkhwgmtOll^jltqbrMjisuyd:nut?byzhusMmi!nmebvtryvGtge$qljpvt
ztfbytGkayIwd'kmsbqkrAixCwd&kmskplrofKjee+jlxjgsrzixtsi\zlqgguwk
uGubvmwgGBMm[auAuocsrDbLtls+kfacpirAixttx&kDaycxrzjMNnr"fAobvmw
mDpwpiruftLex&kleqqwlgtMuwm+mltvwuAkmRtzt!ozuqbyzlaLED	

flBnkhwgxxHyd:oyjfnDrBqsNtd:nqafqtJaatHid)tAdmgim

fl!VjjJl"Ltss!yAsvbtxgvLyem+fwoqepAuhm.ew@opavjjrMpHNre+ l!cpi
ztbvbkGyaMQtd/kmtqpxmgaYCww: lcgefMzfs3)q!uzavjjrzbFyew*jqaqheLof
jAptbfKgzHOee/kbaughGueES	d#kobwujrAixS)v^fybmksygtNwmd@fzpkuj
oztkfjlgoHttr^fopwnirwpLMnf-EligcwrFpNo)d!GzebejJAbBHqC!ztftgeOht
glnquyrlyMLfs/juoctDrupBMjd"uuoibtFgxBNmm+/\bbetFzutHyd&uImkpl
gzebuswlABHl{!gzebgAwyzsHtA!gzebvmwuattlv^gFaetfKo.suxd*llbbfnKo
uDamgyLsfsBfh!hqfpbgJvlxHex=fBjgejKb

fl!Rnjszfmtyl^tf"bufAkaTFng^ l!jqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"

fl!VjjJlaFCll:fnfbutElaLysw^fuobAtMyaDHtg)ozh?&eLofsZts:smobyjFA
uzaykyzvvMtfx:kzekplrApsBjv7f)jhbBwgitxex&kleqqwrifMQji+fGt}beXvs
oztvcsul.sCkd,uGaygwwgJ7!NH  lzqweEphANeo+uol?bfFka2ths;rpangy
EAvbqzLaaRIzd)tAx}&erOfsQfw!rApmksygvItnr:ulujgeKrzsuqp!ztfbvnEl
nqaycxrzqxupm+mfacpirAiBMeE-oofbvmGBhANeh^iuegfqQgvGwnz*rgab@GMA
vqsjcuKgixthe+-FajgqHgjMn)d|nqaucnvguHtmi/yqmh>e]ojLtjC^ylbtgeKv
2QS1bswhsESee:fFigbyGwaHzel*yligcimgaUOyd@zlbpAeJhuxtmi!suhjv
gztygwrxvxMym=tE?++MGDatGeM!zAaigyrpoo.ew&klsgrjsAfwnee-uGe}

fl!KbxzhmEtxm:ftftg	\guAyeJ=uFncpeJlntLpi% l!vkqDguHGtv/uI_+&

flBvbyzptsGtq^tFavjjrkpHLes'fFigbmGBtxttt^tqe?bfFkattqe/mqarnfLl
imngbxCpnFCsk!uGu?bxLybBAmx!gFavjjrMpHNre+-Eajgfv?asCyd(AEu
mDbBgirojLtss|kfacpirisHEjd:ulqkghwzatAfm+yFaqpjrvgsNmi!zDfgu
hqikpirojFo

fl!++tJgoxRyd%gK.bofQifm.ex&klGqqyEhoswtr:ozvgfeAuaMBjd|gyfbvtFl.
kJbevqQgbLtnj!tAujksygitxel@vBfpgim

fl!JqBrhns3ex=fsfvbnFc"suxo^jlBnkhwgbzunr7fuobceDvvwywd:uzf}

fl!CTJrFpNtys!mqubksrhusuqp9-ltckirAixtKs=zybp}er'UAuy(|fFig
lusuveIBfLNns+ lzqweCupPo)

flJvbBsz.sHtd%uGcv<ervoESeE-oofbfnvgoHNep*qqavqetlaMIqh!yA?
^Uu&ueJlbEFDd%xqbfhzDa"sMmi!sGuvgwwkaMIel^xEfnh	r'uAyeA@ElbnneLof
iDfcvzJltsuwk;kgabKy\zaxHty"nluqbiJpwxttr^foscBD/_

flUjgeXvpMGfr!yqfogirApsNmm+qlujkxrhazIth!uBqqtyMujMSej=x
xqqgcyAuhsBnw!xqnctplgxBNmd<gDjcvnGutnte$dfEicnqrzjMtmi/kf"bjj
ymjf?e]vosush!urg?bkGyawuDw!gzebffQz?,

fl!DwyrDitNee_fUavqevv},txe*jlBnkhwb

fl!CpDLojGAeC=Almkmjl_aLunh!ztfbHtGAntH	d@tpadglsuaPBnw:ruoi}

fl!Qj	rAixLj(|fzpbwxwgjGtye-quoibyGgiBG	(!ymjfbFDpdxtii|vqscvjDF;
^tf&ueHlsyyhx-EljfktLpd|.ed?tpaujjrvqxHjh!ztfbftGyatHid>kzubksm

flUjgevvpKtqi%fDjijyrpoMIee!rmsigeCpuvBjr7fIikemrDbLtky-rlph
yypmgexypFttr^fqofbyGguAyes:nqs<beLofsXzg&kEtbyfKgtBNym+mlppbf
ztsgg]Dlhzyid|zApnbnFguAyeq*jpmg?eFBsLCsk!glccdDhguAyeg=uwaycx
rqbpksygpOywd:nqahkwwaaLNnv/ozhbceDhszyeg@AxetqsrDiBwmd|kqngfeLv
hqahwqDgpytxs;vg

fl!VjjJl"Lthi/zmjpnDrApHtry$nlqgruwyaBHex&gFauqzH""sUqm$kltckirA
