
  There was certainly too much of it in the air.  Even the
Duchess sneezed occasionally; and as for the baby, it was
sneezing and howling alternately without a moment's pause.  The
only things in the kitchen that did not sneeze, were the cook,
and a large cat which was sitting on the hearth and grinning from
ear to ear.

  `Please would you tell me,' said Alice, a little timidly, for
she was not quite sure whether it was good manners for her to
speak first, `why your cat grins like that?'

  `It's a Cheshire cat,' said the Duchess, `and that's why.
Pig!'

  She said the last word with such sudden violence that Alice
quite jumped; but she saw in another moment that it was addressed
to the baby, and not to her, so she took courage, and went on
again:--

  `I didn't know that Cheshire cats always grinned; in fact, I
didn't know that cats COULD grin.'

  `They all can,' said the Duchess; `and most of 'em do.'

  `I don't know of any that do,' Alice said very politely,
feeling quite pleased to have got into a conversation.

  `You don't know much,' said the Duchess; `and that's a fact.'

  Alice did not at all like the tone of this remark, and thought
it would be as well to introduce some other subject of
conversation.  While she was trying to fix on one, the cook took
the cauldron of soup off the fire, and at once set to work
throwing everything within her reach at the Duchess and the baby
--the fire-irons came first; then followed a shower of saucepans,
plates, and dishes.  The Duchess took no notice of them even when
they hit her; and the baby was howling so much already, that it
was quite impossible to say whether the blows hurt it or not.

  `Oh, PLEASE mind what you're doing!' cried Alice, jumping up
and down in an agony of terror.  `Oh, there goes his PRECIOUS
nose'; as an unusually large saucepan flew close by it, and very
nearly carried it off.

  `If everybody minded their own business,' the Duchess said in a
hoarse growl, `the world would go round a deal faster than it
does.'

  `Which would NOT be an advantage,' said Alice, who felt very
glad to get an opportunity of showing off a little of her
knowledge.  `Just think of what work it would make with the day
and night!  You see the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn
round on its axis--'

  `Talking of axes,' said the Duchess, `chop off her head!'

  Alice glanced rather anxiously at the cook, to see if she meant
to take the hint; but the cook was busily stirring the soup, and
seemed not to be listening, so she went on again:  `Twenty-four
hours, I THINK; or is it twelve?  I--'

  `Oh, don't bother ME,' said the Duchess; `I never could abide
figures!'  And with that she began nursing her child again,
singing a sort of lullaby to it as she did so, and giving it a
violent shake at the end of every line:

        `Speak roughly to your little boy,
          And beat him when he sneezes:
        He only does it to annoy,
          Because he knows it teases.'

                    CHORUS.

    (In which the cook and the baby joined):--

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  While the Duchess sang the second verse of the song, she kept
tossing the baby violently up and down, and the poor little thing
howled so, that Alice could hardly hear the words:--

        `I speak severely to my boy,
          I beat him when he sneezes;
        For he can thoroughly enjoy
          The pepper when he pleases!'

                    CHORUS.

                `Wow! wow! wow!'

  `Here! you may nurse it a bit, if you like!' the Duchess said
to Alice, flinging the baby at her as she spoke.  `I must go and
get ready to play croquet with the Queen,' and she hurried out of
the room.  The cook threw a frying-pan after her as she went out,
but it just missed her.

  Alice caught the baby with some difficulty, as it was a queer-
shaped little creature, and held out its arms and legs in all
directions, `just like a star-fish,' thought Alice.  The poor
little thing was snorting like a steam-engine when she caught it,
and kept doubling itself up and straightening itself out again,
so that altogether, for the first minute or two, it was as much
as she could do to hold it.

  As soon as she had made out the proper way of nursing it,
(which was to twist it up into a sort of knot, and then keep
tight hold of its right ear and left foot, so as to prevent its
undoing itself,) she carried it out into the open air.  `IF I
don't take this child away with me,' thought Alice, `they're sure
to kill it in a day or two:  wouldn't it be murder to leave it
behind?'  She said the last words out loud, and the little thing
grunted in reply (it had left off sneezing by this time).  `Don't
grunt,' said Alice; `that's not at all a proper way of expressing
yourself.'

  The baby grunted again, and Alice looked very anxiously into
its face to see what was the matter with it.  There could be no
doubt that it had a VERY turn-up nose, much more like a snout
than a real nose; also its eyes were getting extremely small for
a baby:  altogether Alice did not like the look of the thing at
all.  `But perhaps it was only sobbing,' she thought, and looked
into its eyes again, to see if there were any tears.

  No, there were no tears.  `If you're going to turn into a pig,
my dear,' said Alice, seriously, `I'll have nothing more to do
with you.  Mind now!'  The poor little thing sobbed again (or
grunted, it was impossible to say which), and they went on for
some while in silence.

  Alice was just beginning to think to herself, `Now, what am I
to do with this creature when I get it home?' when it grunted
again, so violently, that she looked down into its face in some
alarm.  This time there could be NO mistake about it:  it was
neither more nor less than a pig, and she felt that it would be
quite absurd for her to carry it further.

  So she set the little creature down, and felt quite relieved to
see it trot away quietly into the wood.  `If it had grown up,'
she said to herself, `it would have made a dreadfully ugly child:
but it makes rather a handsome pig, I think.'  And she began
thinking over other children she knew, who might do very well as
pigs, and was just saying to herself, `if one only knew the right
way to change them--' when she was a little startled by seeing
the Cheshire Cat sitting on a bough of a tree a few yards off.

  The Cat only grinned when it saw Alice.  It looked good-
natured, she thought:  still it had VERY long claws and a great
many teeth, so she felt that it ought to be treated with respect.

  `Cheshire Puss,' she began, rather timidly, as she did not at
all know whether it would like the name:  however, it only
grinned a little wider.  `Come, it's pleased so far,' thought
Alice, and she went on.  `Would you tell me, please, which way I
ought to go from here?'

  `That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,' said
the Cat.

  `I don't much care where--' said Alice.

  `Then it doesn't matter which way you go,' said the Cat.

  `--so long as I get SOMEWHERE,' Alice added as an explanation.

  `Oh, you're sure to do that,' said the Cat, `if you only walk
long enough.'

  Alice felt that this could not be denied, so she tried another
question.  `What sort of people live about here?'

  `In THAT direction,' the Cat said, waving its right paw round,
`lives a Hatter:  and in THAT direction,' waving the other paw,
`lives a March Hare.  Visit either you like:  they're both mad.'

  `But I don't want to go among mad people,' Alice remarked.

  `Oh, you can't help that,' said the Cat:  `we're all mad here.
I'm mad.  You're mad.'

  `How do you know I'm mad?' said Alice.

  `You must be,' said the Cat, `or you wouldn't have come here.'

  Alice didn't think that proved it at all; however, she went on
`And how do you know that you're mad?'

  `To begin with,' said the Cat, `a dog's not mad.  You grant
that?'

  `I suppose so,' said Alice.

  `Well, then,' the Cat went on, `you see, a dog growls when it's
angry, and wags its tail when it's pleased.  Now I growl when I'm
pleased, and wag myAeLhjEtBl^tlJ&oesuhKS d!ZtftgkGyfs3)q!sme}&

fl!KbhssmsCyd[ADskpllgoHNek/uImkpll_aLunh!Gxjeg 

fl!EcqDgjMtBl@zlzqweDplxn)d|guebvmwgDtN d!^PpbAtMgqEuDd$xArwgy
Cuujbyzla0Oji+fFp+ffQc"

fl!KbxzvvExep*qqakveNlsRtry$nf"bufAkaTFng^ l!dwyrPaAuAi+-FadgjF
ozwkvjvgzxN (

fl!1qz\smsMji!sqavjjJl.,txe*jlujgeUhumtfr%fHbpkxzlen

flBnkhwgxtMer=zlnwemrzvKJwm|kpacveLojLnew&klxcueyluMCsk!yAawujv
zAaswjwyaMBnr"ylicruwujGA d!3tjngeKofsQfw!rApmksygbMtyl^fBmcej
CtftgeAAaAuid#kqo?bnLgtNxii+rKacruwhsxxee"guo}

fl!DA]Lof vDi7fIicvetldtGjd=llujgethcRp)d|guebvmwgDtN d!^U"f
tqbtnDrmpKAtx:kzavqeszln.

fl!KveLBsGyid*tFpbceHphm.eE-oofbszAluESew@op.blzKAatMem'fuubjfv
iAngbgsjlsCsd@fzbvwwssaPuD	

fl!KbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqva"sMfm%fFigbHsA.sush!BmokumwkatAfm+a

flBnkhwgxtCyi%fmankyLsfmtme-llfzrjuAjGAex=fEfgbnLgbzunr7fnvvbnL
juebptLgbIJje/ lbpfesmuxLee!suowvjrvssNBs!ytfbyfDrfwttr!ozavjj
jusgeyAvosCsd>nudjbyzla6uwg&fTbtgeOhtsMfm%fFpbnnNl?st%MNBqaugjF
nmuvgwKgcxztv^ /aujjrzbBxex=ftftujDm<s|yl^fYbtemrObKyeA*rxadg
sGdjbyzlaFIxx!ozugtjKAjGA	d@tpargwzhqLtfw!ztjubnKgNtSem:fIpp&yrif
xmwkplrtbwa]e:fxfcuyrupMtxs!smebcxrpusQfw!ozaOcwuo?,teE|fEigbxspe
ztju?eKofsFts)kpawr	rhowtyl^xqaycxrAixtHe:fmhckslgtBNym+mlppbf
hDbpemrvgsuex/kq?

fl!FkirFpNtxe,fBji?eGyayCl NfEbkfeLofsWfx8

fl!KbxspesJnk7-lsgrqAlesUqm$kba@csvgJsQnw&fKpwbBGBmwH)x!qqfr
gBqgcwAuhsush!BmokumAuhsMtd|ApegpqQ?asSty!smlgbtFlaJOnx^fsjffDm_

fl!CnqryjzBy{NfEbkfeLofsWfx3fmofbyzptsNnq^fuubxfFptAyid]Auug
yxpynDlgcxAnr+ozhbynLoaMBjd^tpaqheLofsNfm- lbpfewueBHld>oFibvmw
mDjp?eOojvBev^smjpgirzpFyex*sqachywyaMBjd/kEubqkrpusBfh!mAog}

fl!YgqD"as3)z^fAgvgsrzfxHee!imubynLopNNee!mDjp?)rAiHOll:fMmkejh
^nvvbfrnsBHeA*ztpwvesgdtN^d!OF"ubyzlaFIxx!iGskqzKguACsk!Olfxgw
ymzbksrtzsFnj^'/

flTjgezhesHtx!mAogbrMjiszfv:nqsbdjxvsxtxl^fobogeAuaLCll:fAgbvmw
nAvugeGmaMBjdhgDdjbMsyfhtew&klujqzyousCyd_AEubdjrAixtwm"nFajqzKl.
hqdcwxwguAyeg&oyogAxrDfKyew&gBffbqArfsyfv|fmofbyzlaKItj!Cmt
ztbvemwkaPCyl!lGs}be1AaPuxd|ulmctlwgbsBty|kfavjfLgtAyeh*jloqv
rulgbyGghHtsi@xqsbvnDsaLBjd&gpapkgtsfwtxs_klnqtjrvgsNmi!rqgvjfFk
huubqkrtvLBws=sfacpirybBMjh!nqsugqxguHtff=AFavytrmfxNel*mt;bbjNlo
ztfpbxzlaPuqo^jlvrbyGDbKxxd*zlscvmwyaMCrm%rK.bufQpoztys!nqsugqx
^5vrrtKlaBNew&uGmfbgwgstPnr"fybfbfxAfKtfp-'laKbfDtpLNeA*ytaK&i
mAogbyGgtxyex&klIcvywyaBHxx^gp@&



flabbergasted!flabbergasted{NMQVGWr3J2

flabbergasted!flabbergastFdhgpaVgf	WbKND


flUjgwwgxtMee!zmcngeKlusIzx!AzegtesguKyjd*tlgtqsLgpytyl^ftpwujl
gzebvmwgNtLhl!NmsgbfFkaMBjdcgFugteOlsxtme<ozhbvjsgbMtnx2flb
JAsoqzKlaPuxd|oFukplrifMQji+fFigo	rmbLNee|rqfr?esuesNmi!uFigteLDp
CqsgbzKpoztnx!gEacbhMziBIs{!xqtvksyguAynv!kxcqyxrvosCy{!gzebvmw
zmmmksygpOywd*zEajgfvbas|1i/ElvpetEmpKNff-klgqteLofsXtv_uGtg?)
ztpwimLgBEChi3f)ppnDlgbLtnxNylbunjww.s3ew;vBpugeAAawIjw+-Faoksvb"

flUjgeLhcEyeA@ylbbnfJnfsIsi7fnvvbyzlaMBwi^fIftgessmswws>jqe
zAhgvmwyatNes+kldqtswyaHzem:.la@PtrypHG^d!TAatqtE""sNmi,foskgi
uGubymwuaMBjC!ymxbCqAjfswtq*ts?bb%`ofKy)w!VXFPV4rvgsLts_'/aucnv
GxjegeAueBAse+zxz?bfFkaLBjd|gFafqBFgjGtfd-gDhgbfJt_vBfm/fmubqsw
kzebqkrAixtye#rq?

fl!JcAwgtHGjd>ozf?&eLofs7fv$nlIctjrzbBxem+fmobgsuvvKulm+mluqpjm

flBnkhwgmHIpi%fmmnbwGBowtyl^fFbdnjlgcNNex&kDfbyfKgoHNmm+mlppbnL
hGubvjsbas|Nd%uz"vbxwlatHDd>ozf?&eKofsLjq@xwff}

fl!VjjJlaBMs(:fmoA?)rzbBxex&klNcthzgItLj	

fl!VjjFgjMtBe|t/ubxjJFavCAm-fAgbAtMguHttj'kDakv	\gttCid?rudg
gzhtkqQb

fl!KveOhtG.yd<kDzbenNpmsIkd,uGavqeKpusxtA+fIjvjtMAauynr"
ozwkvjva"sMfm%fFigbRsydAtMe/kg

fl!KbiAko,Neo+uIakveOhts'TYmfFbdnjl_aLunh!Gxjeg.r'jM.xd-guebhtJgb
mDfcveEhoRtrs/klujcsrAiKyj	N

fl!1qzJgitCwd>gzuubhMAuBHl{NfEbkfeLofs2fx:kD?bbMwgitxef^kz
rApmksygbMtFp*iqahqwrzpFyex*sqaykyzghKyfx!iGskqxAAzmtfr%fFikueOht
nutbhnJzusMui^it?

fl!1qzrziHOqh!rqbtpeFvusNtd_gwfbrjJzpGuqd/kybtmxl_aTFng^fEbkf
CuujbxGtfsMjz^xuuA>e]pu,Mez^xKatwiwb"

flUjgeZhuMywd=vqogfezptsyDi|fHftAeOpexttr!nqbtksyguACx,!hGubcqD
nqaUCNVgxtM	dG3tzbkxrhaKuAi+fxjmgesgxKCym+m\egupn_

fl!EqrwaaPyew&gxmbjfNlaLIri!lGobptO""sNms;mtubCqAjfnte$d-yainfv
ztfA&AwgcxAzr!gElkplryjwxqi|a\_KbgwsjxPjddfobpblMltLtyl@zf"bumw
gpegfesspNx 

fl!FqeQvvsGje+fFicveQvvsNmm+qlzqweuhosznr%fAvvbyzlatHxA^xluqbnLc"
ymjfbyzla6uwg&fTbtg 

fl!GzfuAmRtxs7-ltckirHmBwj	

fl!VjjFgzHOew&uGmfbxsFaPBfx!EAvbojsu.,tyl^fYbtemrObKyeA^tFaqp 

fl!KbiGa"sUqm$klicuyAszsLjt-oqe>b%sAaEyfw:/\bvbqwhtMtNd_kmobymsA
OltcA]	AitN)w!ztfbufElaMBnr" lzqweCupPo)

fl!PqyrAixtxe_klujksygbsvnxH-ltckirAixtMe:zqs}be]6pNtrm"nFalwxL
gEaygqDgttSex&gFa*KeKlfsQme:fUagcy,gjLtyl^fEbogeLojGAee|f|JbgfL
CtbvbNrzfx?^(

fl!1qzrtjzByd(AEubcxrDfEFew@Ef"bcivlesNmi!SmsejeZhsxne$:nmub*N
rulgbBzhus3ek^z|akueLofsMfq^fFikplrhts?Nd"kFayjfLgJsFno^_-"

fl!1qzrtjzByd(AEubcxrDfEFew@Ef"bcivlesNmi!JAsoqzKl.sQms!yqfogirAp
hqavcqCpoztnr!nutbuqwlqmt%x&gFa*KetyftNmi!CtfpbNrzmxyu)!oEavjj
ymngbyzpoztfw!_UaunjwwaPBjr!OlctgfLof.:)

fl!Kve1ZaMBjd|gyfbvmAuhsQnx&fKpw?)rzbBxex&klIcvywy.sush!nqsgbyzl
iAoxgwKhuBIsd%xAqrgilgbGxex&klqctyQgttNew*rqovbkGyattrm+AFf?
CtjngeSsjvyex&uGhjveGCfKtfp-fEigbhGBmwtwi_kycgtesipNNev@BqoubfFk
CDjvksy|exMpw7fIikemrDbLH)x!sGdj}

flUjgeZhuMywd>gEavjjrmjKMyd:ulctgfCguAyew*rqoeg rg!$Bfx!jmzbqk
ztfbotFAisCxd*zh"bjjrzbBx	d:ADokplrApsUqm$kaabjjrobwtye)kzajkx
CmuejeGBusIkd&oEarqhClumtfr%fIbubqGvlBHld@zljvbzFlbLCqC7fEicmnFn
oFagxjJFaGIBd@tpavjjFaatHid&uxekplrpusNtd&oEagcwm

flBnkhwgdHHxm%kDffbfrsjMNqi7fmofbyzlosMfm%f)UjgexvvKNm	N

fl!VytrkbRMeA/uzh#&eKphAyid:nqaJcyLlsnte$dfFpnfeQvvsvzx:kD
CAvnfs\AaLOnx!ztfbytJrt|.el^fmefgirspHEnr"fmoitnDFatNex&klNcthz
Nmsg}

fl!KveOhtsNmi!HQTVbgMAuxL	(!ztfbOfJjis2fv^fyfgmqQgsxJqm^jg

fl!1gxlgcNNew=sqaetzEitsGzw:ftbxgeyvusCsd@ylxgnql_aMBjdcgFugt
mDvodqwk;st%C=AltjqzDko,Nel@BqarwyrpusCsd>oFibvmwgcKyfhTqzjhg \

flUjge5hsvBeL@xqavqtCguAyeA@zoibcsvgmHIpi%fmubkyrnmHIrm-Eaabvmwu
nqafkuHlesCyd*tFpbjnKgdNJes'fFfc?esuesFts)kpacveAAatAfm+.ladwyrof
iAvnfeLojGEes'fzpvjnFnauyyx^xluqbxsFaMBfr!nutbhnJzusLjq@xw.b@NL
CmtbvmwgCX!Yd#AFugt	rFpNtpr=Cg"

flBnkhwgitxef^kzanqtCpozttz^xlikueKopNFii/fIjvjeKvnxthy/oAtkvDm
^9icvesggNHsC!Cmuej^\gtAyev^smsmgimga/3yd:kxmubyzlawuDd=llujg
sAovj	rhowtis^yz"vbywsmsQme:fA"enturaBNem|'/

fl!YjDrziHOqh!oF}&brMAuxLjh!ztfbJfLAfKoedGJAfub472SsQfx$nlugnq
EAvbymsAaRyfv!oFakua\

fl!QheuvvKMjd+uF.&bFDpdxtwi[ruffbAwyzsLje%oxz<be]ivMtyl@z/t
hqdcwxwgjMtxx@EEavjjrzbFyeC^gDahqwrzvvBee!rAoibyAtfsNtk^ztft})

fl!YjnuoaBMen;yFavjjrjbLyeA*ztaOKSWa"sMfm%fFigbMsAuxL 

flBnkhwggxFyd%xqbfhzDszsJzD.rqe}be`ofs2fx:kD"ubwwtbKEew^kyffbyG
nmwgbsGgtHLyd=llngcsAuhsCsd*zfacpirFfMtnx!CmtbejJAbBHqC!Kzhnkxzb
^Uafqs\AaJOnx^fGofgwKAbGxeC=Af"bumwgttCi{!gEarqqAAfESee|fEig
iAvnf 

fl!VjjrKpKGty|kljubfKsfxJee"guo?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJaatHid&klqqwwwk
glmkvyDlaAIyd:kmawrtFgjMMer=yq?

flUjgeVvsFIzw^fEiqqprpuLtmi@jljorfLpfGNqC7fmofbxspemtBm:nAvv
uBfpksygjMMei,kE.b@TxgdHOww^ lphbhGBsLy.d(AEubymsAa2tBe|fspkplrAp
xqnctprtzLyqj8-

fl!JcAwgzHOek;kEtgfeLofsLnh%rqaAgyn_aMBjdcgFugteKhjwnex;xzjpieLv
GxjegesnbBH 

fl!Pq	rPazCAi!oFawr	\gBEChi!xqqnkjv?as|Bl@z/tbvmwgbGMBi/b/

fl!KbmsCfG.yd:nqaunnyouxMyd*jqb?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJb

fl!PqwrP.,txe*jlujge5hsvBeL@xq?

flBnkhwgtBAmi%fIfctnDF?st%M!ztjpmeQvvsGnk&zleqbxGtfMBnr"fnfvvjJ
CuujbyzlaMCri7-ltjgeKhjwne$:nmobyfKAfsCyd*tlbumnFnaKCih-kEavjfL
nmwgbsGgbGMBi/yg"

fl!KheQvvsEsi>f6jogeszaPyqp!gEaKbiGa"sMfm%fFigbMsAuxL	dGEAv
CAvnfs\AaMuqo!gnpwveOhtMCsk!O6?bbNL_ts2NQ8-

fl!KbiGu"Mtpr=ClxjcyrFpNtri@tf"bufAkaTFng^a

fl!QheuvvKMjd,uGafqs\A@,tyl^fTbvvjJgttCi{!zAtuksygiBMel^gp
iAovgrHAvHOxp,ala@Kevhsxtxe,fKpwbswCfKtjz^tltrqpwguHtYm_k-"

fl!RgwzhqLtss: /aCnnulavuzx*uGtnAeJlqECjh2fl!dwyrPaDHtA!OlicxjrAp
hqbvbyAtfsQmi+fUangfJuaFOxm$a/

fl!Cj^rAitNee$iAvpvxrmpKtnx7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs}be]OfsQtrNzltvcsv
hqbvksybas8tA7fugbAtMgpGFDd)kBubqsrnpHxex^xytbynLoaACr{!nq"fbiG
gxnquyrhoRNmm+mlzqweDplxxeA*ztavjjrjmHwp	!fRptbnFzutHhi7fEvrrtKl
oFaygwwgoBHjd=-omqeprposNmi!sAspksyaaCOxx!zungbyGgcxAnr!rqtuqsK?
EAv&feGumRtme<kluqbBzptIywd@ftjpveLva!Cri7fmofbwGBowtls^ylujg
ixpemeAuattyA*twmkpl/ga1uqjTvmtvbtFl.sNnq^frptbiAuoxL^(

fl)@KeGumRtBm|nljvbBsz.,tyl^fYbtemrObKyew@opavqeAAtxFkd*tlb
CtjurjJb-

fl!VjfLgxHOqh!hqaitfFk.swjv:guonA	\gttCid?rudgbyzvvzByj;rxz<
^nvvbyzlo aNd|nAvnfs\Aauyel;tssAbkGyaBN	d,uGamptOb"

fl!Pqyrhusznv|zfargwzhqLn)d|guebvmwgItNyi/.la@dzLgzHOeg=Axebmjww
oFavqezhmyaue|zlppgeszaEIsk!gEaAqzrsjDyi	N

fl!KueLobMtyl^fIbAb472aFuse"kh"bCqAjfsuxo^jg

flUjgeZhuMywd|nApmbmAzaAyfh!sAvtpkMsmRoedGTAubK^\gixtwi[ruff}
^9fbszsysxFqi%fxbuve5hsvB][(AEubdjxvsxtMI!Cqovbrsk.sSty!qzpy+]\
[BpkpyAuhsQnx&ftjubywhaLJts+fmubvmwgNtLhl!Nmsg?[r'_ Cyd>gEacveLof
mDfcveuvovywx!muwgpetFaMBjdlAqfpbtxgIxuwx| lbpfe1gitxex=fEjpi

flabbergaste)oCuomnjlguPCso-kfankyLsfsvfxH
flabbergasteL=ClJbytFkfKtBl@zlzqw)JlatN^)

5AvbmsGDaMBjd|uzh?buwyitJx N

fl!K&Awgixuwh!yAngvmAuhsFno^fuu?&eKhjwtFp*iq?

fl!KveyvfLttr7fKpwbpFvxm.ex&klIcvywyavIsx*tGff?e]posNmm|fIbA<]	

flabbergaste)pvlbdqAwguAyeA=xxebAtMggES	
flabbergasteP*qqacbywh_MLfC!ozavjjrzlRo
flabbergasted!flabbe`DjGEqi7fFxkppDl_ ?)

NqsgbyzlaWIwq=AEfbumGvlsCyw^rr.bcsvgcxAfr!yuoiksygjGtnx|fEmggu
^6xkppDl.sNBm+qxf?byOpoDFj{!zIjpmqw|_,tfr%fIfpveGuaLIep=tsavjfL
ztfAbmskaMIet*toibkyrApsGfo^fuubuyGw?

fl!YgqDaa2.id&gDenAexpoBMmi%fFigbkAytMtAi/yq.&bxspesNmi!Nmuvgwl
^IigpeLofs~zi^tlkwouwkaNJee+jlccyqwkaHOy{!_Tf&ueEBswywm+mlujg
zung#erVgytBm:nlikuezlbw:-(

fl!JqBrksxuij;rxzbufNhhx:)d^DomckrwkaTFng^a

fl!CpirlwxLew*tofbvmsA.,tyl^fTbvvjJgxxHyd=tljpbfrtpNLsj;rluqpjl
^tfbytF_usxtd@fFikplrPatMp%!fUu&uessxtSxd|oJaq&hDvdDtss>a/

flBbdwAniMtnh^gldcojrpoMIeE-oof&uezlbwoedGOEavjfLguAyev^gEppbxG
smoAbywh_MBnr"ylbtgeHBusIzx!nqsg{)rzixtfw)kp?

fl!1gxlguAuy(|fuu?&eKhjwtyl^fTbvvjJgxBNmd@fEjij,rg!BN)w!gxxcAx
zqb+vnEl.sush!Cq"xgeFvaMCri!zAaycxzguAyex&ozhubgwAxxysd>numgu \

fl!VjjFgzHOeo^kBaoqAAuhsLty+jfaKbxMwqHMj NfEbkfeSsjvy 

fl!GzfuAmRtxs7-ltckirAixtMe:zqs<be]htsNmi!ztjpixrnfMtzw^jlvr})

fl!DwyrDitNel@vBfpueOofGtDs;fopogeLvaMBjd#ksjppnFnatAfm+b/aCnnul
BqovwwwkaMIee|qg

fl!UwuHvtxtBi!itbpijrAixtxy#pqdv?)rAixtRe/itaJcwwgjGNjv/ABugf	
Emxpksybas|N(_fsfvvnFnaMCwi%fAgbvmAz?stNd<uFfbvmwgzHOsk!rmeA
zqmnueMzattxx=xK?&

fl!K&rrhgKunh!Oleqp)LglGIBd=tq.&bxspesUqm$kfatcyzlssuqe/sqebcy
ztfbrwGwpLuq
