  Alice could think of nothing else to say but `It belongs to the
Duchess:  you'd better ask HER about it.'

  `She's in prison,' the Queen said to the executioner:  `fetch
her here.'  And the executioner went off like an arrow.

   The Cat's head began fading away the moment he was gone, and,
by the time he had come back with the Dutchess, it had entirely
disappeared; so the King and the executioner ran wildly up and
down looking for it, while the rest of the party went back to the game.



                           CHAPTER IX

                     The Mock Turtle's Story


  `You can't think how glad I am to see you again, you dear old
thing!' said the Duchess, as she tucked her arm affectionately
into Alice's, and they walked off together.

  Alice was very glad to find her in such a pleasant temper, and
thought to herself that perhaps it was only the pepper that had
made her so savage when they met in the kitchen.

  `When I'M a Duchess,' she said to herself, (not in a very
hopeful tone though), `I won't have any pepper in my kitchen AT
ALL.  Soup does very well without--Maybe it's always pepper that
makes people hot-tempered,' she went on, very much pleased at
having found out a new kind of rule, `and vinegar that makes them
sour--and camomile that makes them bitter--and--and barley-sugar
and such things that make children sweet-tempered.  I only wish
people knew that:  then they wouldn't be so stingy about it, you
know--'

  She had quite forgotten the Duchess by this time, and was a
little startled when she heard her voice close to her ear.
`You're thinking about something, my dear, and that makes you
forget to talk.  I can't tell you just now what the moral of that
is, but I shall remember it in a bit.'

  `Perhaps it hasn't one,' Alice ventured to remark.

  `Tut, tut, child!' said the Duchess.  `Everything's got a
moral, if only you can find it.'  And she squeezed herself up
closer to Alice's side as she spoke.

  Alice did not much like keeping so close to her:  first,
because the Duchess was VERY ugly; and secondly, because she was
exactly the right height to rest her chin upon Alice's shoulder,
and it was an uncomfortably sharp chin.  However, she did not
like to be rude, so she bore it as well as she could.

  `The game's going on rather better now,' she said, by way of
keeping up the conversation a little.

  `'Tis so,' said the Duchess:  `and the moral of that is--"Oh,
'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round!"'

  `Somebody said,' Alice whispered, `that it's done by everybody
minding their own business!'

  `Ah, well!  It means much the same thing,' said the Duchess,
digging her sharp little chin into Alice's shoulder as she added,
`and the moral of THAT is--"Take care of the sense, and the
sounds will take care of themselves."'

  `How fond she is of finding morals in things!' Alice thought to
herself.

  `I dare say you're wondering why I don't put my arm round your
waist,' the Duchess said after a pause:  `the reason is, that I'm
doubtful about the temper of your flamingo.  Shall I try the
experiment?'

  `HE might bite,' Alice cautiously replied, not feeling at all
anxious to have the experiment tried.

  `Very true,' said the Duchess:  `flamingoes and mustard both
bite.  And the moral of that is--"Birds of a feather flock
together."'

  `Only mustard isn't a bird,' Alice remarked.

  `Right, as usual,' said the Duchess:  `what a clear way you
have of putting things!'

  `It's a mineral, I THINK,' said Alice.

  `Of course it is,' said the Duchess, who seemed ready to agree
to everything that Alice said; `there's a large mustard-mine near
here.  And the moral of that is--"The more there is of mine, the
less there is of yours."'

  `Oh, I know!' exclaimed Alice, who had not attended to this
last remark, `it's a vegetable.  It doesn't look like one, but it
is.'

  `I quite agree with you,' said the Duchess; `and the moral of
that is--"Be what you would seem to be"--or if you'd like it put
more simply--"Never imagine yourself not to be otherwise than
what it might appear to others that what you were or might have
been was not otherwise than what you had been would have appeared
to them to be otherwise."'

  `I think I should understand that better,' Alice said very
politely, `if I had it written down:  but I can't quite follow it
as you say it.'

  `That's nothing to what I could say if I chose,' the Duchess
replied, in a pleased tone.

  `Pray don't trouble yourself to say it any longer than that,'
said Alice.

  `Oh, don't talk about trouble!' said the Duchess.  `I make you
a present of everything I've said as yet.'

  `A cheap sort of present!' thought Alice.  `I'm glad they don't
give birthday presents like that!'  But she did not venture to
say it out loud.

  `Thinking again?' the Duchess asked, with another dig of her
sharp little chin.

  `I've a right to think,' said Alice sharply, for she was
beginning to feel a little worried.

  `Just about as much right,' said the Duchess, `as pigs have to
fly; and the m--'

  But here, to Alice's great surprise, the Duchess's voice died
away, even in the middle of her favourite word `moral,' and the
arm that was linked into hers began to tremble.  Alice looked up,
and there stood the Queen in front of them, with her arms folded,
frowning like a thunderstorm.

  `A fine day, your Majesty!' the Duchess began in a low, weak
voice.

  `Now, I give you fair warning,' shouted the Queen, stamping on
the ground as she spoke; `either you or your head must be off,
and that in about half no time!  Take your choice!'

  The Duchess took her choice, and was gone in a moment.

  `Let's go on with the game,' the Queen said to Alice; and Alice
was too much frightened to say a word, but slowly followed her
back to the croquet-ground.

  The other guests had taken advantage of the Queen's absence,	
gzebyjJlaKyxx*tsakpeLofsMme%kaabjtOlwxL	d:nqaoqrwuusNmi,fEbybmwy.
ztfAbmMysByid#golbvtrAixtle_kfavjjrXvxysd_kDfnAeJlntLpm+mlujcyrh
sAngpy\zawyqe,fIpwnirjpLNex&kyavjjAyaECAi|a

flBnneLofsNnq^fFigAeOlsxtup@Euoibyzla0Oji+fzfxgwrsfyNes'l
wGbttjDsjGAeA*ztavjjrvuAywd[rmzgtxlgbGxew&uGukplr'PyzeA*ztajkx
nqbf#)rvss|Tj'fIjvjezlssBje%'/abVmGzfsQms_fEigbxwuuxHhi%fIftg
zmlgpeAuuHthy|zAeAbgQguAyew=rpjgtxlgxAIes'fopwtxwgitxex=fxfcxj
urgbdjAuhsuwg&kEavqevvaMBnw7fEpbvmsAauSex&klfpfeGmaAuqj!gzajqzJ
uDauqeLofKyeA^xqapqesydAyxd-kru?bfFkatFqd:nqarnfQlsLnei\iqqvbyzl
Quoi?eLofs~zi^tfacpirHmBwj{!CqsgbnFgdNMys%ElbpfeMuexLew^tFfpejrvg
kJfewyAvon

flUjgsrAixtVy^kzangkLgpyz	d]AuugbtMAaHzef/kmuj?esuesMfm%fFp
Gxjeg	r'ItPjd,uGaugjFguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsSjx9-

fl!Pq	\gttCid?rudg}er'JsxtrNzlfxgsrroHQeA&gFacbRGjls@zv:rqaku \

fl!Kv)KguAyex&ozhbOtura!Owx-klTqwurptsGfh^frsqo	\gttCid:nqaSwjwu?

fl!KbswCfKtxe>fAog?eGyaAyfv%fAgbqswa"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!EqrwgpGnex&kz.&bxspesNmi!WGfgp	r'bGxel^fEicnqrAfEFeC=Aliku
nutvqwQa"

flBubyzlzsQfp)kpaqhkrApzyyl^xfaCnnulaAyfv%fFigbPAuhsMfC!ozacbqGD
BAjeg	rApsNmi!iAnrcsQghxHjv@rxz?b%%vvsuwi!gxmbrfJkpGyi	Nfl!Eqrwa
ZTBV&XrhazIth!ztjpi^\gtAyew@opavqezlsLyqj7frptbxzlaAuid'kxubszAAf
AzicruQgbMtyl^fzvodjJgpytjB^iGukqsKguAyeU;kqobjfvgpKxjv^jg

flUjgDrCfKSew=uzaecrwgvIIsd@fSsArmGu.sFDm+mlgcuyrhtEyjt!ozavjj
yGo}be}PGsSty!jAo&veCupPtBl@zlbbIwQwiHHem| lmqqprhusNmi!vudvwwwb-
^7q?bqsGzsNmm+m-"bufAkaMBjdlAqfp?e]howtye)klujkxrFpNHld-gpzbvt
yqfbvmwgNHwpdoADung	rhowtys!nqbtbmAzaACxx=xK?bbNrtvLNek=fnbemesue
yqfbckLlssMtq^fqygezLppGMeM!nmwgbtJkfKyi(3fmofbxzlaPuqo^jlphh	
rqbxksygBEChi!gxppgeOpuAtyl^fSsArmGu?stFp*iqafkirupMtvy*zqankpw
ztfbntGraHzex&kldtgfLBsxnef;zlppbyzlaPBtp^fEigbyzvvzByd*zlxqwqv
hqaswnLlatMew@lqavqeKAbRtBm:nljvbfKguHtls!grugteLobMtxe<gsf
WGfgp,rgtHtxl^fIbkvjvb

flUjgeYyzIBtr!ymubwurhowtwy#hqebkyKgfRyx\!fFigpeAAaPuyg&kpavjj
WGfgpeLpmEtxl^fIbubtMAaHzew*mtu<beLofGtnx!itvemqwk?st%1&gFahws/_
ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz.bjfDmaMIem:yqmh?ezhmytys!Gxjeg 

fl!YjfLgJ`tyl^frvp{)rzbBxeE-oof}

fl!YjDlgT1Y	(!ymjfbyzlaZLDt&uz?bb%1A"Ltfp-ftftbksudRnex&gF;bbyzlz
tqwgtewEfvOyi|fzpdqiQaaRIzd)tAx}beUvnxttrH-

fl!GxjJFcHxDd|gKtb*hGtfsIs%Oftftg	\guAIzk&zlBnkhwaatMew&klxgpy
yxpynDrhgMywd*zaab@NrufOywd>gEauqeGyexLjh!gnpwveAuatFqd_Elmkhjl
tqwgt^\

flUjgDrobwtss:fsppgexhssvjj=xqavjjQgttQex&klNqepr1vKNqi!ozavjj
jutvcsul.sMnx:ozhbufvgbGxep=tqmAbtFgbsFnx:rqangiylaHzev=iw.bcsva
gEavjjQgdtGjd+kmsgt	rHmBwjd$uGmfbmwhssBnq!yuhjksygbLtnj!nutbjjsyu
CAvnfetyftE d!YtfbrnLpfwtmm_fpfgrqQbas|2l@zljubmAzaLIwv=Ch"bumw
gElgfeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFkaMBjdbxKqjqsrhoLQjv^jfaxgwQgoxuwp,fuobvmw
ymngbBGyeLtfw!hqgqtjlg!2N)w!gxmbjnKggtHhC7fFicv,rgixtme|t/ubitL
tAauqwJvxmtDs;fwoqy rgDHGjd=t-"

flTqbyzlzsQjr:fGqbvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sQms!rApmgirhusNmi_fIjvj
rmsigewFfLtky-rlphbywhsLnef;zltckirupMBnr"a

fl!VjnKgixLjd,uGoibqskzm.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ l!ujjrDbGNxd'uDavq
qzpybDGBssBnw:uDz?bxzlawI (

fl!K&qDguxFqd*zligt	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^fuobcevlfInel=rxpy
zAog<er'tBNeh=Cz.bdtLoaHzeC=AfacpirkpG.yd|vqbmbfrDpKxex*rxaK&Aw
luokumwk?,

flTqbyzlzsMfx!jAxp?esuesHtf=jKaurtClayIwd|uyfbonFBuxM d!Gxjeg
ztpwimLguHtmi/yqmh?e]PawIs(:fEfgbmGDaAyeg@tlFXGSrmjGCxl7fugbjj
jAfup)LgcxAnr8-laDwyrzixtBe*zqebrfLpfGNqC8

fl!Qphwa"sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqacveDhtMneA*ztacbiwlqsMnk& l!KbBsz
glsgcqr1vKNqi8-

flUjgxwgxHLiw!CqsgbkGsmHQjh!hKacbAwyzsFtr"fEjngsul.svws)kzaqpqQ
hKacpeGjdtMns+gxagzhDhntNns+fAgb@MBjlKLm%NfrsqoeLofs1wC[nAo?bfFk
ztfbetFzutHyd&kmwAbxGicBHld=llujge5vdDtYy/zxf}beSsjvyeA@ylwgtD
tqbtnDrnfMNnr"fGqbcsvgttSnr" l!VjfFraRIz{!yus?bkGyaRIzv
ozugtjKAjGAew:uDz?&etBusMmi!iAvnfeFvusBjp[fFikppAuhsNmi/klNWUYrif
sAsgbyGgdHGj{!yAaujjrzbMtxx*rxacpirzbBxer=ztjpi 

fl!YjjFgxxtBi/klmkvyDl.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd>kzubqsrhusFfw: lnqtj
immonDlguAIzk&fEuknqrzpuvnr"fmankyLsfsHtA!gzebvmwu.s|Bi!CqovbyG
yoiqqqrposNmi!yqb}be`ofsGfw:kDaycxrhosIqh!ZGsvnj	|xxtzw^jluqbhssm
nunbVtJApBMj[T-

fl!YjDrkjwtDs;fobnnezpns@tv:uutg?eAmaAyeA@yz"vbtFl},tFp*iqacupwk?

fl!YgeuhmEyid&oyaVqwLvjLyef^imvugezlaMuzk&zlvu?)rzbBxex&klNqep
ZGsvnjrhozLnp,.la@tjssmRtDs;fmsgbAwyzsxzp-'/

fl!1qzrvvzByd:ulcgbfKobFyid=llzqwwKlmytks/fmtmksygtNwmd@fEjorqw
wGfuvnGu.,tfh%kpavjjrNsRJms+?lbpfeLofGtyl^ElcqvmrzbMtxm-kzubcsv
rApmgirhusJts/fMmkejlgxAIej^rFatgfvFaMIew*twakpyGguAyei@xFi}beSA
rmtvbyzlaZLDt&uzaucnvguHtyl^fYpeme`BsMFj{!^Pskxjrvomttp%frfnntO"
JAo&vetlatFqd%gKacdtMAaBN^(!gzebjjrDfGNes+fuobvmwzfsQtv%ya

fl!1gxlgxxtBi+zluqbxuopHFem+fFigbxwh.sNms;mtaAqzrtbRH)x!hqmkgAw
oF_+&

fl!KbswCfKtxe*jlJbfnvu"M:)d*tFfttzHAfwtFp*iq?

fl!1qzrkjwn)d|guebvmwgNHwpdoADung 

fl!JqqvgzHOwd:uzhwg^\gbwxjh!ztfbIwQwiHH	d#krptgeSsjvyeg=Axebuuwhl
gsbkp rgUAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfsQjr:fAo}

fl!YgezhesNmi!hqtvbtxgfwOhe:oAou+]Auayuhx7fIfbyjFAaMIew$nApn
kHftAevhz a)

fl!K&1Wgcxysd:ulbbffQ|tvBts- luqq	\gttCid?rudg>e]FpNtsi^jz"vbgw
yAarttMkatMee-rlujcym_

fl!YkyzgfQNwe|b/acupwkaMBjdhuolbVzJAmxtfd-oFungesuyBIzw-Eg

fl!1gxl_aLunh!Gxjeg	r'xxtqi@xzffbKJlovBee+jlnwunub"

fl!CpirDbLBnr"b/aucnvguAyeQ=iwaVwwLsfn

fl!EgwLhjGFDd+uF@&bxspesUqm$kljpfnyubGNqC8

fl!Cj^rAixHeC=ADtbyfKu"Mtfd/kmmnAeyvpwtxg&uAm?&eKhjwtyl^fYpem
ZGsvnjrposuex=tqaqheyyftNev^rufh}er'OHQee:f1VTUeLofRtme%fmubvmw
kzebqkrAixtgm-rfa*HwwudAneq;yud?bF6Ka$UXLdTS_+gCLybn?)

fl!1qzrjpNFirNzlicxjrDbGNjh!oFaowhza"sMfm%fMmkejhg!ECAm+mlbvbyzl
hAuvqrrvgsNmi!yqb}&

fl!KbhGBmwH)x!grgqtirApsFje/tljv})rzbBxex&klNqepr1vKNqi!Cuujbf
yuhj}er'JsIsp,fFpqmeLofsLjk;rmsbetMytxo)

fl!YjfLgxtMex&gF}&bnFxvBLjh!Gxjeg 

fl!TgjDpoztfr%f9skvmAuhmttj!iAvtujlguHtgi"ozaykyza"sNmi!SAdm
ZGsvnjryfIFni%?l!cpirAixHex&klekhkwyfGNef/gzdjgxrvgsUwm:nyfvkh	|
GyckvnGu.sXnw:xmdvktFaa@Aqm'oobvktFaatHid	kDjuktFb"

fl!KbswCfKtmi@xpaqhe,2hECkm$gFjqp	,_aTFng^fHfpvzJlesNtd|gK?bb%#obM
oEakva\

flUjgeYyzIBtr!rugvgirBqsvtx&fuuubusDtsCsd|ADqtkxwbas|2l@z-abPjNls
nqbtfeGmaNAqm'Euoi#)rpusyCg-gungf rg!^Izd)tAxbymsAaMIef^gGukhD
oE.bKeKBqIIxi9-

fl!1gxl_aLunh!GxjegevvvuNky-rK;bb%AAaFyfr|/\uq+]Ehlxa]e+EFikpl	|
vDfvvnwy?,

fl!YgqDaaMBjr7-lujgeYyzIBtr!CqovbtFaa/Ckd,uGafqs\AaDHtA!CtbvbyG
AsmkhDrptmtDs;fMSGbfrzjFJqi:uz?&

flBnkhwgeBxer=zlgggqrlovIzv@mqebvtrhtDtfr,fyptgeIBfLNns+ylbdqzL
oF.butrzixtyy/tqebvtrAixtRs$qlUwtyDl.sush!ymjfb%#obMtjp|klicfeQvv
zAangfJu},

fl!YgqDaaMBjv^fIbubRQzuxLD{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqatguDpfwneg=Azukpl
urgbvmwgtNvoi$zEaqpezptszqe[vqsu?e]|_6Sxx^xK.bcsupfGNee+jlnqfjJu.
CuujbXwhpzLft&EaabvmwuaWLfA-ozh++yzlaWLfA-ozh+ofKAfKtBe|fmobqqv
iAoigw	lfEnex&gFawujvguHths_klppejrhaPyjo2flIGbysBhANey|
JDbynnFn.s!yv^zoikpllgbGxeJ@ozukplrposWtm-yg"

fl!YjfLgxtMeXcG6ankpwc"sMfm%fMmkejm

fl!YgqDaa2the+-FaujtOgjMtDs;fyzugqxa"sNmi!SAdmbYMyuEyew@op;bb%1_n
zApbuyAmgnteE+jlujgeYyzIBtr!tqwgteDlbKHyd*zg"

fl!JciF_usNnq^ /aucnvguAyeK/EBiqp,rg!2tBi+zluqbyzlaVFfw|oot
smtvgwlguAIzk&alaJgeOhtsusd=rpaetftaa1YeA@yg"

fl!KbswCfKtBi+zluqbmAt.,tyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd|guebynLoattxm"naab@mw
zmvijyrSbNAmm+mlbpfeYyjxz	d:nqzbwxwkaMIew@Eg"

fl!UqezlawCi{!yAajgevpem.ew@opavjjrNsRJms+ ltkimAuhsCsd&oEavwwF}
gzebdtLoavLje:ADfubmAkaMBjm/frbegxrposNmi*xlqcyxm

fl!CpiropPtre+EliqwwKgbsxfC!juebAtMgeHtqi|yAou{)rzbBxeE-oof?bnFgb
nGstAeLvavBfr"klujgeKBcCyhx8

fl!VgsropNLxd:nqahkwKAawuD{NfEbkfeLofs7tg)f6vtvqw?a/Hnr^fFig
tqyv?esuesMtd=tg"

fl!YjfLgbswzv*uGtbrqsu@,tjB$rmjogirHmBwj	

fl!VjfL_tsNmi!xqbuqsrAixS)v^fobnnjvgmxMxs+yf"bvmwgHKSul=t
xqnctpwk;st%f^imvugeLofRtqi|yqobhwGtawuDd:ulecA \

flUjkxrDbLtvy*zqacbswDaBxje!zAaCnnul.sush!ytfbvmGBhANem:fAwgtes
ruuvnjrifyIwi!ytfbofvlaAywd+kJubtjEhsDoedGZtfpbyzlaxFjz^tFibffQ
sGtvbmsCfsvji+fmajqqAkbRp)

fl!QheuvvKMjd*zlxcu	\gttCid:nqaOqhCgUNLyp^a

fl!CpiropPtim%fKpwbrsubzyes+fFigbyOlmyNm NfMmkejrDfGNes+fqbigwDF?

fl!VjfL_tsyss;mtacdtMAaEyxw=tE.&byzlaZLDt&uzakpywysNJyi%fuobc
BqsAbiwjjwyid:uzf<be]AfEFel^xltqojLojGAee#uGubvmwghtGjw!tAx}&



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!ITBRVJ0gY

flabbergasted!flabbergUAyeP=hEugte9BbwLnp-k


flUjge5vdDtYy/zxfbunyofwtii^vxz?bfFkawLjA!ztfbdfuraHzes+klgncuHls
gosquxrojLtjC^ygabJjrspHEjh!gFaCnnul.sush!zDjgfeLvaLJje) lcwvexvs
glnkpzLlaHLex>ultqdxrjiHEjh!nutbxtAjfnte$ngyfbcxrpgsBjd&gpacbgGuf
ozajkxrAiKIfx7-ltckirAixtLv,vtpp<erhowtnx!yqubvtrDpKEew&gwjpiezpn
gzebrzFjiBHld&oyakpeLofsvfg)alaCveDhtMtyl^fYpeme`BsMFjd/kopxgwwk
nutbxtAjfmtfr% lxkvmrAftLxd/AzokplrkpPHel*yldjgjCz.sBjd>kzubqs
gsbkp,	|

fl!1qzrtbRtss:ftbxgeDpwxxeq;itawpiwyaMBjd|km_+&e}'JsBfz^t/u?&
ymjfbFDpdx ][GgzebrjJobIMeC=AlxgtjrufOywd^BqobksLypwOhi%fFpbceDvcLNjvT//
[Mmkejrifzusd:ultcAe]PaHHhi!zmtvgi	|"svzx!itfemjvgixLxi-llicuyAszm
gzebufAka/8t{!tqwgt){g! axs!EAvbefFgitPjd+uljfgfrDitNee!jqmkimLmvE
ztjpiesgMHvxx^xlRwciJpmEyem|'/

fl!Pq	rpowyjh7-ltckirHmBwj	!f)XjcyrzpKNes'fmafcsulaBMem:b/

fl!YjDl_aLunh!ztfbIwQwiHH	dGEAvbhnJzusztv_fuovqesgmBHjd@rAoibyzl
yqb+umGyf a)

fl!VytrsjGyx%NfoskgirAixtRs$qlUwtyDl?st%W^gxt?byMyuEyx{!ymmoqsl
gzebutrvoityl^tfayjjFgzHO)z^fomgcwwkatFqd:nqalgqDF_yCxl!uGubqk
ztfbyfQ|_,

fl!VJF`ghxHjv@rxzbvfCltsMtq^fFjog	\gjGNjv/ABugfeLofs1wC[nAo}

fl!++DGBatxAe+iqavynul_ .

fl!GchzgxBNmd@fxpduywyatMee!vmsvpjJ""swwm^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!QheuvvKMj{NfFigbRGjls@zv:rqaucnv?as|fh<gzdgbyOpdxnew^zluq
vmsvpjJz_ .

fl!++hzhozyep=hEugtxlgbGxev^zusgbnFgttGjd=xpft?)rjpGNnr;kpavjj
MDzrjtFb

fl!VjjFaaRIzd)tAx?&eLofs7tg)f6vtvqwgxxHyd=tfa@AtMguALtA!ztf++)

fl!VjjrspuMyi/y-"bumGBuxxex&klHtAuzvomtBm:nlbbdtMuesCsx=fFigbfAy?

fl!++fKggtLes;zluqbxwhatMeC=Aldcp]	_

fl!UynEgbyNjv!ztfo#)rzdKyfq^jlujgeYyzIBtr8

fl!VwwFgbsMtq^xEbwnyrposNmi!yqb#&euyjxxex&klNqepr1vKNqi7
imqgtnFnaPCqh-ElbdqzLb

fl!DchCguHtqe+jlbicnFaatHid:nmu&uessmsNmi!lusuvexphNLj{NfEbkfeLof
SAdmbYMyuEy	d|ApegpqQgeKIut*tsajkxrCpBwj,!gzebvmwguPIeg/kmuwtjKa
Ctpbjfvgcxysd(AyqkplrhcHOyd-owfbofvguACsk|fmmnbyzptsNnq^ ltcv
jAxpbfyhjGtAi/EltcfqQgbGxeu;oqunA	rhowtqs=qqebcyrHmBwj	

fl!KveEBtMtgi!glwgtDrwsxNyC!jmoeg	\gttCid?rudgbyAtjwFD	

fl!YqzDkaRIzd-owfbvtrzfxtfd-oFungeGmaBNa(!ymjfbyzla6Iho!ZGsvnjm

fl!XgwQgnNwmd*tpfgf	\gttCid?rudg}

fl!EqrwaaEyy(|fFsAbyzlayCww:frjiwww""sMfm%fFigbRGjls@zv:rqavqeLof
MDzrjtFbas|2i!imobftrDjMBty:fxpduywytmtDs;fwoqy rgXAChl!ytbnn
yuoi{)

fl!Qj	r6P@txm+mf"bufAkaMBjdbxKqjqsmga/3)z^frptitLAfGtyl^fIptfxm_

flTqbyzlzsvjk@tltqnjEumRtie+iuoibwGBowtfr%fDpwpirHmBwj{!kHftAeFvx
gzebvmwuaMLje%ozhbqsrofKtys^ylxjgsrAixSet@yEffbyGvavFtw^ lbpf
CmwkplrAixCwd'uDfrcBKguHtre/qlujgeLpnxneA&oxfbvmwgNHwpdoADung
ymoibyzptmtAi/EltnqBDFatHid|gpmA<]	


^|XknqrFpNtBe-qlbbnnLAmxtke|zqs{*eKhjwtfd>nuukplrApsuew+gum}
_6igtj\zattus/vAjugeuspLyef^nuofbzKaatHid&k/tbvwwheBHld=tlnA
fFbkn 
YqfbjtOgftAjv-ElujgeDvcLNjv|fmofbyzlaMOwx-kEacnqrheOusg^'
ZtfAbfJlaPunx*tsaqpeLofsMmm+mxf++BAsmsSty!iAngbfFkaCInr!ztf
jmoega

3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CumnbDGBaCInr!ztf
jmoega
3umnbDGB.sQtrNzlzqw	rDjEFeC=Afayqs\AaRIz{!CAo&veQvvsDtm+fFig
jmoega


_~pwbhsuaKyfp-ElicxjrupsHtx*uzajqBrkfECll:lGmbkyrDjEFef^
3tfpbyzlzsNfo^fGtbwurhowtyl/uIawu	rDjMBex&klmqdxLlsLnes;zluq
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergastew^g-&
HGubvmwgtGunp!xqqnkjvg&!Itd'gD.bvtGggtL^)!gzebifNlattqs=q
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbergasted@ywbpej	|
YmjfbmwguAuso^jlujgeOojMCsk!quofnDlgcNNel^fIpwnirupMtos*tlujg
flafcsul?
flabYtMsesHtx7fopwnirupMneA=AxebptLaavIzp%fzpv?eOvvExer=zlkqks
flabberguAyeh@tof
