	God make incision in thee! thou art raw.

CORIN	Sir, I am a true labourer: I earn that I eat, get
	that I wear, owe no man hate, envy no man's
	happiness, glad of other men's good, content with my
	harm, and the greatest of my pride is to see my ewes
	graze and my lambs suck.

TOUCHSTONE	That is another simple sin in you, to bring the ewes
	and the rams together and to offer to get your
	living by the copulation of cattle; to be bawd to a
	bell-wether, and to betray a she-lamb of a
	twelvemonth to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldly ram,
	out of all reasonable match. If thou beest not
	damned for this, the devil himself will have no
	shepherds; I cannot see else how thou shouldst
	'scape.

CORIN	Here comes young Master Ganymede, my new mistress's brother.

	[Enter ROSALIND, with a paper, reading]

ROSALIND	     From the east to western Ind,
	No jewel is like Rosalind.
	Her worth, being mounted on the wind,
	Through all the world bears Rosalind.
	All the pictures fairest lined
	Are but black to Rosalind.
	Let no fair be kept in mind
	But the fair of Rosalind.

TOUCHSTONE	I'll rhyme you so eight years together, dinners and
	suppers and sleeping-hours excepted: it is the
	right butter-women's rank to market.

ROSALIND	Out, fool!

TOUCHSTONE	For a taste:
	If a hart do lack a hind,
	Let him seek out Rosalind.
	If the cat will after kind,
	So be sure will Rosalind.
	Winter garments must be lined,
	So must slender Rosalind.
	They that reap must sheaf and bind;
	Then to cart with Rosalind.
	Sweetest nut hath sourest rind,
	Such a nut is Rosalind.
	He that sweetest rose will find
	Must find love's prick and Rosalind.
	This is the very false gallop of verses: why do you
	infect yourself with them?

ROSALIND	Peace, you dull fool! I found them on a tree.

TOUCHSTONE	Truly, the tree yields bad fruit.

ROSALIND	I'll graff it with you, and then I shall graff it
	with a medlar: then it will be the earliest fruit
	i' the country; for you'll be rotten ere you be half
	ripe, and that's the right virtue of the medlar.

TOUCHSTONE	You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the
	forest judge.

	[Enter CELIA, with a writing]

ROSALIND	Peace! Here comes my sister, reading: stand aside.

CELIA	[Reads]

	Why should this a desert be?
	For it is unpeopled? No:
	Tongues I'll hang on every tree,
	That shall civil sayings show:
	Some, how brief the life of man
	Runs his erring pilgrimage,
	That the stretching of a span
	Buckles in his sum of age;
	Some, of violated vows
	'Twixt the souls of friend and friend:
	But upon the fairest boughs,
	Or at every sentence end,
	Will I Rosalinda write,
	Teaching all that read to know
	The quintessence of every sprite
	Heaven woulqh!ozankyLsfsMms>a
e6igtjxvsxtMi@BqobPfLBsxthl@xsff
e6icveGufsvth,fEiqwqvgcxtkm-r/e
e9jvjessmsAwe$kEaykiw|fGFfv"kp;
eZbvwwwgqKyxi+zxzbfnKAjEF)h
eTfngs\zavBji) lcwveFvusBjv!nqbtv	
eOmgqusAst.xd_gvfuvDl
eMucnfFAb,Mef^zFftbusyum
e5bfbQMjsxNneNylnqfjKAzn
e6iwue0vttFnr%fAgbofFFaIuwx|
eNzbjjsCfGFDd|EzpfbBszawyAm|kp.
e1gbofFFayuhi| lfAgxrhowtmi@xFt?
e6pbjfNlaMBjd:uGdjgxrkftLjw:fBskBjvb
eTfcxjFgxHOqh!ztbvbxzlaMBjw^fsjhvxrziHOqh!nmwg?
eMofbNrApsFnz^fmofbiAlaAywd|rmwg}

X1TCNN6K 8trs|zlhgpyDlaIOqt*zqs#bBzhusNjh*uGtbjtEpmRttj!rAwg
etbxgeQvvsQje/oqebAtMyaIuwm|nuppgwKgxBNme- lbpfeFlwxL
eoskgir_ItPjd[gFjgphwaazIth!vqprnj/_

IQMKCdZvxsHtAHfnbem	rmsBysh|'lTjguzlswnek=fAghbfrsjMNqi8
eSpbynLoaACr{!yustcmm

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_kfaujjHofKx	d-kFawueEhlxtfr!nAoqwwsimxtwi:xqbv>
eFiqwlzgoHNeA*ztadclrhowtge"mmhg?eQlusQnx&fEdtkurhowtxg/oBqcijm

e}FzgzFAaV9WMifmofbY72D1!YSiK{

IQMKCdVpeLNex&uGajgfJguAyxi!Bqsugxn

X1TCNN6K 8neC^yfaKbmwhswtyl^slbnn	rhowtrs/kluqq.rmpKtxs_klph
eFigoezhesCsd:nqnbotJlayyjx!ztbpbyzlaOyww^ylxqwqvgcxuw	

IQMKCd`obM.xd+ulncvywy;sNmi!lqfvbrAniMtgi@xlujgeNlsLyx	

X1TCNN6K TS	d#AFavjjrmfxNeA^xqancrwgbGxeg=AxebptLgcxuw
eFigoxwswxMeA*ztpwveLofsPjv|klbpfeLofKyks/kltvqtv
exbogqQgjGtyl^fHftujm

IQMKCdTBusxnh|zlujqzroftLeA*ztpwveOvowywm+mliqyeLozsHfq^
eEiqwqvgcxtme+mqebcsvgdtLAi%fGqqpeLofLyex/kqt{

X1TCNN6K 2tBe|fEfxgsrvgsNmi!tuogbisFtsIzx!uravjjrDpGxjv
enfhqwwgzHOeg@sq<bhtJgmHIpd&kDfbymsAa2tks;tpaqpes
eBbno]LyfxoeM!CmtbpjNlssMtd#k\sjArwkaLCsg^
e2zvjfyvstM)d:oyf?byzhus3eA@ylbpbNJptAtwe: lxjkhzgJ
eobpbmsyeESev^sqndgwm

IQMKCd`ypPtDs;fIiqbmsAisxtr^fFikua

X1TCNN6K 2Mem:fmaocsn

IQMKCdSuesueg&guo?byzhusSty!uzdgbBGyfmtff=AFajkxrufvE 
eOicplwgzHOeg=rAvt{

X1TCNN6K 2tuv*ztfg?eOopo

IQMKCd7gMHLi{!RAsf#eAAaBMee!nmsfbrsAuxLej=xlgtkjFktsNt
eyfgv.rivMtrs;tFbkpxrtbRtgi!xqnqxjvgxBNmd^gDujszsrfL
emofbxGgfGwty+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubymGgjLtnx9

IQMKCd1zaBNet=yEjdnjn

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!OlqtkyzlfsHtA!CuujbrGzusJjx*zuppcwQgwxBjq^tof?
eFfnneElaPBtd*zlju}

IQMKCd7gxHHii/lGm?bBGuexLky- lbpfeEvtMtBs+jqshwq
eIppfjJmvE:ee+jlzgvesnbBHeA=tpfthzDaatHid@lFftbyzhum
eAvvbtxgbEFel=uBjpi^

X1TCNN6K ZIth!sKaeqrHsfQCtrHfppuveLopNtyl*tw.bvmGBhAtNd@s
eobrcwAzpGyid-owfbceEhomtNd&gHfbcevvvuFjx!gzebjtKlaBH
eyzbfnKwpLCym=thaQpjrpovBes'fpfncDrtpKyem|fm
e5pwvm	zftttj!juteqAwyzitNd[xuujgjlguxFqd_klxjqeAzaBN
eCvkepDF.sush!yBfcmeswbvy ddfIpwnirAiHOeg=Axeuv
eEucorwy.sNme:fFiqweEphANxx!vAvtbyzptswtr$kmmgfeEho
eAvvbtxguASeq=AFi?bfKgxBHjd$uyfubtMAaHzee!tmstqB	
eypwvmwkauIyx-kfagkyzlssNts!sGdjbfLgpGwj{!uDapqswgbM
emmn}e1gqKCyl^kfavcpwguAyeg=xwaqwyrvgsNmC!sAvvjeLobM
eybAbiJpoDtyl,fFjfksyz?

IQMKCd~vaRIzd_gKarwyrhaFusd*tlzqwwrifEFD	

X1TCNN6K 2Mel^fAgbItv_tsGfo*ts}bYmsAaFusr^xlphbrsu}s3xd&oE
etfcfeOvsMBee!nmu?btJgiBMeg&ozayqwLoattgi@xp}

IQMKCd6hzmtmi!nmujbgMAattqm:zxfbdjsyen

X1TCNN6K $BD{!MAebynDsaLysh!sAsg?eAmaMBjd_gzaykqDgcx
eFicppxBmhtqi:fyfbuysFaMBjd"xAxvjeGmaACxd#kmsf?eAm
eFiqwevlmtSeq^fzpvbyzlaDHtA-kphgbtxgiBMeg&oz?

IQMKCd1AaBMeC=AzhbQwDhowI	d:nmubvwAwqxxey[fFigbBJltMFjvNy
etfgnxrhowtDs;xligcwLgcHNmd*tlbpbnFzutHy	

X1TCNN6K 7uD{!hGubvmwgexPnp!zmlgbrGjlBHl\!yBfcm	rzbwtgv=Clbpf
eFswgeEhjwo

IQMKCd1_ayunx& ldqB	r_uBMel^a

X1TCNN6K 8Lqe+jA}

IQMKCd7ymtHis8

X1TCNN6K TFfw!ztfbffQ"aPBfx!ytbnne1geHtBm:nlnAbiGBcEyyd@tp
etpugar4itNeh*jligbBzlosNms;fEbygxLgiBGadrnmubufAk
etf{bMGDaEIto^jlig{e#ofKynr!Cqovbmwca$Bfx!smlgu
etjobmwyfotIm%ftfbcxCggHLeq^blXjgwwgsxGfm+ylig{
eTpybusyuxxel^fIjvjeLofxpee+jlxjgsrzitFyd:nAvbujw
etjobfyhjGpeE+yIftbrwgjGttr^fIptf 

IQMKCd%vvsGzw:fnptttOgnxtLe/mmovwf\zaFIzx&frjtuygg"MCxd@
eIptfeLvpsAwi@zlgqtesuzsGty:nlphbyzptsuliNyltkBjmgUH
eEbAbfQgbGxer=fFpbvmwzfsJfv:oovncwKgjLtrs/klujcsrAp
emouyjJgjGtfd$gFfejnKt?

X1TCNN6K UOyd%uFibjjrroHQex&gFaKbfEgjGtyl*ylgqtjKAatHid*t
eybp&xrhqIuwi-blMqqpKgixtfw!lDfujqQgbLtmi!juebvmw
epbAbmwgxKyxx-kp}

IQMKCd1AaBMee|fqbuAeLvavIzr:fmuqonwzatMex=fDfuqqNlaMBj
eBsqrtKpuBIsw!uracbqGCfKjef;zlucmjrhaMuxx^fAgboD
erjpfnFnaACr{!gzebtjDptAtnx!CuujblGvesIgw^xHbpejm
eUahqzFkaACrd;tpftbfrAsxy	d-owfbcevypIJjh!goptp 

X1TCNN6K 2Neq@Elxgnqrifswfp-kpaLqAw_tsNwi^ lxjgsrpusxws[y
erptvmrzvvBej/Auu}

IQMKCdYpwxtri!gGekgsul.sAts%fybfcrm

X1TCNN6K 9Ltg^kp?

IQMKCd`ofKyep@Elig?eKAsxNhl^jlbnqsyaaECpi!glxqwsvlesEsm"nF?

X1TCNN6K !Bty"nljvbgwgqBNDd:ultggeKBdAtfd|osiv?eAAaPyqp
enfeqrwzaMBjd"xAvpf 

IQMKCdUyzs.ms-rm"bvtrAiRtys+mGf?bNrwsBNmi^?ljvbhMywxNx
eGougfKvotvqC8fTfbyfKggNLsm|nqebnnClattmy+zqs}

X1TCNN6K 8nes_ozpwu^rofswtq^yluqbpAsmsGDd&kmsv}

IQMKCd1gxHOqh!yuoibrQgtHHld>oFiqwyrhauOwh^taavjtMgcKCsk^yF
eyfbqzLgpytyy+kg

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AloqveCupPtNd@slbbytEhootBl^tlJbvmAulmtNd_AEu
eEqgcpmgTPyjx7fEbAbtFb

IQMKCd%vvsvwm+mlngbtMA?s!tj:'ldqojKgixtss:ftftga

e}FpvjJgP~6FR	Ulbpfe2HR@YX;

X1TCNN6K ,@nw!nq;buqAulsvD{!gzebptLlaACr	

PMRWGXqPaMBfr)fKpwbkGyaRIzv!iAnrcsQ}auOy{!mApfbkspuAneM!nme
emtbnnwmaAuAi!hqfpbrQzfEzee-uzf}

U4MCPI7fBGxew=ftbfbNhgcNNeC^zfahqwrmbLBns+fEbmg	rPaMBfr)fKpw
eFpqbkGyaRIzv!yAdkgyQb

PMRWGXqNpwtgi!Cu"bAtM?aEyy(|fyfgveszaECyx-klbubBwgdtH 

U4MCPI7fJsxtd%kEjtgeOlaFuDd#klcgvywyaLNwe+mqsu}

PMRWGXqPaILfC!EAv?brsyaGIeq=xqavtjwzaPCyl!CDjvksy
expxg]KvozMem+fFigkwribKEx	

U4MCPI7fJsJwe,fKpw?eEhssHtd_uDfbqkrtzsPjv|kEaykyzgsxuim+m
eFigoeAsm zfz=ADffnDm

PMRWGXqYpLuqm+jljubDGBssFtz^-Eapcrwc

U4MCPI7fZxM	d(AEu}

PMRWGXqPawIer=zlmkmjrofKtse_kg

U4MCPI7fUAywi!CmtbptrAiHOll:fAgbrqwhtBHld,uGayjjFgtAyeA@y
eoitkxLloxx 

PMRWGXq4itNew:gFvtgeAzaLBjd=lh

U4MCPI7fKNMyd@ylikimrhtsGDd&kmsv}

PMRWGXq6pNtfv^frvnneGmaILjx:ElbpuBwytntMe<klzqweFvusvji+
emdswfAuuxxeA*ztaiqqvznBNmwNfIjxgxlgbGxeg=tzffbyzln
eAvvbtxgsBHlw9

U4MCPI7fOHNew=?lcwve1gbGMBi/fKpwbwAniMtue*tFffbhDvuAnej/uy
eIigphwgzHOel@BqauvzvpfwtDs;xlrwgxLppGM 

PMRWGXq6pNtme<klbbpnEimxtBm:.lJbvmAuls.yA@ylncfjrvg
eMucnfFAb,Mel^kxt}b2AsmsSty!yuubftOuaPCyl!sq}bcsv
eIfbvBGgxBFqd/gumbclspoLNes;xlnkuyJltLtyl^fIptnirhow
emmnbtMyaFCxi/Eg

U4MCPI7fJsQnp-foikfjrupsvwi@ztftbnFguAyeA=xxebdzLgnRMjp' 
emhcksKAaPBtq!OllpqBrtpLNej@Axuu}

PMRWGXq1ixtBs/yFahczDAaRIzd&gHfbkxrApsvjd*tlmqxjm

U4MCPI7f"!Cxd@frbwnyrPaPCqp!tAubemsuhxtks/fKpwtetltMtAm/zGf}
eUacoeOlbKSes'fKpw}

PMRWGXqIzsGDd:xAuj?e1gxtMew^kwjpiexvssuej=uxayjjFgJszty+j
eKpw}

U4MCPI7fIxtnw!jDpypjvgjGtyl^fnsqqpggmHIpd#AFakp	rhowtDs;
eEicnqrzfxtmm_a

PMRWGXq1ixLjddfEicnqrzfxtrm+klpypexphNLj	

U4MCPI7fXAChl!OlucmjrApsvjd^oFigtesggHIqd=xlbbenHofKo

PMRWGXqP"EFex@xDzbptrspGAjv!CuujbDGB;szfv^Cqmn?eyvpw
e5jipnGya5IAi8

U4MCPI7fJsurd"rmebqkrFpNLeh^vmsvwww?atxni; lhqqirTpGMni;x
eYfncsuopES 

e}FzkyrQB0#JWY

X1TCNN6K dUxm%kluqbHWSJTfeddfIjnneKwftEex=ftjo?eDplxtfd|gGdA
exbemjQgbGxey+jqsbvmsAaAugm:fBmcAeLofsEse<klxkvmrojFo
ePpbAtMgixuw{!lAsguywy}

U4MCPI7fWxLDd>kxm<bBzhusQty-jlzqwa

X1TCNN6K 2tuv@Elzqw	rDitNem|-Faq&hDvdDp

U4MCPI7fZHOew&uGmfbfKraFyeA&gFavkrwgp,tie,.lujgww_tsHtd$rAdm
euobvmwggHLjw:a

X1TCNN6K !Bjr!ztftgeAzaGIex/AqanqAwyaBHex&klgqtjKA<syqw^
eEjijnFnaxPjv,fyjpwywgbGxek/umokplrlwxLDd&uGsbytMse
epfvghLguAyep@FKahqtLgpytYm_klbubBwsmsuxd@fomqepm

U4MCPI7fBGxeA&EloqveLofsMBm'zlgqqyrvgs@nq^blicfeFvusNme:
enfgpeszaILtt^xh

X1TCNN6K USer=fyfcpxlgtBL,dooyfbvwsCfEMem+fpjxgwKgqtwjw!Cuuj
epjxgwKgqxLxs+ygaK&qDguxFqd,uGayjtr1jFyee_hxfu
eIjvjfDaaPBtdooyfbvwGAtsQnx&gx.bymGgUBGjd"gxmqrx
eIjvjfDgbGxeA&uligbxLhowMew:oxmbynLobEo

U4MCPI7fJsJwm:nqf?bBzvawIyl!nqavttLgxBNme-b

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, ligbyJvuLtme/jlxkvmrhaRIzr"fybkfetluPyjr!ztf
eoppvwsjusIkd&kDaocwJpbzyee+jlujgevhzsCyd*y
eEpngrFpAxx,d*llujgeAuuxLnq!hqadwyrhaLy)r+osiv?
e6jog)Kgqtwjd*yltqbmsyesNme:fuubujwttsNmi!rqoivmrvg
eEfxgsrFftL 

U4MCPI7fXAIee_hxfubYAtfsQnx&gx}

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!glqtkjKAaMBfx!rmdmue4huBHee+jlbbtnuoaFusd:nmu
etbvjeFvusNmi!mAvv?exvssNmi!uzfbuqwlqLtje|oxzbdjuhvLy
etfbefFupMtxx;jK.bcsvguAyes:nqsbnnNltsGjv/oxzbdjuhvLy
etfbhjwstsHtd[guo?byzlaHHjd-golkplrAixtgy/jqobqkrsftH
emofbBszuxzzp!rqbtpnFn.sNmi!uFigteCupPCsk!tAadwwvlo
eAgbjjsCzsNjh*uGtbrjFBsRjex&kEfbVnElatGgp^ylxkvmss?

U4MCPI7fXAIeh=ztajgeyhmEIud>oFicna

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!glujkjxguHtyl^fsbnntOz.sztv!ztpwimrofsAtd@y
eEphvqQgbLtks=zldcpexhmEnel^fFikppKgiBGxi-lluqqeKvpGtyl^xq?

U4MCPI7fXAIew:gKtbkyrzuBFqd>oFicna

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!rmxAgwKgjGtyl^fHbecyAvomtks/fFigAeKsfxJef^zIfgp
eFftoesuesNjv_fmofbyzlosNmi,fBftejACfsHtx!nAxbVnElaFIAi|a

U4MCPI7fXAywi!jIfnneQvvmtuv^zFzbAtMAio

X1TCNN6K $Cyl!ztjubxzlqAywh^yE.boDrzjLNjv3ftftgeAuaMBj
eElktyKgpytyl^frptgxLaaECpi!lDjpijrBqHHee!vquvkhGhun

U4MCPI7fBKyeC=AlocvnNlaHzex&oEarnful}

X1TCNN6K TMex&kldqpDrAitNeC=AltggevDfEFeA&kDfbumwgjLtpm+jxff}

U4MCPI7fZHOwd@iofpveAzaLIri:nuoibkAufKtyl@tlzqweuvvEx
eBvtemszfsCsd|ulsgotNlesueh>kxmkplm

X1TCNN6K 2tme<klcggsrApExew=fAgbofFF;svzx!ozeggirhosIqh
eDfnklAvvLtzr$rqaqheEpoxtye;mtubojrApsMui@qfayjtrDbL
euobjnKgzHOyl!gzakpqsuesGfr3fAogbyzhusEsi>fopwtyKojI
eFpqbBwsmmtks/fFigtjrofszjp-fuobntNl?s3el@BqajgfJk
etjobwwhesGfr,fxfevzJltsule*tEubkylgbGxeM!ztbpmeYve
eUacoeFvusueA=smo?byGgcxtys;itffbBAAisMtd_gzz
esjffDrvgyysg^ylbubmwgitNmd"kzftcqDFaMuCi%fFigkw
eIiqnjrzfQtBm:nmm}

U4MCPI7fDtHeC=AlsgojEifKtfr,fAgbvmwgqKCsg*vmmbgAAstsNme:ftf
exbkfeLvaMBjd$nmsigeGmaPIri+b

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^fIftgeFvoxtuv*tojrcqhguAyDd>kDfbcqDgmBEjd=tq
emoqvmwyatMel@rr_rgsulatLj{!kHftAeGufszfy-zltggrAuh
eyppuyJvvLtym-rlikuexlmEIBd'gGmvbhstfsNtd_gFdjbnLb

U4MCPI7fJsJwm:nqf?bwwjpNHyd|uyfbqkrAixG 

X1TCNN6K 7I	ddfIjnneFvuswfw:fmxcAeEFaIBDw*ilcwveGuaMBtw^fFicv
emsgbxAjlntYl^xqakuesgntHel@AzuubyzlayIwi|zfavjfL
emcwujKgpNLeC=AzhbrqsuuLtBm:nldctAAuhs.Ws|gxjpf)rvo
eFigkwribKEx,!nmoiueGkfLtzt=tlicyyzvsGMee+jlfnglAlt
eAobdwstcEyx{!gxm?bkGytHIyl7fpfkhDAuhsNmi!tmngbtx
e4pucqAuehtnj!Oldqwqvgnxyyd:nmubhfFjz Gtr"kDaKbBGBmw
esjxgezpnsMtq^fspqfeuvvGMjp7frptbmwgtxyrw!zAajcAwguAy
eCvqvnvpbGttj!rAwgbzHvosBnq8

U4MCPI7fJsurd&klujcyrptsMtd-uHf+umsrfwieM!vDbAbDGBaMyqp!sq
eKpwteJlnxxD	

X1TCNN6K !Bjv^futbptFlaHzeq,fGoenj\zaFuwo|fGqqpeQvvhtmi
eFbwimLgnxtms>fFpbmsGDattre+fuobntNl<sCsd>nudjbhsnf
eAgbtzKofLtNd@sltwtjrFpNtfv^fzpvbuJptHHjv8

U4MCPI7fXAuyd>kDfbjnKgntLpw9

X1TCNN6K Ttqi@tldjgjCaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadnzwgfRyee+j
eEvpmjFaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmobwsIBfLNns+gnmg
eEqktnLaaPBng&fKpwbmsCfsHtx7fmadgfJkaGylp^iFff?
eIikemrFpNtme<kloqv.rivMtNd[gDeqpeQvvsztv!ztbv?exvs
eEjorqQgzHOwd&gHjpieAuauyfv%futbceQvvGAjv!hDpvjjJ_t
eDfxgsMl;sNmi+fKpwtezvtxtxl=AxebdjrBozuwx^xqe?bDGBs
enpppjLgvGvfr%kp.bAtMyaLFji<klvpdzLApGyi{!EAvtbxzvf
eGovkjvgbGxei<kDzbvmAuhsugs;zlzqwevlnHHxx/gFjpies
eobtgqwztsxjw=rmukqshgcNNeC=AlbtgeFvaLOhl!smo>bDGB
emsgbwsAixLet=ozu+fjNpdxtnr!EAvtbfujpNNwi_kzuubfK
expxksygzHOww^rravjfFgtxyrm+mlujgeDvwxLes'fmoAbtLofKo

U4MCPI7fGtCwd,uGuj?e1gxHOqh!OldqwqvgntEjd:nqfbdjDpfOyeM!rAwg}

X1TCNN6K 6yef^rufxgeAA@sSty!smzbcxrzpHHeq@qqajgwrAitNeC=A
expxgetlmByAi!oF<bymAjimtNd>gDscpylgtAyem|fmqvgwrAp
eppbvmsuaMIeg=trfuueKofsxti|.lujcyrptsIsi!uravjj
eBpkpyKgjGtyl^fIikemrDpFysd|zumnblACfsNmi!rufbvt
eFigkwrjpGMhm^tofu}eTBumtnr!mApfbxGvuAnee/klzqwezl
eFicvezhozMex&klwgtxwzaHHex&klutgjKaaPBjv^ozaTqxssjGx
eutbutrheFCwi%b

U4MCPI7fJsMBi@xluqbyzlfmtDs;zt.bdDrAixtBl*zqajcsvgpy
e4pucqAuemtNd@slujcyrofmtyl@zlvphtJAvGuyi!nq?

X1TCNN6K UOyd@xqaAqzrzpsGzg&fuobntNlatMeC=ADatjDEltsMui@qh

U4MCPI7fOxCyl^xlsjArwgoHLev^gEppbhsuaxRuv^yEajqBrtvvB 

X1TCNN6K 5IAi!oEaogwwszsueq@jzfuu	rhowneM!zqmnbDGB.sxjw^xHfu
emtbyjDsattie/qliqwxwgbGxee!CtjrbfKgntxri+fpp<bfFk
eFigbwwhtHHeA&ElujgDrhsxtss:fEpbrzFptAyid@tpaewwwk
eut?byzhusNmi!rGoceDrptsMtd=xpjpcwQguAuyd:nqayjnHwfKM
emsgbnFgmHPjd:uA?b1jLgJsJws'kEtbezJpoztnx!hKaeqzFzfEo

U4MCPI7fEBxeC=AlfxgwrjvKyee+Eltq{

X1TCNN6K ^yx{!uzf?bfFkaBHex&oEaocsFlsntMi!CmtbvtrpntAnr^fyf
etjubqGCfmtmm|fyjuvwwztitfr%fUaugyrojFtjz^xKafcDrAp
eIpqbrw?atNeA&ooibvnElaPIzp%fU.bdjAuhsvzx!glnqqsAzi
eKpwvmlghKCjz^ lcgbjxmfFCse:kfaejfFnftvqi7fxppinFn
emofbqArjGA	d[xAvf?exhoMuxx*imm?bfHptAnew&gxmqy	
euoeqsKAbGN	d'AxmbqkrAftLx{!lGmnbtxgtFCqi| lgqtewCfKS
eBbuunGuaLIri:nuoibfFkayIwd+ulqcuxAvosNwy-ElbpA
eFikpllgbLtgs,ylbpfeOvnxHee/klgqteLofsGtw:fBbtv
eobvvqwgpytyl*yldqntMy<sQty-jloqyeDplxtmm_ loqyeDvbMBj
etjo>eLofGtjr:kDucksrojFnex&kzahqwKDftLel*sbapqBrDfxJ
erptbmAt.sNmi+fEqkvesAaACr,!ztbvbNrkstPjd_EltwkyGy
ersqoezptsGfh!nGnqwwrvgsFtz^fFpbceDpwBHld&AypwteGm
eybfpjKz<sQmm$nlxcu	rApsztv|CqbtbyzlayOqp!yFsgcrrvg
eFigbBGymwnee+jluqbqACfsCsd@fzpqmeElsxFDd_uzbuvnub
eMofbyzBts3eg;xqebjnE}atHid:nutbyfQgxBFqddfFbmgeMwpG
eyfbvtrDbLBeC=ADankAwyatMeg-kmobcxrhaLIzr%fEiggu\z
etfctylguAuyd:nqsgbxzhmEtss:fnfbqswgtIIyd=llmqxjrpo,N 

U4MCPI7fJsQty-jloqvetlavOwi% lzqwyzb

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaewwwgzHO	d*llzqweOvvExef;zldcnqrtfs`tw@ruof
emofbhGtfsyAi/ElecAeLvaFSeg=zqacpirDpHtri8

U4MCPI7fOHQ	d#ElujgexhjMBes'fyzbntNl.s3eA*rx;bvjDsaFy
eIigtjrpusCx	

X1TCNN6K ZIeA*ztaogeLvaBNee+jlJ&nqrziHQem:fKpwbfFkauSex&klxcA
eKpwbxzhmEtyi-rlngbBzlsxtnr!ztfbhtJltMtDs;fxjxg 
e9jnneQvvsAt 

U4MCPI7fXBNmd@rxaoAezlbKN	d"uAebAtMAin

X1TCNN6K 7uDd,uGaowxLgdtFqd_klSqufDpowoeG=sq.bunKAfKneA*rxaAqzrnpo

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbKN1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5baLCV!LTsvjl*tp/

Z1VEJX`VOXsHs_klbrchwaazIth!GGetgDggJsQnp-frfvemrBqsSty/
espcvxlgBNxwi,alBpfezvxmtFy%xqz{bfEgJsNmi!smobAjLc
eppvjeEFaLCrt-klggcyMyfswtr:kzubAtMc

G7ETG4q6pNLej^gFvtgx/gMHLid>gDscpyrBt|tBl@zlggcyMyfL:

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd@sligtjrDjMBex&kqacpirAiRtls@zE.bcxrAixtrs|z
eobrtnuppNMet=kF.bjtFltMtTz*jfaycxrhnHHld:nqaIqyzz?

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflPbmsGDmxxli!oxm+kszhcBNjh7fIptujrAitHeN=Bq
euobceLobMwmi%ftpwuj/

Z1VEJX`VOXs2l^tlbbofF_tsPjv|kEaecsFvusvjd;tpftuyGvemtss/fm
eybp&xrnpHxeA*zltgetFkfwtBm:nlujgexvsPuwh!itjnf
e7ofgwKAbGxnr" ljvbxLyjDyxd@fybpbrGyfsxje%fFicpes
essgcyryfvEtr*tsakpesgmBNyp^fDpqo r1sNFD{!Olxqwqv
eFigblGktsBfh!smegbyzlfsJti:oobn}

G7ETG4qPawIer=zllpqBrDitNe([uqukefD_aBM,d*yljvbmGufLNem+
epfgfesuesQtv%bljubnLgbsNwy^fFikpln

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDhggHLex&klutwjKAaIIjx/EljubyzlaFIxx
erfkisAuhitfr%fxpxgwKgbKyek*BqobvtrwpxNwC7fmofbBzhu
eFigAeKDftLem+fBpgvwQgntSef^fEbkfeszaEIAi/ylujgDrkpszjm"tg

G7ETG4qKpsSty!CutjbyzlosNme:fFigblGktsBfh!smegbrwgqHyym$gx}

Z1VEJX`VOXsNd%ufavtzDF<sztv!ztpwbxOlbKyxx!zAaogeLopNtfv:
etppgxL?aGIB{!oravjtMgxxLyd@fBpgv	rPaFCll:ftbxgeKvnx
etprgeLopNtim%yFahgnyu?

G7ETG4q4pNFid,uGapqyrobOyeq^ftppgxLc

Z1VEJX`VOXsSs7fFswnDlgvGFjw|fFiqweOlsMtme/j\gcxtMyfwjej=x
etppgxLFavIzt-kpavqetlbNNDd*yluqbmsCfsBtr^ElbbufMjfsNtd|Asbt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflBbofLlsBuqd'uAm#

G7ETG4qgXxFq{!OlbobsGAayunv3fmofbyzlsxztv^fUartfQguAyek=jE
eybmgeElaAIsi|zg

Z1VEJX`VOXsYv;rK.bcsvguHthe|zlbycDropGyxx,fGqqpesggHOqd|rGu
eIftgeLvaIOyd"uAebojsAaBHys!gzawphDlbGtim|ng

G7ETG4qPatGer=zlbbuqMA.sNms;mtaKbyzhoDtyl^fspfue1gbFtks;rg

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i-rfartfAzfwtgi!ztfbitvzayIwd:nKahqzDufLM^
eEmwvyAziGyxw!smzbetElaAywi@lFft}eTBusvjd*zlbubnLgntS
enf?bNrDjEFeq@xDzbvmwl.sush!zAavjfLgfGxeM!nmwgbgwlo
eIjvje~pss9qm<kDaOcwLlyMnex&klwkefJgpytyl^fzfzv
eHjnnfyl.sQms!nmujbuJvnBMjh!zAaogjLgnxtnr!ztjubuDhdx
eAgbvmwggHLjw:fmofbyGgdHOup^fGt}

PMRWGXq>BLCiiYflJbytMseszfm+fEfgbyzptsGji:ozh}

G7ETG4q4fEF	d:nqaiqiKghBPjd;ylkqA^

Z1VEJX`VOXsFq^tgaCbrsuaFuD{!orajgeOlsxttj!glggcwxBmsBje/zf
eEucilwyaBHex&oEacvywtqMjej=xligtjrDfsBfz^fzpbvjEwmx
envvbyzlaPIth7fzpbcxKlnuFDd#AFajqwF|cxuxx|alCwveOobM
eFiqwlzcaVIzv@mq@bCxropKHxd@xqaqfnGBtmtyl^Elbtg
ezfegxKhsRoeM:futbufAk.s.re+ElbbofFglGIBw!tAagpirvg
etjublGveLi)d/osiv>eEhoRtfd_gzajcxrnpHxel=xzt?bfFk
ewoqyxrupsysh!uravjjEba$yqp7fFicveAzaMBjd%uIsAbtx
etjubBAmfit)x*yloqpjrvgsBnw!uIobijLAjGA dcuDou{
eQwgpeKv?s0ts/fyfpbfDvoxpeR= loq>eLofsHtf-kEubfjwy
etbvjeLofFtfw!nGhgbfKguAyev@yobn}e1zaMBjd|ozhngeEho
eFigtjxvsxtgp^yEff{e6v;suxd@fIbnnjvguHQsd*ylnqtj
eIptvmAlssNme+fmaxkqDhhxnew=futbvmwggHLjl^gpaqhes
eybttnwkaFusd_uDfbjtFvvKugp^fFicpeLofsvfv^fnsqyeGma
