	runs before her actions.

ORLANDO	So do all thoughts; they are winged.

ROSALIND	Now tell me how long you would have her after you
	have possessed her.

ORLANDO	For ever and a day.

ROSALIND	Say 'a day,' without the 'ever.' No, no, Orlando;
	men are April when they woo, December when they wed:
	maids are May when they are maids, but the sky
	changes when they are wives. I will be more jealous
	of thee than a Barbary cock-pigeon over his hen,
	more clamorous than a parrot against rain, more
	new-fangled than an ape, more giddy in my desires
	than a monkey: I will weep for nothing, like Diana
	in the fountain, and I will do that when you are
	disposed to be merry; I will laugh like a hyen, and
	that when thou art inclined to sleep.

ORLANDO	But will my Rosalind do so?

ROSALIND	By my life, she will do as I do.

ORLANDO	O, but she is wise.

ROSALIND	Or else she could not have the wit to do this: the
	wiser, the waywarder: make the doors upon a woman's
	wit and it will out at the casement; shut that and
	'twill out at the key-hole; stop that, 'twill fly
	with the smoke out at the chimney.

ORLANDO	A man that had a wife with such a wit, he might say
	'Wit, whither wilt?'

ROSALIND	Nay, you might keep that cheque for it till you met
	your wife's wit going to your neighocHOw(|fnff}

U4MCPI7fBGxeA&gFaykyrjpNFid>oFajcAwguHtjB$AEfbvmsA}

X1TCNN6K 6uwv, luqbxsFaLBjd$gyfbvtrzfxEeC=Alujgwwba^Izd|nmmn
ezfxgwrAbDyel^xlxkvmGBusBjv!gztygwlgvGFjw|fKpwbysrf
etftbBAAiHOyd&kDavqsyBfntT{!ztbvbBGtbGtyl@zldcpsGA
eybmgezlsszfy-zligtezBtuushNylpeefKppGnep^zligt
ezfxgwruvKMjd&kDaejnDkaAyww^rr.bhtJgtAyeA*rxadtjwk
euubnnClattks=r-

U4MCPI7fGHLex&kEfbvBGgiHOww7f4pucqAuemtNd>oxmbnjsCfsNmi^a

X1TCNN6K TFfwHfpfcteDvwxneM!imopqyrsbvEex&kqavytropNLx	

U4MCPI7fJsGzw:fmuvgsvguAyeh;qqacvevpoGyw\!hKavytrv"vFtg)fU
eIjnnetlaPCyl!ztfgbfyhjGo

X1TCNN6K TS	d"ulzqwwrDbRM	d"ulzqwwrDbRM.ddfwogyeOobMtDs;
eIpwnirwsHPj\!sKahtnwueLtys-jlngbfKgnNwm{!gzebK
eFiqwlzAaGIep^yE;bvmsAayFfx:kDjpieLvozOjd=llzqwwK
eIppbrw?a,Nnw!hGubqswgdtMyd@Cmz?bfFkaLI	d$uyf?
epfcvm/gUPIesNixpemeAzaRIzv!nAvt{

U4MCPI7fBRnew>kqubTtKhmBHi	

X1TCNN6K USeq,fFsqvmlgbGxem+fspqfewhsGyxx7fmofbxGgHHxeq^tp
eyf?bfFkauSee-rlqtgyLFaHuyl|fFicvesyfsHtx!jmoigwGBtm
eugbAtMgcKyfo!uzfbltLgpytDs;xlqtqrAzfsIwd$uyfbqsw
eyjpwywgcxBnr%fKpwtezvvKneM!CumnbyzpoDtDs;fFigbrGzu
eBbvjjLpdtFef/kml+rwGtjLyee+jlujgeEvtMtms-rAxbntNls
emofbyzlaFIxx!AzxqtyzFaHzel^xlzqweuhmEtWs|gxjpfeLobM
eybAbgwgdAIxi+fAvvbtxguAyek/uEtbdfFkaHzex&k
eGohcnLogNF,d:nqsghtJlauyBe/klnAbhwutNLjd@tpamgjH
eKpwteHypFCxi8

U4MCPI7fXBNmd+ulmguxryfEClm=tlujcsrpgsNms;fIftveAuexyid_E
e4pucqAuehtxs!gpjgw 

X1TCNN6K $yqp7f6jogeAzaMBjd=rpalwxLpdxtyl@zlfzcrAufLtfp-fEvej
eAghgsvlsLnee+jlmgve`pnxtyv,.lbfkjMb

e}FzkyrVS5USHj>

IQMKCd%vvsBfz^fEjorqQgnBMzw^jlpwteKlysCsd,uGsbntNl_ILfx^.
eIfbozKAaAuAi!EAvtbiGBcEyyd@tpajqxwgqEOho^jlpxgwrFpNL
etfcf	rhowtxl=ClujgeOvsExeA&gFavjjrijKxel@ztafqswguH
etftbtOuaGyxx8

X1TCNN6K 8ths. ldqB	rjpSneq,fBsgvyQgmBNyp^fopB?eLobMtyl=A
epjfuyrroHQel=ClncpDrmbMBtq!jqfrbNrhnsCsd-uHf#bGMA
euubefFupMtgi!yAvpfjv?aFSee'lqdvktFgitNmd@tlvpmsGDo
enpvvtEaaECpi!ztfbdfQgpytUs/zGhcn 

IQMKCd7yaKuyl^xfadqyLvnEyxw7fFicveszayuxx!gEaAqzrwpNL
emghghLppGtnr7fuubtzFzaHOy	

X1TCNN6K 7I	d:nmubufElaPCho^jlccuysyesIkdqkzvubyzhusQfw!hqhqv
eAgbvmGBhAN	d$uzdgkAwkaHzew[rqfpbfFkauIwr!uraociFltLn
eFicvetsjGxev@yobnnDripRtyl@zlbdwxwzaxPjv,fAog&xrlzxM
enfeczKlaACxd=CzactjrvvMnep^zlikoetlaCOik^ftpybiwlqs3
emnbksrspOy dd-xmbvjDsaMBji7fMmkgssaa2the+tAubdjrvvM
eAgbvmwgtBAmx!uraQtqsueHieMNrxaiqexpowtfd|nmeqyesue
eEjijeLpmEtmi!iAng}

IQMKCdSues3)p-fEmggum

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1P !Bjd'uDfuv 


e}FpvjJgKT~ZIn lMqtiKaatHidauDfuvjJz/

PMRWGXq4iBwmd*yligbyzhusEnp-kpavjjrkfxLa

GlMqtiqZjKnem:fIbubNm

PMRWGXqSfM.xd[xqtgpyrojFtys!ztfbfzCl.sFno^fmaTqrsu
eoppszwypKjee+jljvbBGBmwtis!CqmnbyGgtxNex&kleggw\z
etptpxrBqHHel*yligcilggHLee!hDbpemrvgsPng:uDz}bMsCf
eKpwbsGgtHHl{!lAsguywy.sztv!ztjubuMyqHMj 

LAsguywy ^yx{!yus}

PMRWGXqZjGAem:.l"vkxrupsGfx:kDajqBrpusvjd*tluwpjlgtHtnx
eybmgeFvjLyei+uGhj}

e5PPI 
LAsguywy $Bfx!ytbnnezlaAuAi!ztbvbpAsm,xex&kleggwn
eTjubqwhuAywd|quobcsvgiHLsw!zAaygfJb
e6igpeKpoztmm_ftpog.

e}UjgeJltMtxl@rxadgfJguACxd#ADegp<

e6bmgeLopNtss!yoptpeLvaPyfv!ztfbjtJu<
eUubyfKgbswwi|zlftgeLopNtBe|zlcqtsg
e6iAbksAixL)w!lmujgwrDpKyem: 
eMofbyzFayuyl^xlcqtjrpuh
e6igbmGyomtyl^ftptp	rAixtqy|zKajqwF
eUtbptLgbsNmm+mluqbqsBhAtys!yoptp 

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbK1



YOFPGe1PJr@mi!lAsguym


e}FpvjJgS8!FPdTPacpirJF53F;

X1TCNN6K 1IBd|gKaAqzrupPpeM|fuubptLgqtMyd:CAaq&hDvdDpee+j
etftgeEBdAtTv-gzeq#

IQMKCd1gxtLwe+zlzqw	rDjMBet;xqanqAwgbGxex/uGcngiristCs{!nq
etbvjeLh"xHel*ylcqyesuesuwv=CEacpirptsAtr^frptvmrAp
eEmggumgMHIp{!CtpbetEltsBjv^a

e}FpvjJgT261MpY{

YUMXKZ~fNRtjv/gzebkxrApsSty7frbkteQvvMB.
eYzbijFAmxtUl^hqadkirtfsAnz^fKpwbyzpth
eUamptOgoHNex&kldqpywuuLjef;zfacue1ghNyxw
eNzbvmwgtMywr!hDpybfFkaPuxt*ytaceyAvo
e9ikemrzixtim%fGtgbfKgtAyeA@ylxtkyAuhsIkd*zf
eUubdjsytsusd@tssAbywupKiet@xpppbrw?
eUacoetBusuxd@fsvknyDltLtri|yqoigwm

X1TCNN6K 9uym^tofbjjJzfEzeA=AxebuysyuEyee:fFikueDluMyw
eMofbuDhzsNmi!yIbiijJlsitgi@xlujkxlgcxuwd@rx;
e5igbxsFts3ee_fzpvbkspsmtyl@zlJbnfuraFusr^xE<
e5igbhssmLtri!vDpwf	rhowtyl@zltjgeuvvExer=zlmqxjrtfm
e9ftgeEhosuxd/gDfbcxrwiHysm\al"Qf)KgnRtBm-r-
eTftbqGCfsCxd+uFavjjrobKyex&gFaKbiGgiNHy\
e9iAbBJpuxMew&kltqbyGgnxpe1^rx.bumwwixLi{!Cqmn?
e6ikueAzattqi:zqsbqkrFpNLes>tlegxnul?

YUMXKZ~fOHneM!vDpvgxLaa2tpr=CloqveLofswtr:kzuu<
e2igdjrkjwtBv*zqakv 

X1TCNN6K VIri7fopog	rFpNtfv^fmahqtD
eMofbyMyo,xem+zAavjjrlyMLjq*zKaqheDvwxo
eUaucBrofKtme+jaaujjrobLtfd-kmujgwFgitHi	
eMahtjwzuHHj[$uxpwt)vgitHi,!OlwgtnDFawCid:nuom
e6icvezlssIqh!mxpxgxrDfKyes+ lcwve\AxtMel^xlicpiK?
e5igbmszattmy|Cugg&xrobGx.d#AFavjfL_tsHtd_gFugt,
eUaucDrzixtsi<kDafkirpoOysx!ztjubqwAuxL.
e6ikueAzattre+-EakpAwuuBIsd@tpajkxrobGx 

YUMXKZ~fTNLj{!oFakuezlsLo

X1TCNN6K $BD{!-FjubfripBMyi/uGtbcsvgbswwy^rltvAqwb
eMauvDDlayIw[$nmmngsylsLjeA&EfaujjrkfyCjw!sq.
eXjmge`BsDtys!ItskuyAhohtBs_kz"ublwuuEyef/guo
eOpwnirupMtiv=vlgqtyzgtNwmd"omov+wMkfsCsz^tFjqp
e5vejeWAiBIui!CAsfu	rimtwpi/fuobvmwpssykj^iF
e6icpeAuaMBjm/fopwpywubGwj	!3umnbDGBaAyfv!ztfbnjLAfKp

YUMXKZ~fTHtup^gEfbAtMaayIwddfzfxgwroftLid*zlzgv.
e~fvbmwhswtys=fyvejeGma9Bjf^-EaetzwsuRo

X1TCNN6K `BjdknqcgueEl;sGfv)ftpybyzlaMSwe+zlxtkywz?

e}SgciK\

eMsvbyzvvsAth!zAaujjHofKxex;xz"f?
e6icvesgntCii+-EajgfJAaAuyl!hGsp&in
eObpbfrDpFusd/gumbvmMz}

YUMXKZ~fDtFqd,uGavjnKgstCqm+mh

X1TCNN6K d`je%y{

e9iA?eLozsAth&kmebnfAkatJfv: 
e9btt)KAaMBty!CuujbfrDpFus(|ftfctyn
ePjfbDGBaxPjv!nqbtbxMjisLfm-ozh{
e9iknjKguAyei,klphbrsuawCid>uAaog	
e6icveuvvExeh=fzpbxjFnftHhi!zAaog 
eYfcpnFnaFyee!hqbuv 
eUgbvmwgtvIwr!uraAqzJgcKCll:fqzpg
eTbxgeHvxxLex=fDbkujrzvvBep=BqakpeEpoxn
eMmceplgjGtri!CtbvbxLybGAjd^lrfev
e9pwnirAixSeA=xwakpeEpmwtfw[kou#
e9iknjKgzHOeg&opaog	rPawCid-uHf>
eTpybyzlosGnk&zlzqwwrwstSjv|fypxg^
eTfbvmsAauLnr"ylujkxrspOyex=fFigg
eXjvvqwglGIBw!ztjubqGCfsCsd_ka
eMofbgQgiBGew^gxawreLozsGnr%?
e9igvmwyaMBfx!ztzbAtMAisush!quof
e9jnneLofszfm:nrvnbtxmfKtye)k
e1gbojrhowtfp-fFicve1gdtHeq@qq<
e1sbgqKlauSel*slnAbqGCfsxjr, 
eMofbyzlos3)p-fEuwfDropPtys!juf}

YUMXKZ~fDtFqd,uGavjnKgdACim+mh

IQMKCdSsbLnet=uDaujjHofKx^

X1TCNN6K WIeC=AlqkvDrojFper= ligbiwzfKPjw!tAarkyQba$Cqx
eFiqweDvwxtxy$nlbbytEhoot2l@zfavqeEhlxtyl^klbp
euouvwMtfGNee+jlqncDrmbEMjd|zDbkpxrBqHHex&kq@bptLguH
enfbgsvBsxx^drkxm?blGgzHOwd>gKavqezlsmtks/fUaugj
expxgezhuAtre%klujgjrhaMuri!yzbmg	rhowtxe,fFikueLv
etft<eLobMtnj!ytfbntNlaFy	ddfoictlwgixLex=fxpxg
eFigg.rpgsMmi!CumnbsGA.s3eA*rxapgAwyaAuAi!nqsbwsDltL
eFiqwewuuKyfx!lAsbjjJba2zeC=AlcgbfrAsNyep=Bqs?
etfpejlgbGxer=zlbbytJk<sztv!nqsgbhGtfLtrs/kldqousuzn

e}FzkyrZJ5$NYn>

e}FpvjJgP531Im>

UXJXGWqNpHxeq=xDpy?exhjKttr^yaartfQgzHO	d*llzqweCupPn
e9igtjrposNmi!vGsnkjMzaHzex&oEahqwwzusMye+jE
eMaujjww_vIyi!lqoegirhcHOyd>oFibqqACfsNwi^yh

IQMKCd#ltMttj!ztjubuDhdxneh=CzakpeLofsHjm"nnpwtetvuMIr\
e6igbwsulsIkd=yuftuetFaMBjd_ADnwtnFnaLNwi@s
eXfhveGuaRIzv!xuhjvezhowtgv*tstbAtMguHtyl^fBmcejm
eNvvbfLguACxd&uGsbvmwgiHOxi!jAujbpwlqsCyw^rr<
e6igtj\zaGIsi!Cuujksm

UXJXGWqPgsNme:fmobgDwgntSet/urjvbgQgbsNtr"Aq.
e6igpeKopNFiddfwoqyeQvvsvDd%kEdtkuLppGj
e5vejeyhsFysx|fmofbxMjisSje/yaa&VmwgcHSem|frbkt	
e1gbhjEhmxtke<uGs?bfFkauyxx=CEajkrKlmy
eXjmgesgsBJjd|oEugt,rAixtBs_gzanqB
eMofbgJvxGywd:nmobjjJgcKIyl^xg"bCwwgoHNeC=A
e6igbtOufKttj!ztfbjtMzfs3eh*jljpszAyfsztv9

IQMKCd1AaBMer=fnpcuylgcxCsk!gEl&f	rApsMfC!Cqactjm

UXJXGWqVsEush=fppvjeuvnFysh!nunbvtrFpNtgs:nf
eMofbyGguAuyd,uGujbmwgdtFqw!nutbTtKhmBHi
eTfbujFktsNmm|fnmqqiQgotJpm+alBtgeQvvsBj 

X1TCNN6K 2tfq2fIicveEBtMtBi!AzegtxLhowtgC!ztju{

UXJXGWqZpFyes'fyzbumstfitnj!EAvbynDsaDHtA!uraog
e9icveEhos3ee_ lbpfezvxmtfr%fIiA?esuesQmi/k
e6ikuezhowEjv$nqsbyfKgtMunrNjg

IQMKCd1gqKuDd,uG.bvjDsaBN 

UXJXGWq4ixHep@yFavjjrFpNHldjxxbpftrwbKNjh!lDpobDGB
eTfbnjxAattuv=sutgbyGgsxNzv+fmhcks
e9jvjnFgbGtms;xfacpirwbvCsk!ztsqwlzguAyej=xqtv?
eOigynFnaMBjd'uAebqkrzxxyyd@tpadkyLlsszfr$Ef
eXp?bBzhusvjj^rx@bjjrAiKyBd&oEagAjrhtBxj{
eMofbrsylsQme:fAclghLgeBxet/kEfpveAAtxFk\
e7ofgwrhosIfo7fIiqujripNAmw!CqsgbrGzt,xeA*ztacij
eMofbmAnisNtt!hmmfbBAAisxwC!gzukszAAzm
eMaytjLjixxev@msffbrsu.sI)i/mDpypeOpuAtme*xf
eXbAbxDlfICsk!uzajkxribvE,d@hAvvbmAzaGyho
eMaitjwuatHid"oxegfeKubDyel@jlxtgfLofwtnx|kxg?
e9iqbBAAisBjv!nqbfbsAtcEyem+fFitgfLzatJuv=goi&f
e6igbtHloBHld=llikueEvvMB.d#AFauwivloES	
e5fgksygPKFfr%ufakveMumBHp(%fuuugqxa
eMofbBAAisCsh^tFffblDpexMeh*jltnkurhxtS
eUovqesgcNMm\!AzegteOojvBef;yt"ubxzhex
eManktFltLneA*ztawfiwytsuqp!jDbypevyzm
eXbAbhGBdACsk7ftfcfeGuazLty+jfaykyzgdtNqm)klxcvhza
e9igpeLobMtyl^fEmgguAuhsGfr!ytpwnirzuBL.d'uDa&vnK
e6igbwGFbEtim|vAtkvnGuaHzex&gFadgfKA
e6pbrwwFaHHer=ztjpieLobMtis:nltggrrhtsxje%.
e6ikueKlfGneS/rmofqevpesuut/umdjbyzlaFus
eMofbkGBowtnx!CmtbjnKgcKIyl^xfajkxrlmwywd#xAujgwm

IQMKCd7aa2tme<kligcwvgiBGew[kmlbqkrAitNew@sqadttLofKj
eMofbmwgeBxev^tpftbmAtaMBjd_uEubwsFhuNLfp
e6icveDpwxxee_uzhuveElon

UXJXGWqHowtBi-rligbrAniMtxs!jA.
eRptbBwsms3eo+uIajgeOhtsOsr@zGscn 

X1TCNN6K UOy{!zAaQtqsueHieh*jligbqwhwxtmm_fFigtjl
eRpqfeLvaMBjd|Aol&fesuesBzr"xKanktFltLp

UXJXGWq1xBwjd%opajgeLBsGtmm|fnbemesuesJzv[uEffbxG}
eNvvbpAueGyxw7fzpdnjJgfOywd:nmobtjNlozy	
eMofbssAvKy	d|zDppijJguAusd&oEalwxLgpvwfw*uz.
eYbfgezpnsAnz^fnbvvqwguHtyl^fxjqpjKz.
e9iqbvMpdDFDd'kxmbdjxvsxtmm_.ljpbBzpdAtmy/zxjpi
eRsqoeEptxLff-kltnwrtlss3ee>gwff}

IQMKCdSyfsSty!nutbdwGAixLa

X1TCNN6K $uxx!EAvbjjryfLwzi%b

IQMKCd#ht,NeC=Alujcyrkjwtxs!urubetFAsBPjd:ullknqrojFp

UXJXGWq_UPuxdd?lcwve\AjLtss:fU KbiGgoHNew&gyf
e6pbvjDsaRIzd>nmubKeOhtmtxm+iqaoAeuvoOyww*uz
e5pbuBwluESex@yFfu?etljGAex&klujksygJsur	

X1TCNN6K UOy{!lAsbvmwgcEIth,fzbrmnFc

UXJXGWqIzsush!hK?
e9igpexypFtyl^frjtuyrApsFfw:fnfvynPAaNMex>u
e6fctxrvvKtwi$uGovojFAtsBfh!sAtvbpAueESef@ztff?
eMtbjtOgJswfq^fuovqeLobMtii|kDubrqsjfha]
eUobdwAlgmtmi!rqebojrApsNmi!mqovnjrkvDy	
e9iqblsCfsGjd'xqtjbfJybRtfr%fqovgwLhjGGjr: 
eOpoonLAjGAeq^fGovqeEFauLtx&kD"ubqGCfi
e9iqbqwkaFyem+yFbpvqQgvGNtd&oEaecAwa
e6igtjrzuKCutNjlikoxwsgmtfr%ftftgeMwpGtmm|fmso
e6igbqAvoxMxd&gpavqwFgtHGjd'rqtjbfOhzm
e9ikemrhmEtyl*ylxjkqwgitxef-kp<bcsvgoHQel^frbkpywk
eMofbhJpfwnem+frbkpyAuhmtzt=tlSqufDpowo
eNskgklgJsLjg=Bqs&fezpnmtgs;tpawrezptsQty+jb
eMof?esmuxLew=sqauofDsaLJfg^ lcgksygtMLtr"fmubjjsyum
eTfbujFAaFyel*ztft?eKAstHli/fmtbKest.
e6pbvjDsaMBnw!yFptA	rAitNeC=AlnkimLgfQwzw^
eTjubgJvlxHet/uyjug	rhowtys!muwgbyzptsHft)oz
ePzgfeAuaACxd#rApfbzFApsNmi!ytfrjjJkaRIzx&
e6icvezlaBHew[uDubftLoavuqp!nutbTtKhmBHi	

e}SQUF4POWtxA=uzt|

IQMKCd#ozmtms>fzpy?eYhoRGjh^'ltygjLgHtHDq^jq@

UXJXGWqTbGSeA*rxauytGuaPBjr!ztfAbiGgmHIpd=tlcnqtvb

IQMKCd`ofKyem|fyptgeAuaBN d{uGtkpeYhoRGjh^'

UXJXGWqSpHE	d&klsgetNlsLo

X1TCNN6K 2tBs;rpaKbBwyfsuyd&uyf}

IQMKCd#l"EFep^gpaAqzrAiBNmi/a
eUartfQgzHO	d>oxmbAtMgutEjd&oyadAeLofsuwq9

UXJXGWqIfsIkd"uAebemwlsmtDs;zt;bAtMgbsGfrHfKpwbqsjlsu
eybp&xroftLy	

X1TCNN6K 2tis!yA.bKeuvoyyxw!oF?bCmlgtBLwe& lbbdtvFaPIzp%
eFikpprAiBMeA@ylxgnqrjpNHyi/lqjvgi/gJsJwe,fKpw?eLlmE
eKpwtetypMBjv!nAxbyjDsa2ths;tFfthjAAfwoeL^osi+jt/

UXJXGWq1iBMeA@yloqveuvvGNjv'kuu<byzlsxtnw!zApbiwwhu
eFfuvnEvoRtnr!EAvtbhGtqEyCm=tlujcyrpusQfw!glqcuxAvo
eAgbgfJufLN 

X1TCNN6K VIzr:kDggkylgJsuxw;xqaAqzm

UXJXGWq4fEFex&kz.bvfClattls=jligcwLgbGxeg=AzugtkwpusNtd#klbbofFb

X1TCNN6K `IeM!jA;bdzLaaB.ej@oFi?bNrziHOqh!nmwgbgwlosueA=smobdDryjzBy	

IQMKCdUvnxneC=AlmqqprwbEywd@tparcqwy;sJwe,fKpw?evybP
etpogBsyeLoeK=upaukwlghHtBm:nlvu}

UXJXGWq1itNeA*rxaK?exvss3eq;yFadgfJgbGMBi/fnbem
eTpybDGBaxRhy|klnAbgJvuAyw{!XAtcnnFk?

X1TCNN6K 2txl@rxafgAAzfsMtq^ztjpi,rivMneM!vDbAbDGB.swtq_kze
eyzbetMuuxLki*zuoibyGgiBG droxmbAtMghHp

e}FzgzFA/




eMTb1T!gM25JddZ


GOUbX



YOFPGe1fUAyej=xqtv}


e}FpvjJgU8#HLnZ1OGbfFkaT#IV 5{

Z1VEJX`VOXs2i!ytbnnexpowtfd:oyf?bFMksxS.d[gFjgphwaazysx-klBwfwwF?

G7ETG4qMbBNm{!ztfbrwAltMtBe|fspqfewupNAm{!lAsbcqDguAyes-j
esfpvqwtbG.xd|gKjpi 

Z1VEJX`VOXsFd_uEubynurfwtXm/f1mkxjJaaTOiv^EfacbrGzusPnp^
eYbtvjPA?sVzx7fMvftjQaaMBjv^futbceQvvMBel^xqakpeLof
erptgxLgmtSxd$rmjobyGgzHO 

G7ETG4qHzmtNd)tAxbymGg"MCx,!nqajcyzgoHtnr:kDfuveAuaFyem+
eFigbBGymwiel^xqaeqrwzaMBjd_gzaAqzrtftH 
