discussion focused on the value of the finished product, what the
European Community calls reusability, but what may also be termed
durability.  They argued that marking up--that is, coding--a text in a
well-conceived way will permit it to be moved from one computer
environment to another, as well as to be used by various users.  Two
kinds of markup were distinguished:  1) procedural markup, which
describes the features of a text (e.g., dots on a page), and 2)
descriptive markup, which describes the structure or elements of a
document (e.g., chapters, paragraphs, and front matter).

The TEI proponents emphasized the importance of texts to scholarship.
They explained how heavily coded (and thus analyzed and annotated) texts
can underlie research, play a role in scholarly communication, and
facilitate classroom teaching.  SPERBERG-McQUEEN reminded listeners that
a written or printed item (e.g., a particular edition of a book) is
merely a representation of the abstraction we call a text.  To concern
ourselves with faithfully reproducing a printed instance of the text,
SPERBERG-McQUEEN argued, is to concern ourselves with the representation
of a representation ("images as simulacra for the text").  The TEI proponents'
interest in images tends to focus on corollary materials for use in teaching,
for example, photographs of the Acropolis to accompany a Greek text.

By the end of the Workshop, SPERBERG-McQUEEN confessed to having been
converted to a limited extent to the view that electronic images
constitute a promising alternative to microfilming; indeed, an
alternative probably superior to microfilming.  But he was not convinced
that electronic images constitute a serious attempt to represent text in
electronic form.  HOCKEY and MYLONAS also conceded that their experience
at the Pierce Symposium the previous week at Georgetown University and
the present conference at the Library of Congress had compelled them to
reevaluate their perspective on the usefulness of text as images.
Attendees could see that the text and image advocates were in
constructive tension, so to say.

Three nonTEI presentations described approaches to preparing
machine-readable text that are less rigorous and thus less expensive.  In
the case of the Papers of George Washington, Dorothy TWOHIG explained
that the digital version will provide a not-quite-perfect rendering of
the transcribed text--some 135,000 documents, available for research
during the decades while the perfect or print version is completed.
Members of the American Memory team and the staff of NAL's Text
Digitization Program (see below) also outlined a middle ground concerning
searchable texts.  In the case of American Memory, contractors produce
texts with about 99-percent accuracy that serve as "browse" or
"reference" versions of written or printed originals.  End users who need
faithful copies or perfect renditions must refer to accompanying sets of
digital facsimile images or consult copies of the originals in a nearby
library or archive.  American Memory staff argued that the high cost of
producing 100-percent accurate copies would prevent LC from offering
access to large parts of its collections.


THE MACHINE-READABLE TEXT:  METHODS OF CONVERSION

Although the Workshop did not include a systematic examination of the
methods for converting texts from paper (or from facsimile images) into
machine-readable form, nevertheless, various speakers touched upon this
matter.  For example, WEIBEL reported that OCLC has experimented with a
merging of multiple optical character recognition systems that will
reduce errors from an unacceptable rate of 5 characters out of every
l,000 to an unacceptable rate of 2 characters out of every l,000.

Pamela ANDRE presented an overview of NAL's Text Digitization Program and
Judith ZIDAR discussed the technical details.  ZIDAR explained how NAL
purchased hardware and software capable of performing optical character
recognition (OCR) and text conversion and used its own staff to convert
texts.  The process, ZIDAR said, required extensive editing and project
staff found themselves considering alternatives, including rekeying
and/or creating abstracts or summaries of texts.  NAL reckoned costs at
$7 per page.  By way of contrast, Ricky ERWAY explained that American
Memory had decided from the start to contract out conversion to external
service bureaus.  The criteria used to select these contractors were cost
and quality of results, as opposed to methods of conversion.  ERWAY noted
that historical documents or books often do not lend themselves to OCR.
Bound materials represent a special problem.  In her experience, quality
control--inspecting incoming materials, counting errors in samples--posed
the most time-consuming aspect of contracting out conversion.  ERWAY
reckoned American Memory's costs at $4 per page, but cautioned that fewer
cost-elements had been included than in NAL's figure.


OPTIONS FOR DISSEMINATION

The topic of dissemination proper emerged at various points during the
Workshop.  At the session devoted to national and international computer
networks, LYNCH, Howard BESSER, Ronald LARSEN, and Edwin BROWNRIGG
highlighted the virtues of Internet today and of the network that will
evolve from Internet.  Listeners could discern in these narratives a
vision of an information democracy in which millions of citizens freely
find and use what they need.  LYNCH noted that a lack of standards
inhibits disseminating multimedia on the network, a topic also discussed
by BESSER.  LARSEN addressed the issues of network scalability and
modularity and commented upon the difficulty of anticipating the effects
of growth in orders of magnitude.  BROWNRIGG talked about the ability of
packet radio to provide certain links in a network without the need for
wiring.  However, the presenters also called attention to the
shortcomings and incongruities of present-day computer networks.  For
example:  1) Network use is growing dramatically, but much network
traffic consists of personal communication (E-mail).  2) Large bodies of
information are available, but a user's ability to search across their
entirety is limited.  3) There are significant resources for science and
technology, but few network sources provide content in the humanities.
4) Machine-readable texts are commonplace, but the capability of the
system to deal with images (let alone other media formats) lags behind.
A glimpse of a multimedia future for networks, however, was provided by
Maria LEBRON in her overview of the Online Journal of Current Clinical
Trials (OJCCT), and the process of scholarly publishing on-line.

The contrasting form of the CD-ROM disk was never systematically
analyzed, but attendees could glean an impression from several of the
show-and-tell presentations.  The Perseus and American Memory examples
demonstrated recently published disks, while the descriptions of the
IBYCUS version of the Papers of George Washington and Chadwyck-Healey's
Patrologia Latina Database (PLD) told of disks to come.  According to
Eric CALALUCA, PLD's principal focus has been on converting Jacques-Paul
Migne's definitive collection of Latin texts to machine-readable form.
Although everyone could share the network advocates' enthusiasm for an
on-line future, the possibility of rolling up one's sleeves for a session
with a CD-ROM containing both textual materials and a powerful retrieval
engine made the disk seem an appealing vessel indeed.  The overall
discussion suggested that the transition from CD-ROM to on-line networked
access may prove far slower and more difficult than has been anticipated.


WHO ARE THE USERS AND WHAT DO THEY DO?

Although concerned with the technicalities of production, the Workshop
never lost sight of the purposes and uses of electronic versions of
textual materials.  As noted above, those interested in imaging discussed
the problematical matter of digital preservation, while the TEI proponents
described how machine-readable texts can be used in research.  This latter
topic received thorough treatment in the paper read by Avra MICHELSON.
She placed the phenomenon of electronic texts within the context of
broader trends in information technology and scholarly communication.

Among other things, MICHELSON desuhJpcxxes+/xjpgeuvoyywi+iqtbvmsA
xqqtgxwuusuez*mAsqwxrhowtnq[uDucpyrpoMyqp^iFvcnexvsNGej=xldgtyspo
jutekuDpoxM d!OzugtswAaGIBd$gDskgxrtpKyex&gza9`#rjpGzjv^tofu?eOpuAtff=AF
@*argwuloMttj!ztfugevlwHNjh!zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaMBj
nGncpnLpfLoedjztftbxuopEuww!AEfbqs	sjGyer^zIptmxrmpKt-h*yFbpejrsftLsm+mg&
SqbpymAsfmtyl^xqajcxrifxHee!zDfogsvvvLtlv=CFibksrlowazw^xldqouMAjGA.
vDphgxKvsLtys%gKactjrsfLMep*qqmAbyzhosNmi*xlqtgiwjfLMtv|fFpbcxCguAy
imnrwxrjpFJzx^xldgpywyaMIet/uofuueLofBLeh@zm?bbJDldMLtr*ilugzyKgbKyes+k
qqzbvtrAixMjd|uBikuyAjbMyid@vBmkefLppGM	dhOOIGNX7UaKyus/zqe?bfFkaFIwi!gze
sAsgbxuopEuww!ozavjjrovFusm:oqtbptOgxHLpd*tlbpbtF|mBHjd^tHjtqsEloMo
ZAxctirAixtjr%fAgbvmwgXHLpw&uB.bOnuobxFeP YWartjKloMyid@foptqqDhsRtys
SUDJGQ~VO,Mex@rw.btjHvsMCsk!ztfbtjKBmMMes'fmobgCHlsBGjr:fFicveuvnIuwi%
ztfbytJraHzes+klhtqzHgpythl^sutvtDrzuNxjr:ylvuksyguKuim:oAocneHyjGNjh
zqyvuesuesNBs!mDpwrxrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsMty/iqt}be`ofsyCt^xungpy
jqnqpxLybMyid:nmubksrAixtjz^tFaqpjrkpxMer=zllpqBrDitNex=fDfcf	rvoxtsi^jE
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi!kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&k
sAngpyrpgsIsi!qzpyueOobMtys!xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

JMM1buJvwBxjh!gzacpjukpMuqd@iopwpyrvgsNmi!xqwqnzLppGCEm+mljorfuAaHzex&k
tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AEaogyzveLttj!xqtgcwuoaBHex&klgkgqvgpythp@yEjeu 
NutbchuvvGN	d#ElfzvwswpEuym=tfaugwNlesNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgbKAzq^tFt
smegbgQgN2WMIgY1ObetFjfKHnr"fFigbuGzjMCAi!krggeyKgpytyl^fEvffjFgbGxev@judcn
zDbpukGyntNns+fnfkplrDsHOll:fuobvmwgxtSxd|itpncwKgxHLp	

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObfjDpoxuyi%fFigbzKlaHzei-koutqsAj
smugtnsstsIzx|opfbvmwgvGCAi/yuuA}er1ixtrs|zljpvjJltMCsk!gEqgeyrvgsNmi*x
AEf?bK0LF6USd|gue?bhGBmwtgi!yqfpbfKgbsJfv@jAy<beLlbvBjv|fuobgqwtfGNfv,
gzebujuvowuwC!yoiqqqKgsxKzi|zqebchultLtys!vDjocwQgtHOwg^fybvgwAhmLtgy: 
gFavjjrzbFyex*sq.bhtMuesNme:f|qtkrsyjGyxwOfuuugqxgntxjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp|
jughkhMsusztv!ztfkteKAvwysx|fFpbwxwb


U6IGTe`VQ2WX

SmsAdjLoa9YYImYlsgxnwDfwths[EDjijyrsbPtnr!ztfbWsAAfwtXx@zqtbcsvgpyzjv^j
gpwkejrkvKCsk!glmkxjDFawCxg;yEjqpeGmaMBnw!yGclghLbasVzx!AzdgtyspoMS
xqncksKgdHHhi/tuoibyzlaILng^fAgbetHFsBAmx!ozacbiAnjMuqd_kpjwo	rifvuzw^fm
yAmwvnGuaKyre*tEavqetlaPIwo^jlpwveuvovywr*tsaocssnfFysx!gzebuDFAixMnw!ur
iAqAtnyouxxee+jlpwv]Gm_vIuC/osivbuAldxMes'fmafcysibLy 

GEaoqiwybMIwd=llujgexpotFew^yEjqpeGmaMBjdruDlujtHaa9Ltw|kDaIKKXVSWtim/kougf
jutewxKppGtys!lGuwtjrjpNLxi|fAgbchLppGtfr%fFigbuGAfGNne-fDpngeGma5Wem+
gpwcphAuhsNmi_alaCotFnaMBjd/kopoojFkbMCtr|fFicvewtfKAjh!CqsgbyzlayIqp=Cuoi<

flabb+r4pKExl=vlqctyAjjIusx|fEiqwqvg2	tgi"ozavqeLojGEee#uGubytJrjGA
flabbBAAisCre"klncvjJpbEnef;zltvtzuAvKyee+jlekinLpAxtnx!ozauwhzgb
flabbBsFaMBfx!gFacbqsAfKtxx@mqakveuhosvjd*tFftrwwAfwtnr:ulugzylgbGx
flabb7{ggBHid@fopootFgxtSex=fnvknirAfQNee+jljoclwzaMIli:nqsbutrAitN
flabbyzlzswfr!hqawujvgkHCsx-ElbvbxGtfsMye"kljpbyzlayOyy/kfaykyz
flabbfHwsHJwm@zqapgyOvsDtxy[vAsv?etldtOxi!ztbvbnKgiHQey|kDtbynDsaPusx
flabbyGgbvwjw|fFigujrtbMywm@rE?bbYzla5Cgv@xKaoklzAaxHhs;xmhgbfLAfFJyw
flabbyGgcKCsk!zAhgvmwyaIytt-klxjqesyfsQtv)ozhbqsrAfQNxd@tpakofyltn

flabb+rHaGyyA=xwaxgwKppGttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EltjqzDkauyeh^BqmqrjvgpK
flabbhGutBxjv@zuppbxzvvExef^fsjxgsrApsGfo*tsavjjrkbMuem+fuu
flabbfNhjEugp^fFpbrjGwmxtnr:kDfuvjvgjGtis*tsapgyOvsDtry-zungfnsb
flabbLACfGtyl^fovttjFAawyfv:nlphbiAnjMuqd%gFbbvmsAaBMee[vqbnksygbGx
flabbzFlovOrf^xqebdDrlyMLjq^rKaeqrHsfQtwm"nFtbrwGimxGx{!jqwgntHpoztf
flabbswAxHLpd<kDtkqsrvgsUri/oobpbRwtpKSeg=AxebftrtvvBex=ftfnreEhlx
flabbswAxHLpd_Axukojvpbsuev^gxjvA 

flabb+rJpGwjv+ozhbvmwguAIwr,futuwjrvgsyqi$zDppkhrkfIIxm: lMEbxzvvEx
flabbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBwet/uofuueAuaMywq|fAgbfnKAsBvzx^j
flabbwwzqHHxm#oxjvA	rAitNem| lctksyguHAjx&kDavjjrkjLNwm#AFff
flabbtJnbGCEe:oAoubfFkaLyyd;vlbbuyMkzsAws;vluqbqGvlsuyd@rxavjj
flabbnKzvxMev^rmugfeLvaxFjg:xAokeevlqHMnx!gzebujwgxAywi!Cqacues
flabbssAjHHew&uGmfbrGCfnteJ=xlfzcrHsfmtQG!suhjvesAuxGux!zAargwKBbwy
flabbtFlaFuos/fxjdtfJFaBHei@itauvfLlaMIeh^gxaykyzgjMMew:gFf
flabbjIBjOuqi+zlqwdqAzixL	d>nudjbrAniMtuv=jGdgbfrjpHJjv@zuwgbuJvkxwy
flabbyzhusQty-jlcgbjIBjMugp,fpjuvwAivMyid@xAvpfeLofswty+zDz?bfFkaHHj
flabbnFgxAChl!ROayqzDkauyeh^gxjpieOpuAtfd_ozjocqruvFvjv!urarwgDptAyww
flabbfFkaFCsm_gxaequQyjzByd[xAcngrKbas6Hd_AEubcqKvawyfp!Cuujbyzl
flabbhGudxJyd=llpp+qAufsJzf-oEikpllgexNjv_ozjpi	rhnHHld=ztftbyzpozM	
flabbmGDaLywm@rEauwhzgbLtTN{I6aoklzAauyeh^vAtkvjvggHLeg=vKskimLb

flabb+rZjGwjd@fzvodjJgpytuv=pqdvuesyfsJqe+tuoibyGgdtLwC!uGu
flabbuJltxLAe:oAobdDrjsxuym+mlekinLhmsCre"kEavjfLgxBFqd^tpawreAu
flabbtF|mBHjd=xlogcw	sjGyew:uDbigesAaLIri!oztvkyMAjHH	dgIlnkimLgqEuD
flabbfrofEJky-fDpng	rhusFje|zljpbyzlaGyfv!zqso?etFatwhi-kDbvksygiHQ
flabbyGgdtNfp=mlujcyrpoyIwq@zuppbnFApsNmi!Xqtgcwuoa5Cgv@xKaKpkGyntNns+
flabbSwAxHLpdRXXJP_esuesNmi+fuovqe7JMVnew=fFicveAAaPIzp%fnfbchultLCgp^a
flabbYzptsQty-jlsgfzulaMBjd[uEtkdnDpuRttj!sGmvkuDlaBHxx*zGukqsKgeBAnx*Fuoi
flabbyzlaLuri!CAsm}


I1OENZ~PP7

ZtfbYtJrtAIud>gEaxcqMhcEyef^imvugeAAauLty"nFavqlwAixLet@xFjucsKggKIr
BmskqzKghKIzt|fmofbuJvwBxjh!gzaqehszjHHex=foporfJlazIfp|fmofbrwAiHxx	
ZtfbotJlavIrq*zFffbusyuBMfr|frsgszwuuESeg=syvpkhsAfsQnx&fAujgwKgjGtyl^oD
mDpwrxlgcNNep^yEaqhywuatwws|ylhtqzHgcHOsh@xufu}er1ixt2s/qEiqreOhtsuqw=
BmmwcgDlaMIee:zqofgjK|_BHhp;juoibyzvtxtnr<uxwgfeOpuAtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD[TCtp
imngbqwztswtq_oFugfeLvaIuwx*iGmcteswqKIfg&kEaqteuvovyux|alaVjjKl
gFugpiwltsFje/tqebceyyftNeh^gx.bcsvgqEusd:ultgnjuAatHid^sBmqAewsfFysx|fAg
oybiksyaaMyCxTiAekpllgbGxer^zIptmjvgeBMyv*hGukqsrAitNew;oFavjjAy
xqtrghLpwxtuv=pqdvuesuesJzv[uEfu}

YFjnn	ryftFnx,fDfctxrpuLtzk-EligciggaGIef/kmlvjwGBhAtme|fnfgpesjiByAi%a
UzavjjrpntAnr"fEjfg	rvoxths+lDppvxrhaILtp*lqscvnGuaHzeg=sBfvksy
jmuc+nFAfKwme+mqauvfFkbKxxd@tpacbqsjlsIkd$uztgpxMzaHHex&klsqnjrvgsxnk*zmm
lmdukrAsfLtnr!vDfugwNhuBIs	!fUobvmwgsxuqq!uraochzpoxawi@jmcngeLlyMM	d=tq
kzdqwsLlsLtfd/kmtqpftszsGfx;xqauvfFkbKxef;zlngvmGkpEIlm$gxafkkxpdNFym^y
gzebjnyoavIxx|alaVjjKlaEuyx^xlqtqgDlnLnes'fopwtxwaaKyuv^yqovbfrzqxwne-
oyqgfnEloMtys!ztfbfjKpsxnee|fuubkxrzpFyym_kEagzuJltLyid*tlujgeHvqNFfv
vDfuu	r+uHtuy:fFigb;uvoMysx|fAgbvmw\a5Cgv@xKaqheUvozLjw|fAobnnFl?.teM+
ztfbytJktsIkd=tqarcwLpdBJfr: lujgwwgxtMe)+ultqnzLppGtys!ztfbghGupFCh
vDpdnjEz_ Nmi!vDplghLzaMBfx!gDfbqzLguAywi!gDfbuzJCjOCsk7fnvvbnLgjLtls*ts
zAadgesgmHNes'fIptmeLvaMLfr|lAsobyzlaBHks/smukqsrpowOxx/Efacpirzpszfv!ztf
ozwguyEloMtys!jAavjfLgjLtss:frptvmuvnBHl)![XFUM	rwfKtqm:zqscu[m


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaRTTULFW3SKn


3QMEQRW

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
MUGHQWVg(s9wm"ozaqhe#vsDMms[fuobezJyfGNeP*hDbtkfF_tsxjw*xqavqeEhlxtQGNy
iAmnghLppGMeq=xqaykiwszsuAe*rmcnge?gExMnh^xmucbfJptBHld'xAnbvmwgqKIxt^iF
uraitjsAfKtnr:kDdqpswjuxxsi|yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

GrugteOlmvIrm+mlqctyAjjIusx|fAobdjzhmyttj!ztfbNntybKSes'fOppiwwztm
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[lgbGxex&klOcvnGubEtIi_uztvtfLppGtQe# lQtqxKls
MUGHQWVaawCwi$zAsbhtJgtvBtp@xxzbrwGnstGx{!RuctcwQgpytHs+mDfuu	rspvuyi%
ztfbqwAnjGttj!ztfbYtJrtAIud=tlFnghLypGChdokJuubnFgbswtr<kDtcvnGuaAyel@j
nmebetFzjwywe#rKaoqwwguAusd@fKfctesnpsQnx&fObtneXSF2!HLcG7FTbhGudxLsm+m
yAngbtxguAyem|yGfubksjfwtgC!GY?bbTFguAyee|yGnrvnGuaMBfx!tGngttMzaHNmi/
vqprnjrDfKyee|quoibyzlaLuri!wGfuvnGutmtyl^fpfekxAvosQfw!smegbyGgcKCsk
zAhgvmwyatMeq@tKaqheLofLyet^uBmgbfKgqHMxm#rqavqeszlsNmi!ymngbvMltMCtr|
zAhgvmwy?stNr!glegguwyaLysw^ lHKHK7YEsMfm% lujgeGyjzCsd=llujge#vsDMms[
rmzbksrAixtii|oDfbqkrAixthy/xqovbQAistLne+fAgbEtFnsxMx{!PmngueZb
HumnksyApGnex=fybmgeLofswtp-koukqsKgpytyl^fXjdtfJF.syxt^iubnnDrAiHMj
urggtnFnaNHnu;klptbzFBtNuqd:kEukotFFaHHee|vqdvueGmaMBjd?sqskefF
kJqgtnwudxnee<gumcdqwguHtfd_Aoibynvlsswnv$rqaqheMzfKMex&gzavjtKlayyB
vqprnjrDiHthe+fopogeLva$uxl*tsuqpeLvaNMjd:nqn}be`ojLtri@tFavjfLguAy
kyqjcxAzaHzeEh lgtqrrAixtty:yqu?bmszauyjr!uzacthzpwtFeg=rxfevnGutsIkd:nq
hmtkeeEhuxLne- lbpfeGuaFupm+mlujgxwgdHFqi$zuppueLofFMjp<kEacxfAsbuFj{
xmujgwrAitHew^rqdvgirvssBje<oxzbgiAAfwtuv=jGdvu 

LDpobF5_tsyrt&gEjubkGsmHQjh!ztfbszwzuBIsw!CuujbBzpdAtyl^f9ptmxzvqsvjk@ta
CtpbynDsaNMjd:nqtgbrsAfKCfp| lbpfeAuaPBfx!lAsobBAsmsNmi,fIjujeLvaNMj
ztfo}erIvMtfr!kHfpbqsyhxLem|yGfbfjKlsOCsk!sqovktFaaBHeKdLRPTF)KgwByB{!Cmt
ztfbrmwupFyse-fssqyyzgjGtNr:kDogveuvoGyhx*BuuA}erOfsyCt/kEtgfeLofsBtt^
ztbvbyzlaILtw[koubqkrnsxuyi/fuovgwuvoGyhx^jzfuueLobGtjz^xlcghtJlaPIzp%
rqbfbyG?as&[d_AoibotJlavItt^xmukxjrhowtry:AmmnAeKBqIIwx*BqagpiwhwHLx,!8>
jqwgntHtfGNes'fEzuvjEzaHzew&gDffbfFkawCxx/onvvgiryfLJtr|onjnkyAltsNt
gHpkfevBqEChe:oAobcsvguHtjr|ADfbchuBstwDd@tpartjKlsOuym=tlphbzFprNy
smugtnsstitfr%f#-bclJlfFysx!uzavjjrufvyxw@xKauvfFkbKxxd@tpafgAwspIGjr:fAg
ztfbcuHypILne:klektjuApKCjw!gzebksvpdxMex=fybmgeFhwBAfx*uz
yFscklzAgHLBe/jlboqsyguAyez@xuffbwwzpNLhi|fFicvesyfmtfr%fuoetjszjGAqC
CumnbgwaatPfm-gnmg}erPosNmm|fopppjuAjHH	dbORGQTIryfJOjw:kpavjfL
vmsvkhAwbGNxd/krmgeyrmsHGex&klpwvxwAaNJtr!ztfbutJAtsIkd=AFdqojKguAyD
ztpwimLguAye1=xwtjqurtjzByd&gHf}beVpesNms|klqtgxwuuswtr|zuuwvjrhazLty[
CuujbxMmgBwni+zldqorGuaBHyi/kEuubyGgqKIus|klbbpjPAaLNjt!uDapgCLgtMyuw7
gzebkkrzpmtBl@zlnkimLguAIxi!hq}bbYzlzsQty-jlsgvzJuaMIex&kEfbszwzuBIsw!ztf
lAmnqBAuhsukx^xzpqp 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfOptgeGma$Iwo|nAqbetFjfKHxd[xqqctfLppGtfr%fBsqfzuAjHHes'
smugtnssts{eW[kojcneuobEFjr"kljpbhGuwxLxm=tlphbywEuNuqd_gFftkfDza}
WGbnkyQgwxLxy|fCvcpyAAzs{eH=fFigbxwCfKuqd"xAvrueJlqKyxi+zqebumsyfswtq_uz
ozugtjKAtot+
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
kyqjcxAGfwtyl@zligbBGBmwtfx:kyqvbyGgsxJwi|kzubvmwgqxIup^fIiqbuwygHLrd|uyf
uravjjrDpKEes'foppxjJAjGAes/fBsgrfJpozteq@zqskcqKgbGxex&gFavjjrjpKyes'
ztfbYtJrtAIud&gpavqevvaPCyl!vDfrcwsAjHHee+jlqtqiMjuBIs	!fRMGKXUOIT#JV
ztfpbiJlxsueh*yFjpeyAvosvjx>kqobvmwgmHHld:kDn?bBzlosGfr,fFikplKgxHOqh!hq
gHbknftsfsush!iAopghLlesCsd:nqaycDKguAuydbORGQTIrkfLwwm#kp.bcsvguAyew&uDu
zqso?eAuaPBng&fMNbptLgpGFDd&gEaytjKAmxxeA*ztavjjrptLOjd=llxjcyrptsNmi
hqtvbhGBsLyex=fBvtuzwgcNNee-yAajcxrmbvyid@fHbtkjLFaHzex^itokefD
itbnnjFnfLo

LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kybtmjvgB6.xd^tpfcxtJzaMIeh^gxaykyzgbsQnh^fDbpijrvgsFnf/gDz
lAsocyKaaLOhl!gEaoqyAvosJng:ADfbetDsfvNns+yfauqzFk_Kyhs/juoibhGsmxwym=tE.
gzebrnuApKCfp!iAmnghLppGMes'fHbtktMzaLIwx| lfurjupbEFDd$uxmgeyAvoLttj
vtpvqlJhqAM d!OzavjjrjpNLxi!uravjjKlaxzks/zE.bCRrrfINeg=suoibgsjlsNt
zqyvwfDgntNjv*gxt++rsuvLwwm[zEaqteJhsxtuv*tFffbrsAuxL	d#uGofbrsAfKCfp| 
kFd}be`lyMtus|kpavjjrnsxuyi|zldqpAwytBIsd$nmmngsylaHzee-rgabVmMz.sNmi
mqogunKgpytyl^f9ptmxzvqmtBl*itatgkDldMMex&klqtqgDlnLtke$kpadAeST?stYl^yq
vDpdnjEzaBHhp;jqarjDKpdtFet/unmgoxmgaYIwd^DmnrnjlguAIxi!ozavjjrsjuLfv,
gzebcwuojOyef;yuoguxrkftFeA*ztaeqqDldMCtr|fybfgeMwaHzej/gsjngesuesLfv^
smowuhJpqMtnx^sE.bdtMuesGfx^xubnu	rltIyhm@rxzbvmwgoHNtv*uGtnAetyjMNqi
hAvpfeEhuxLne-ylphbyzlaEuyi!tuogvjwuuAthi+zGsA}er1ixMjd@xqartjuppNM
iGmvwwssatLym'gouu?ezvxxPjv7fmtbyjDsatMem+zqsguyAuhsMty/iqtbqk
ozgqtrsAjHH	d@tpaNEevltBLjw!zAatgysposush!iAougwNlaMBjq8flBObswleLtys
nmofnjrAiBHlw!CuujqzLgetGfk*tsavjjEbas1zm-rAukpnFnattgs=qluqbwMuaBN
ztsqwlzgbsMmi^zlgggiwyaFOxx!hqacxtAkfwtfx!gxmbetKAtn

HqzqpirwiRMng@rlqtqgDlnLnem|yGfubuwyutCsm+mluqbvMhmBNDd@xAtg}erMpK
kJborqwaaMBjd%kEjtgeLvaILtz*jqawujJzaPCyl!gltgcwuobuFjd:kJubkxrhgyyhx^j
hKavjjrxvxMym=tlphbfujfINff-klmgxjDgpytfg$ADbeA rgPGyel;tpsgfeHlsvysx
godwtfuFaBMex/kyfpftMzmRtjB[kztkxjmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbqzLwvMttj
uBukefDgdAuwe$zqsbtjuvhGCym=tl)QEW{gdtHef^fFsgojFkpNMqC!ozbeezJhuxo
GxujqzyoaT7el@ylbvvjEwuxxex=frjpfesgnBxip^fssqwsvaaNHhi/zmjpvDrwfKMnw:y
gEavqeOofMBjv!uDapqyrpusBfw!juteqAwyfwtyl^fDjijyrzpEOym=tg

WGfuvnGutsIkd]AmmkvDrhsHMjd$uzdgtsAuhsCre"kEacueOlmEoedaRQJUEMZHVX`
iAovtfKAfwtyl^fqyvtjElmRtmm"nlmgxjDgpytvy@ruuAbtxguAyeh*muucneAtbzyxd*t
ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybRwGqfvNeA*ztaCO)Kgfyztv:yluqbuJvwBxjd@fnsqyxw|rNuqm:E
uDacehwzt Kze-oFzbkrsnfmtfw!uBqqujvguHtfr!gDdjkAssaHLet/kEftxfLppGtnq@mq?
LXFKUHZOB@YWd:nqsghtJlaPyqg=sqebvmwgpIJtv:AzjvAeLvavIrt@xqapqywz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd=hEftxjvgjGtue|yuoibyzhuswtr<kDtcvnGutsBjd&gpajcirhcHOy
tquyqwCzaAuAi!hqhwpeLvaLClr@rlujcyrmpKtAe/oAvubkGynLttj!sqekces
jqugtrAubMCtr!smzbdjrtbwyex&gFavjjJlaBMee!hDpyuj	xvtFnx,fuugo	rvssu
jutvtntBuBIs[@tp_cehwzt Kze-oFzbkywtaMBfx!smzbetwEjLNem+fEpogeKFtMyrw
CuujbfrojzBjv!wGbnkyQgbKwmm<gxakvjEguAuyd>uGmfbgwgjGwtr<kzjgpyrApsMjr%
ztsqwlzguAyer^zIptmetldtOxi!urakvxrzjSy d!LXFKUHZOB@YWd/krfttjvaaHz
iAvtujlguHtnq@mqtbotJlaMBfr!zAaugfJjitvqi!zqyv}

GEaCOeuvoLCii/kpavjtKlaJOjw:oAou?eKlwxLfp!iAoeguLBbEtnw|AqtbcwGzfhtes;mtu
GYaqehszjHHfp-EluqbwwwsHxzg^fybvgwAhmLtjr:oDfnAeLosHOll!gzakofylaLyy{!gF
uFigteLpnxM	d^tFjtgqQguALty"nlbbvjPAaLyy{!gzebksrzpFyeg@yqt?bfrtjQp
ZtftgeHypuugp,fIpwnirifsNnq^ylxjgsrAixtmm|zAskefDgbNNmi+zudkvDrvgsus
gDukhfuAaPIzp%fDfswnJlaMBfx!oFtbkrsnfsvjd;yqe}beSuaBGfk^fyjijyrif
jqtktftsfsuxd@fDfeqzJzfsztv!AEftueAmaHHjd$uGmfbsGAaILtz*jqa3`#	wfKwjr:
godwtfLlaMyCx8flBicnFaaT7eA=tpftgilgbLtfd[xmdvkhssaFuyx^xfakhes
jutvksuAjHHeg=AxebdjrkstQsd#kFxggsrybKyet/ozugfeEhuMywd:nmubonyousyCm|z
ozaowqLpqEyeg=rxfevnGut ayl@zlju?eAuaMysd=xlgkhywlosFnf/gDjgu rgJGtxy$n
imtgu	rAixtsi^jlgqteHlsyyhx!xqqtqiMjuBIsd>uGmfbgwgmxMxd:nmobhtJgvGCvy^
oFfou rgJFJqm$oFakpezptsLjq@xwt?bK4LJ`WML?1QSbetFjfwyi{!CmtbvmwgbwGnw|oAo
ztbvbF5gitMef^kzavkqLpoztxx/uzhnAeLvxtLiw!wGbpvnLFatHid%xmxkplribvEee
ruuvnjrmsHGet^xrfeveIBbECyC8flUjcyrptmtnx!yqfogirApsURd:nmubutupfMSeA=Axe
hqadgyLlssMjv<kpakheEvsxtyl*tstbyjJlawCxx/onvvgirizs6H[TkHfpbnxguAyDd>kDf
tAubszAAfsJjv'kou++yzhosCkd'kIftbyzpozM	d[kDggeyDFaKyuv^yqovgilgxxLj
jutvtntBuxx d!ZtjubBszaLNfx^jlbubfrwsHJtw*zuppbyGgcxtyi|zqe?bBAAi
xqtrqsKltsNtd#klhcvmwyfwtkv=slvugwKb

OzavjnFrjGAee#uGubkxKBfLtwi-gFffbyGgsxJws%AoukqsrvgsGfx^xubnuesuesMji*ts
uFigteHlpIFjd^tsbigirposJfv@rxfnbfuAjOCym^yfaCOevlfFyid*zlvugkMsaMI
iAoxgswgbswtr'kDfpejmga1ysg^ lujge#vsDMms[alaHNJ1ZD12FY XlujgwwBqHH
yGsxgDwkaMBjd|kHftcqrnsHOuw!xqqtgxwuuxx,d!7>avjjrDpKFid=lljoclwza{Cre"k
AEftuesuesCre"klncmjJz-it7=!ztfbytJsesIkd:kJubcsvgtvBtp@xEikresuemtBm:nuo
ztjublJvvInex&uEfbetFjfKHjh!CuujbqsuhNuliT/RMGKXUOIT#JV!iAohgxKlesNtd'ozekpl
jqmkimLmvEtnv=tKakpeLofszfg:fFicveKvnxttj!ztfbotKAatxAe+iqebvmAulxLxd=t
iAnrwywyjSyid:kJuubfJlaMBtw^fpfcnnFnaPCyl!gzdkgsLgHKyjo!gzebTtEhosGfx^xubnu.
9>avjjrufMQtv)fIptnihgbGxe8SfFigblwufKuqd>uDmfbtxgmBvwe/EltekjFjfmtBl*it
ozdnwiwzaIytt-kljpvjJltMyid*tlqtgxwywtNns+fmofbhsAbEIlm+mg

LXFKUHZOB@YWd$uzdnwiwkaACxd/kybtmxrDjMBew[kojcneLobGExd:ulujgeVhwBxee+j
RGdknjrWbvEfv%fRpwpisAjHHej=xljvueKBqIIwx!uravjjrtfxNnr" lujgeStfKChe+
SqnqtDrnsHOu{!ztfbQkxpdxtks/f5djqqsymRtUv=mDbou	rAixtSe:oAocn
JqnqpxLybMCtr!Rmc?bfFkaMBjdjlrjegeGma`Jjg*gxaGxjFAtnteL^fqyrtjKzfwtyl^
nAqgbyzhusXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDebonyousvjd@hxfbvtrhuMysh7fzpvksyguAuy
Vmdmcwv_tsQtv)fmofbyzlaPIwo!uravjjrmpNHie:oAobjfvgtIIsw=xqebceFBnuywd=l
vDplghLzaBHex&klugzyrhsxu 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJnteGjT6FPVe1UaTtSIrfRPTO,rga$2TdrOXMbWXWgJ!tFR	f9ICVe#PM5tYL 5lEQ{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JMM1b+rHdDHtA-kphgojFAts{eE!tqxbNfLposuzx&uDtbfnKra}teI'lqdvueGmaMBjd+kI
zqdjptDvhRttr!vDfxktMzaFyyl=jEaqheJltxuwg&f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YqsxksygbLtrs%kDbvqwlgKtGjw!JMM1bfuroHQqi%mqebvmwghxHjv=yuuAbtxgbEFex&k
vDfugsLlsLtks/fsjxksygpytyl^oDavkrwaavIzr|kx.bcsvgqtNni+iqakpeHsbGHnr"
ztfbYtJrtAIu{!gEaygqDgbLttj!sqndgwKgpytyl^fMngtnuhos7jq=xKarttBldMtfr%
uFigte4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMew:grg?bfFkaMBjd	gHjfbfFka5Ohm-klQcepsye
LAvpffLppGtfr%fuuubjPldNNnz^fpjtghLvsmtHs-hGspbXmgXBFgy/a

JMM1byzlosLjg=AzugfezptsPnw*zljpbRsydAtys!ztfbEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
ozavjjrOvFusm:oqtb-HW1I	tfr%fFigbIwwbKNri+zlphbHDhtLChw!gFaTwyylsL
1zjxgwKpuRneA&kDfbcsrvmwtkv*kze?bQGDfEFeI%sGofu	rpoMLth;iqebjnEguHtyl^
jqqctyEloM.xddH~DWUeKjiHFfv-ElqgtxGubEths_vGugt	rhownem+fBbtvnuBmtL	d:nq
tqxbNfLposWI[mUY.betFAbBHnr" lboqsygpMBjv!ztjpixlgbEGtw:fmmnbhDhtLChe-
RmukpeDpuxLfv,fFfzvxrAiKIzk&fM?F}e"%~nteT@iwbtfeZBntHnx*kEaKpxLpuNNj
[2IK_	rSpLtFp:uE.bEfDpgHLsm@ lsgnjszfwtyl*ylekuprsbMyem+f!0~3	rDjMBee
tAnkpfDguKCjr+ommbnnuloLCsk!lqf}

VxbAksygxBNmd:nqafkxCggHLee+ftpwteGyaLIee:f4vvijJzauLty"nFajqrwguHtIEg5
gFaqphwguAyev^BAmwvnGujSCsk!oyqceyrvgsNmi!tqxbvjuooHFtk,fAobjnKgqKyAm=AE
squjqiKgpytwi|kmsej rgItxex&oEafkxCgcxysd@BmjncgDlaMQtd=xlujtjwgzxuww
kmsnkjJaaWUQ3!iAovgsvlemtBl^tligbBszaxHle"kpakpeHyfIuwm+mlbbetEtfGNfv,fAo
HApmb6=gpyt1m/mum&ueSloxCid'uDaEcrtyjwAjdptuwgtxAAzs0wi|yfajgeOvvExer=z
nmwgbwwxvBLjh!glgqtyQ|fBAmxTyCvctj	mpHNex@hxfbqsrDiBwmd:ultrtjskaMBj
tGngttMz.sGtw:frsgszwuuESeg=tEvnvjvgjMyrw7fuoenzvpoztxs_klugpeGyaMQjp<k
iAoeqwvhovyxd:ullgAe4huBHee;ztptu	rhosuqq=yFagszssaGOrf^xlphbqwEjvuex=
gGujqwKgxAIep@iwffbhGudHLie+iqt?bfFkaPBjv^fqjvjjJgmxRng@fAsbetFjpKxfr$kE
CqsgbqsjlBHl{!tGngttMzaxxnx*uztbqkrhvMBtv|fmovgisAjGAee+jlqquyvhuBHldqoDhkn 

TAs?bBzloswmi$quoibjsjisIkd:nqacxjJhhxtxm\fFpbujNlosQtv%yldqpyspoxxem+
ztfbXnJnjECfr!nqycojLlssztv!oFtbwxsnfsyqw^CtftgeAua#Cwk*r/tbytJrtsIw
uFigte4huBHee;ztptu	rDpNFid	GXZbjfNlaAuid:ulncksLhjGtyl^fxbdqwAvvL
sqdjcsAjbEtuv=iqtubtxggECut*tsavjwGBhAtyl^yqaeqsuvswusg^yfangCAjbmtfr%
kpjvktFzaxuhl!zung}erUpKtBs;rpajgezhwxtme%fFpbhwwxvxHyd@ylphvjFguAy
SumvqsrZ?sYnw^ttpygwrSjuLfv,fmubvmwgKHBsw!NAqmksKgVGCAi/yuuAbyGgdHHxy-z
ztfbVmwzbNLzw!RuoiwfwgMtNnr@kgabKsKAftxes'fpfxqyAuhswty+zxfuuezvvKM	d=x
ztfbdzDraHzel*ylsgujsydAtym_kfavqeyhuAywm+mlecvfrjpGwjv+ozhbXnJnjE.xd;yq
urayqwvz.sXFPt/\oqyexyfxxef,f2IK&xrSbMCsd@AFiqtxrkjLEej/uyavjj
zKscpsAjbEneC^zljpbxGtfsQfC|fBbtciGEjvuqp,ftbrrDrzdAIqe/rKaftzvnfKS][
CAvnfezhwxtgi^tlbdnjrApsxjz=zqavjfLgttGjd#AxlbqkrAjFyex=fmocnDRpoztfr%
ozugtuJluBHldqoDhknnsuaOywf@rlvuclwb

Iuukplr1ixIis/klCtwsFlsmtLv^mAsAbHJhoxneI-ruaO1Q7UB`nee+jlBxtfrTJV2JPnUZ.
JMM1bfJnvxxex&gFavjnKgsxPjv|gxakpezptsMyC-klphbBGylmtre%klqquxAimxtgC!ztf
tqxbvjuooHFtk, lxqwqvgqxLme[ylicxjryfLOqx^jljpbgwAuxL	d_uDfbrwGkvvNnz^
xqtgcwuo?stNr%kqe?bjNlosCsd:nqaeqzJzfsIkd&oEadttOzjGAex&klMcvnFgbNNms/y
jutmbfLgSNNli/yfakvxrwpPywj;rltgcwuo.sLjx/oqwcn	rhowtmm"nxjijyAuh
imqcdnDpuByxd|AshguywkaMIel*sltgxjJhmsHjA!gHfpwjKgpytwi|kmsejeAuuH
2usikq\zaNMjd=lltqwsvgfyzjg:ygabVmAzatHjg%uFbnbfujpNHy{!JMM1brspoMunr^jf
smzbujJCfsNtd*rxvuvwsAfsCsd[gDubvmwgtNxii+fmofbwskjvuqd:xmouhtJtbMCtr
hqjpieOypNAmx!ozavjjrDbRMew$nAmctxrDpKE 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.
SUDJGQ~VOs{eI-kyfpvxryfEuyi%fFpbuhzvmtLxl*vlbpfeLldAHtp=mKa)bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvueOpuACsd:nqaeqsLlyMttj!hDpcfjJguKysh|fIjvjnFgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mK
gzebuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!=lFxcqMhuBIsd=llujgeHypLJjg:ylgqteLofsOxi!ur
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWwsbMCtr|nuqbqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsNtd[xAdguxwzaHz
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosCsd&AybpkyAltsLjw^gDdjb+rUfPtjB$nmoigexvsFuyw
iDfcvjvgcRtxg&uxbtue?gQKIoi$zEakpnLpbMyid:uljpewwhtxtxg&uxbtnDrhdvyxw!zA
iAoxgwLlesNjB:f;aVtjFkaMIBe/jlncmnFnaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEy
ztsqwlzgsxMje/itacpirleNwfx*uzapgyOvsDMe_!ItbpijKgutEnr"fBmcejrpo
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosurs+mliwofFpuByxd|itpncwKg(s8jx>uDl+ojvpbMyi
yoiqnfJziBJex/gzthqwEpoztyv@juukqsssaLwms-gDmAbuJhdMChi|f;aMgD
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyFaMLjr%ylbhhjuAjGAex&kldqpiMjusIkd|itpncwDF
iAnowsAjbMCtr!uHftbyzlaGyCx!jqdcfjr[a!Bjd:xqofbyGDbKxei+j\vugwrjpFJzx*ts
=lUjgeLyfGxex=CmsfblJlbMywd$uzogeyACjMSe_!KrggeyKgpytyl^yqavtjFkts{eO^E
zDbpukGyntNns+ylucmnFnaIFfg^f;aUwrEhsRttj!vDjpenHhmsuwk;sqovue?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.

GHscbR1JIX6XSi lBtemACbEtWi|kmsejesuesYAe-AmukqsrZutzk{!TmukqsssaTLhl*Bqt
gzebTjuvswMeE%suokuyJhuBIsdRTMSC_	rhszOjh!ztbvbjKAbuFnw&ozhbymGgxBFqd;yq
kxfevwGujvtyi\zEacpirDitNex&kKaykqDgvLyex&kyahqwrpoOIqz^ylbbetFzjwywe:oAo
uradqyzgjGztv_gFjqpeLldAHtp=mKacpirzdAIqe/ytjrbyJlowM d!Ztju
iAoukiwybMCtr!ozdnwiwzaLyAi/gxagnjEloMMev^rmugfeLvaLwms-gDtjkurhow
zqdjptDvhRiedv]lujgeClzsNwi+jEakpeAugHLre:oAobvjuooHFtk,fFicvesyfsGtw:
xqmgxfFAaMIew$nAmctxzpqit7=!ztfbmjQguKysh|fuobvmwgvLyes'fovttjFAmR
gHbknftsfsNjg&tAmqiDrizsMhl=rmsubnFguAyer=tEdkgsLpgBweg=syvpkyQ}atHidx]
ztfbtjDhuBIsw&oBadgyOlfGtyl^yqavytrCfKSeh*yFjpeyrivMtnr:kDsgnfLlesNwi+jE?
ZtfbksNltMGjr:fuobwsvlsLNfr%ozhbvmAzaKyqe:oAoujnHgcxCsk!smegbgQ
ozgqtrsAjHHet/uHjfgwKaaMyhl+uxpikxLz.sush!vGcnkhrwpEChC!jqwgntHlsLnee|
CqmnbfKgcRtxg&uxbtueLofFMjp<kE.bujwttsNtd#klqgtAszjOyee+jlhtqBAuhm
SUDJGQ~VOswtr:kzegf rgTAyeh/kIaqpeuvmEugs/gFjxgeOvsDtBm:nlKghkrYpMBjr#kDh
uzavjjrzdAIqe/rKawujrvgsNjg&tAmqiDm

SUDJGQ~VOsMty"nFavqeHsbvyex&klqjgsGtfGIsd=llfnghLypGChd:kJuubBAAiBHex&k
iAovgCLgpytgv=gpftbyJlowMeA*ztjpbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!gzebuhzvmtLqC
iAnowsAjbMCtr8flTjgesyhNyid:nmubgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrhsxttj!sAtvbzKlaMI
xqtgcwuofKMex=fFigbjPAfGNex&gFavjjryfLyfv$nqsu&eOvsDCsk!iAovgCLg)Boj	7
ztfkteJlmxPfr:fnjdnnGnstJmm$fEpwthwz.swtp-ksjcnexlfwvfg) lbpcqQAjvtys=rE.
tAugu	rkstzyw7fque}[lgbEIsk!CuujbyzljKtkm^rp"ubuJpntLDd@tpaughGuetLD
yAvtejKaatFxs!oEacehwztBvqi!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAsobfFkavusd#kljpvjyybMyid*t
Cmzubyzhusuwi!AzjswjrApsNmi!uz_nkswgfGPnv=tyfpv 

KHbnwfLppGttj!ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbvmwgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbksusvwyxd:CA
kxfogsLz;st6=!gzagzfEpotNns+fAgbvmwgxtSxd*tlxjkhzgsxMje/itftueuBsKysx-E
gDfbwxAuhsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNxd@rAoibBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.sush!8>
gzacpfDFtBMes'fwfAbnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!zDfpfxrAitNee/klbhhjuAjGAex&k
rAoi+ywynswtr%AoubqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uz?bbR1JIX6XSifxjokywkaAyw
jutewxKppGttj!ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnuguxRyw!zAavjjrwstwym$kEaqhezBntHnw:y
gzebptLlesNme:fFigbxupfGNnj*ildqorMujMSeA@ylpwvxAkfsNmi!vmogn)KgpOywz*kI?

SUDJGQ~VOsyCe_ozffbyzlaGuyy/klphbyzlavOwv^tFatgqsAjHHxl*vlphbjDldMLtr*i
zqyvueAuaIuwx*iGmct	rhowtjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbksrnfGywe- luqbBzhusMmi
smjpvfAufwtBi/kfaguxwuuBuqp, lgkxjrwsHwjw|kEaqheKjiHFfv-EldqorMujvuym=t
ozajwrsujMCjw!xqtgcwuo?stWi|kmsejjJza" em%kzukhDrzpNLhi| l3_bhGtnNHng@zq
CuujbyzljKths-rqbiwjKaa* em+zqsrtjLgbGxee+gxzBgevhutne8SfpjuujEpotNj
ztfkteJltxuwg&frjpfnFntmtfr%f%-brwwwbKyeg;xDjewqsguHtnr|zDveveLofsHjB:
mqogtfLppGttj!yoiqnfJzatHid|zGegpyKbas@mm|fqyconFhuBIsd>uGmfbuJveNwjd@
ixfctjJgvGxjv|zmofksygpytyl^fEzpgwyFatGtr"fFigujrmjOyet/uofuujKguAuy
lGfnueLofsNjr%kzdAbtxguAyey|klphbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMej=xlppgeHypvyxw!zA
yFjowqsAfsCyw!AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?

LAsbvmwggBLxx!vDpegxKgpytxg&uxbtnDrjpFGzr*imukqslguAyem%kzukhnuhuBIsd=l
yAvtejKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbquHvsMOsm:EltejtDhsLtss>fqolqDrAp
yGqrnjEloMtyv@juukqsssaPIwhTur_oqzLoaLyfv$nqtbhtJgtHOwg^ylboqsyguAynv
iAmngfyBfLtBm:nlogyexvsFMes'fqmgeyJvoBwew^gDdjksybas!t{!lAsbgCstqEy	
oztvgfvgpytme<ozhbvtrCjLCyd:nqankgJhsRnev^yqbtemwytsuwi!gnmgbyGgfQJqs/k
jqtetnHAjHHxd=lliqniAuhLtnr!ztfkteGmgBwjw8flGwtyzlsFIwi7fugbvmwpssIBr
oztvkyMAjHHx(!nAmfksyzaILtz^fuouwkxpdBysx7fEdjqqsytswfr!godguxrtpKyex&gz
8*~bofBvssUri/oobpbqAistLDd$gFbnqlMltsIAi/fUovgwFlumtnr$rGekplrAix
AzjxgwKpuByxd=llDcnnxvsGCf{!Sudjklsu.s0jr+yKmxcsAh.sush!3uteqsKpon
Jusgeyrhdvyxw!zAavjjrijuFns"xmqjkhrkbMuge|kEaqhkwytsCsx^rxfevzss
kyqqyjJtfGNex=fEdjqqsytsvDd[xqtgpyAuhsueg=sBsgjjFzjOyeq^gztbqkrisHQxm+m
ztsqwlzgmBvwe/oqtbhwGtaMBjm/ftpogxrhowttj'oofubfLguAynv!iAoxgsAlovy 

Ztfbujuvowtuv=iqtubtxgdHGry+oobvktFgjGPtp<kEaeqrEBoBwfx*uzacotFn
yoiqnfJz?stGi,uzebvmwgnHMyd$uynqpeEluAIiw!uraeqrEBoBwfx*uz.buhzvmtLxd@xq
AEjpieW|ntCqd@tpacbAsyjxNDd=llogyewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uztbhtJtbMM
jqskxjvggKIrd*zlgqtexBsMBjv!gobfgrAjaBHyi/itbpijmgaXare*rlfzemsuhxMee/k
mDpyksygbMtfr!gEuqpnKojGAev@zq.btjHvsMyip,f!6brjJjfGNee!sAovj rgUAyD
iGstgsLszswtr|zuuwvjrhqILtB*smugnDrobEzex&klutckxpdsIsd/kEfcthzgbGx
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlu}erTpKytz^xfavjjrnmHvfp!yBsgcirvgsY]q@oxajcxrifxHew=
xmqkfeLobMtnx!oEapqBrwpLMnf-klgqteStfKChe+fEdjqqsytsNtd;yqakveLv
iAnowsAjbMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw!ozaentKlaMIe5y$lpvjjJgdHOsx/oqt}

UFigteFlxsyCg&gzhgbkGyntNxd$xqbvgirizsMhl=rmsubfFkaHJjv@zuoibtFgJGNjv+kF
ozdnwiwgnHLjd:nmob9#=gdHHki/kzdgu	rDjMBee#uGub0#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmwzfsxjz=zqe
zAavquAjtsCsd:nqauqhAhmsMhm^tofubfFkaAOre+oFjgu rgUAyev@zqaqheyypPNmd=l
ztfugeKjiHFfv-ElfnghLypGChd$uzggtjFjfLtfp|uljubfKApGCxl*ts?bbKJvnsF@!EfFp
r&03?e"%~sHjA!iAohgwwudxMeA^xqakfjFAjyCjh!uzaKpywyoxN d!LDpobTuApuywdv#&2
zAaLwswg2=[7{!gzacfiAAjHHfp!7%~betFmfKysg^yljpbyzlaLIhm@rltekjFjfLtfr%
nGncpnLpfLtBi/klbffjvguHtyl*ylektjuApKSes'fxjuvnFntnteW$nAmctxrobOy
kEucdqAzixxeg=trftgsultsCsd<oDuwcqDFaxPjv,frjgnilgxBNmm+fqwgtDrkjyzjv^tF
jutekuDpoxoedauDagzfEwmxnex&kDfbcwwgdNLwi+zxzbeqGzfsNtdA$*aceyACfsMtg*gx
yojgphwgbGxel;smokvnwzaswtr'kDfpejKgpGtys[ootbuzuoatMee/zlbpf
gDdjkywjuNLj{!kFipqrMzjvIqs"EfahqqCspKy	degBbpgxwgdNFyy/kfaogiAjbE
kpvecyAvomtfr%fsjhvjvgbGxex@rqovgirleNwfx*uz?bbYzlatJui@rluqbxuopEuww!ur
iAnowsAjbMCsk!ztsqwlzguAyxi!iAohgwwudxMem|fFicv	rBoECpi!gzzbqyzlssGjh*Ay.
kxfevwGujvths+lqsgphwzaMIie,fBsqxnvlattks/AyahqwrnmHvfp!iAnowsAjbMCtr
CuujbuwlsLtfx!ztfbhwGuusysh!uravjjryfLyfv$nlqtqhwztn

OzugtuJlutNns+fmofbfFhmRMnw!urauqzJjfLths+yFjvwywzaMBjd:nusfbuJvdxMxd=l
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvosNme:fYJEJJ4ZP7tim|iGtugirposNjv_ylphbywEuLtfr%
zqyvwfDgsxMty/iqt}be`ofsGjx&uptbwxwkaMIee+gxzBgeKvvKwjw!lmmnbxGtfPBjv^fAo
gldqpyAuvNGej/uyaswfFAjMuym<klbpcqQzjLtys!wGbnkysAjOyee+gxzukxm
ZKqkefDszmtjz*jqoegeAzavOqp^jlbpfewCbEOfx^jlvuksygnxNms%yletcBFggKIrd#uFi
kzeubtxguACxd$uzukpzMt?stFx!uzfbgsvaaJOfr:oFbvkAwgbGuqC|oEakpAGswxMex&k
AEfbqkrtbMBjq@zudcneHypvyxw^yltwemrhtsueg=AzubqkrmsxKzi+iufubfF
