At the other end of the continuum, qualitative analysis typically
involves nonmathematical processes oriented toward language
interpretation or the building of theory.  Aspects of this work involve
the processing--either manual or computational--of large and sometimes
massive amounts of textual sources, although the use of nontextual
sources as evidence, such as photographs, sound recordings, film footage,
and artifacts, is significant as well.

Scholars have discovered that many of the methods of interpretation and
analysis that are related to both quantitative and qualitative methods
are processes that can be performed by computers.  For example, computers
can count.  They can count brush strokes used in a Rembrandt painting or
perform regression analysis for understanding cause and effect.  By means
of advanced technologies, computers can recognize patterns, analyze text,
and model concepts.  Furthermore, computers can complete these processes
faster with more sources and with greater precision than scholars who
must rely on manual interpretation of data.  But if scholars are to use
computers for these processes, source materials must be in a form
amenable to computer-assisted analysis.  For this reason many scholars,
once they have identified the sources that are key to their research, are
converting them to machine-readable form.  Thus, a representative example
of the numerous textual conversion projects organized by scholars around
the world in recent years to support computational text analysis is the
TLG, the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae.  This project is devoted to
converting the extant ancient texts of classical Greece.  (Editor's note:
according to the TLG Newsletter of May l992, TLG was in use in thirty-two
different countries.  This figure updates MICHELSON's previous count by oppg {

ZtfbuhzvmtLxd[kDgqtrAuhsNmi|kldqpAwytBIsw!nmwgbgwlosuxo^jluqbwwjpzHnD^
ztbvbyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKvvKwjw!ztfAbfJlavIsz^xFjpiexvssIsi!AEfbrtKzfLMez@rGf
lAsbqyzlssLjw^gDdjbuMyqHMjw!gEaygqDbasUxd@fDfuwqLaawOwm+mlujgeHhtMtki>
Eqbtu	rovFusm:oqtbuhzvmtLxd&gHfbksAAjtNjh!glowogwyaHzet/uvfevxrAp
ozdtgfKlaLwms-gDmAbfujfLMex=foppxjJAfwtyi\zgabUtlggHLei\gyqng	rAixtYi\z
KzdqfnFna2Hnx*gFjxge}1F2 	d@hAvvbBzpdAtrs/kljubxspesFfx^xljpbyzlaILtk/gy.
CmtbgxLhcECxl^jlbubfFgfyztv:fnzbuhzvmtLxd:ulegvjJtjGyew:gzectirlmxGjr:y
gzebojLopwMej=xlfpetvpoztre$nuog+wwhetvqi!zqyvbkGyaxFjg:xAokeewEdAusk^a
OzacbxwjpGxei'lAsvbyGggtwnp*zmugbyzlaLBfv*tsaqheuvoOywx^jlugzylgtvBtp@xE
nmwgbhJlbMyid@fzfybnFzuBNzx*uz.bvmwgDxHyi/frptbJDldMLtr*ilUgzyKgjGtyl^
NGncpnLpfLt=G ZT-}be`ofswjr:kDaguyAtbMyxd:nmubvmwyfsuwi!@f~``eKlsByxd=l
yAvtejrAfQNxd*tlujgezBntHnx*kEavjfLgitPjd#kqobetFCfKNjh!zA
smdjksw|sxuie#rqahqwEgxHLqh>opf}beULU1tnw!AzegtysrjGAee+fuovgwFhuBIse-
yqbtemrmpKths+BqsvgirAfQNem+fFigbmMtbGCym^yfaeqrHpmBHld*zljpvtrho
kxfevwGujvtqm#xmsA?esuesJwi[gDjpietpcECtk/gBikeevltvLnt:oAoubtxguAy
yAvtejKggHLex&klSgujsydAtQm#xmskgxrPoyIwq@zuppbSwAxHLp(|f<SNKS{
smdjksw|sxuie#rqafcysggBFj	!f6igbqAistLDd[xAgguxAvosBfw!hqhwpeLvaBHnx*gFf
rmsigeuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMee|fIfnn	rzvvBee|fMngtnuhos7jq=xK?

3tjngeKjiHFfv|ftbxgetlfGtre)ozhbetFCfKNjh!zqyvbfNhjEugp^fFpbqswgbGIyl^xf
zKqkefDszsIsd%oElbqwrvosWI[mUY.bvmwgdEyfv!zDfpfeAzaMIBe/jlncmnFnaMBjw^
xqtqwwultsuAe*rmcngeLosHOll!xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwt}be`ovLnex&k
GyftkhsuatHidaxqoeje0ltxuwg&fAobvmwgUKyfw;xKaqheLofsZwi+itaNcsyBbzy
[MSVHQ{gbGxex&klEcpywgQKIoi$zlbtgesssxuiC!gHbknftsfsIsddtFftpjLb
SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpeGuaBHyi/vDfvcyAvosush!gzbnAxAzauS
tAukplrAitN,d!7>akphJlbLCsk!tGndgwKgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEakpeLofsFnf/gDz
iAnowsAAzsuwi!xqdqisAGjGAex&kljortJAbGwjd:ulujgeskwtHhi_kzubqk
yoiqnfJziBJes'fDfvttKwfvNnz^foppxjJzjHHes'fEpwthwgntNjv*gxtbksrAixtfv:y
gzebjzEhoBNni|?lbpfe"/aMBjv^futbceyypPCsk!xqbnkEsAjHHex&gFaocpAuhsNmi
yAvtejKgbOunp@hxfbqsryfLyfv$nlbpfewkvvuym=tlogvBGylLtre\oyjBgxrAixCw
AEfhwqFltLtks/fFigbfFhmRMnw!vqshqwElesvDd&AybpkyAltsMhl=rmsu}

ZtfbhtMyuAtuv=iqtubtxgtvBtp@xxzbetEtvGChe:oAobkxrkjLMjq*tmukqsrvg
xqtgcwuoayCsh*tst?byzhusCx{!vGcnkhsAjHH d!YoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibjPptMCsk
xqtgcwuoatHid^jGdcvnGuaGyyA=xwtbvtrlozCsi^xlbbpjOguRJjd=llqwdqAjbMCtr2
yoiqnfJsz wtr:xAmngirqpNLse-ylujcyrhsxtjp^iFsqpnuhmESet/upvegirhow
jutugrAubMyi	!fMmvjtMnisMzg&fvpwtssstsuwi!yFjnnewtfKAnr"fmtbc
iAnowsAjbMCtr!lAsocylguAynv!tGndgwrobLtlv=Cz.bhwGtatJuv=DuncvjDFaMQjp<k
zAavjnJAz MnB!jGskplrAixtue|zlzgcwr]KNFDdv#&2bvtrQvGye5D#@-}be5vtMttj
ztfugewsfvNws+ooauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKgbKyeh^BAugfeLvaMIum$yljpbyzl
nGncpnLpfLoed?ylxkvmrufMQtv)fopphjJlovyx{!yoiqnfJszsysx&AEjcurrmpKtyl^yq
kxfevwGujvtos;xzbnueKAfFMej/uyavjjrtfwCzqNylvpkvMlatvnp*zKavqeskwtHhi
yoiqnfJziBJem+fmaycDrAitNer=fAujgwrtfwCzq!imobftrizsMzt[uDukplrnmHvfp
lqffdfuratHid*tFftemsuhxnet/goukefDszsCsd/kmmbvnEl.syfv-EljpbyzlaKyxi@xoi
vDpegxKbasVjC=tpauemGsbKFDd(uGspcqKaa63HL R5PPbwwtbKEjh!ztfbfjDpwxLDd=l
iAnogwupbEtky-r\ugzyrwsHxzg:yfauwhzgbLtfv:oomgueAuaILtj^yEjqpfDgkHOwr@rE.
tqxunjLAfKM	d_gsbBkswz.sQnv^fEftxnultmtfr%fDfhgwwudxtxs;xofu}er1ixMjd@xq
hqjpievlmBPjv^jlwkceGu_ECsi!rAdcneDpcKuwC!imucntyBfLnei|vqdkcqDFaMBws;mt
IP_TQRKbasZzv:nqsoqwwaatwhs/juoibyGgN2WMIgY1O?byzlsxtnw!mqogtfDgpINnq*yy
ztbvbyzlavIuC/osivbfFkayyjw!oEtwgxrpnIyim+mlujgevlmBPjv,fAgbhzDsaMyCx!uz
kJjuvnFnaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd|uAobynDsauyev^yAmxgim

ZtfbhnFhmsJws$kEtbqkrzdAIqe/rKaeqrEBoBwfx*uzakueuBsKChy-AyafgAwspIGjr:
gzebksKAsNwym=tfacpirAiBMem+BAmxgxrAixtzw^fAgbetEwvMywd*trptofLppG
zqdjptDvhByxd*tluyqesyftM d!ZtfbhnJzusCxd:nqafgAwspIGjr:fAg
iAnrwywy_HLni+zqebksKAsNwym=tmmbvtGstmtBl*itakphDBexMew*sGmcvnGutm
sGmvkrwkjttft[rudcvnGutmtfr%foporzLlssNts-ylujcyrhsxtzw^jluqbfKzjLNem+
ztfbcssszLCxd=lltqwwultsCsd:nqaenfKzsHIr{!kFd}be`ofs0jv|kGtbRwGqfvN	d@
jmucdfKlaMBfx!vDpxkiwzattry-zungfnsgdNLwm$AxvobtFgdEuxw*immbIwwll
iuwknnRhuBIs{!oEacblGvesyCe_vxfbqkrAixtBe,fuobymAjisysx*xqaewwJpdNFfd@xq
hqjpieJldtMyd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlm^ygabKyrptsusx*iuqcvjvguAuyd:nq
iGstgsLgeBzkm$AxuAbnFgfQwme+muoibjDldMLtr*immnAeuvnIOyi//nbugi
oztvtzuAjHHfp!yAgvyfJl.sQmm$nljpbyMyosGfo^yljvbiAmgBwzp:frptbtFlaLwms-gD
zAadwnDkaNJtr!ztfbytJraHzes:nqsu?eOpmEtgi!xqtqnAwkauyks/kluqqeDvozo
YFbpf]sspGyeg;xDjewqsyatJup*imukqsKguAuyd*tHpnxjrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaPCqp!hq
ytbtcgDlaMBws;mtapgyOvsDM	d/kuohqwupoztyl^oDauklFpgBwfr$klbubnFAfEFjg:Amm
vDpfwhLzatMeA^rxacueAutMLzg:oAocneLvpEM 

Ztfbujuvowtfw[koubqkrlmxwyv=tudbnjsyoBHld*tHpnxjKguAyey|klphbwwzftLhl!gze
kpvecyAvosHjx>uDlubkGyawCxx@tofbgiMjbMCtr!vDpitfEz?stXy$nlqtqlJhnL
ozugtfuAjOyqC!ruombywhdAyww!CuujbxLBexHyw!ozaigtyybIBng@rxzbuhsAuxLjh
rAdcvnGutsush!xqmAbtFguAyee<gumcdnDpuRttj!kxfevwGujvtnr|zDvevnGubE
xqtqwwultnteH*yFbpejrleNwfx*uzarttyybFMee/klhcksAuhsQnh^fmqrgfDgbFIsk
yFbvgevlqtLyq^tFtbqkrleNwfx*uzadghsBtxttj!ztfktevlnHHxx/gFffbhswbvCyC!zA
hDjpieskwtHhi%fEqgenssjSyid$uGsugeOvsDtfr%fmobcwJhzsIkd^DBftvxrApsGfr,
ixbuuwGvnLoed?fDfegsLgsxJtv:frpwpirAitNee:fxfcuyr03sMye:kEaqrjJhuxxee:
rqbuveGufsMye:kIjfgeFluPIwo!lAsbgiMjbMCtr!oza3~@'aaPCyl!tquyqwCzaNHii/
jqwgntHtfGNem+fybpAeGmaMBjd/kybkpnFnaLNfx^yg

SUDJGQ~VOsMzq_gDjBgirAiBMew^iFjqpetFaGIym+mluyqeKAsBEnr"foicplwzaMupm+m
vxbegeAuaLwms-gDmAbhGtnNHng@zuppbfEvoztmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xE?bbKAytMtnw!ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nlfnghLypGChd:kJubksrwbKNng;rms?bfFkaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^y
ozaigswybEnee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrlbvBes'fFigbkACfsJws$kEtguevltvLnf^j
gnpxg rgBLtri+zuppgirlbKFni/ lujgwwgjLtfd$kDucksrzzGywk,fmubytJraAywi8
Ztfbwxwgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqtbhtJgpGyet/uofuueLlowMex=fEukozDhuxtnx|
AEfbhtJgpMBjv!vDpegxKltmtgi$gGtgbyzlavBni'fopwtxwgpytrs<kyfpveAzaMIBe/jlb
iAnrtjzloLCAi!uz_nkswgxHLpm+mldqpywEusztv!nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueLobM
ozdnwiwzaHH]p*tqacxfAsbuCqm:ElphbpwFauCgp*usscrmAltmtxg&uxbtnDrmfxxge$qf
yAvtejKaatHfp,zudcneLvpEM	d@tparwgDpdtNns+ygabONUOF5!TR!tAugfexBsMBjv
ztbvbyzlaFIAi_kzubvtOhswtfd$uyqtgmwutBPjd=t\mkpjrDpKEnr"foppvjPAayIw
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueAzaGIyd+kI?bbNFggtwy{!oFajcxrifxHey+jqsycDrmpKtrs/k
ztbpbkGyuRtDi@xEakpeLofsBzq@tuukgxlgtBHhi!LmujgwrYpuywx=fNvucetlhtH
jqwgntHpoztfr!kxfevwGujvths+iAsfcsulaHzex&klxqtpKgpytXe*tFaVjtEhtsUvy*tmt
oza3~9+bas%me:fIfbcwwgxBNsi|yuoibyGkbRneQdITFNUT6gdHHyi+jqe?bnKgoHNex&k
hqhkpsAuhsIkd:nutbqs	sjGyex/gztkvnGuauOy{!lAsbcyrsftMyd|uyfbjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJz.sNmi!zGspksygqHCsx!ozavjjrAstHxm:oAobhwGtattuv*tFavqesu
kxfevwGujvtBs/quoibhGuuxRy	!fOpkphAkjGAeA*ztavjjrvo Fnr^fFscpxAAjHH	d:nq
yqdqpirzuKCpm+mldjcsylaBMex&klfzvjFAaMIeA&ooibtjKlbKwmd@tpagfzuhuBIs
tquyqwCzatLjd#kopoksyguAyer^ClngfnMtaHzew$nAmctqQgdHGry+oobvktFbas@mi
kJjuvnFna2Hyi/tqubcsvguAyet^tpjpie6huBIse-fQewefLppGtfr%f4fugfJjis8jx>uDl
[ZSGP[ryfILjw^tFavjjrufPtri^zuoiblJvvGxeA&kDfbuhzvmtLxd@xqaiqnFnayIw
hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d|itpncwDFawCfp=mGfbcsvggxyif@iw.bvmwgnHMy
iGstgsLgqNvqm$gFjqpxrposNmi*xlgkgqvaatHid&osi+njNlmsyiy$gFjqpfD
urggtnFntnteX/gpjvktFhmsMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^ylbtgeMuexLls*tsavtjElowIzw
zDbpukGyntNns+ylbubfryfLOqx!uravjjrlnxLli+iqacpirnsHQnr"fBsqonFlovyes'
CtbvbnKgdtFqi%fzfvytJr_Fyim@zqebuhzvmtLxl*vg

SUDJGQ~VOsHjB:fFvtpjvguHtyl^fEfeqsvgfEyri+zlphbyzlayLfq^CAsmbxzlaILtt=yqe
gFavjjrvvMMjx!urajgwrAbEEej=xlfxcqMhuBHld:nqarttKwfvNxd'uDagnjuAsHHng
zqyv?eFhnxFDd:nqamgDrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"Elutgsvzatzki$zuoibyzlavIsh;iF
urauemGsbKFDd$uynwpnuhuBIsd=BqsbvmwgoxRyd%kobfg,rg2	tjr%/GtgteuvnIOym+m
gzeb4[rjpGHjg:oHjvA 

Kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zlujgeHlsLIsd:uGdjksyguAyeo^EnpctilgpK
vqshqwEpozths_vGucvnGutmtnw!ztfbufElatMex&klqgtxGuaPBtd*tuukcywzaHL
iAouwrwzaMBjd$uyqwvfLppGoedonqagojJnfGwjd=llqgtxGubEths_vGugtxlgbEIsk
CuujbfropLNes'fAujgwrmpKwjw7fEvejeszaNvnu;oFpwueuvnIOym+mfacfAsudxMem+
ozugtksjfsxjw*mz.bcsvguAyes+/xjpgeLybGMnx*uz.bkxrwsHGux*tsavjjrjpGMzq^xE
uraeqrHButNns+fFpbftrAixCwd=CzaeqrHBuBHl{!gzebkxrAiNMev^tpftksygpuMtp^zq
ztfbvwskjMCtr@rlekuyAudMCtr!hquygjFgfGxey|kDtbcsvgvENnq@zqawujJz?

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpagpi	BtxLeg=sBvvksygjLtxm"tugkefFAaMIeg=tEjfgwsAjHHes'
ztfbrwGzqxwyw!lAsbgqwjuKIsm$fFfzvxrifvuzw^fuubojsutsNme:fDfugfJjixLxd@xq
hqdqonFnaFIwi!gpfrvesAawInr"fFigkwrvxGths_vGucvnGutsush7fFiwu	rtpKy
iAnrgywuusCsd:nqawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhrtfwCf	!fNzbcAGpeBHld[xAhtcrEls
ozugtrwkjtLni| ldqouMAbMCtr!oEadghGtjGAeg^tFscneLvaMBjd/kEfcthzls,M
ztpwimLgqKIhi|ygabVmAzawCwi$zljpxtDCfFysx!ozaeqrHBuBHld*yldjcsypoztyl^
xqtgcwuofK.xd[kDtrghLpwxttr!ztfbpfLBsxttj!xqtgcwuoaBNxi-lfavjfLgjLnex&k
quofueGmaJOjw:oAoubyzhuswfr!hqarqxwk.sNmi!gzbnAyAjbEtri:nAeqntypfLtyl@z
imobdjrBtxx	d:nqavAuwzatHid@sAvpveGmaLIzv$kEavjfLgbKyee[vDprtnsAfsztv
gzbnAxwz.sush!ztfbhtJtaBHeA&ooibhnFkjGAxd@xqartjKloMyi	!f6igbyJlowtys>gDe
kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibrwhoLtyl@zfakphJlbLCsk-EfagnjuAsHHng!sqekcesue
iAnrwysAjHHee/klcgksygjGzzw^jljpvtrhmEtuv=iqtugxrvgsBzq@tuukgx
yoiqnfJziBJ	d*tEqktnFnaKyre/qmcngeLybGMks/smukqsKgjGtxg&uxbtnD
iAnowsAjbMCtr8

ZtfbvwwuesNtA@xpaitjsAfKths+tqdvkAAAzsMzk"kEuubyzhusLjw^gDdjgwKgbKyey|ozh
iAnrwysAjHHem+iDfcunFnmRtnr!tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpvxmgaVIsr^iFjxkyQgjL
oyqqtysuusNtd|itpncwKojItgi$gGtgbnLgfKuxi|fFigbiAzutHhi!ztbvbxwwbKuyi|
yFvfgsLzayLtq!zqbejjJzatHid|itpncwKggKIrd:nqjtbhGsmxuly^yfayjnDlatFqs>ozh
AEftueLvatwhi|ylsgotLlawuye#gEfu?eKobKyem+lAsocyAvosCsd_gzzbfnxmfKysx
sqekc	rjpGHjg:fFpbvmwpssQtv)ozhbetFAfQNeA&kDfxgwrAixSee/kfacpi
iAmncgGybMyem+fmmnbuzhtxMes'fDfugfJjin

ZtfbetEijGuym=tlphbyzlaMLjr%fFpycwvgfGx]y|kDaeqrHBuBHld@tpavjjrAsxHi
zAxctirjpGHjg:oHjvAeKBhzyxx|fFicveLofsMhl=rmsnAeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpd
xqtqwwultmtfp/kmeAbjNpexHyd@sAoibxGtfsLjw^gDdjgwKaaPCqp!yAppbgwjpFyee+
kEucdqAzixxej^gFvtgeGmaLwms-gDtjkumga!Bjd^lrfevxrvgsNmi|klutgsvz.suqs+m
CuujbtFnpBHld$nmoigxrposMhl=rmsnAeHybvNng^yfarqnFAaMIee!lGuwtjrposQmm$n
nGncpnLpfLtwi|kmsejjJzaPCqp!AEfbetEwvMuym=tlbpfewsfvNws+ooaeqrEBoBwfx*uz
zAajgqHguAyrd'uDnwnfLlaBxje| lbeejKzaLIzv$kE.brjJmpKGev^yqbteml
iAmncgGybMyeA*ztaeqqDlbzOjw7fEfgmeHlfKtwi<oqx?buMimBMmd@tpafkxKlnBHfx^
xqtwnyKaatHid^tsbigeAuaFusC!uFigteHypyyxw*uzbnbfFkaxxzg@zuppcqrhdMCAm:oqt}

OzauwrEhsRneQdITFNUT6gfFJme|oLffbkGBssJtm+zE;bb6{gBsJtv:oAobqkrovFusm:oqt
yoiqnfJzatFwi@jKaeqsKpexLei-koutqsAjaMyCx|fFigbuJlgxLwi%frptofLggHL
gzbnAxAzatHid%oEtgonFhuBIs	!f@-bUhzvmtLxd@xqawunFnaMBjw^fqmgeyJvoBw
zqyvu	rposwtr(AzdvktFgxBNmd=ztftbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxM	d*tlbnneLof
vDpegxKltsIkd|itpncwDFavIrq;tudcvnGu?st8=!ZtfbjzEhoBNni|fEdjqqsyt,
CAsmksygdHHyi\zljubnFguAyet/uofuueGmavBfr"ozhbhwGtaILnr:fFfejsGspzSex=
kxfevwGujvtyi$nzpnqlQaaBHeq@tKaycDKgnBLws/ozhbvwsutyIwq@zuppueLobMtme<k
uodwtwwkaHLee/klpeezJyjGAeA*ztjpbyzlaLwni+zugkeeuvnFOsm:Egab6[r1ixMj
itbpijKgbKyes$iGstksygjGths+pGoevnGuaPCyl!ztfbfjNlmHJri+zlphbfrufP
iAnowsAjbMCtr!sqekwrggaKyxi@xoibcsvgfwOhe:oAobpjLDpKExd:nmubcww
itbtchLlsBTjh!hKavjjAyavuue$oFzbvtrheOusg^fEdjqqsytACud*tlbbymGsmRtzr*wGf
Cmz}

SUDJGQ~VOsuqw=fDfkvjJhuxxel^xlujtjwgqKCsg*vmmbcwyBnxHyw2flm_bJDldMLtr*i
zqyvuesyfsvjw:fGofgwKApHxem+fFftoxrvgsNmi!xqmcvnGutACud:ulpvjjJ
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrhowtyl^fssqynFnaILtq*tqoegeGmaGyyA=xw_ogiAhuxx
yoiqnfJziBJ d!8>aVjjrwsHMui$zEahqwrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAtsFni!ozavjjAyavuue$oFz
zAadgeAuuxAwe:kpakpyGguAyes+/xjpgeFluPIwo!uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultsNme:
iAnrtnKlaMBjd+kIayqwCpozths+zqyvbkGyaLwms-gDt}be&/a~yyv=yBfevnNlavIsz^xEjqp
urarqwLppGMes'fFigbxuopEuwp,fDfeqwvgtAIzp%fnfbceClzsMyv@zqhAbfKgjGztv_gFjqp
vDpxkiwytsLjw[uzebvtrjitHli|fuobuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr!vDbevnultn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
2QDEKFr[aT7)w!kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbfFkaIOgp*ilvugwKgpytjp^iFsqpnugsxMty/iqt
=lBObfFkaBNxd%kEjipe?gTBNjd|kxfevnGuatHid^BmmwcyAuhsNmi!SmdkpyGzi
oyqngrwuutNns+fAgbCRr[aVBfv@iFftkxLpdLttj!ztfbunPgqNvqm$fxjdtfJpfL
yqmgeywka}tHl@xmdvgwAzuBwxd=llBO&xrBtxLxd*tlujgxwgmBvwe/oqtb)e8yjGwnt@r
CmzubF5gjLtgi*tsawujvg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpe@LDV3F{!zqbobqwhexL	d@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMO?bfKzpvCfx^fopqtiAubMIw{
Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz.sAfz^fmalqnFAaILjw^tFbvktFbasZnv|zf
hKaycDrvgsCsx/upvevnGu.s$JG{OMagzuDhjGyid&kDacpirMSXYREi-EatqqwzaBH
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[mga`ywz*tsartnFjjIuqp,fmtbcsrvcLywz^xfaXGHUPBsBfw
gEtkuywkaPCyl!ztfbgAssvtNns+fBsqljuAaHzeEh lqnchAuhsURd$uxmgeyAvoLtnr!g
BmskgyQgpytim'lqsgpyrzjMyxd@xAvpfeLofswty+zDzbcsvgixFum+mluqbtJnbGCEi!gze
oyqngrwuusNme:fBsqljuA?stKV KYBPbmszauyjr!gzacuxGjjtNjd$uAsfkssApKttj!GY
gzebjfKgcxysd*tHpnxjvgqKCsg*vmmnAeOpuAtyl^fuovgwHyfMuym<klncvjJpbEM	
vDfrcwAuhsMtq^fAgbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebjPojuCyw!gzebrwAuuxxel*yFptkhss
ozgqtrsAjHHex&gFacehGtqtHni|fMNbcsvguAuyd*ylsgszwzuxxef,fGtgtxmga#YHGdG
gzebHWWLNT8ew&gDffbfFldwIye-fAcugwNhuBIsw!iAoegwFpoztFQ!CuujbuMimBwey|kDt
uragnjuAsHHng!xqtqwwultnteR=zIjvjxLhowCsk!glgckwDFaLNwy$zGsgfewCbEOfx*uz
ozarttyyfLM	d#uFibXJUJJTtfr%fRSGGRSUavBtw^fzpvbyGgsxJtv:fAobuuwjjyChw!oz
zqsoueGmaGOrf^xE.bgyub.svjg@AEfbvmwFayyqx!oFaycxrApHtje/rKakpeLof
kHbnwfLppGtuv=pqdvbyGgeHtxs8

GYakuesuaxFjg:xAokeesydACAi!urartnEhsRtxs;xofbofLlsBuqw!lDpobyzla5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLM	d|kxfevjvgdHFqi$zuppueJlqKyxi+zuoibfrCbKCjx,fAgbhtJtbMM][
vtpvqlJhqAM	d"xmqjkhrhsMM	d/koptfjvgtHOsh7fypvktFgqBwyy/kE.bdwGheLCii| 
gzebutGu.sJfq[nxfvuesuesvts)ygabKsrAfKGxd=llujgevltBAsd=llujkxrzzLNjq7
ztfbksLlsILjx@zuwgbjPojuCyw!nmwgbgwlosEjt:fEfrcwsAfszws_fFigbuJpntLD
xqtqwwultmtBm:nlhqqiryftMtr8flBeetEwbGSnr"fFikueuvmEyhx*uzactjrwsBHyi%
jAdwojFAbMCtr!gzebwxwyazOnh^yfacueOlmEtfw!mGjfgxrAitNeJmKQNCPeHyfIuwi%frpt
zqbejjJzaLIex&gFavjjQgntSef^muobwxAuhsNmi!iAovgsLgpytyl^fEzuvjEgbMttr$kg

2QDEKFrkfLwwm#kpavjjrlwtFze:oAobrwGqfvNef^lAsgbysslBHld@hAvvbyzlaIOgp*i
AEftueGmaT7	d-oyjvksygixLev^smsmueLvaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	d#kobwujrMSXYREi
CAvnfeLhmDtrs/kltrghAmjvuqp,fmcqwyrzdAItp|frsqoeCpowywk@xFfpbyGguPyqj:n
mDbfge}R_"*[	!flIcxnFnaLNfv:kpakpeKwsBHldv#&2?byzlaxPfp;gFjqpeuBsKysx-E
ozwqnAwzaMyxx*tsaqheLofs7fg*tFpujeAtqEyri+zmukqsrvgsUR	!f5jpejrAix
vDjocwQghHuqd=llujkxrlwtFze:oAobkxrApsxjx^xyjpgeLofsGtw:fmqrttHyjtNj
gGekgsulaHLee;jufpejKggHLeEh lwgtDrkjyzjv^tFaukywzaPywi!yqmgeywk?stYl*y
smlguewCbEOfx*uzafkkxpdNFyd#kobwujrvgsNmi!BmsAksygexAwi^ylphbywjiGIqs"E
ruugtfuFatGtr"fFigbxAAfLoed?SljubxAAvtNjh!ozahqwLF_yIzv!rAdcvnGutmttj
CtjejeKpysuwi!vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEacpirzjQNji+fmsgbxuopHFx	!f4frtjKloMyi
gyppieLofsMhl=uxtbcwwgfEyri+zmsA?eBBoBIwd&osi?bfFkaACll!yoiqqqKb
JutvtnuAaHzkm$kEacnxGgbKyem+BAmxgirposNmi!kHbnwfLppGneA&ooibynDs
iAoenzvlaBHew;syftb6+$4n

2QDEKFrmpvOxi%fFigbwwtbBHii/fAgbjjJgutFpd=tlujgeKpysJzf-ooankgJhsByx{!uzf
urayjnuoawIzf-kEacuesgtMuyi!ructcwQbas@mi,fDfrtjKloMtfd/gzhgbtx
mqpitfHojvtfv^gEacpirhaKusk^fAgbfjEvhKuul*ildjcwsjuxLnw:oot}beXvs
kJborqwaaMBwi^fmsgbqGjbMyid*tlvtdfFgtxNym+mE.bvBGgjGtwy/gxaugyLpozM	d@tp
uzfbksrhaLOgy/hmobujLAjGA d!Glscplwgpytyi$nzjecqrlyIywx*yqakueLvauyej=Aze
gyppieLofLyej@iumkvnwzatMeA^rx?bbKGyaxRfq[rq.bqswgjLtfr!_MqrnjrsjuLfv,fAg
ztfbhzLBsxn-d>numgbyOvaHNmi/ylbtgeJBstFes+k\sqqrrsjuLfv*kE_+ksrvoxneEh
yuuubfLguAyej/uzubfjKraGyCx!zAacbyJhdMIwd_gzvcn 

Gxmbrztsjvtqm#xmskgxrobOyef^kzagzyJlnxFDd^tFiwunszuBw	d|ABqqtyACfmtfr%
gBqtghAhuBPjd=llujgeOvsDtyl@zlBObmszauyjr!jAjpi rgWXWHM?foictfuAfKCEi%
BmskqzKgvLyww2flNquyrBtxLxd*tlqwdqAjaECgv@xufubiwzdKCgi!ztfoujDCfLtfw
mqogtfDgsxuii/ybaqheLofsMyy%kzuubBzvaNMjd?SljpbyzlaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxM	
ztpugeAuayIzv:nlhtciwgbGxee#uHfbujwtaFIxx!ozugtjKAfwoedkAnmkeeDpcKuwm^y
ozatwwssaLCyi|fFfpfeLvatNyv@iFatgyAyfwtui=vxf?bBzvaAuAi!hqfpbmAniES
xqdgryACfsNtd?SgabWxwytsNjr%fFpbhfDsaBHys!zIpbcivpuBIse-fobvglGyjxM,
vqprnjrpoMywi|zqebksrAixths+zqovbfFkaACxx=xudcneuvoGIye:oAoubtxguAyxi
vDjocwQgsxMty/iqt?bfFkaMBtw^frbuenFhuxxef,fFigbywjiGIqs"EgabVmwggHLre:
xqdgkAAuhsNmi!sAtvbhGtnxHyw!nmtbdjwuaFIym=tlqkeyMyfLoedonqacfzDAaNMjv|fuo
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEactjrtpKyeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fUCObhGtqNNjv| lxjgwwhtsSty+m
vqprnjrzfxGeg=srptvftsfsQnx&fqjvjjJgJU7es/fYbeksLvtAnee-ztpwimrtpLNes'
ztfobxwlnsNtd$uyfbhwGtattRe$ozuqumribvElv=Aze}be`ojLtxe_klugpiwudRtnw
lAvpfeAuaMBjd|itpqnxm

3tbvbpAueLttj!ztjpixrkpsOxi/yleqbBAAisUR !fUobceHBcEChd-onsctDrAixLjd@xq
zIpbofAuazIfp|fAsbyfQzaMBfx!GYakuetljGAey|kp;bbfKgbGtnr%oHjfwfDgmxuwr*ts
zApn?esuesuxd@fxfkuzJlatwym<oFz}beSkvENep^gDokplrDbLttr^fmsgceLobMt1I{IUB
CAvnfezphAFnk&zlbubfrwpLMnf-klbrrqAjbMCtr!lAsbceLvpEtxy$nlbubF5bas!mi
jqtetntlesuet@zDppbtxgbsLzv@rlqwdqAjaECgv@xKayjtrjpFyxd*tlfxgwQgetSes+
nutbnzFjisBty/fmofbqAAfKuqp,fDfcfxrHNmtri:nAekefDszsAtm+mlujttMnisNmi
iAmnghLppGtnq@mqadAeAtbzy d!GFavjjrlowttj!nutbjtMyaAyeq@qqtbcsrlmxwyv=tud
hApmofJr.sJzx|fuubksrojLtus$qqu?bfFkaKyyy/tEavqeOvsDoedonqapgCLgetSel^
iAngueAuatHid/kEvogxrDixLjd&klmghyrvgyoeddtFftgxLpozFD{!ztjubrsuaAui
tqwgtetlfGtnr!ztfbnntybKSef^lAsgbmwgvLyid?SgabKsrhoHNmi/fEncnqlgsNLfp
ructcwQaaMBjd$uAsfkssApKtwi[uDuubyzhusURd*ylbbrtHBmtLee$zuwkvDrmpKtxs_k
uravjjrvmwyw{!xquktjvgqxIup^fuobvmwgdHGry+oFz?bBzvaHLim+gDjnAeOvvExer=z
AEfb*yzvtxtyl*tst?*]	jpFJzx^xE?bbFFvuAywd^Dmnrnjrvgsuiy-zlmgcwFpoztnr
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEakuetvpDtlv=ABt?btFlaHzeA&ooi?bnFgqtLym$Axbt?eAzaNMnr"fMN
gEarcwLgpytnx|fDfcfnFnaHHem+jGtvtnssjSuym=tfakpywnstNns+ lbpfeMyctHnD@zupp
ozavjjrlbKFDdv#*~u}

UzfbnntybKSev^vAsvueLobMtfd'gyjnAeAzaNMnr"fMNbvtrofEJei%AobvgeLofBL
itjnfwwu?stNr!gzpvjjJgjGMye+iq.bksvpwBxze-ylgtqrrhaEIhe-fyvugzEgdtGjd*t
zAawujrHNsNtd[xqqctjrhosyCl*huubqsrApRMes'fFigbuszunteX&kEfbvBGgfQurt-kE
kyqjcxAGfsNmi!sutuktFgpytyl^fBvdnnugmBvwe/ElbubfrjvENzv@rljpuyAAvMCtr7
xqbejnFnaHOyd:ulqgquDlaPBtd%uloqvezhwxtyl^fEbogeJltHOwg^ylbxcnDhcEyex=
ztpugeOopsFnz^fuobceEluKIus-oFbpbfJlbsIwd&gHfbchultLtys!glncltJgmBvwe/Eg
UzfbtzJhmsFnf/gDzbtjHvsMMex&gFalwsAvssBnk&fEdjqtDgtMOii+zEakpeDhszy
tGndgwKgdtGjd*tlppgesmuxLss=tluqbzKlaT7ej=xlfpvjJAbBHri+zgabCeFBnuywd=l
vGcnkhrsjuLfv*kEatguGyuxxek/kmubksLlsxMyd@sAoibuGzuvuwh!iAmnghLvsLtnr!ztf
JqutqnLgdHFqi$zupp?eOojvBeA@ylfuujFAjtFqC!gldqnqwjuBIsd=lljoclwzaNMjh!uz
vAtvefJktsuws;tpavjjrAvKHes'fFigbhwuuNLD	!f6scksrivyzxd@xqaukrAsbKFD
ozugtjKAfwtgi$gGtgbyzhusQfw!glukojrvgsAwi@zljpvjJltMtnr!xmjnttskjGA 
VqprnjlgjMtBe|frpwpilgsxFfx^fFpbvmAuhLtyl@zlujgDrroHQes'frjtuyzhowoedauD
kJborqwaaBHef=ztatwwssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyjxMeA&kDfbCRrDbLtre%klbxcnDhcEy	
untgtAwytsLjt=xFffbyzhusNmi!uxegteHlpIFjd>oFibrjJzpGuqd/kyfodwsudxMes'
ztfbvzJuaHzex&kldgpyMyzsQjv^fsscxnLhuBHld:ulujgeVluKInx!iAmnghLppGo
ZtfugewEbFJqi|fEftxjvguHtzr%kDteqwwgN2WMIgY1O&ueGitxLAe:oAobtjrAix
ozugiwsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex=uxtbcsvgjwyfwT/FicveHlpIFjd-kmspbgwzusQmi+
ztfbofLlsBuqd/kxbvgxrApsMtq^ztjpieLofRtpr=Cg

2QDEKFrtbwyex&klgkpfDgqHCsx!ztbvbnFgntHDd$gEfubF5gtxLAi|fmtbc
vGcnkh	yfEuym=tEavqtDggHLex&klqwdqAjaECgv@xufubyzhusuwi!zqtvksygjMoeddt
uzfbefKl.sURd*ylcgksygvLyid@ylbbxjzpdEyex=fEfewwwgbwxnx*uzbnbkMueBHld'uD
ztfbnntybKS d!OzacptLofKthe|kfaCOezhtsMjv<kpacuesuaBHxt*xmukqsrApsNmi
yFbhheGmattre(uDanqhssaIOgp*ilmkdwsyzsCsd:nqaUqzLoaMIex&ozlbcgGBusQfC|fFp
smlgbnLzaHQsd$uxmgeyAvosIkd[nAuqiwswiLtrs/klbeejKzjuFjd:ulujgeHBcECh	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe?[(}{+

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
L4FGOF6g(sURd@tpacthzpwtFei-koutqsAjaKyxs;xofubnFgbsMhl=uxagpAAypGGjr:f;
WGfuvnGutswtr$kDokplrjpGNjB:f;aSwjKAjHHxd$uzdgtsAuhsNmi!kxfevwGujvtks/smu
oFtgnkr[aVIrt;zqsbcsPpfMSe_!Godguxrhowtfz@oxbdkqAAzsIkd:nqauAxLlns{
NmsfyfJla}tXx/kzhvjxrnbBHjh!ztsqwlzguAyey|klphbfJjiBPfp!xqtqwwultsCs
yoiqqqKg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XqjvgwsAjGAee+fAcugwNhuBIsd_gpfbdDr3FVWNE7fFicveSTaBMee+fmsejnNhm
xqtqwwulaFuii!ABaqheHyjFuwC!smugtnsstsQnx&fHftAeDpuMFjd*tFftrwwAbMCtr7
L4FGOF6gtMuyi%fFicveLofsJws(koubjfKgbMNjq[zqebvtrisBxli!ztfbifHgcxNBi^t
ztfugethsxtuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|fmofbfrzdAItp!kzwkttFtfGN	d@tpakpeLobMthe;yq
nmtbewwhuxxek;opffbnFAsHxzg:oAoubyGgB6ths-rqdvktFz?stQs;jlegofFkayLtq!ztf
kpvecyAvotFeg=syvpkyQaaswmm^lxzbhwGtaMyfg&kDtbytJrjGAeA*ztavjjrBqIyw
mDbfgxrvgsyqi_kzuctDrzdAItp!ztsqwlzgiBAmd|itpqn	rnsxyyi%fFigbfFupNHhi_kzu
ztbvbF5gxHOqh!hqavgxLlesuws;tpavjjrjpNHyv,a

L4FGOF6gsxJtv:kpapqyrvoESes+fIicveOhtsFje/tqebcgGBusURd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGN	d#AFacnxGgpGtxi<kDbnbzFpwxLxe-fCvguyAvoLtyl@zlxgtjrybBMjh
iAoegwFpoztfv$nuwcnewsfvNws+ooatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstnteW&klekuhMztxx
yqwgtfDgtMLjr"zttbqkrAiBMex,vqaqheEhuxLne-fuobceKjiHIqd^tHjtqsEloMtfw
uBqqujvguHtfd&osinAeKAsNwyy/kpatgxGBsvyex&gFaqhkwytsuep*suugfeFBnuywd=l
vmujueLvayIqp=Cg

L4FGOF6ggBLxx!xmjugirzfOywe-fCvguyAvoLtff=AFawunFnaT7em+fmauemGvm
kzwkttFtfGN d!ZtftgeAzaHzyi+fEpogevpgyChy-zKakpevlwxFtt*tsacbxwutxttj
CtbvbyzlaLSxx^sldqpyspoLoedhgzzbuyMkfGNxd|oFafqBFgbMtfd$uyqwvjJgsxMty/iq
gzebcxKBnxtyl@zfadghsBtxtFQ!iAnguexypFtyl^fXjdtfJFaHzeG=tssguxlgbEFes'
GyftkhsuaACxx=xKakueFvxsuyd:nqjtbkAuhxLym[ygabCxrhaKyxy-zlphbyzhusMtv:fAg
sutvcpwuaCOik_kzu?bxGtfsMyy%kzuubfJlaDHtA+fFpbetFjmNxjd:nmubCRrjpGNfm+y
tAujksygpytzw^fFpbvmwtaPBjr!ztfAbqGvlsztv!uzfbqwrAxHtyl*tstbcsvgeHtss:
luofbyzlnnteM:futbfnxmjvOqx!zAafkxuvwxLex&gFaokivsfsAws;tpayjjJlaHHjd&gE
gltgpxwgpytBl@zlujgeKFtMyrd$uzucksKbas!tq^fEuwfjFAtsAws[kluqyfJkaMBjd*jqb
uracpesydACAi7fmapgBrpexuex=fFigo	rzjGwjd:nqzbjfNlaGIyd[xqwkqzKsz
kJqgtnwudxxeA&gFakveElbGMex=ftbxgesjdxMxd:ulbbxfKAauIiC!urauqrwDitN
xmofqrrpoyIwq@zupp}

UFigteIBfLNns+ylsckxwkauSeJmKQNCPeuvovywr^jlujgewsfvNws+ooahqwEhusCyw^rr?
LAsbksKAbGwj{!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCyd*ylphvjFgeBzkm$AxubdtLoayIw
zqbejjJzatHid|zGegpyKguHtle*tlbbujFzfsIkd>nmubkyrptsNmi,fmsgbAAlxBHl	
ZtfAbzFkfKMye+jlujcyrpusCxd@fHjuwfDgjFuli7fnvvbyzlzsxtd+uFapghwzttLnp,
qzpybyzhusCyd*ylbbrtKAdtLid'xAnbvmwguNLsd=llujgeuloMOwC7fmarcsGybFCh
vtpvqlJhqAnes/fqwgpeEhdACsiTxqbfcgDlaMyCx!uracpewphANji+zt_egsLBsR
hDpcfxAkfmtfd:CqovkjLo_vysx;xKartnFAfwtgs=qfaqtesgoBHjx^kzuj+hwuuNLD
jubtA rgUAuyd%oEukphLppGtnw!urugpevpgyChy-zlgqteHlpIFjd*tlbbuhzvpE
kzwkttFtfGNex=fsscuumgaUyhe;yqaqheLobMnem:fAdecxAvotFqC!hqdqojKgeBzkm$Axu
zAaftfOgdHHhp;yuppuexypFtBl@zlppgeAzaOCjA*ts?

L4FGOF6gbEMtd+uFffbyzlaHvAm=AEahgfJgpytyl^foporzLlsmtBl*itaeqsKAjMOyi|fm
jughkhMsuRtnr!AEjpiesuaxFjg:xAokeeJltHOwg^alaVjtMnisMyy%kzuubnFghxHjv@r
juebptLgtNzki/frsqoeLojLtfr\oquA?eKlwxLfp!uxegteKAvwysx|frfctjvguAuyd:nqz
CqsgbhGtqNNjvToxmkvjJhuxnee+fmtuwrHAjHHex&gFadghstfsMjp'/rvnhnDsjGAeA&kz
ztfAbxwhsvBjh!lAsbutEluACsk!hGubhfAsfwtys!luofbnLbasZWI SMObufAkaLBj
hqmkgAwkaMBfx!yAngbywhdAyww!gxtqbkwhsswtq[AFftbwwzpNLhi| lcgefMzfsNmi,
hqmkgAwguAyDd-golbetEwmxNjd$uzutqqmgaY`JIhGZatgqsAfwtyl^fqycouDlaHz
zqbejjJzaLBts*tsacyfQgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx!CmtbptLguAynv!zungbyGgvLyex&k
yKtvgrmga!Bnw!Cmtbceuhtxtnr!CtjejeLofsMnx;gFjqpezhesNtd#klfzvwwtfES
yFsweyMyfwtxs!ztbvbyzlaMyfg&kDtbytMsesHtx!lqfnbyzhusNmi,ftbfbqGzusNmi*x
mDbureGuaPBfx!ztfbuDKAfFths+zmjpgim

GlgkpfDgrNyxx*uzatcnKlesvDdaXQFOCSrjpGwjv+kpacehwztsush!gHbknftpmBNDd=l
ztfbuDKAfFoednnqapqywkaMBjd=iobuktFhmsyCm|zqoegeGmattle[fuobetEtvGChe:oAo
hquygjFgtvBts-fxjdtfJpbGMee+jlugchzlsLoedjlFfpbF5gtBNxd*tlbbuhzvpE
ructcwQgbGxex&klmkdwsyjtHem|fFigbuwytHHev^yBppuntsfsztv!sAokvtJpoztyl^
yKtvgrmga!yfg&kDtbftrupMtfp>gKtbvfClaBHys!ztfkteOvsExer^Clmkdwsyz
xqtqwwultsugs;zlxjkhzguAyep*hDbtkfFgjLtjB$oFff}erPowyjh7fmubvmwgtBNjw
CtftgeSTaAuid#kqobwxwkaFIxx!krggeyACfESeA*ztjpbfrsjuLfv, lujgeDpcKuwm@t
CmtbtjIBjKyid:ulhqbyGgtIyhm'ooavgfuofKMee+jljpuyJBdMtyl^sljpbnLzaNMj	!fMt
glsguzDA.sMjz^xmmbCRrzjMyxd>oxmbjfNlaBH]w^xHjegeKltLCtr|fAwgtesgtNGri/ 
ozavjjropIyex&gFargwzhqLneA*ztacbrGyfsCsh*BuewcqAGfwtqm+qfavgfuofKMeA*rx
hqaoqwwgmBEjp,fFpbwxwguAyev^yAvtejm

GlsgnfLlesCxw;kljpbyzlaLwms=rldqpywEuswtr$kDogfeLofsHzq#kDaqh
CAsmuysAjHHxd@BmjncgDlatNee+ElppgeDvdtNns+alaEgsLybECEe:oAobqkrlrNCuq^tF
gFavjjrkjLNwm$zlmgxjDaaPCyl!zqbejjJzaBHAm:kpavqevvxGFte%fFikplKgbGxeA@rw
gIbAbBAAisNmi_ lqtqAwkaNHxy$iqtuhzDgcxwfy|klujgezvvKMex&kEfbqkxpdxMeA^xq
uBfpbBwyfsuqw=fEdjqtDgiHOww8

GzpvjjJgjLMzi!CmtbjfJkxtLj	!fMtbXJUJJTttf|kDwgf	rhaKusk^fAgbunLltsyCm|zE.
yAngbywjiGIqs"oobnnDrheOusg^jlbpfeGAixLxd^yEfpvnssmRtfg]AuskplrAixCw
lusuveuvnIOyi/frptbyzlaILnq@xKarwwHvtxttj!AEjpieAAaBHeg=tvvpeyAvosQnx&
GY"ubywzuBHl	!f7tgtxrhusNjg&tAmqinuhmESew=vtjuvnuhuxxew*zqtbyfFAaxPjr
sAsgbxGwiBMym$gFffbmsyePuwi7fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imobrjJmpKGei<kzaoqww
yAqjkxLpdtNjh!zmtmueOpuAtyl^fybvgwAhmLtnr!GY?bbGMAaHHhi!ztfAbfuxvBLjd@
tqxgteHpfvyes'ftbtfBsyfmtyl^ElnwuyrsftLsd&uIavqeMzfsNme:fmmuq.rhusus
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jltkvjrpusNfo^ylbpbjPAsxGjp,fxppieLpnxtxm_vxzbvtrifvIri
godwuyGtfwtys!ztfbetEwvMyw{!tAubvtrtfGNns+fFigbuJvhKurd=lrftgirDjMBex&k
iAnrwywy?stFp-fAgbvmwzfsMre-rljuuzwzaKunw^fAogbqsyhxtvy^yFjqp	rubFyqC7
gDfbuDKAfFMep*qqaCOeLyvESev^CmsfksygjGtfd|itpqnewuwBLtr_kzu?btJgeHtyl^E
yunrnDrhdMtfw!ozoqxfLpwxtys,ylujcyrkpsFnx:rqaoqwwguAusd|vmsmbnFAfKyxx9

L4FGOF6gdHHyi+jqebvmsAaMBjd^BmmwcyAvosJws(koubjfKgsxPje-kpaugAwybEtxx/kzhvjx
ztbvbBwyfsAfm+kpavjwGBhAtyl^fGtgbtxgbKwmm<gxatgxGBsvyxd*tltejtGstmtnr$rGekplg

flabb+rWtRwmm$fDfycwvzayLtq!AEjpieSTatMee!Bmtv?eJpdAtie:gnbug	rDjMB
flabbywhdAyww!gEtkisAuhsPfv*uGtbrwGqfvNxd:ultvwiwuuLa]s/gxartjKloMuym=tE.
flabbBJpuMysd/kBptvxlgbsxtg;sqovcwQaattyy/t\ph+yzl_vysx;xKapgBKwbIyw[T
flabbuJvkxwyw!ztbvbxLhsMtBm:nlujgeEhuxLne-yljpbF5gcNNee/kldqouDluxxey|ozh
flabbtLofKtwi|uGsegxhgB6tyl;yljubzKlesuxd@fDfugfJjisNts-fuobetFqvGwym=t
flabbBAAisIyl^xlfnghLypGChd/kEpwthwz.suxd>kxmbcxrDjMBef=uwtbcsvgjMyrw!oz
flabbyzlaECgv@xKayjjJlaMBjd|EEugoeAzaLyyd;vg

flabb+rZuNxjr:ylbtgesjrNCwm+mldqouMAfKtqm:kDbeAeAuattmy_gzjvkjKgdHHyi\zg

flabb+r1iBMew=xFaqheKFtMyrd*ylpxgwuvnBHld:nqakutDhuBIsd#kFxggsrkjLwnt-ozfu
flabbyzhusIkx^tlfzkxLzaBHew$nApnu rgGHLei\gyqng	rtbGSeI+mxjujeLlbvBjv|fmsg
flabbwwxvBLnr"fFigkwrzuNxjr:yluqbBJpuxtue[kDtbqsrojLNtv*immbvtHpdL
flabbwwwsxMjr:kpakpeST?stSy_kDpwueLlbvBjv|ftbxgeJlqHLyi%fFicveLofBL
flabbxLBexHyw!gDfbnjsyoBHld$xuukefDguACso*tsaumnDstsOxm+mlujgeKFtMyr	

flabb+rVosuef/umegteDlwxF	d?SljubnFAsHxzg*tsartnEhsRtre:kDjcnxlgoHNes+rK
flabbyGgtMOii+zEadwyrhmLIex=fFfcemwytmtnr!gzagpAAypGGjr:fIigtjrvgMys
flabbxAtqESer=tqagznKA_ usd^DojvksyguACsk!lAsbvmwgtMOii+zEadghsBtxtnx
flabbmwsqLtyl^slmgcwFguHths+jGdvbwwzftLhl7fFpbksLlsILjx7fmofbyGgeKuB
flabbyzljKttA+foppeqMzjHHx	!fUobnjsyoBHld:uldqpiMjusLjw^gDdjbfFkaPBfx!oF
flabbrwhoLnew:Apfpvxrhsxtrs:oHbvgirApsMji)fwoqyqwkhxoedonmubtjDhuxMex=
flabbfFvuAywd[uEjvkAwgpNNhs_k\_cbmAnisFjz^rlphbuwytHHfp!ozwqnAwtfGNes'
flabbxLBexHyw!CuujbyzlaFuyi/ommubnFguACxd|EEugoesuesAwi@zqsbotLpwtNns+fFp
flabbhGueNwyd:nqjtbtOuaKyxi@xoibcsvgeKuBd:nqjtbtOuavIsg-AEjqpxm

flabb+rWfKBft|fFigbrGzusCws+ooauvwwuhMBes'fFigujrrjGxxd=llbtemACbE
flabbjDldMLtr*ilsgutMydxMem|fFicveEhoRttj!ztfbvjsjixLxd?SljpvjJCjxQjh
flabbBwyfsxjw[kDbvg	rpusCxd+ulfzclylstNns+fFpbufQaaGIyd=txzbhtJgqKCre/E
flabbrsAfKCfp|fnvvbkGyaNHxx/AouwtjvgqKCre/ElncvjJpbEM d!ZtfugeOvvEx	d:nqz
flabbyzvvzBy{!lAtvgwrwfKMtr@rxzbotLpwtNjh!xqtgcwuo.syCt-uDbvktFaatHi
flabbjPjjMyri+zljpbyzljKtxx;jqovu rgJGxji% lujgxwgntNjv*gxtbjfNlawIsi
flabboMzusNme:alaKttFpdtFqC7ftpygAwy.sNmm|fxbemeGmaLNwy$zGsgbuJveNwjw
flabbxGtfsIkd:nqaeqsxBtBIsd:ulxjkhzguAyer^CzfuueGmaMBjw^fwjpfxrvg
flabbwwzpNLhi|fybAbfDzpswtr:xucwvjmga!Bjd)kKavqewmgxwym<klvugeGmatLhl*Bmm
flabbuJveNwyw!ozacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuusCxd@fomgcwlgfyzjg:oHfbksLypwOhx*uz
flabbyGguAyew,yFfobfFkaMIeA&gFakveuvoMunr|a

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+diuFikplrroHQs{!wGbpvnLhuBPjp, lbdqzLguAyer;snftbtx
nGncpnLpfLtxg&uxbtueOopsGzw:fEfgbyzlaHLnk*tmmbxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrDpNFi
yquvnjrmpKtfr!kpjvgirAstHxg/oBu?btJgbuIzx!ztfbyfQzaBHeA&ooibjzEhoBNni|
yoiqnfJzatLjd;yuoibnFmpKGfx*uzavghzupEIlC!=lGktrrjpGwqy|oAoubhGudxLsm+m
ztfbofFufKtfr%fqyvgsLgpytyl^fGtgbtxgtNJus/zuoibrsAfKCfp|fuobrwAuu
vDpxkiwkauSeEhfFpbcBspuswtq[rqukqsrvgsyAe-AmukxjrzuNxDdQfMankxLloxL)w
xqgnghLppGMes+fmefkyAvotFee[vxjecyAvoLttj!kxfevwGujvtyi\zEa)bWGsfsIk
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxrposNje$nuoibjDlnxHye/ElsgujsydAtxo*rxtbvtrzuNxjr:yl(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFguAuyd'uxmqyjvguAyet/kEfpvfLppGMef,fYJEJJ4ZP7n
2QDEKFlgbGxeJmKQNCP	rhewCym=tmmbrtAuuLtjq^xsff}

RQTMbfKrfwtnj!SUDJGQ~VOswty-jlhkxjrhoRtvy@tFjvcyACfsyxx*smugbtxguAy
tGndgwrvgsBzq@tuukgxrzdAIqe/ylxjqeEBtMtxi^fAsbyfFAaMIew^klujgeGyjzCse- 
uDavjjrifLNet=yEjdnjrCfKMns+fAgbvmwgntNjv*gx.bxjJzvLtyl=yqayjtrAzIChe-rK
CAvnfeKluMFjd'uDacpewkjMyid:xmouewAwunte1&oxfbwssimxtys!vDpxkiwgbsznk;xq.
ytfbqkxlsxxel^xljorwwztBIsw!gEacpesydACAm|zlxjqezhtsxtr^fEpogeJlgxLjr$k
CAsmbfFkaAuxd%oEdwuxwkaMBnw!oEtwgeOpuAttx&kDacthzpwBMyw!CtpbrjJmpKG
xqggtjFjfmtyl@zlujqxwgxAIey|klbtemACfLtfr%fFiqujrDiHtzw^fBskofJFaLIzv$kE
lAsbymsAaPIzp%fnfbetFzjwywi%fHftAezphAaqi<kxauemGsbKFDd/kEfcthzaatM
uBqqujvguHnew@EfawpiwyhKuiy@zqarcuwytmtBi/klggyeAuaGOrf^xfaguuwjjtFqC
muwgpeLofsJzf-ooakpywyfLNem+fGtkplrwsBGfv,fEpwthwzaMIeg=tpvev
mqogcqGnjvuqd=xlbxqhsAjHHfp!xqtgcwuoatHid:nqamksvgpytuv=lqtuktFhm
xqtgcwuoawIsi!hKargtHsfsCsd[xuwcvjrpowOxx/Elptbyzlayyii/gxaiqAwyoFysx8
SAsgbnEwpKNfr:fuobONUOF5!TRNylwkgBrDbLtyl@zfaswfFAjMuym<kxz?bsGAiBHld*y
qzpypesipNNex&klxcAxrposQmm$nfahqwrlytGup^ liwofFpuByxd|itpncwKgbKyey|ozh
ozgqtrsAjHHex^itoqntyF?stSs!yFvfkjKgfQCxx!zAaqhkwyazOnh@tofbksrjsxuym+m
yFscvjypfLoedonqaoqxLgsxwjr:fEuwfDrDbLths+jGdvgirpos&@`zfnzbvmwgBFywm$gz
IAvpenDgpytQi@xzffbXGjjxNni|f<BENX{aatHid>nmubkyrziHQjh!CmtbvmsAa)]
vqsegsLgpytmy_gzjvkjKgtvBtp@xEacveLobMtym_klxgtjrBtBHld$uyqwvjJz?stYl@z
iAouvnLBuxMex&klfzvjFAaHzes;xllpqBDlezy 

IAoegwFpoztFQNyltvtfLlhRtks/fAskgsLpoztui=vxfbvtOhswtyl^fEdqrjrvg
kxfevwGujvtwi|uGsegxlgG~YJQ?Tldqwqvgpyzjv!tAajcwvgdHHhp;yuppuesAaMBnw
vAjpv	rifvuzw^fEigbfFkaAywd$uxmgclMltsQjv^fEuknqrDbBNnr"fFpbujwa
vmsvkhMsbKFDd*tlujgeKjiHIqw7fIicvezhtsvji+fybfgeGmaMBjm/fqghqwLz?st2m:nuo
ztfbuDKAfFnel=Cqwgt	rHNsBfw!vDpxkiwkaPBfx!gDfbefDsfwtjp^iFsqpnugfQBnf*zE_
/EvejeszaBHyv=jGdvktFzaMIex*sqargwAveLtfr%fybvgwAhmLa]e+jlujgxwgbKy
ozugpiwkaMIes'lqsbceKAvwysx!AEftbfrzfGMjd=llxjcyrhauLte%yuegbnKgatHid>nmu
oFaoklzAaMyqp!nqsbqwrojFoed}AFaHTJWTB7ths+iqegfeLobMtyl^fBsqljuAaLNfj'
CAvnfezhwxtys!zmmmbBAAisMyy%kzuubswEusSje/ lbhvjJguxuhl^xEajcAwgitxee
yGnogwrApsOxi!ztfbofLlsBuqw7fmofbfLAfFJyd:ulekuhGCfKtBl@zlujgeKAvwysx|
CqsgbqwhsGCsk!lDpobyzlaFuyi/ommu}erPosuih*zupp?eXYFX7FR!jqtetntle
yGqrqwLpoztre:kDjcnxrposJwm+zlqtqAAkfwtgC!GYacveLofsLju;kEubqkrspvuq
zqbejjJzawOwm+mlbbojwAjGAel^rpacve4J?stYl^yqakphDBexxex*sqankswz.
hucnktyybIBni| lbpfeGAixLeq@zqskcqKguAuyd$uGmfbgwgsxJws%AoffbtFgb
vtpvqhGwjxLem+fmaenfKzsHIr	!f6fcemwytswty-jlxcnprhxtSeA*ztacpirBtxtyl^yq.
gzebksrAiBMeA@Elhcksrhauyyx^xlvpfjJzutHim+mlphbyzlavIsx^tFt}beTBusule*tf
xqbejnFnayCwq!iAoenzKppGMeg=toftpnFnaMBjd_gzogtesuesyCx^tFaqheLofBLey|k
CAvnfezhwxtys!CmjvbzFAjEtsi\zlzgcwm

GEavqeLofswme+mqtbumwgttQes$iGstksygbMtyl^fZbvktFhmsUwg&oHfubfFka~yhs/jE
GpnkpnKAstNns+f<OCTF{gbLtfd/kEvnveGmaMBjd*tosgcxAuhsyrt&gEjubtF
zqdjptDvhRtnr!yoiqnfJszsLjw^gDdj?e5PD1YQWjTltvcywkaMBfx!TMSCbfLguACx
vAjpveOhtsugw=xnjpieLofsLjt=xFadAezlssush!PqghbWGAixHgi/mlbffwwztBHl
yFscvjypfLtks/fFigbfJjiBPfp!vDphgxKppGtnr!mqogtfDaatFyl=AsibptLggHLex&k
TmukqsssaTLhl*BqtbuuwjjyChe-rK?bbSSYBsCxd(AEubdjypoGCsk!zAaguysimBMmd*zE
xAmgbfFkaPBfx!oFaecsrkpnteM+fFftoxrvgswme+mqtbcsvgjGCym@zuwgueLobMtSEmG
imobvfCl.sHtd$rqbtbwwzqHHxi!iAvnfetlazCAi+fmubvmAzaMCri8

M4FGPK1LMWtwi_gDlgfeLDpsNwi+jEaogsLppGyid*tlujgeKltLCtr8flSghqwjuBHld=t
JMM1&xrvqxHnr"fopoojFAtsIsd&uIajgeuvvExel@Bqawujvgbs6fx*tldqnqwjuBIsd=l
zqyvbnFgbGtjp^iFsqpnuggHLr{!nqaucnvguAuyd@zlgktxLgixtyl=AsivbrGzusMhl=rmsu
CAvnfetlaNHBm-ruoibyGgeHtyl@zgabDzLgbLtmi!ztpwimLgpytyl@zljpbywynLttj!ztf
uDjiksssaFyfr*tsaqheJltxuwg&/\ujcyrptmtme<ozhbcqJlbwSeq@yFftgirAixMjd:kJuu?
xqtgcwuojGAex&kyahqwrjsBNng@rlbpfeuvnIuwe:oHfbrzJwpLyx[TlAsbvmwggBLxx!zung?
ztfbgqwjuKIsm$frptofLgntxjd@fxpvbtxgtxHxi8flHTGJ6MJX6Id$uGmfbjFCjLCtr
mDpyksygoNGgi/ylphbxuopEuww!rqbtpnFnaMBjd+kIavghzupEIlm^ylgqteLobMtAi/E
gEqgeyrvgsNmi*xltejtDhsLBnt!gzebhtJgdHHAi+oqoeg)KgttEj	

RutvgsAuhsNtdqKODKCesuesZWI SMO?bL0LF7ZNIgJlujqzyousIkd@tlbffnLppGuq
gBqnkhsAjHHes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFt}beZlaKyfp*FqebvmsAaT7eg=AxebdjrBtxxee|fm
mGjfgeLvaEyfh!yAngqswguHttv*muocneKvvKwjw8flTvwiwuuLthe+tAubdjrlyIyhx^j
zAajcAwgntMyi/kpavjjKlaLIzv$kE.bvmAuhLtyl^ElicxjrufOywd)tAxpbftvvM
hqgqtjmga!Bzw7fMNbkxrsftxnr"fFigo	rposNmi=xK.bvtrhaOuxx!hAeAbtx
ozgqtrsAjHHee+jlhkxnFnaMBjq!gltwrjJmjvCfp!uHftxnwDaHzem: lfpcgDpoztyl^s
zAaugqwjusJfv:ylphbnLbas1WI TRJGNIrhtDyid*llbpAewCjwysg^fqykuyKguAuyd:nut
xqtqwwulaPCqp!ozeggirAftwmd:nqapgBrBtxL	d:nqaM+6"gtMOii+zE.bjtOguHtis
xqtgcwuo?stXg&uxbtuesssxuiC!qzpybmGDaMIeh=fDfugfJjisush!gDfbcuHszBHl
ztfugeFlxsNts-ygabDzLgixtBs+jqsgfeOozsMyy%kzuubBGBmwtls!hqzqpirwjvEnr"
uGubvmAuhLtyl@zlxgtjrtpLNei\iuukplrApsNmi_a

L4FGOF6gdHHhi%kpavjjrjpKLjg:tqtubtxgH~YJRaOQMF&xrvcLywz@zuppbfKgbIJqm^j
zAacbxuopHFei+BusqprwuunteX&klskuprptsNme:fmauvzvloMtBs;rpaukyrkpPHee:fm
yKtvgrlgqEuDd>oFibkylggBHid|uyfbvmAuhLttj!ozugtjKA.sush!ztfpbBsslsuBe,a
HGubksrAixtwi-gFjxgqQgdHHyv=rxffbxAAvtNns+fAgbceKjiHIqd-onsctDlgnNwmd>oxm
jqqgpirvosNmi!oztvtzuAjHHxd@fFfcemwyaHLee!ructcwAhosAnz^ylbbuyMkfGN d!Ytf
BufygirAixtxm:AmukqsrupMtfw!uzfbqkrmjGy]x;tuoibwwzftLhl!ywjnnxrivMttj
ozwqnAAuhsMyy%kzuubfLgbsJjv|uzbnbqwCfEtnr!AzegtxLhowCsk!gzebtjKlbKwmm+m
ztjpixmgaZCAi+fFigblMpetHhi!uzfbefFgsxwjm<klbvbxuopHF	d*zlujgsrifvIri|
vAtukgDlaMIex^goibgqwtfGNfv,fDfugfJjisMpm-rEavqeKAvwysx| lxjkhzgjGtke$z
uzfbrfJAjvOqe/fxjdtfJpbGtxe*jltjgeOhtsNje$nuoibmwyayCkx&fsscfjJz?
L4FGOF6gdHHhp;jqebvmsAaBHyv=jGdkplrAixtnh^glphbkGsmHQnr"fAog&xrvxGtue:n
urakpvMpsRneA&ooibkxrltLysx*gxmAbBzhusLjw^gDdjbjFAbBFx{!ozwqnAwzaFIwi
ztbpbywhdACsk!yBfekkAjaLEnp-ygabVtrAixMjd$uyngpyKgWXWHM?fmefgirAix
untgtAsAjHHex&gFavjjrpowCAm%AmmbvjsjixLee+jlujgeMzfsIkd@fosgcyACf
xqtqwwul.sLfx&kDavjfFgB6tnx|kxg?bxwlnxxex=fybmgeLofsEjC!jughgwwudxo
YAngbxuopHFxd@tpauqrwguxuhl^xEactjrtbDCsk!kJdgnqwuusOxi!uravjjrubMOwi
uraetnLpdtFex&ozlkplrhowtyi@itjpieKrjEFx{!ytfbufAk?

IAoewwJpoztBm:nlujgxwgsxGfv)yfaFCQ%gdEIxi%fFigbxwztBIsd>oFibvmwguAIzk&zlujcy
ztfbotJlaMBfx!vDpfwhwytsJws%AoffbkGyaMyfg&kDtbcsvggHLew$nAmctxrApsOxi!Cuuj
ztfkteKAvwysx| lujgeEvsxtxy$iqtuhzDguAynv!kxfevwGujvtuv=jGdvueOvvExet/uHf}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ2oednN1XbCSVgUX6Q

PmdswjDpoxtMInYfafkwwjuHL	digFjqpfDgExGtr|zDbvktFgMtvtv@zAsA?eKlsOyid@y
sAegtfLvssIkd:nqa*umGD_tHi[:kxm*bxwztBIs	!f5igbsGAfwtyl@zlb
wGfuvnGu_tHi[@tExgteHlsBIid>uGmfbkGsmHQei@itartjKloMuym=tg

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
S~MQPF~g(s9Ai/BufybfFkavIsx^tFaqhe8lsLyzw!=lQgtxwBt,tuv*smsAbrsAfKCfp|
kJjuveAuattxC|zqn+ksvlqxHii+zfacthzpwtFej=xya)bFrjpGwjw|oAob)e`lyMOfp
gEqgeyKgpytUi/yqvub+r1pHFxd:ulvugeOpuAtyl^fSsggprAfQNe_!VDfrcwwkaBHim$kE
gzebhzDs_MyCx!yqbtemwzaBHeT^xEfwue?gFGAqm|n\HtgjCgxHLid|kmsejeDlbwMex=
ixpugeKAvwSes'fIptfxrhowths+iqqvue?gOtPnk@zuoibUwytxOxd#ElutchAuhsxtA+
ozekejKg(s#xm+mlujgeAjpGIlv@vtzbvtrwfKztv_fDfugfJjis{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KxmkbR%SP7UX{!smocinFnaxxnx=xfaRgwKlvLtUv=pqdv?eZhsOuwh!1zjxgwKpuRnej*xEu
mmwgbfFgpOywz*kIaqhe8lsLyzw7fmancwyl.swtp-gnptcyACfsykj=xFadcxwkatN
NmsxcwvgVGCAi/yuuAbgMAaPCyl!iAovtntBuHLxd@tpaeqqDhcHLfx=xEanqhsAfwtfx
tGngttMzaNHnz^xEjvkjKgbGxeg=rxfigxrposNmi!1zjvgirZutNjw![q?i}	rIpPxtm+ 
SmsAnfFk.s0tq=tm.bEmAjbzI	dqoDhkpns/?stKy+jqebrwAtbKCqC!hKavjj
GzogpgwyhfWUF!VDplghLaaPCyl!gpekvnGubEtky+juoibkJvnsUut-kfaJcwNhswnee+j
ztfbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwza2Hxx*zGug?estpGAes:nqsu?e8lsLyzw!oEacbrMsuBGjh*gf
nKqgtywEuNuqd%gFbdcxwggHLex^goikplrhowtwi|kmsejeGuavFfw|oobnbLJlfD
iuwknnRhuBIs{!CtjejeOhtsLjp^gEffbnFgGxvwy@xKa3~@"gjGtAi/yuppb6m%atH
