
What is packaged with the CD-ROM in one sense adds value--a complete
access system, not just raw, unrefined information--although it is not
generally perceived that way.  This is because the access software,
although it adds value, is viewed by some people, particularly in the
university environment where there is a very heavy commitment to
networking, as being developed in the wrong direction.

Given that context, LYNCH described the examples demonstrated as a set of
insular information gems--Perseus, for example, offers nicely linked
information, but would be very difficult to integrate with other
databases, that is, to link together seamlessly with other source files
from other sources.  It resembles an island, and in this respect is
similar to numerous stand-alone projects that are based on videodiscs,
that is, on the single-workstation concept.

As scholarship evolves in a network environment, the paramount need will
be to link databases.  We must link personal databases to public
databases, to group databases, in fairly seamless ways--which is
extremely difficult in the environments under discussion with copies of
databases proliferating all over the place.

The notion of layering also struck LYNCH as lurking in several of the
projects demonstrated.  Several databases in a sense constitute
information archives without a significant amount of navigation built in.
Educators, critics, and others will want a layered structure--one that
defines or links paths through the layers to allow users to reach
specific points.  In LYNCH's view, layering will become increasingly
necessary, and not just within a single resource but across resources
(e.g., tracing mythology and cultural themes across several classics
databases as well as a database of Renaissance culture).  This ability to
organize resources, to build things out of multiple other things on the
network or select pieces of it, represented for LYNCH one of the key
aspects of network information.

Contending that information reuse constituted another significant issue,
LYNCH commended to the audience's attention Project NEEDS (i.e., National
Engineering Education Delivery System).  This project's objective is to
produce a database of engineering courseware as well as the components
that can be used to develop new courseware.  In a number of the existing
applications, LYNCH said, the issue of reuse (how much one can take apart
and reuse in other applications) was not being well considered.  He also
raised the issue of active versus passive use, one aspect of which  is
how much information will be manipulated locally by users.  Most people,
he argued, may do a little browsing and then will wish to print.  LYNCH
was uncertain how these resources would be used by the vast majority of
users in the network environment.

LYNCH next said a few words about X-Windows as a way of differentiating
between network access and networked information.  A number of the
applications demonstrated at the Workshop could be rewritten to use X
across the network, so that one could run them from any X-capable device-
-a workstation, an X terminal--and transact with a database across the
network.  Although this opens up access a little, assuming one has enough
network to handle it, it does not provide an interface to develop a
program that conveniently integrates information from multiple databases.
X is a viewing technology that has limits.  In a real sense, it is just a
graphical version of remote log-in across the network.  X-type applications
represent only one step in the progression towards real access.

LYNCH next discussed barriers to the distribution of networked multimedia
information.  The heart of the problem is a lack of standards to provide
the ability for computers to talk to each other, retrieve information,
and shuffle it around fairly casually.  At the moment, little progress is
being made on standards for networked information; for example, present
standards do not cover images, digital voice, and digital video.  A
useful tool kit of exchange formats for basic texts is only now being
assembled.  The synchronization of content streams (i.e., synchronizing a
voice track to a video track, establishing temporal relations between
different components in a multimedia object) constitutes another issue
for networked multimedia that is just beginning to receive attention.

Underlying network protocols also need some work; good, real-time
delivery protocols on the Internet do not yet exist.  In LYNCH's view,
highly important in this context is the notion of networked digital
object IDs, the ability of one object on the network to point to another
object (or component thereof) on the network.  Serious bandwidth issues
also exist.  LYNCH was uncertain if billion-bit-per-second networks would
prove sufficient if numerous people ran video in parallel.

LYNCH concluded by offering an issue for database creators to consider,
as well as several comments about what might constitute good trial
multimedia experiments.  In a networked information world the database
builder or service builder (publisher) does not exercise the same
extensive control over the integrity of the presentation; strange
programs "munge" with one's data before the user sees it.  Serious
thought must be given to what guarantees integrity of presentation.  Part
of that is related to where one draws the boundaries around a networked
information service.  This question of presentation integrity in
client-server computing has not been stressed enough in the academic
world, LYNCH argued, though commercial service providers deal with it
regularly.

Concerning multimedia, LYNCH observed that good multimedia at the moment
is hideously expensive to produce.  He recommended producing multimedia
with either very high sale value, or multimedia with a very long life
span, or multimedia that will have a very broad usage base and whose
costs therefore can be amortized among large numbers of users.  In this
connection, historical and humanistically oriented material may be a good
place to start, because it tends to have a longer life span than much of
the scientific material, as well as a wider lvugwribLy d!R~OEJeFvuxx	d'uD
kJborqwaaMBfx!Gyftkhsua6yrs/ElgkvxrtbGSes'fFigbhJpuxLne!uGunkswk?stMi
xqnctpwkaMBjd^DFfpunNlawCxg;yEjqpesipNNef/ozhkplrAixtNr:kDogveGyaMBj
Tmukqsssa~yxi@xoibcsvgFwOhe:oAobPjLDpKEe+iXQO_bnFApsNmi!Q\24bjFCjKIsq^tF
gEacbBsFaHzel^rBjpieLofsUri/oobpbjvBdtNns+gxauAxLlnn

R~OEJeuspLyid#EloqvnFnaMBfx!ztfbmnFktsIkd@vBmkefLppGMeh^sAouvwsAfwtxx/Aol
nunbcxrlyvyqp^tFalwxLpgBwfx*uztbqkrisHui[|immgbswAxHLpm+mlgqte3|2&nef;z
ztbvbfLguACxd:oyfbptr+lBFqi/_lbrrqAjbMCtr!kJjuvxrApsGtf*ruAgbyzla4a66
iAnowsAAzsNtd=hFbkpeuvoGyhx*BuuA}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d	kmsvjeGmazysy*tqmAbnFAfKyxx*tsacruDpdtNns+ylppbyzlaGyyA=xw
gltnqB	jitHlm+mltkvzsAjHHe_!ZtfbkxKBfsIkd:nqakpywnsBNDd=llqtgxwuutNns+fuo
glogvBGylxxei+Busqprwuus{eW^BqscneJlbLIsw!CtzbEI	YP6txs'zIbtgevvfLtss:
tquyqwCg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns%fFicvexvmEIBi%fXZPEM\zaILjw^tFbvktFaaLyAi/gx
gpekvnGubEtus*tFtbyjJlaFuii8

R~OEJeJljMywe:kpagxjFgnHLjd|zDppiqQgiBMeg=tFfpvnGuaMBfx7ftjuvtJpdtFqC7
uzdgbtFlazIjw!uGuukiwgiBAm[^tpauenwudxtfr%fFigblJvvIttj!ztpugeOopsHji%
godguxrApsMzt^xoporzLlsLnex&kDfbkxrhazLje:fpfctyzgpytli+AuognD
ozugtjKAjGAee[vxjecyAvoLttr!ztfbpjLDpKE d!NqaucBrAiBMew*zGbvktFgdAusk*ts
yxpynDlgxBNmd|uyfbqkrAixtxg*kzukhnugetNff@yqtbcsvgtvBtp@xxzbfnKjvLMns+
mDpwrxrhowtjp^iFsqpnugkHOwr@rEaeqrAuhsIsd@ylxgnqrhtsQnx&fFigbfNhjEugm-oFz
uraYkiwgBKyfddtrptofLppGtXi/Bqsub=#HJ` ee+jltqojrvgsNmi!jmucdfKltsNme:
gDfbdjAuhsGty+zqebvmwyfnteL=Cqwgt	rtbGSes'fFiqujrAiBHlw!jAapqyrzfxGex=
nmwgbuAxvxxek/kmubrtHBmtLem+zqsguymgaYIwd*tEucphwaaFIxx!nuhjbxuopHF
yFvfgsLzaHzePtTOI&uesjrNunr:gzdgbBGBmwtss:fCvcnnxFatMeh^BAuggxrvgsMjv*uGt
sAmgezDhssvns-usz}

IAoegwFpoztyl^futuwjrvgsNmi!ozugiwAAzsIkd[xqtgpysAjHH	dg5ZDJbgwsjxPjh
ztbvbfrjpNJqi!urakpkGyntNns+fBsqxnvlsLtme<klmckirkpPHex&klmcyesAaEyfw:fAo
iqsvcnFguACsk|alaHqwrlytGup^ likueJldHFqi$zuppbBszaMBfx!ztfbPfLppGuq
RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexlfEMew:xAoinDrAitNes+kloggiKguHtjq[rAzbvmw
opfpvnxpfKtkm^rpakhezlaHLew&kljubyGgnHOsx!glecvfthtxths_sqsekfDsznteX&k
vDpdnjEgxBNmd@fDfcneFluPIwo^jlfpxnJvoFysx!oEavjfLgpGyeh=kEapqyrroHQeA&u
oEatgkGyntNym+mlbpfeJlqKIhi|yuoibtFl"Ltie:glxjgsrvoxtjr:kDtbceusjxHy
yqsxgwrtpwy d!OFadghGtfLtfr,hAeA&xrnvxMx{!lAsbgCstqEy	d*llujgeFluPIwo
AEfubfr74=o0@!yqsxgwlgpKtBl@zldnkjFAtsuwi!jAjpieOpuAttr^-EafcysbasUeh@zm
vDpxkiwyavusd|gKavjfLgiBMeg=tFsceyrDjEFes+rKargwEpuswqm^tFtbvtrobOy
godguxrApsBnw!jmucbfxAfKtmi!Bquubyzlnsush!ztfkteHyfLysx@zuppbfFkaFupi|
iqsvcnFgjMtxy*zEajkrmgaUOydg5ZDJbmwsesIzx!ruuvnjrlyIyhx@zuppbyzhusNmi
tquyqwCgntLpi:vxbegeOvvExei<uxwgbnFguAuyd>gK.bdjuhvLyem:fDfswnJlesNts
sGdjbuJppKtsi"uFjcvnGu?

IP_TQRrzpyNBe/kleqgxrupMtsi:CAsmbkGyattAe/oquAbtxgsxuxs+yfaN1SUOaLunh8
NqaurjuBmtNjh!ztbvbHV|S87et;hxjujjJzatLjd+uFagclwyaMIel@BqavjjAyaILth;iFt
xqbnnDropHEem+zAaykiwgbKyfd+kFxqtpKaauyhe;yqavjjQggxuwd*zlxknqrtbDyex&kus
jmucbxMwqECjv|fzftxtMz?stRs/kAwgt	rBoMCqd/kxbvkAwszsLjg^tFmA?eGufsBfh!zA
hqatcyzlssuiv=oFavqeJBosuej;rxaVEUePQsMye$qlqnwxrhqIFng@zuppueGuat
VO_ukEwgntwmm+kfayjjJlbLtss>gpbAueAAaBMef^iAnkplrlbLCjv!gEaRExrnsHQ
huhigwrhowtke|zqs}be46OV2ee-yAaurjuBmtNjh!ztbvbxGmuPuwi!vDpxkiwytsBfh!tAu
nqbtfexypFtyl^oDaewxLvnxLxd;tFjnbyzlaEuxx!EqbtbtJgtHnes/ftbfbsGAaAyfv%
lDpobjFvvzBes'fFigkwrjvLNtq^xE?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HQTUGWr[a2Gup*imukqsKgpytim|yqnkpfLpoztnq@mqtbqsrAixtsi:CAsm>eHsbGHnr"
ztfbfnKAsBvzx*uzaqheEBmMCri%omafqhMtfGNxd[uEfubyOvavLnx*imm
oyqngrwuutNns+fBsqdqwtts{eP@EqsgfeswqKIfg&fDfrtjKloMMex&klxcAeLvawyfp
CuujbzKlsL.eg@vmcknnLpfLt+dkxAcngrKgjGtup@zrptoevltBAs,!lumgbxAGfsush!oFt
oyqnkhsAjHHxd'uDapgyOvsDCsk!=lUtcsKtjLMns+fAgbojyhcRNjd|oLfbkrsnfL
oyqtchLpdtFe_!IAnrtjKzjHHee+jlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaNMjvNylfpfe?gQKIrm|ozh
zDfpfxrmpKths_vDfuunGua}tFd%oEbfxfFAbzyes'fGtkplr5_$Csh=CEa)bFrwsHDjg:fmu
ztfbUrAAiLIsm@tlujcyrtpNHyw!oybigxrvosMjz^xmmbpjLDpKExdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

NAxctirIF`!JV7f5djqtDgpytQm#xmsAbfFka2Hks/smukqsrZdBysg^ lVpkAwytBNDd=l
VuuvugMyhAnew[uwfbrwAtbKCqC!gnpwveEBmMCri%om.bhtuBtBHld=tljoclwzatHid:nq
hDpcfeAtqEChe:oAoubtxgeBMxi_ozbvksyguAyrd=tlujgeFluPIwo8flIgbfJnvxxex&gF
vxbppnFnaMBjd%oEutkgMAjHHes'fyvnvnEleBueh=iGngpyKgqHMjh!zIpbewAAjvuq
oyqngrwuutNns+fBsqdqwttmtBl*itajgexybFyid*tlujgexvsFttj!zIpbszwzuBIsw2
7>aYjfLgqEuyj=xyaykqDgpGyey|klbpfeOobMtme/jIbtgesuesMtj:CmsgbBAsmsOxi/y
nmwgbkGyaOCjA*tsaqheLofsGfx^xubn{erhowt7=!NAxbefFgpGyeh^ruwgtes
yGghkhAloMFDd/unvuveKlusIkd*trptofLppGtnr!gzacehwztBvqi!lAsocyrposu
xqbuqssimxtfq=AzubqkrAjFyad!JqqgpiAuhsIsd>nqujgwrufMQtv)fAsbEI	YP6tnw!ztf
sqekwrrBtxx	d:nutbszwzuBIsd/gutguevpgyywi+zljuuzwzaHzew:uDbig	
iAnrtjKzjHH	d@tpavtfFznBMxm=tg

IAoegwFpoztyl^fpfuklFgpytup@zrptoxr]fnA {!yAvpf	rnstSew$gxf?bxAtqEy
iAmqt	rluvo[d@tpavjjrCbKCty|fobrcgAsjMCjw!AEftueEhzsBfz^ lCGUXWY
smjpvfAufwtyl@zlbbnfQlsxxee[vDpcemrDbLtyl^fIbAbyGgexuqd>oFibwxwyt,
imqcdnDpuByx	!fMatgxMsusQty-jlcgbyzhusOxi/ylxkvmrsfLMet=Cqshwq
CAsmuysAjHHxd>uGmfbxAtqESel@BqangxKggNHhx*uzbnkyQbas2jd;xsffbrwtcxLxd=l
ztfbczvpfGwjd:ulbfxtuhuxtxx@tpbtfxrhowtfg$uyqcpDAuhsMtj:CmsgbyzhusBfr%rq
rmzgtjvggNHhx*uzbnkyQgbvLtw|fmaykiwgwtLni:ElphbuDhuyIwq|a

HQTUGWrhmLIee%jDfuujvgqKIgp^sEakpeHsbMztv_fpfuklFaaGuri-EfafghAkjGAel=C
rmsigesgntwmm+kluqbiwzjzHej=xltkvzsAjHHxd>nqobvmwgmtLli|zlowogwyaHzey|kDt
nmwgbyzlaEIBi|zlmgxjDgpytyl^fybejnFl.sush!uzfbfjKpsxMel*mtft
lGoevnGubECyC8flCGUXWYaMBjr!vDpegjvlesNtd:nqaswjKAjHHes'frjngeKpAxtfr%
oFtbkrHsjvuym=tEahqwrufMQtv)ozh}beZlawCxg;yEffbxLpmEtnq@mqtbksrAixtre*tg
LAsbgCstqEy	d@fpjikyssavIqs/funcijrAitNej*rxtbvmwgtvLji+fAgbceKAbGxfv%
sqhc+uwsaPIwo|zmukqsr]TNHes/fZfzv[rDjEFev^wGjtgeGufsGjk@hKugbtxgtMIwe"k
lAsbcsrljzBy[#oFakofylaHLex&xqfbojyhcRNjw!urauvtJhhxtks/fmavtzwgdHFtv!uD
zIfpvD	mpNL]f*zljoclwbas6tw|rqtubhGtqKyxw*uzacnlGyjMBrw![FicveAz.
iAnrwysAjHHfp!vDpegiMyfLtnr!CtjejeFvawuye!oEanqxLgjGtyl^fBsqejKzaHz
iAnrtjKzjGAe:@tpafghGtqKyxw*ts/bcsrpntAj[TztfbgCsjusvnxTxqqtgxwuutNns+fut
smjpvfAufw eq*mtubdwAuhsMys/gsfbftOuaMIee!ztjtfeGmattri"gnzvgeHlssCre"kf
hGubptLgnNwmd'ADujgwrAitHex&gF?bbYzlaJOjw:oAobqkrzjSyeq@qqtbkyrkjyzng;rF
zAahkyrhosuut/uBskcywszsMnD^jltgveGmaMBjw^funcijKgpGtfd|ozhngevptDttv!zA
zDbpurAAaMBjq!wGjemqQgfGIzk&fAobceFluPIwo8

3uujbyzltxtky-rltetjwuaFyleTvqmbkrsnfLtyl@zldqpxLpuNNjd@fFiktirvgsu
sqhcdDLl.sIsi!mquub6l%~[a8{E$*ahwqD|tvLji+funcijKgpGtfd=tq_iklsizMyeh*yw<
gltvcsvhswtHHTX1NbtjHyfLysx|fmqrttPpntNjp,f^~brjJjfGNes'fFicv rgTMIwm+m
oybigxrAixtxm.klphbfrWDsMhv^kza-lzKAa+tgm:fopnqw{gjGwwi@yqtbuyGybzy
imqcenLFaMIe87$*~+37l%~[tnq@mqtbrjJghBAff,zq<b8#rwfKwjr:fAgbvmsAazCAi|
uzfbvmwgtBTjd=llbbEI	YP6neA&ooibksrAvKHeg/kmuguesgntDtv!vDpdnjEbas9si
imopqyrobOyej;rx_uewwlomtky-r\dqntJgjFuli|fIjvjeDvtLFjw|foporwwztBIs,!uzf
sGtvbhGtqKyxw!ztfobtJgvLyee!rAxgteJltHFzx*uz?bbKGyaFyle#EFf+unRlaBGfk^yf
gzzvjnFnaLFtA^xlujcsrha!a6d|vqffbnKgjFJwe$zudcn rgGHLei\gyqng	rvosu
lugvA]Kpy Enp=hmvfbqAufmtnx!zmlgueLosxyeq*tGugueLvaMLfr|lqsbc
uzf+ojyhcRNjd'oxf?bnxgjMtnw!tAubetEwsxMxi%?lbpfeLojLtxt^kpacuxMtfLtnh^gx
iusewrKAbGwjw![zpbqyzlssOxi/foppvjFkjGAej=xlogvBGylsvfr%Cuevj[mga!Bzw7
wGfuvnGutsIkd%oElbchultLnev^sAugbiAzqEuD{!gzebezJyfGNex^rqqjqsw
iAopghLppGtxt^kpaocpwguKusw_oEtkqsrvgsGjk@hKug+xAGfsCre"kEakouJhdMChe-a

HQTUGWrAixHeh*yovuujvgxtSxd:ulegcqrDjMBex&kEfbnfJnfsCre"kE.bhtJgfQurt-kf
iAnrtjKzjHHee+jlegetEwsxMxm=tlbvbyzlaNMjvNylfpf rgJGtyl*yldqpswjuBIs{!ztf
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!sGdjbtFlaBMeA*rxjpieLvaEIxi!ozavjjrjpFJwi|yuppbuJvdxMxd@tp
CtbvbnEhhxtvy@ruuAbtFlaGyjh|fuobvmwggBLxx!vxbegesyfsOso+uIo}beTBusQme:fut
qzpypeAzaMBfx!iAnrtjKzjHHei+zmjnueKvnxtqs|ylphbisAbnteF Y5FTbzJnfwtyl@z
sAsgbxLBeByxd#kldqpiMjuxxes+funcijrxvtFnx,fuobfnxmfKysx!yuuwcyAvoLnej=x
kJborqwaaPBfx!quofbtxgjFuli|fmsgbswlexxej=xlxjcyrrjGxes'fpjuenHsjGyx{!gze
CtbvbpAuesIkd*smhgbvMhmBNDd*yloggiwkayIwd@fnsqyxAuhsNts- lbpbnFAfKGjh*gFf
BufyksyguHIq{!gzebcwuojOCsk8

HQTUGWryfFuwo^jluyqeHypFCxm+mlutgsvzayIwd$uyqtgxKppGied'xAnbceLldAHng@r
vqsurjuAjOy	d@rsptkyzttsNme:fGtgbBzhusCxd$gxmgfeKBcCyhx*BqatgiMuetHhC
kyqnqDrwsBHhm[rqtbhwGtaOCxy@rlquAhzv_IBDw*iEavqeAkfGNnj,fmofbwwtpOy
ozgqtrsAjHHej/uyavjjrpntAjd:nmubvmwgiNGfr!kKfbefFupMtui/iqjxg.rmsHGee+
ozugthzhozyee+jljpvjJvqxLff*ruuAbuwytIyhx*Bq.bvmwgK9YLdRogf}?e2vjGN
VtpvqlJhqAChd DBftvxrNsHOu{!gzaKUTrzutHie/j>aeqrHyfLMns+fmmiqwAAiFMee-yA
urggteHypFCxi8flUjgxwgjLMzi|fAgbetEwsxMxm=tlbpfevldHGuv^yEjqp	rIF`!JV
gDhwgilgsxMjq#rqebvmGzfsLfm|kpagcwDpfKths+iqspksyguAyeh^yuhpbtxgeBzki/kzu
vxbvhtJttnteK@AsjpieLofswft@humkvnwzaHzet=zqovkfDgvLyww!iAouvnLBuxMee
vDjocwQghHuq	!fNFUUJ0gbwPtg@zqebnfQlsBHld=xltgrfJhuBHld:nqakofyltszws_
ztfbcuHsjvuym=tEavjfLgsxNwm^BqacpirkjLJqe,fFigo	rApsuAs*jluAksyguAyrd:u
vmsvkhMsbKtxs'zIbtg 

HQTUGWrkfMunp^jltgxjJhmsFjw|uztbnjsyoxxej/uyajkxrDpKEee:fNftmjDlzsQnx&
OybigvMlsRnei|vqdkcqDFaMBjd@jHbpvfyltsush!jutcfAsuutAjw!urawunFn
4\XkpiGDtnteM+fFigbqsAuxLeg@zqhqtDlggHLei\gyqng	ryfMLni<gxakueLpfw
jusgeyDFaMIes+k/tbffLh.susd*tFpngwsimxtxm:AmukqsrposNmi!rAoibwMuaHHee
tquyqwClesMDw:ky?bbKAubEFD{!HQTUGWrkfLwwm#kpacbuJvkxwyd=llKkoe#hmEuhi!gF
ztfbUrAAiLIsm@tlJpuyAAvMCtr7fIiqbnKgnHOsx*tsakofyltsCsd@fqyvtjElmR
xGekojFAbKSeA@ElppbyzlaVIrt;yqsxbfFkaZysm^fzfvytJrtsush!oEartjHhsBHld:u
sAvpveLofFttr!GyftkhsgPGtQm+kgabCqLopNAmd:nqacxjJhhxtzw^xlucmjKgpOyw
ztjtvDrtjGOyi|fFpbftOumHuid:nqtgbnEhhxMe+@yEvoksygbszfm/rKahcxLgnHxjqS 
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!oybigxrobOyef^kzafqBFsptxjh!8%.``#rAjFyx	

HQTUGWrjpGwqy%kpajkxrAbEEeA*ztaugAwybEths_sqovueGuaMBjd#AEjpgxK
gDscplwtfGNef^zIfgpeLofs!rm:nEppkfFgbGxeG=sBvugwNbas2jd$uzugpiwkaMBfx!tAu
kzpwimrptsEss>tldqphwyoBHld:nqaxcqMlaHzem_gsfu}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d{xqbvksygeBAnx*FqebrmGApzLft&ooaeqqDldMCtr|fzfctqQ
oyqquxAimxtjB$kBubynLoaEuwk^fAsicsAGbMCtr|fxjmgeEBtxOrw!=lOggirmpKtxx;jK
zAafgywynBHjd]AmmkvDrvgsCre"kEawujJzaPCqp!zAmgtfLla}
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtgv*kragzhzhozyef^zIfgpe4LT4tfr%fNFUUJ0guAuyd'uxmqyjvaaLyAi/gx
ixbtkkAjbMCtr|fqngtlwk?

RQTMbfJnvxxex&gFavjjrwiHNtk/gBigtxrDfKyej@xlbjgfvgpytGInYQS<be1AaBM
gxnquyrpnIIxw*hxfbvtrjsxuyi!yGdjbiAnjMCEi%fBiqvtyybIBng!iAmnghLppGM
kJdgryrDjMBep@xsfbqwyhoBTfx*uztbnnClaFOxi;sE.bdjuhvLyee-rlujg
vtpvqlJhqAChd@mqoekjKgitPjd#kqobitAuhswwe.ElbdqzLguACxd@tpaykqDgoHNew*mz
rudgpxAuhsulv^kyfpvxrvosusC!yAsvbtxgsxuxs+gnmgbywynLoedgK5Lbjfvgixuwh
ztbvbSsAjHHfp!MqpitfHojvnej=xlfzcrHsfmtme%fFskgirApsvzC!ztfbtnyousNtd;yq
yAngbnEhhxtnr!yAngbpAuesIkd^jGdcvnGubEtuv=jGdvktFggHLe"v$*argwrpntAj{!hGu
ztfbrmGApzLft&kDtbynDsaGIyd:uGdjbnLbas@mi,fIbpvesjdHOsx*tsacpirwbRGjr:
lAsbgfuoaNMj{!CtjejeuhoGIyd#klbeetEwmBMmi%fIjvjnFguAyew,yFfo}erIF`!JV
xqtrqsvlesNme:fmaeqsKvsMCzq!urarjtLvhKuul^xE.bjjskfwtgC!glgqtrwya7uym=tmm
MqpitfHojvtul=zAhtcuzlsmtme%fEuctywkatMxi_hxjpieAAtsIBr!iAmnghLppGttj
kxfevwGujvtwi[xAeweyAvoLttj!oybigxlgxBNmd:nqaoqswFazInr"fnbemeLvaMBj
iAprgwsAjOy 

RQTMbhGuuxHii%fFicveTLT`YWd>gEawpswjfLMfv*rKargxKpnBMym$fmcqwyrtvENnq^jub
oybigxlgcxwfy|klqgquDlatLjd@iovuvtElesNtd-uI_swfDpuRtnq@mqt?busyuBwzp@xxz
lDpobAAkfHoed}K5TGTeMyhxxex&klmcwsuojGAes'fmauvzvFaMIeh^zqsokswgxAuy
AEftueOvvExex=rqscvjlgxAuyd:nqzbytMseszji-fopohtJAbuFjd>oFi?bfFkaPBfx
gntqnzLlmRtnw!ztfbjnyofLNeu;gxjvAeLofRtBs;rpagxjJgoxyi	!fOppejvpoztyl@z
nqajcirheHJyi%fmafkwwguHHjd*tlptfjJguHtfv=AEfbrjGwmxtff=AFavjjrptLOj{
HQTUGWrjmHMjh!uzacbxsuhNCsi!tAugbgQgttSnr"fFicvezlaPIzp%fzpvbgwgjGtyl*y
hGtkpjKzaBzel^fpjfbsGAaMBnr)fFicveLojGAxd$uGmfbgwgbvwtq[rutjgim

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
RMSUGSr[a2Mxy^ylphbxuhmtvnp*zKacpirtpwOqe/oFzb)eYlpFyyv*ilhtqBLoaHzex&k
OzugtswAatHid:nqatqqwgqEuDi%fnzbnfQlsBHldQfNbukhrmvGwym=tEauwxLhjGCsk
ztjublJvxMBe_!Glmkdwsyz,Mev=rqtbcsvggNHhx*uztbksrhaGyyA=xwagpAAypGGjr:f;
KrggeyKgpytnq[rqngpysAjHHes'fFigb5&$?)]et/uFpeqqrmpKtnr'uDncvnGu
xqutkjNhmsIsd:nqankgJhsRtxC|zqnb)e`ofsNwe%k\phhetluPyjr!BAmwojKgpytie:g
gzebkyKgqHNjr:ommbwxsnfs{eE!yzbrumGAaHzeg;xDfpveLyfGxxdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

XAocnirSB~!JR7fmtuqhAhuxtim/kouqtexvssCsj=xybvktFguxwmr=rAhA?e!ujOyww*zK
uraOcwQsbGxee:fOpnnjyla9uwo7frjtuyrhewLjw|kpavjjrptLOjw!urauefDhcBFnx,
gzebotvBmtLnx,alaJgeFvuxxex&klekhkAjvENDd=llbpvnupqtNnr"fFigbjxmfvNxd=l
uDegtx	vg Gfk+oFvfgeyypPNm{!xqgnghLpozttr!ztfbvBwuuRtDi@xEaqhewEqxLni+iq
CuujbyzlaTLue+kFacpirPoMywr^zgabTjuhmECsk!ztfbffQ_tsxjq=tEutcyAvoLttj
IP_TQRrhowttt:oobnbiAzlsGfx^xubn?ezlaPysx!uzavqeszlsCkd:nqahkjDkaAuxd,kF
rqbtpjvgiHQex=fEdcnjrufPtxC|zqnubyGgfGugp^fpfnkAwyzsush!jutugrAubMCtr
gosquxrsbKAj[|immgbswAxHLpw8

RMSUGSrmpvOxi%fAobvmwghxIri:xudbiwGDuAttj!ztfbKsLlsGyyd'xAnbkyKgjGwjt:oAo
iusece'$7=tys!ztfbrwwzfGN	d@tpavjjrheCOxx_kzuubwwxvBLjh!zAatgxHvowtys
ztbvbwswjwtlv=CFi}be`vaBFqy|zDbvgeLofsCxw;klphbxuhmtvnp*zK.bNF0ZF7
iAoukiwyfwths_vGugteFluPIwo|fmtbksusvwCsk!ztsggeyloxLng!iAnrqswuuLi
iAnrwywytmtsi:CAsmbhGtnNHng@zuppbsGkfLnee+jldqorMujvuym=tlngfnsbasYfg&
iAnrqswuusMhe-kEa-g yb.swtq[AFftueJhozyej/uyaRExrApsMzt^xoporzLlsLj
tquyqwCgoHxjw!yobngexypFtnr:kDgcejrjbKxxd*tlbbRHrAiKIzk&fEprjnKAjvuyi%
xAvvgwKgbGxek@zqxcAxhgbGxeg=syvpkhsAjHHeq^jubbtfFnfszws_f@.6`#	ibNx
jubn+zHggtwnp*zufubyzypNAmdya%_OduKgctwpf=tqanksCz.sush!kHfpvzssmRtys
sGmvklAnbuCy[[kD_ughGueswtq_AzjecyAvosFnr^y>.bcsvgbKwmm:kouwtfDszmtyl^
iAnrqswuuLtfv^fAsicsAGfwtys!yobngezpfKuwg&oobnnDrmsHGep=immbcwwhaGyyA=xwt
zAakpywyotNns+gx_uefDlaGyyA=xwt}be~BdAtlv=CFibkxrtbwyet=yEjdnjriz
hGjnfnFnaEuDi/ylphbhGtnNHng@zuppbuJvuHwtp| lbubGWZTX`et=ozugfeGBun
HKancDwyjGAef=ztarjDKpdtFqC!gzebntypdtFqC7fmaugsKlaHzew$gxbdkqAAzsCx
smjpvfAufwtkv=slmqefDgbKyfd+kFxqtpKgjGttj'oofu?esjsHMxd$gyqwujKaaMBws;mt
hDjfijKaaKIzx^xE.befEwvLtge$qnppgxlggBvjvTuBukeeDpoDM	d^zo??bzHgjGNt
xqhkqsssaGyyA=xwtbcsvgvENnq@zqmAbnFApsHfx*uzbnbfFkaBHyi/tmukqsss
tquyqwCz?

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesNmi!mqpogyJpdsAws>ztaqxjJgbsNBsTEqbtbuwyjHx][
ztsqwlzgTxJyi_hqsb3@+8_ Ikd:nqapwrtlssIkd+kFxqtpKguAuyd$uyqtkxwguAy
OzugtswA?stYl*ylhtqBLoaAuxd#kqobuzKAbBHjh!rmsigqQgcRtyl^fmwckqsijECyC!ur
ztsggethtBwej;toukqsK?asyqi$zDppkhrtbBF	d'oxfbvwsutyywdRlFq_?esuesLjq=zq
rAh+qsr]uxFsi:]gabNF0ZF7tfp|ulsgxnwDfwtyl^fssqyyzgjGtyl^fwjpfeGmaMLfj'oo
ztbvbtujvKMes+fFigbswAxHLp	!fZfvytJraMLfj'ooatgkDldMMex&klkqksLgdHHyv*hGukqsK
uracbqsyhxLet=vGmcvnGuaHzey|kDtbcsvgjGwwi@yuoibzKlaIywd;yqs}be`vetSes+kltggx
yqskqzKgbIJqm$gFjqpxrpoOIqz*tsaoqAAuhsCre"kEacewGztsNmi!tquyqwC|_ttwe/oFz
zqobAjsytsuls8flMCTXWUaKyhe-rqebcsvgdHHhy/xqebynLoaUYXW X/tbofAuaIInr:
ztbvbyzlaBHyi/kEukplrwsHvqi_ylpeezJgbMtyl^fmqrnnuhuBIsd-kHfn}

RMSUGSrAixHem-rGtvtfLlesueq=jqmbqkrhaECgv@xK"ubwGsfLtfr%frvpeyAvoLtnr!g
tquyqwCgfGPnv=tyfpv rgIxtss:kp.bksrwbKNng;rms?byzlaIFfg^sqovbtxgpGaqm+k
imucntyBfLttr:ulujgeFluPIwo!gzebrfLypGMes#zmjpksygbvwjw|fFpbvmwgmBvwe/E
ozdtgfKpozFDd:nDpwimrspvuqd+kFxqtpKaavurt;ylogvBGylLnee+jlujge1uuxLsi:a
RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpaN1SUO"Ltje/ruftbxMnhxMym=tlujcyrDfsHji%fFpbcivyfLM
lGofcrwuutFeu;kEukqsKgpytsi:CAsmgirpoyIwq@zuppbnFgpKxjv!zAadwnDk
kzwkttFtfGNxd:nmubuhssfsCsd:nqakpkGyntNns+fEfpujrhtsQjp-fmtbksrAix
vtzukhssaLysw^a

RMSUGSrzvIJtv:kpavjjrypEyes'fFigbqAistLDd|EEugoeszaMBjd@iofuueHvjGNem+zA
ztfbpfLppG.xd^rqdvttFpdswtp-koukqsKbas3rt-kyfpvfLppGttj!ztfb28+b6[
vDpvqhGsayIwd*trptofLppGtwi:xufxcqrDpNFid_gwfbuzuoatwhi|ylqtchLpdtFee+j
lqbukgDl?stKs/fqycouDl.sNmm|fIpwnirlotvqi!vmutqsKgjGtRe/ExbpfeLvaLyfv$n
ImmkhtJujttqm#xmskgxlgpKttx&kDankgJhsByxd@xAvpfeLofsQtv-jlujcyrhsx
iAohqwEhoMtBm:nl15~ (%aBHee!smopgwrAitNem|frbokqAhssNtdptuwgtxAAzsIk
SmsAnfFkaIuyv=tE?bbYzptswqm^tF_ugwNlssGth^rlbnutrzvIJtv:ylnqxnFnauyDs+j
yqdqpisyzswtr:kzubksLvaILnq@xKaeqsLloMoedRZtfbptLppGttj!nAxbqswgmBHpw
lDpobxwjpGxfv,foppvjFAaMIet/oybtAeuvoMysx7fXBTUJ6gttCi{!xqqtgxwuuLtf
lGofcrwuutFet/unmgoeLobMtwi]AusgueJphHLty|fFiqwlzA?	teE'zqsbptLpoz
tGngttMzaGyyA=xwagzuwyjFysx|fuobchultLCsk!lGmn+ywEusGfx^xubnu	rpovFzh*ts
vDplghLzaLOut=xFjpieLofsIwh^xuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbchJvtLtyl^fzfvytJr.s6FVnKZ
xqwkunLlesNmi!oEtwgeGmaMLfr|suuvksygiBAm[%kztkvDlgiBAm[/kEpnwyAvoswtp=x
oybigxrhdKIxw!ztfbpjLDpKEee+jlujgeDhszyee_uGovueGmauush>opujbyzlz
xqrwkwwbas2jd>kzubqsrApsuih/kEtbvmwgctHiA*jFibcsvgtRHhl/uzjBcyAvo
vDpdnjEzaBHmi/kzubksrzfGxnr"frvnn]EvuBIsd<opfqbfuypLMex&klogvBGyln

RMSUGSrpmEOxx/gFffbyzlaMLfh^/AghbgwAxxysd<uxvogxrvgsxfx@fuobdDLltsIw
uDegtxrvgsGfk+oFvfgesuesNmi!vAugpyAhmsOxe"klphbyzhusxfx@alaJgevptvOxw^j
zDbpurAztBIsd/gFfub=HhsMChy-gDmA?eLofsNnq^fuubvfCltsNtd_uHfbxfJppNMej=xyt
urakpkGyntNns+]facpirDitNes+kldqwqvgeHtBm:nlbbpjLDpKEew;vBptvnFn
sGmvklAnbuCy[[kD_ughGuesNwe+yyjuunGu?stFx!ztfbotEloMnex&klogvBGyl
kzwkttFtfGNem+ixvfgxrhavIrt=yuugbtxgetNf[:xmouonKzjHHev^wGjtgrwuuLn
BAmwojKgbGxej=xyt?blGpoztkv=sltvgfvFaMIef;xEuAb=zphAaAs-Ayf_bfFkayLtq
BqsAbxDvxsNtd<kDzbhfKA?stYl*ylbiiwwnbMyeq;yFadgeuvoLCii/kpakpeLofsxjw*mz.
iAouvwMjuBIs{!gzebquwybMCtr!uraowqLphBAff,zqapgyOvsDM 

RMSUGS\zaHvoi$zuwgbnKguHtzw^fFigbswAxHLpw!gzebnntybKSew,yFfoueFvxsvjm+m
iAouvwMjuxxex=fuoetjszfsuhg^yEavqeJltHOwg^ylxjgwwCfKtyl^ElfzkxLaatHi
ztvu?eLvaxPtp<kluqyfJkatHes+/xjpgewsfvNws+ooaxkwLBbEtqm#xmsA}

RMSUGSrjpGwqy%kpadAeGmgxLnr"fmaupfHziHNes'fovttjFAaMLjr%yaabetFAjGOnr"
mqpogyJpdsAws>ztakpeFluPIwo!imqcenLFatHid+AycgteGmaNMjv|?ltnqBwy
jqwgntHtfGNes'fmqrnnuhuBIsw3fmofblDhdBuqd%kHfnquEloMtfr%fmeqryAvosIk
yFbpffJktnteX&kldjcqDlozyem|fFpbfjKphGtfr%fpfxgqGwaxuhl!tqxbcuHsjvuym=t
yKtvgrrDjMBer^zIptmesjdxMxd@tpauefDhcBFnx,fuobonFk?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
H4PYPW1NHs{eE$iqtubyGguAyeM+zqspgyrjbGHtx!hqavcpwuayIwd"xmovgir[a9uho^z
xmekqesuesNmi!jqwgntHtfGNes'fYFNX44gjGt6!C$\93bnFguAyeH*Butkqsrvgs6nf/gDz
GGuqofLppGtfx!ztfbWsACfKMnx,fAgbEfDpgHLsm@fl(bbIwzjzHeg/oFftkfrmpKtue$qqu
xmekqe?gBsxjq=tEutcyAvosJws(koubksrZbGtIm^mAacpirmvMOwi!vxbpue?gTILje%
yBfevwMta}tKv^wGfpenwzatNeA&ooibvmwgstxns|fIjnneJBosush!vxbpueLv
xqjorqwtfGNex&klXCKXrzfKPjv!yAgvyfJlaBHex&klqwdqAjawIre*tl(bPjwkayIwd@t
ozgtcxLyvvNzv^fAgbtfvppLtyl@zleqbsGAaFIAi!gDpwpir[
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

KpxkpeTYP$8WMbMfagzjuBuBPjd%oDfevtJaa6yri\f4fugfJjis3sw:oFvvg	rmjKMy
vAmngirAixtfy%oqoegeAuaHLii/fFpbujwraHOyd/ksvncwrBtxLxd=llujge1uuxLsi:fmt
CqmnbfKguAIxi!vxbppnFnaMIey|kljvbxGtfsNnq^fuobvmwggNNzv^alaYkyzgoxuwp,
kHftAgGkzsCsd:nqatqtEggtFqm+mljpvtrvoxthe:ksptAeGyaMBjd=ztft?eTYP$8WMbM
smegbfrwpBHyd/klbeejKz.sHfq^rKavjfLgoNGjv=AEakpiACjwOfp| lfurjupbEFDd:nAtg
CtpbwxwguAyeM+zqspgyrlwxLDd%gK.bvfClayIwd"xmovgirAixCwd@iofuueLvaBN	d:nq
yBfgfxrDjMBeA&ooibvmwFatLjd$uzogeywk.sush!nAxbyjDsaBNee-rlxqtpKb
NAxgxjJaatMeFmU9OTKLYgeBMhs<kDffbgwAxxysdv#"8bcsvg2==@d*tlBwuyJhmBu	
oraqpjrDbGNxd@iofuueLvaMBjddtFftpjLgcNNeg@tzpvbfxmpKxem:fAsbjfKgtHGj
vtzukhssauIzr%gDzbvmsAaILjz^tFtbjjJgpKtmm_frsqoeyhjGCsk!godguxlgjMthe+
hqagzyJlnxFDd'xGtvtfLpozoedckltwilwzuxxex&gFadghsBtxttj!koppqrAjtsush
vtzukhssauuwv*kDtbyjrDfKyef^muopksyguHthv^gFfbceOvsExes'ftbxgxrhowtme<k\oqvx
ozavjjrwsHwjw|fAgbuhzvmtLqC!iAnowsAjbMCtr7fqwgpeAuaMBjdptuugfe~AbMyx	

H4PYPW1NHsxjx@oxffbyzlawyAi-uBngpyrvgs7JPq5Xakpesjbwyrm$fKfcte'$9[a!5!oz
ztfbFnNptBIsd=llMkdwsyzsUzx=smukqsrhusNmi!1zjxgwKpuRttj!ImmkhtJujtnem+
uDegteLvaNHii/yoptgeLofsCxw;klphbfujfLMex=fFigbxQzuxG	d>nudjbfLguAy
uGuugyrDbLtjB:xqngnDrsjFCyi%alaKpeKopKN	d:nqarttBldMtsi^jqebvtrivBFid@
tquyqwCaaPBng&fmubvmsAaMCri!kzuckqwkaNMjd=lltcvjDsjMyex^itoqntyF.sNme:fut?
vGuvksygftLyl!yFbvktFzaHHeg@sBvubfFkatFxs!gorwkwAuhsMtq^fFfttjKAsBuqd-ozlu
lDpobyzla`Nfx^fAgbEfDpgHLsm@-EaokhJvxtPjd|EEugo rgUAyem+yFbnnfLppGttj
ymugnqAAfsFnr)yfajqBwCfKneh*jloqveKvmOyex&klqtqgDlns	Bl*itaceyMhmES
lAsogirwbKNes'fmancwylssJws#rqnbksNvmOCsk!vAmkvnuzatHid'ozbpenssaKyxs;xofu_ 
LAsbymAsfsNmi!vDplghLguxurd$uGmfblwAattxm"tmmbqsLvatthe_vGt?bnLgitxer=fyfcpx
urafkxLyjuOym+mlujgeKphGuqd:nDpwimGBusNmi!imnrwxmga!Bjd|uxvvktFgjGPtp<kp
gpprvnFnattwi$kzubfjNlmHJri+zljpbBAyfEyxw!iAnowsAjbMCtr!immngirwbvEjx!xmekq	
CtjejeuvnuCsi%fFigbgszjvtss:oAobqkrwbvEjxTyIjvemAuhsQnx&fDbfktmga!Bjd[xAkgey
AEffbyzptsNjg&tAmqiDrApsAjx!ztfbunyubEtkv=slbbrtAuusIsd$gyqwueOofKyem:
imngbiGDomtfr!kmsvjeKAbMCtr!lAsbgCstqEy	d*tFpbvmwgmBvwe/oqt?bgwjbNMjd*z
lAvpfeLobMtBm/ozhbvmwgmBvwe/oqt?bjKwfvCfp-ElujgeGsexLeq@xnmgbgMpmwCsk| 
CAvnfeuvtMt&67$*~+^0l%~[tui/fFftonFhmn

H4PYPW1NHsHtx^jlujcylguxHeC^gDtbclGaaMBjd[xAkgeyrobwtsi*ztftbyzlaIOgp*i
vAmkeDrupKtyl^fFfejsGspzSex&gFayqzDkaAuAi!gxmqyjvgjMtys!AEfbrfurfMtwe%oA
ozacpDrtftHnr"lGmbyfQbas!nr$klujgsrtvvBel@jldjcsylenteL^fBsqejwkfwtys
jquckqryfLyfv$nlbpfevlwxFtt_kzubqkrAixtyi$nzpnqlQaaAIBd*zljubgwpoz
jqqnqDwkaBHeG@rugqtsAh.sush!CtbvbiAyfvNns+ftfbvmGBhANem:fIpwnirAbDy 
ZtfbfjKphGthv*zqskcesyfsNtd[xAewejrhaACllTyBfgf	rvoxaym_kfanqB	jpLN	
nuhj+vMhmBND{!yqdwtjlgmBwjr|k\gtgjrkfOChi![BbemjLgstxnsSfFicveGufswfr
vxvibnFgbGxet-gKavqisF.sztv"kFacdtMAaBN	d@tpajcAwgbvwjw|fFpbvmwgJGNjv+kF?
HKajklzgtIyjh7fNSQYS0PHZtri@tFa3brwnbuSyi!gzeb3 (gnxAff,zqt}be`opLyey+oFt
nmwgbgwlosvzm-zfajgeuvoMCsy^jfacpirhsxtnr!ztfbrwGjfLMes'fnfkpl
zKqg+hwyuBzni%fnzbcsrpowyui+jqovbzFkfKQwm:ozhbnftvstNtv,fEpbvmsAaMBjC!imo
hqavAuw|mBwjr|kpadAeLofsZjh^xmmbEtEtvGChe:oAoubHGtnBMxm=tgabCxrptsNmi
imtgbBAAiswnx*Fqoubgsuemttr^fIjnnetlatvqi!zAarwwuobLyee!AzjvbfFkaGIyd&gHf
zAayqwJFatvty:fmqrnDAuhsztv!glmkejFzfn

ZtfbdfKpdsCii@ lCTQ26YJZ1ei-gnptcywk.sCxd:ulucmjrojzB]w[kqebtfvppsxfx@
zDbpurAztBIsd@tpaetjsAfsuef@iwcqpjrufMQtv)fFicvesAavywx@ozauvwsAfzCh
vAjpvxrposNmi!tquyqwCgxBFqdOmmugyfQ+aBHys!glngfnMt_LJji%fBbemjLgstxns
[u?g}	rvoxtyl@zlswpxrhus(!	yfwjnqgQAfL 	d|ulujcyrwfKBft|fnzb3@+~_"[@9
vqprnjlgmBEjd:nAtgbnFguAyee;jufpejrmpKtyl^fBskejrvgsueZ{XldqwqvgqNLhl@yq
glngfnMt_LJji%fDbfktrmpKtyl^fAghkhwgpKtms_kfajcAwggNFqd+kFxqtprjpGHjg:oHjvA
zAavjjrPoMywr^zfacpirwbKNfo^fAgbcqDgjMMew^xHjegxlgxBNmd+uloggirmpKtfr!LOD
rudgpxwgbGxer=fDfiwqsyauCqp!lDpobyzlaEIhe-fopootFgdtLwm^xgabDW74O~3LK
vDfugsLlesMjz^xmmbfjLhjEMes'fmafgrGutMLfx*uzarttBldMthy/xqovnDrAbDCsk
vxbegeAua`usd	oqhqbfFkawyxg/onffbuDhoLnet^tpjpiexBowCsk7fFpbksKAbEFee
lGmn+gGyfsHjx>uDlbksrAixtXe+fRscphAzdHtfv^ggabVmAzaGyyA=xwaykqDgitPjdA$*
tAegueJBoGCsk!gFadchCipGyew[kqeu?esues&#@!uravjjKlaGIii|fIjnnetlaECgv@xufu?
CtjejeAuaMOwr!CumnbgwguAyek@zqxcAeHvsMMex=fFigb8_b5sEnp=hKugbwskjHMex&gF
CumnblACfswtz^xmhgbkGyaMBjd+kuhjdtJopHxxd|ADsqwsvpoztyl^fxjdtfJpfLo

H4PYPW1NHsHjB:fqyrnfAufwtUe/zl27}7*@.suer^ClswnjrDjMBnr!Zuunge*@aHzex&k
IAegbtxgGxxjv@rlSgizDhuBIsw!kzbevjvgcRtyl^fRDEbnFg2==0	!f6ikueJBmx
itbnnjFnfwtyl^fuofwxLyzmtBl*itajcxrvoESer=ClskujFguHtyl^fAdecxAvomtys
hGjnfesgstxns!ztbvbBGBmwtwy+fmubptrtpKyex&gzaqpjrDbMNes'fAvvrzLgqHQjv!gze
AEfbcexhjKFDd^DAukeeEluAIid=llnqfzDhuBHld:nqatciAvaPuAi!immngirzqKyfh
yBfevwMt?stXt/kmebuuwjuKOrd*tlgceyrwfKGnx|fFigbgMpmwCsk!urapgyOvsDMew=
ztbvbsMtfKIzw!jmucbhGtnNHng@zuppueuhosIhg;xltkozDAbGyty|rK.bynLopNN
ozugtkwyjGAeA*ztagchzgpMBjv7fIjvjnFguAyew@sqaykiwgstxns!itbppjDb

H4PYPW1NHsyCt-guogfeLobMtyl^frsgszwudByxd@zlxjkhzguAyev@jupubBGBmwtwy+
gDfbxjJFaLBtv:fIbxgeKphGuqw8flUjgDrhsxtBi-rlbdqAwgtMush@xpaokhJvxtPjd@tp
xmect rgXBNmd@fDbfktrDbOyex&gFauofDs.sIsi!CmuvbgwjpFyxd@fFsgojFkpNMet;toi
vqsbdnLgbGxex&AEaocpwzaMLfr|sutuktFgbMtwi@yAocdqwgtIyjh!vAtukgDl?stNr
uDegteLvaFCsm_oLfbvmwgqHNjr:ommbhtJgdHHli|zupp?eLofsJws(koubkx
AzegtysrjGAex=fDfkouDlnxHyd|uruycwwgxAChl!nmtbdjwuatPfm-gnmgbnFguAy
tquyqwCpoztgy|ozfuuesuesCxd:gwfpbkGyazLfr:kpapqBlggHLei\gyqng	r1D9gNT7
xAvvksygbEAtv*ztnu?etyjwAjw7fmofblsAfPuDw8flJpbfvkjMCtr7fFigbuJvkxwy
vxbpueLvaMupi!ztfbYF1ZaLywz^xltqhyOhsxtnr!ztfbrztsjvtis_guobcsv
xqjorqwtfGNem:fEpbvmsAaHHjd$gzajcAwgbs%FMnfEftxjJgpGtfdhgoakpxLlbwttj!g
1zjzbrsjiBHj	!f6igbRwtfQtWi|kmseje1utMCyy:klcgnnwCfLtyl@zlmkdwsyjxM	d*t
vmsvkhMsbKneA*rxaycsLguHtzw^fFigb2SPTsMjv<kDtbynLoaIuho^zlscfnGbas@mm|
vDplghLaaPBng&ftbubfrAftGes'fmcqwyrAxxFAi!vqprnjlgxBFqd/AzavjwGBhAt6!D9
gzebynDsaBHhp;jqavjjr8~[tqm#xmskgxrhmKyfh,fyfpvnGufwtfw!CqmnbfKgpMBjv
vDphgxKppGuqw!yGdjbfKguAIxi!ozavjjrtfwChe-fBsqhjKzjHH	d^tsjpgjJpoznee+j
rmx}be`ovLnex&kloggirptsNtd$xqbvgesuaBHkv@yFsweyMyfsIkd/gpjqueLobMtis!tAu
sAwgbfJvvGx	d>nudj?eTYP$8WMbMliqrjKaaPCqp!yAmxgesgqKIgp^sloqveGumRtks/
ructcwAltsvzx!lAsbksvpwBxze-ylxjq	rizsush!rmsigeLvetS	d%uloqvezhwxtfg$kEt
zAavjjrPoMywr^zlgtqrrAixCwd&uyfubfFkaHzkm$kE?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dkxAkgeyrvqxLfx*tsahtjIBfGwni|f;
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrhauLni'fpjuezKzjHHet^xupf?eOojvBee-yAaeqsusvwyid:nqafcD\z
vDpegjvpozM	d}X1XPTNYNaLNfx^jlujcyrAixtuv=pqdvbBszaHJjv@zuoibnFggHOw
lDfswjFjjxM d!ZtfbuqGDaLJji%futbquwybMCsk!gFa650rtfzumi/zL.bcsvgjMtBs;rp
rmugteyvaNJex=f&3`brwnbAywx.alaYkyzguAyel*mt_urjwkayLju;kzdA?eLof
uzf+ojyhcRNjd/gpjqueOpmEtwy+fmub4 *ghBAff*zE.bcsvg2n-eA*rxatwsrhus- ~8
GFa7}`lgstCsd$gzadgesggtwys/ lcwveAAaPIzp%ftbxgeLvauyex/uBjecqrybBH	
AzmkmjrDitNej@rxtbksrtpLNet@xFtbqkrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLo

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gJ#oeddSMHGbHSWU@`J{!ZQYVbHSWU@`J{!U8FTXNW4a8ZeX 46aCPI
flabbergasteddSMHGbX`VST1JdaU4NCVX