document identifier for referencing the bibliographic information in one
place and the images in another; 4) the technique for making the basic
internal structure of the document accessible to the reader; and finally,
5) the physical presentation on the CRT of those documents.  POB is ready
to complete this phase now.  One last decision involves deciding which
material to scan.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
DISCUSSION * TIFF files constitute de facto standard * NARA's experience
with image conversion software and text conversion * RFC 1314 *
Considerable flux concerning available hardware and software solutions *
NAL through-put rate during scanning * Window management questions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

In the question-and-answer period that followed WATERS's presentation,
the following points emerged:

     * ZIDAR's statement about using TIFF files as a standard meant de
     facto standard.  This is what most people use and typically exchange
     with other groups, across platforms, or even occasionally across
     display software.

     * HOLMES commented on the unsuccessful experience of NARA in
     attempting to run image-conversion software or to exchange between
     applications:  What are supposedly TIFF files go into other software
     that is supposed to be able to accept TIFF but cannot recognize the
     format and cannot deal with it, and thus renders the exchange
     useless.  Re text conversion, he noted the different recognition
     rates obtained by substituting the make and model of scanners in
     NARA's recent test of an "intelligent" character-recognition product
     for a new company.  In the selection of hardware and software,
     HOLMES argued, software no longer constitutes the overriding factor
     it did until about a year ago; rather it is perhaps important to
     look at both now.

     * Danny Cohen and Alan Katz of the University of Southern California
     Information Sciences Institute began circulating as an Internet RFC
     (RFC 1314) about a month ago a standard for a TIFF interchange
     format for Internet distribution of monochrome bit-mapped images,
     which LYNCH said he believed would be used as a de facto standard.

     * FLEISCHHAUER's impression from hearing these reports and thinking
     about AM's experience was that there is considerable flux concerning
     available hardware and software solutions.  HOOTON agreed and
     commented at the same time on ZIDAR's statement that the equipment
     employed affects the results produced.  One cannot draw a complete
     conclusion by saying it is difficult or impossible to perform OCR
     from scanning microfilm, for example, with that device,  that set of
     parameters, and system requirements, because numerous other people
     are accomplishing just that, using other components, perhaps.
     HOOTON opined that both the hardware and the software were highly
     important.  Most of the problems discussed today have been solved in
     numerous different ways by other people.  Though it is good to be
     cognizant of various experiences, this is not to say that it will
     always be thus.

     * At NAL, the through-put rate of the scanning process for paper,
     page by page, performing OCR, ranges from 300 to 600 pages per day;
     not performing OCR is considerably faster, although how much faster
     is not known.  This is for scanning from bound books, which is much
     slower.

     * WATERS commented on window management questions:  DEC proposed an
     X-Windows solution which was problematical for two reasons.  One was
     POB's requirement to be able to manipulate images on the workstation
     and bring them down to the workstation itself and the other was
     network usage.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
THOMA * Illustration of deficiencies in scanning and storage process *
Image quality in this process * Different costs entailed by better image
quality * Techniques for overcoming various de-ficiencies:  fixed
thresholding, dynamic thresholding, dithering, image merge * Page edge
effects *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

George THOMA, chief, Communications Engineering Branch, National Library
of Medicine (NLM), illustrated several of the deficiencies discussed by
the previous speakers.  He introduced the topic of special problems by
noting the advantages of electronic imaging.  For example, it is regenerable
because it is a coded file, and real-time quality control is possible with
electronic capture, whereas in photographic capture it is not.

One of the difficulties discussed in the scanning and storage process was
image quality which, without belaboring the obvious, means different
things for maps, medical X-rays, or broadcast television.  In the case of
documents, THOMA said, image quality boils down to legibility of the
textual parts, and fidelity in the case of gray or color photo print-type
material.  Legibility boils down to scan density, the standard in most
cases being 300 dpi.  Increasing the resolution with scanners that
perform 600 or 1200 dpi, however, comes at a cost.

Better image quality entails at least four different kinds of costs:  1)
equipment costs, because the CCD (i.e., charge-couple device) with
greater number of elements costs more;  2) time costs that translate to
the actual capture costs, because manual labor is involved (the time is
also dependent on the fact that more data has to be moved around in the
machine in the scanning or network devices that perform the scanning as
well as the storage);  3) media costs, because at high resolutions larger
files have to be stored; and 4) transmission costs, because there is just
more data to be transmitted.

But while resolution takes care of the issue of legibility in image
quality, other deficiencies have to do with contrast and elements on the
page scanned or the image that needed to be removed or clarified.  Thus,
THOMA proceeded to illustrate various deficiencies, how they are
manifested, and several techniques to overcome them.

Fixed thresholding was the first technique described, suitable for
black-and-white text, when the contrast does not vary over the page.  One
can have many different threshold levels in scanning devices.  Thus,
THOMA offered an example of extremely poor contrast, which resulted from
the fact that the stock was a heavy red.  This is the sort of image that
when microfilmed fails to provide any legibility whatsoever.  Fixed
thresholding is the way to change the black-to-red contrast to the
desired black-to-white contrast.

Other examples included material that had been browned or yellowed by
age.  This was also a case of contrast deficiency, and correction was
done by fixed thresholding.  A final example boils down to the same
thing, slight variability, but it is not significant.  Fixed thresholding
solves this problem as well.  The microfilm equivalent is certainly legible,
but it comes with dark areas.  Though THOMA did not have a slide of the
microfilm in this case, he did show the reproduced electronic image.

When one has variable contrast over a page or the lighting over the page
area varies, especially in the case where a bound volume has light
shining on it, the image must be processed by a dynamic thresholding
scheme.  One scheme, dynamic averaging, allows the threshold level not to
be fixed but to be recomputed for every pixel from the neighboring
characteristics.  The neighbors of a pixel determine where the threshold
should be set for that pixel.

THOMA showed an example of a page that had been made deficient by a
variety of techniques, including a burn mark, coffee stains, and a yellow
marker.  Application of a fixed-thresholding scheme, THOMA argued, might
take care of several deficiencies on the page but not all of them.
Performing the calculation for a dynamic threshold setting, however,
removes most of the deficiencies so that at least the text is legible.

Another problem is representing a gray level with black-and-white pixels
by a process known as dithering or electronic screening.  But dithering
does not provide good image quality for pure black-and-white textual
material.  THOMA illustrated this point with examples. Although its
suitability for photoprint is the reason for electronic screening or
dithering, it cannot be used for every compound image.  In the document
that was distributed by CXP, THOMA noticed that the dithered image of the
IEEE test chart evinced some deterioration+fuobvmwguxRy	!fTfbrwwzfGNjh!gz
kJutgrwgfQurt-klphbiwAfKCtv@zuppbnFguAyex^DFakpeOojvBeg=sBpwpiwk
jAdwojFAtsBfh!zAadgeKlusLnk&zlcAbtLofKtyi$nzjswjKbas@mi!zqdjpnIBf
oxmwuyJhuxxef,fFigbuJltxHyd^DmnrnjrDbLtfr!oybigeElszyem+fIikemrAixtue"k
oEauefFufwtyA*iqacpirAixtxi:zuoiueyvayLtq!luygfeLosxMms-jluqbyzl
juujgwAuhsGfx/oJ<bvmwgsxMzp:ozhbkrsnfLtfv^fyftijvguHtlm<klujgetltM
xqtwnyKgxBNmd^goibvjuooBKzi8

ZTPOCeAsmNMyv@zqebjtOgeBNmi/ozhbkxrhmLIey|kpakpeFvoIBtx=mDbrjnugpK
tAortnFAaFuyi/ommubBAAisusd^Dmnrnjrvgsuek/gKjujeHhhxtkv=slbbojvpdtFex^DF.
CtjejeOhtsLjt/upvegirApsMms>fmmnbtxguAyek/gKavjfLgbIJje/kpakpeLof
uDjiksss?stIm:nqskplrwsHPnh^jlbbtjHypwOhx*uzaqhessmsNmi!mDbAbnFguAy
uDjiksssaHzee+uFigtewEbFJqi!lDpobyzlaLuri!zqyv}

ZTPOCexpotFqC!oxmwuyJhuxxex&klqtqgDlnsIkd#uDegtnFn.sIwd[gsf+giyl.
krggeyKbasVts)ylbpfetvvGxez=rGngueLobMtfv^fBmcejvgpGtfd[nAuqetHFaFuhl*tq
uDacbxuhoGywd[xAewejrwbzy]i%mqaghkwjuLtyl@zlbtgeMuexMnv@hxfbhtJguPI
xqbuqsK?as&[d:nqacgxLofMChw!uravjjrpntAj,!grugtessmmtnj!ztfbkrsnfsCxd:u
hqartjKlsOyi{!uzfbftwzaGIyd+kofuufJpmRtBe+zluqbpwlqsuqp!urakvx
jqgkenwudByx,!8>aeqrHyfLMns+f<xkvmrAixtgs/jqskplrwsHvqi_f6IQOF
oxmwuyJhuxx	d:nqaeqrHyfLMns+fDbvktrkfMywm=xmugfeLyfFysh=AEmA_ rgPGyeA@E
zAagnnEpotNjd:nutbotJlaLywm=AEartttsfFtnw!zAajcAwguAyes[kDbvqwrhusNmi
vAjpveGmaLwfr+ozhbynFkpPtyl^fBbtveGmaMBjd*smhgbyzhusCxd%kEjtcgDlatHi
gGuqofLpdtFqC!zGspbfDsaHzex&klqkzjDzaHOyd=llujcyrwjvNzv^fFpbymAAfn

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
LXFKUHZOB@YWdQfMN&uewEqxLni+iqaykyzgtvusr*tsadqzFkaFuyi/ommub+rKjMBjv*ts
=
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ImsnbK4LJ`WML?1QS?bhGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAgbEtFnsxMx{
xqqqtywkaT7)w!kJqgtnwudxtBm:nltecsFpoztgs;tpaocywyjtFx{!CtjejezlaECpi+kp
zAavjjrwsHvqi_yljpxtDCfwtnr!AEjpieHopMIhs[EuoibrsjiBHjw8flWgtDrmfP
jqwkejKgjGtyl^fuofwxLyzsIkj^xlcqqp	lezyew$gzokpllgmxNee-uzfbdtGravLfh-kE?
ZtfbrwGimxGeq@ElcgbzFzpEPff-kfaHNJ1ZD12FY Xltckilgcxwfy|klbbnfJnfsyss;mt
smsmgyrkpxMer=zlfzkxLggHLee!vDfugwNhuBIs[]AmmkvDrzdtHsi/alaCOeAzaNMnr"fm
QGsByjAsaLwfr+kD.bymAjisCxd@fnpqm]wkhxtxg@tzftbsGDaLIqh!hKaZgwGE?

JqwqvnFnaMBjd/kybkpiwyaHzel*ylctkjxgqKyxi+zmukqsrApsxnx&kDjpi	
LXFKUHZOB@YWd/kxbvgirHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!gldqpyJhdMIwd>nAaycxrBtBHl
AztqrmAzuBwfx^jlfswnHtfGNee+jltqhyOhsxtys!xqewejrtpBLjd[gFugtsKggKIr
vDjpvjvgitFkx=tqt}beSTaMIto!ztfbufElaBGfk^fmofbzKlesNmi!juujgwAuh
gxhqtnLonsNme:frptoxrwbKNes'fFigbxstfs5zv.Cqjnb3wypQtxg@tzft>eAA
jutiwnKlesGtm/klqcvywyoLtry$nlnqtjrlgyyhx*BqmA}

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@rEpbqgKlsOyid:nmubfnLofKCsk!vDpfwhwzattgm+gDzbhnDlaPBng&fut
AEfhwqrmpKtsy_kDpwueHBsIIxi| lgqtewEbFJqi7fBskpyAuhsCyd=tlbbnfKlssJwm+zqs
CuujqzLgitPnr"fFpb*ww|itFkx=tq&bkymgaUOyd*zlugpiKguHtii'kmubgkxpdBysx
iAnrtjKzjHH	d#kobwujrAixtAi/ElujksyguAuyd%oFigtxrApsLjh;iqaoqnJlaIuyx^xzt
gxtqbywueLtys!CAsmbfyhjGMyd$uyqtgxKppGtxg&kyfu}erHNsNms;mtubvmw
jughgwwudxtnr!oybigeIBbECyC!CmtbytJAisCy	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dmkxbvkAwgvLyee|fmaetnLlsBIsd'uDaRQG\zaLyqi$zuppbtxgcHIpw!zA
hqaeqsNlsMyid*tFpbfnyputFej=xya)
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtim|iGtuktFgqxLns% lXCVJ0ZaGIyi%fFicveGufsIkd:nqaetnLlsBuej=x
yqmgeyAuhsvts)ylboqsyguAye5E *~`byGgcxths+BqsvgirpoMIeh*muucneAtbzyej=xy
CAvnfetlaAIBd_AoibtjDhuBPjd;yqavjjQgxHOqh!xqdgkAw|_ttxy#pqdvbxLpmE
xqrwkwAuhsyAe-Amukqsmga!Bjd$nmmngsylaPCqp!hqavqeMuexLxx@tpayjjLofK
iAigtjFAauIim^ylphbrsAfKCfp!CumnbnFjsxuxi!AEbigeGyaPBjx&kDaRQGrziHOqh
yqfmbrsAfKCfp!ztbvbnKgcxCsk!AEff?eKjbGtyl@zfacpirtbDyem:fyptgesjdxMxm#rq?
V1Cbonyousxjg*jqavqevphBNnD^fybvgwAhmLtyl@zlbtgesssxuiC!nqbxkqQgvLyi{!oz
uDegteLvaFupi!ztfobrGyfsuhg^yEjdnjrhowtii$xqbugeOlbKttr!ztfo}erHoHNmi/
gBqtqfuoaPIzp%fnfbvtrwsHPnh^fmancwylauIiC!urakpywsmxwyy@rxzbetzlsxHy
smugtnssaMBfx!smzbdjrBtxxeq=xqakpevphBNfp!lAsobyzhosCyd*yldwtwwuuESey|kp
ozaokhJvgBFr	!f2PDbBGBmwtxi^qlncvjJpbEtyl@zlxcueGBusIkd$uBztklzA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMSQPF~g(s9wm"ozacpirzdHJjd=llBKKRr[a!Sui|fAgbftuBnxHyw!vDpfwhwkaBH
GUJO&xrzutHie/jEarttyybFt+d	uybkpeGmaT3NQNyltvcsvhswCEe:oAobytJra}tFMdS/t
yFsweyMyfs{eX{f!83bfFka6!77!=lFnghLypGChd*smhgbrsubzyri+zltvcsvhswMe_
ImugitJpfLttj!KUNbuysuetLim.gFjqpeOofKyeEdOYauvfFkbKxxd@xqadgnFn
jqwgntHles{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PqbpbGSYP7UX{!yqokqwrtbGuli/ lEgrfJAnxHyd=llTvcsvhswMee+jlUgemFvmHAD{
GEtqensAjHHej=xlJphtJtbMCtr!gzebKrsnfs7fr@mqngpyr]B23R=7fpfuewAifwtyl^
tAu+htJ|qKIkm:fmtuqhAhuBIsd@tpavjjrubMCtr@rlbpfeAuuxLse:oAocneHypzLfq|
lAsbuysuetLim.gFjqpeAuaPBng&fMJKOeAzatwym<kg

GodtgiAAfwtks/fFxgpyQ|gBPjd,kmsubfKguAyer@zupp&xrzutHie/jEafgAwspIGjr:
uDhcpnRhuBIsd'uDafqhMtfGNem_gsfbofFhhxGjr: lBKKRrifzusd-orfbksrhaECgv@xK
iAnowsAAzsxjz^rAqkplrtjvLtj*ryauvfFkbKxx	!f6pfcDrAixtfw|uojcvnGu
smjpvfAutsvtx&fuuubqAistLDd@tpadwxAufLM]m_gsfbofFhhxGjr:fEucpisyeBTfx*uz
goukxnLpfLa]e+jlicueEvwxxem+zAagnjuAsHHng!oybig]EhotAjq^tF
yFbpffJkjSuym=tl)GKR{b

HMSQPF~gexznr^jlujgeHypzLfqNyltequwbasUNMhfpfcnxrDjMB,d!7>avjj
zqsoksGspzSes'fEucpisyeLtfr%fAgbvmwguxwmr=rAhAbnLgvLyx,!8>aogyzveLttj
sqbuwwwtfGNej=xlujgeKFtMyrw7fmtbyjDsatMeu;gxjvA.r0-sGjx&uppnqlAltsztv
AEftueLvaxPfp;gFfbcsvgnxuxy/klrwcqAAzit9=!ztfbhjsAvKyxd=llbrrfJhuNMey|kp
zAaocssnfsush!kpjvbnEhhxM.d@tpa7_eLofsJws$kpvtgxrBtxxex=fybpclwgjFuli|a

HMSQPF~goHNjh!ztbvbyzyfxtyC[kEaqhevvdNGjr:ylbtgeHypwOhi%fuobvmwgB23R
yFbpffJktsJws"xmn<beLofsznv|zluyq	rhdvLjh*zqebdDrAixtFq^xudcpe6huBIse-
YFbpffJkts3sw:oFvvge}HO`3[{!gDfbuysuetLiw!gzebuysuetLid/kopoojFkfw
vDbevnultnteV^iAnogsvlesJwe$zudguevpgyywd'xAnbuysuetLiw!ozavjfLguAyD
iAovcnFgnHLjd:AFptkfDgjGztv_gFjqp rgBsNjg&tudcneJlqHLyd*yloqvesuaT8XM
yFbpffJk?stGi$gGtgbF1PN,Met=rudkgxrhowtuv=iqewtjKggHLeh^BqmqrnFn
yFbpffJktsuwi!gBqtqAwkauSeEiYU.bkyKgtMush@xptbcwwgmtvjp^jlBPUNeHJ27	
lAmnqBwkauSex&klowogwyatHid:oFmgbtxguAyew:gzectim

HMSQPF~guAysd*rxvuvwsAfwtyl^fppocnFgpytFMdS/tbuysuetLim.gFjqpeOvsDoedauD
kJborqwaaT3NQ!oEavjjrheFCsm|zDbvqwrvgsNmi!1gT}bYwjiGChe-fMexkxGyzs1ws;v
[6BI_eLvaMBjddtFftpfLppGuqdnzmofcwvza8Lle+oLbvktF_ts	NWj]lugemFpdtF
iAnokyLlfmtYG!r'mbOnuypzLft&ootbcsvgPINng@rlNgotJpfLtks/fPpewrwuusush
Oybige0ldHLim+mfaUvtJhhxnee+jlVug rgB23Rd=lrjekfDszsQtv)ylujttMnisUSWdfuo
ztfbksLlsGuym=tmmbuysuetLim.gFjqpeHypvyxw8

HMSQPF~gexMhv*hqebCN1T"Ltxx/AouwtjlgjGwqy%ozhbkyKgcHuwh!urafkwwjuHLx{!oFt
yFbpffJktsvte/jlphbyOlmOyem+juwkfzsstsuhx*BqakpeLofsCre"k\ncpfylnxHy
ozewuyJF.sCyw!yFscvjypdsJqe+tuoibfFkaEyle-fmeokxKpcBFnx,fFbumexvsvyx{!gze
oFtbPfLppGuqdnzmofcwvzaVIzr$ox.bymAjisCxd$uyqtkxwkaHzex&klngogwytsIkd@
tGndgwrvgsIwk@tuAcvnGutsQms!BAugbtFgfOywC!GUJObxLhowuwh!hqgqtjrpusCx
vGcnkxzlenteF?X1OCUeHvjGNjh!uGubvmsAaT3NQNylmkcnKvoLtii@rlxkvmruvFyws;y
uFigteKAbGxfv%ylegxjDvqxLx{!ozdnwiAuhsNmi!uBukefDgeBMpd$uynwpnLF.sIkj*iq
gzebrztsjLBnr"fEzuvjEz.sCre"k\dqfjK|bGx]g&gDbevjJgtxNeg=syjvvjwz.sush!ztf
Tmukqsssa2Hks/smukqsrZutHie/jEaQtlsujSuym=tl)PKX7/?

HMSQPF~gjEFzw:xmugfeLofsJws$kpvtgxrvgs@Hd-!x.bymAjiswtz^xEacnqrhtIyhx|fAg
oybigeEhotAjq^tF?bb2zlosUNMh-EapcyAvotFet/usscoezhtswtr$kBuwcqAGfwtfd+kI
vDplghLaaBNem|fGtwcqDFaLOgq*zFffbyGguAyem+zqspcyAvotFep^Bqm?bxGguAuyd:nq
sqndgwrjpNHyv*kEaqhe`JaE+qd$gzaukrMsutHjs;yxzbytJraHHex&klegxjDvqFysx!ur
ztfbuysuetLid=xlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA?stGEmUZBUbfDzpsCqp;yFscvjvgbswqe|yud
sudtqkAsnsMye+jmsf?e5Z3*neA&ooibfjsstsQnx&fzvogwGBtsCre"ozhbetFjfINxd:nmu
gBqnAeLvaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCsk8flPtklAubEFDd%kHfnquwkaBHex&klm~9#KaaKyAm|kp
ozavjjrs0+]x{!gzebtjNptxxee"guobksrs0=&	d:nutbuysuetLid*yltejjvBmxxej=x
gzpvjjJgsxPnw*uz?bbR~94sCxd@tlbevnNlaLNfr%gDebymwyfuSey|kDtbofQgqKIus|k
tqxbfjFzjMSev@tsfubfFkaGyBd_kFiqfxrvgsyAe-AmukplrmjEGem_gsfubnFguAy
yFbpffJk"Ltwi<oEjqp 

HMSQPF~gexNfm-kpaugAwybEtjp^iFsqpnugjFuliTsmocijEloMtxx@tpbtfxlggHL
oztvcsul.sUSWd\MJKOe5Z5(nee!wGbnkyQ|dHHyv=rlhwkiwsjGyej=xltecsFpozt!	z_
hKa33-rimtwp[@tp_yjnLlaHzkm$kleqezEloMM d!ZtjubxLhowuwh!oEawujvgxBNmd:nq
OQFGbksEaBGfk^/\bbetFAjGOty|fFppgeHopMIlv@vtjebnEhhxtBm:nlhtcDrzdtFjw7
zqyv?esuesMjz^xmmbetFAjGOty|fFppgeHpdMOwi|/\bpfeSPJ6tyi|zluctlwAaGOrf^x
8facbwwwsxMjr:gFjxgevvdNGjr:fGtgfeAuaHzkm$kleqezEloMtre+gsfogsLb

HMSQPF~goxRyd=AFmkpjvguAyej=ADaecywnpKCjw!uraGKRrzutHie/juAcvnGuaBHeA&ooi
GUJObxLhowuwh|fmsgbgwpoztii<kxprgiggaMLfr|lqsbcsvgsxNwm^Bmm?bjNhmNuym=tf
uBukefDgeBMhd@tpafqhMtfGNew$gzokplrhqIFng@zuppu	rhowtii|osobcsv
iAoxgwKppGttj!jAdwojFAtnteW&klegvfAsfwtxi<kDbnbtxguAyeq@ozarttBldMMes'
kmdj<er8-sCsd:nqaecywnpKSes'funcijrAstHxj^xlbpfeJluKCjz@rfacbgA|mxPjp
oybigeLybGMki/frptofLaaT8XMZGUJObR~`4mtBl*itakuesgqKIus|kpauvfFkbKxex&gF
jqtetntltsuej*rqajgfvlssztv!oybigeLybGMki/fnfvyjwuaNHqm)kltAuywttsQmi+
ztfbkrsnfLtfv^foporwwztxxey|ozhbI8rhowtL8!iAnrtjKzjHH.dw]lujgeuhuxAtv,fAg
oybigewCbEOfx*uz.bymAjisCsg-ApfubyzlaT3NQTvDprqxwka!`70!zGuqtnssaHHem_gsf
xqtqnzLppGt=x&oEavghzujvuqd/kBptveOpmEtyv^gFavjjrkjyzjv^tofubfFk
yunknfJpuByxd#kFxggsrjmtMxm$gxaqteHopMIlv@vtjebfFkaxFjg:xAokeeAtbzCskS?
9>afgxAnosush!iAoxgwKppGneA&ooibksusvwyxd@fBsqrtKlesNjg&tudcneJlqHLy
immngir+GHLrw!JqtkisrVqMCrm.gFjqpexvssYNQOf<ujkxryfIIwx!iAoukiwytsBtA
mqogtfD|qNLus|klcwunFltLtks/sEaecsrifsvjw:fpfuklFlesMtd:nmubuhsuoBHld*y
uBukonRleitwi[xAhtcuzpdswme/gougtnKAjvMew;itacueLFqxnev;rqt?bgsjlzLty+jf
zuov?esueswtp=xlxknqrsjDyBm|klcgbyJlbMyid*tlujgeLldAHng@rlsgrtJA-it9=
jutmbfFkawIhy_kzubuhsuoBHld@vBmkefLppGMem+ixvfgxrhaILtn^iFac_eGuaIFfr+ozh
vxbvvjJzatHid%oElbofFhhxGjr: lc_btFghxHjv@zuoibfFgbIJqm$gFjqpeHypyCqi!lAs
KUNbymwuaBGfk^ylbtgeKApKyid@tpafkxLyjuOyi%fAobEI	YP6nee+jld_btF
kHbnwfLpoztXGnO@.bcsvgiHQee!iAnoqsrjpFGfr%fEfvbhsuauyek^tqscvjvggHLeW{YU3
yAavjfLgeHwzq^tFauefFufKMee/klnqtjrlbLCqC!ozugiwsAfwoedRGZTK:F1PNs7X9x
CumnbfDzpsuut-EluqbhGtqKyxw^jljoclwz?	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
HMUVKSr[a!Bjd*sBmkefLppGMes'fEucpisyeLtks/fBsgujJCbMCtr!=lBbofBvs
untvchDlaMIew;iofuukMsavItt^xmukqsr[aTtmm+jDbpejrApsuhg^yEakpeLofsxnk*zmm
kzwkttFtfGNe_!YFbpffJktsueh=Anmg+jvnfwtxA=xpahqwrAiHMjd$uzdgtswkaPCyl!ztf
vDfugwNhuBIsd=llujgezBntHev^iAsfb+rUftL]x^xyarttyupLCxd'uDatgqAhcEy
gDdjkAssaLNfr%gDeub+rWsxMjv<gFjqpeuvovywr|frptbjDldMLtr*ilngfnsg(s8ji%
lAsbtjuvovyux;gxjBksygpNLet/kEftxfLppGtuv*tojrnjKg(s!ye+jmsfueAuaMBjd/kmm
CAsnfesuesNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGt+dikqebvtryfwykm+klujgeuvovyux!ur
gDdjkAssatHid:ulcginFguHtyl*twakpeLlsFMes'fxjhgeuFdEyxdQfOpqrjJhuBIsd@tp
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijyr[aVIsg^xztbijFlstNjh!hKafkxuBtLCtr|fAobvmwgqKIgp^sE
urartjKlsOCsk!zqyvbfFkaBGfk^f;aIgswybEtuv*tojrnjKguHtgi!gpprvjvgjGtf
CAsnfeOpuAIzx!yFbpffJkts{
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

VmutkhAhaUUYXdTfartjKpexHy{!ztfbEtEtjLMns+fAobRwwzfKPfx*uzacpirHdvyxw
[OQC_	rhewLjw|kpavjjrpnIFng@zuppueGmaLNfr%gDeubkGyaILjw^xHbvktFbas!mi
rutvgirzfOywe-fmsgcxrDixLjd:nqankgJhsRtuv=lqtuktFgbGxex&klbpcqGnaPIwp%fAg
ztfbrwAuuxxef=uwajcirtbwyei+uDnqwxrjpGNwm#AFjqpxrvwxLex&klqcuyrovGxwi%
Eqbtu]	mpKtjB@sBmg?eAuauCgp*usscrmAjayIwq@zE.bdnFkjGAew:gzectiKaatHi{!sAtv
oyqqtysuumtnr!jqugtrAujGAeA&gFaeqsKAjMOyi|fxppijNpuRttv!gDdjkAssaJOfp*zK?

GxujqzyoaLNfr%gDeubmsCfsFnk&zqogfeLofsJwi|kDwcvnGuauOwh^tlujttMnisNmi
jqwgntHtfGNes'fzbvktFhmsush!ozugtssAjHHfp!iAmncgGybMCAi!vDpitfEz.
tqwgtyzlmxMx{!glqgtAszjOyeq*yFswuyrvgsIyl^xlqgquDl"Ltxx@tpbtfxryfFunr|fm
smkqteGitMuhp^fFpbuzujfLMky-fopqrjJhuBIs{!HMUVKSrzbBx 

ZtfbBjssaMIee$nufxgeHlsyyhx*uz.btjyhswFjw|fAgbvmwgdHMy{!nmtbjnFkfKyi
xmujgwrAitHej@iumkvfLlesuhg^yEakpeKvnxtnr|zmoegxlgbGxem+fFigbiAnjMuq
kzwkttFtfGN	d>nqsgbsGgsxuqd|zmofcwvzaxRnw: licuetypNAmx!gzakttFpdtFqC
pGtvbwwDbKx 

HMUVKSrhszOjh!ztbvbxLhowuwh|fmsgbfrkpNvqiTkphgfeKDpKxej=xlujqxwgdHHhi/tqe
CuujbyzlaILjw^xHbvktFgpytyl^ftvocsryfvIwh7fFicveAz.sNmi!vDpxkxAvosIk
godguxrApsLjg=xpffbpFvxEyik^fuobceEBmMCyy%klphbrwkjttfw!lmsbksLvaMBj
lGuwtjrhtsJtw|onmg}erZutHie/jEactjrltLysx*gxavqexhdBFnx@zq
ozugthGuoxwym<oFzbcsvgbvwjw| lcwv	rIB!@NR!ymjf?esza5'SGcfBpkpywkaHOy
Eqtvgwvhzmtnj!yqubvtGgtHIsd:nqzbefFgiBHii/fosgcyACjMS	d^DBbpunGuaHz
imqcdnDpuRnee+jlujgetyptxjr*tsaqhesjdxMx	!f6igbhzhstwyi/oEukexrvg
yFbpffJktsztv!juhkvfDgjFuli/ElekhkwyaKuim$gxmAbkJvnsNms|klgqtesubEIl
oybigwQbasUsh!ztfbpfLBsxttj!juhkvfDguxwmr=rAhAbnEwmByxd$uzukpzAuh
BAmcvnDpuRtfr%foicplwbas@td/kuugtfLl.sJwi$oBjvqzKgtMush@xp_ugyLpozthe+
ozikdnLgdKyfx*BuuA?etBusxjp@EqebuysuetLi[|kFukplryfLOqx|fuobemsvtn

YuoegeAuaUUYXdT/TbquAujHHex&klogcw	AfKGet/usoqunKggHLev^rubdnjrhsvBnz@r
yFbpffJktmtfw!jqgkpjvgcRtqm#xmskcsKgjGtyl^fmocntygxHLqh7futbrtGy.sNBs
gxugtssAjOyxd/kybkp,rgtMush*tsarcyrDjMBex&klpnfeLldAHtp=mK.bqw
xqdqphwwuNuqm.ozh}

VDfugwNhuBIsd$uzdgtsKggHLei-koutqsAjaFyim@frbnneAuuHtyA=fsfpgwssawIre*tE?
UzfbkxrAixths+zuowksygbLMzv@tofbqkrhdvyxw!zAamptOsfwAjd=xuhkpfDsz
mqogtfLlemtxx=xqe?biAztxGnr@zqe?bfFkaNMjh!ozagnjuAsHHng!lAso}er1iBM
jAncksrjpGNfm+yltgxjJhmsMzf%oHjuktFz.sCsg-Apjpie'/aMBjd$rAtgf	
vDprtnwAbKSew,yFfouevptvOxw^jlujgeHyfOCty|fpbA?etBowFjh!ozgqtrsAjHHew;it
gEagnjuAsHHng!pAvtpfDzatHid"uHftprwuusuli+iKatghGyeLnee+jlfnghLypGChe-rK
vDpfwhwkaHLeg@vFvtgirybPtie:gbacpir9-sNmi!gBqnkhsAjHHes'fpjikyss
zqdjptDvhByxd:ulujgeJlgHLre:zuoibtxgntNjv*gxtbqwAnjGuqp,fBvdnnKofwttr!g
jqugtnGybMCsk!gzbnqlrtfwCzq!yGdjbfKgbvCid[gBftbtJgwBxjs:gBf}

ZtfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqhewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaKyvy*xqtbceJldHHhi[zGbnkEAuhsIkd=AD
vDfugwNhuBIsd[xuoekuDltsxzv*tsacbAGsbMCqi7fEucpisyeEyxw!zDbpunLppGtBl*it
smzbnfKAayuwd-uzhgteLobGtfr,fAgbwxrloOCxm=tluqffQbasVFXoOZawtlwkaMBj
tqdguxAAzsIkd|nugvksyggHwzw!lDpobfKzfLMnr" lngcxMyjGA	d@tpaugyLpoz
yFbpffJktsztv!ztfbrjJtbGysg^fAgbvmwgnxxny_fFpbvmwgdHHhi[zlphbrsubzCsk
iAovksMpoztfg$kEtbvtrpoyIwq@zuppbxLvsxxes+fmaxcwAluRttj!sqekcesue
xqrwkwAuhsuez@xufvAeGmaxPjvTitbpinFnaAuwh>gDfbcsvgtHzyA@xqahqwrhdvyxwT/m
lGofcrwuutFew&orubhtJguAyep*hDbtAeHypyyxw*uz?

HMUVKSrvgyywi%fmartnElssIsd&uIavqeEvwxtks/CmsfbBAAisLje|uzbdnjrjpGznh^tof
ozacbBGymwtBm:nAvvbxLhowuwh|alaJgwrjpFGjr:ylggnqrypNAmp,fuovqeLDpsMjg:oAou<
7>auvfFkbKxxd*tlujgeJlbEtBs/rpacpir9-sNmi!vAmkvnuzaHzev^vDpfwhLppGo

OzatglsyesNtd/kmm+ytJsesMye+jmsfu	rIB!@NR!gDhwgirAixtsi^jluqbwwkfyCsi!ztf
iAoeguLgpytfv$nuwgbfFkaMIef^muobvtrAiBHpd*tlugtrKgpytqm'kldAeqwz?stNr
ztfbrfKA.sNmi!tmjxgesztNGux*uzavjfLgqtJjv!CAvnfeDhtMtks/kHftbuJveNwjh!g
imwcnnwyatNym:ApfbvtOhswtqm'kldAeqwz?stYl^fFscpxAloMtse:ADfbqkrAix
kxfevwGujvtri%omajcxrjpFJjp-kpargtHsfsNtd/kopipnRlatHid@iofrveMwgKIsx!ztf
iAoeguLgpytqm'kldAeqwzaBHet-gofbqkrwfKGfr^toz}

JuhkvfDgtMush@xptbjfNlaMIef^fpfxgqGwfwtfr%fEfvbnFgbswts[kDbvkAwgdHHyi\z
zAagpxMyfsykj*iufpvewEdAusk^fAgbksxvsFuym=tgabOtJlpOyw{!jGskplrAiBM
zDbpunLppGtui/oAe?blJlbMywd'rqykdnDpuRths+iqspksygiHQeg=tofrvxrzvvBee|
hmdmwurjpICjw!gzebcwuojOuqd$uBjgueAuaMBjd{42actjrkfyCsi%futbpjultLuwC7
uDavjjrvqIIwx;tuuAbyGgnHPjd'uDxctirDjEFef^fxpuv 

OzavgwEzaHzeg=uBftcyAvomtue/zudwnfJszsCsd:nqawpnNlsLCyC!yquvksyaaUUYXdT
gxtqbfJnvxxex&kloggirApsuAs*jlhqksygpyzem+fmajwsvyfwtim'lqsgpy
jusgeyAvoLoedonqaERFrobLthe:gxzBgirhaLGfp-fssqwurvgsOsm<kDtkvnwzavuqp^j
ztfbNfrNvtLim@fQjijy	|cxwfy|klMcbLMhswCfd?oDqqtyrptsQmi/klnggyAuhLtye)k
vxbeg]	ObKPfv% lZcnjlgDHLsi-rfaRtnFjfMIs{!VqopbXLhuxneX^tzfuujwa
YFbphtJk.sush!15D?byGgexPjp=vlbbfnyputFet/kEftxfLppGths+yAsvkzEguHtqs=q
gFacnqrAixMjd*yEvguesuesxjz^rAqbfjrmbvNtd|zmofcwvzatMeA^fypxgesspGA	
oztvgfvgpytBe*zuoibkGyaLIri:nuoibyzhusCxd=lrjekfDszsvqi|yqe}beUvoMCsy*ts
zAacruDFatHfp=mlwcnzwzatHid%krjpkyAvoLttj!yFbpffJktsNtd:nqafklAAbE
kzwkttFtfGN	d}G6UKPeKhjwneA*rxaghkwjuBPjp,fxfcfeLvayIwj^oFvtgeGmaMBj
hqoghnLzaHzeh*muucneLldAHtp=mKavqeJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuww&oB?

1zegteLofsMjg=tpatwgJpdmtyl^fBpnkyAjtsIkd/kBsqfzuAjHH	d}G6UKPeJljMywe:kp
gzaqhy	tbwyee/mGngpyrjpGwjv+ozhbvmwgfEyhx/uzjebqAistLD{!tmngnDlguAuyd*z
oEaoqwwgeBzkm$AxubvtrAstHxj=xyavjfFguHthv^gFf?bfFkaGIBl^xqakueLobMtgi-oqg
kJqtgxKlesGtv^fpscofLpdtFqC!ztbpbnFguAyeg=tHftunGuaHzef/oFungetvpDMex=
tqxbojvpbnteT/kEftxnFnaBHks/smukqsrwvuFnw&kpakpewsfvNws+ooaogiAhaBHAs-Bqt
smlkplrzvKyex&kljphtJtbMCtr!xqncksKgbvwjw|onmgbfFkaMBfx!juhkvfD
ozgqtrsAjHHem|fzpvbqGzusNmv=AsibtjHypwOhx*uz?bbNFguAyee+gxpibBGymwttj
vtpvqhGwjxMee+jlnkewGmjEG	d:nqakuxMlaHzej*jqmkvDrApsNmi!uDjiksssauyhs_kE
vmscotMuumtfw!jAakuxMltsIkdO3tpugexpexFnx,b|acpir+XAIxi!uDjiksss}.

HMUVKSrlmtvtv@zqebvmwzfsuwk;sqovueOpuAtfd'kIagzfEwmxMej/uyacbwwjfGNew:Apz
iAofwhLlesvDd:nqaERFrvosNmi!vDpdnjEzaHzet/kEftxnFnaMyCx!gzebkrsnfn
JutewxKppGMeA*ztauemGsbKM	d-onsctnsutmtfr%fovtcyGytsCsd@fHbtkjLFaHz
jutekuDpoxMeh^vqofgsLgpGtyi\zlbpfeAtbzyek^tqscvjvgbsPfv*kFzbqkrjpGwjv+yf
lAsbgCstqEy,d!7>aEquQgxAuyd*yfapqyrDitNex&klugemFvmHADd*yldcrftsfsIk	
ZtjubnKgwxLDd*sBptvfFAayIwd:nqajkxLvsRttj!opfcu rgTvBtp@xEaykxzguHtpr=C
CtbvbyzlatOyl=xltcyesuesQtv)kpahttEbasUsh!smlgbfNhjEugp^fmubvmw
CAsmuysAjHHex&klprrtJAvGCyC!zAagtfKlatFqd:nqafgkwjuLtfr%fqojcsulaMBj
vDfugsLhuBIs	!f@-bVmwggBxjp*zKaqheJlqKIiy$zupp+]OobMtnw!mApfbjFvvzB	d>nmu
imobyjrhgyIwh7fmofbyzlawCkj^xqoegeAAaFupi|/\juuzwzaHzew;hvfevnNlaOyww;y
unkgeyACfsLjw=rGukqsmga* eX&klekhkwyfGwjw!hquygjFgqKCre/ElbpfeKldHHie/E
AEftu rgSxMyv*iFjpieLofsxjj*tuukqsrvgsJwm_gDzbwxwyaMIex&klppgeAuaPBtw^
jutekuDpoxtyl^fybvgwAhmsBfw!hqfpbuMimBMmi%fDvpueGufsBje%rAoibnFApsNmi
xqbnkyQguAuyd:nqtgbuJpoMyid#uAlubmsCfsBfh!gliquyrvgsIyl^xlvugwKggKIrd@
nAtvbtxgpMBjv!jutekuDpoxM	d>nAapqyrvoESeA^xqanqtCpoztks/fHftAevpgyywi+z
ztjpixlgcNNeA&ulbnutrzitLjh!BmmwgxrCfKSeh*lrftgsLggKIrd:nAtgbtxguAy
vDjocwQgvLyw	!f$-bVmwgsxFfx*uztjkurvgsNmi!yFbpffJkaHzev^vDpfwhLppGtys!tqx
imqcdnDpuByxd=lltejtDhsLBntT/FigbgJvxLCsk!yFbpffJkaOyww;ylbpbfJjiBPfp
yFbpffJk?stMs>fspqfeEBtMtyl^fmsejnNhmsMye+jmsfbgwcasWfr!glekuyAudMCtr!hq
jDbypetluPyjr!vAugpyAhmsOxi/yljpbxwAuBHld|zmofcwvzayIwd/kBsqfzuAjHHa
GDdjkAssaLNtv@mq.bwxwgdHJni| lctqBKpozths[oqt++tMniMtfr!gFugouLguHtxi:
yFbpffJktsyAi+fnfbofvl}st0=!LuocnqQaavIxx|alaJqBrtvvBee/klxgbuJlqtLjh!zA
vmzbvtrjbINzv^fmcuqqMAfsznh^ruuA{er4itNee/klujgeLybwy]s'lEadgyOlfGtAe|zxz
kzicphwkatwhi|yfafglJlfLttj!luegnnLF.sush!iAtvua

ZtfugeKAbGxfv%yfaDCY`POswtr$rGegf	rzfKPjd:uldqouDpdtNjd'ADujgwrAix
xqqtqiMjuBIsd[xAdguxlgbGxee%jluqbyzlaEIsk!rutvbtxguxwmr*immbuysuetLiw
ztbvbfJlaGyhi|ymsAbyGgfGMzv^fIjfgxHyftxee$iqtu}er4bRMex=fmsvkhMsbMyee+j
gzbnAEwguAyeg=yFtbvmsAatLjd@zFbejjvguHtyl^fpjhhjJloMtqi<kxtbqkrzutHie/jE
sGtvbgwggHOsh8

MuwgpeLofswme=yldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz.sQmm$nlqtqrAzfLtys!ruoigwrmpKtyl^
lAsgujwhcEyej;zGsg?eTHU!3Sd;xsffbfvvqMCtr!uravjjrmpEFtA*tsaigswybE
vDjpenHsfLi

flabb+rZuKCAi!zAawpiwytMush!ztfbemsuhBHld*trptofLppGtwi]AusgojFAtsIk
flabbxuopEuwp,fpjuenHsjGyxd@ylnqtjrhowtrs/klugemFvmHADd*yljpvjyybMyid*tFp
flabbyzlaILtg^yEaqheJltxuwg&fmofbxuopEuwp,fopoozFpdtNns+fuobqwvlssNtd_kqu
flabbkMAvKyew$nAmctqQgoxyiw7fzpvbyGgcNCqh!lAsbvmwgqtMy	!fObrvzJl
flabbiwAfKCtv@zuoibnFmpKGfx*uzacveLofsBnk&kEubckxvswugp^fDfuqqMAjHH	d^Bqo
flabbyzvvzBex&klekuxwtjGuym=tlbpfevptIFfC!zqdjptDvhByxd>oxmbnfyb

flabb+rKfOyqs[fopqrjJhuBPjd_koicpnKttsNtd'uEugtesnsxyri+zlppbuJvuHwtp|
flabbkGyawIhy_kzubuyJBdMOwi!gzebqyzlssCsx^xoicplwgnxwme+oEnubswjfLMfv,
flabbkGyaPCii|vDfcfevptLyrm+gFjqpesuesOxi!hqgqtjrvgyChm@rltvcsvhswMee/k
flabbxwA?

flabb+rHdvyux!ztbv?eAuattyv@tEjvktFgqxLns% legbksjuHtxx@tpbtfxrDjEFel@Bq
flabbyGgcxtii<kxprgim

flabb+rJbINzv^fuohqwEhuBIsd*tlbbyfQguAuyd)kqqubfDsaHJym=tEaqrjFgbGx
flabbuJvwBxjw!lAsbvtLhmswtr<kDukdnDpuRiedjI4.buhsuoBHld=llnkewGmjEG	
flabbuJveNwnr"fyjettxpmFtkv=sltecsFlesxtg;sqovu	rluvo

flabb+r4pKEeg-uEfnAeOpuAtyl^fsfpgwsApKMes'fuohqwEhuBIsd@tpavjjrivBFii/y
flabbtxgoxNBs/qEacpirkbMuge|kEavqewutNLjd:nmubetFAjGOnr"fmdegxKpcBFnx,fut
flabbfrwsBGfv,foppejJuayLtq!ztfbdjypoGCsk8

flabb+rWjzADf@iwaqpeKAbGxfv%ylvpfjJgexPjp=vyfpvexvssNmi!hDpcfeEhsDyy{!gze
flabbfNvjwtqm#xmsA+xHldBzng!yFbpffJktitBs/qlxkvmrAixtAi+jAsu?eAuaHLii/fFp
flabbysrfsuiz@tFbigeGmaMBfx!CtjejeAzauynr"fEucpisyeBTjh!lAsbvmwgsxMyd=l
flabbyzlaPIwp%a

flabb+rJpGwjr:xmugbjxmpKNxd=tlncpfypoztui/smogphwgjGtyl^fpjikyssaPIwp% 
flabbwsAixLex&gzargwxldMCsk!ztfbntFnfOCyC!uracbusyuBwzp@xlngfnMt?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+d?jpjvktFhmswtq_kzuubtFgU2ZKdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

JGskplrAixtgv*krafkxuBtLCtr!vqskqirAitNej=rxpygirIB!@NRNylqtgxwuutNns+ 
HMSQPF~gfQJqe*tqebvmsAa!3KJ!CmtbptLgexPjp=vqebksrjpEFff=xmukqsrDjMBes/
AzegteLofsuzw[oofubtxgB23R	!f6JHHeAzatths_vmoAbuJveNwy{!tAubceKAbGxfv% 
oEaqyswkauSex>uldqtuGybMCtr| lbpfeAzatFBe,yldjcsypozoed}G4PPCXrhmLI
untgtAwkaMBfx!GZTK:F1PNs7X9x lbbdn	sfOyqd*smhgbkAsfsNwe+yrftbkGyntNex&gF
gxmqyxrBoECpi!yKtvgrKguHtjB$nmoigeAtbzyx{!oEaeqrHhuBvqi!CuujbY1MGsuxd>kxm
gEaykyzgEXW)w!gDdjkywjuNLjd@tpaKDR\za69IG?\UPEC 

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}
