+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
HOOTON * Several questions to be considered in discussing text conversion
*
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

HOOTON introduced the final topic, text conversion, by noting that it is
becoming an increasingly important part of the imaging business.  Many
people now realize that it enhances their system to be able to have more
and more character data as part of their imaging system.  Re the issue of
OCR versus rekeying, HOOTON posed several questions:  How does one get
text into computer-readable form?  Does one use automated processes?
Does one attempt to eliminate the use of operators where possible?
Standards for accuracy, he said, are extremely important:  it makes a
major difference in cost and time whether one sets as a standard 98.5
percent acceptance or 99.5 percent.  He mentioned outsourcing as a
possibility for converting text.  Finally, what one does with the image
to prepare it for the recognition process is also important, he said,
because such preparation changes how recognition is viewed, as well as
facilitates recognition itself.

                                 ******

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
LESK * Roles of participants in CORE * Data flow * The scanning process *
The image interface * Results of experiments involving the use of
electronic resources and traditional paper copies * Testing the issue of
serendipity * Conclusions *
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Michael LESK, executive director, Computer Science Research, Bell
Communications Research, Inc. (Bellcore), discussed the Chemical Online
Retrieval Experiment (CORE), a cooperative project involving Cornell
University, OCLC, Bellcore, and the American Chemical Society (ACS).

LESK spoke on 1) how the scanning was performed, including the unusual
feature of page segmentation, and 2) the use made of the text and the
image in experiments.

Working with the chemistry journals (because ACS has been saving its
typesetting tapes since the mid-1970s and thus has a significant back-run
of the most important chemistry journals in the United States), CORE is
attempting to create an automated chemical library.  Approximately a
quarter of the pages by square inch are made up of images of
quasi-pictorial material; dealing with the graphic components of the
pages is extremely important.  LESK described the roles of participants
in CORE:  1) ACS provides copyright permission, journals on paper,
journals on microfilm, and some of the definitions of the files; 2) at
Bellcore, LESK chiefly performs the data preparation, while Dennis Egan
performs experiments on the users of chemical abstracts, and supplies the
indexing and numerous magnetic tapes;  3) Cornell provides the site of the
experiment; 4) OCLC develops retrieval software and other user interfaces.
Various manufacturers and publishers have furnished other help.

Concerning data flow, Bellcore receives microfilm and paper from ACS; the
microfilm is scanned by outside vendors, while the paper is scanned
inhouse on an Improvision scanner, twenty pages per minute at 300 dpi,
which provides sufficient quality for all practical uses.  LESK would
prefer to have more gray level, because one of the ACS journals prints on
some colored pages, which creates a problem.

Bellcore performs all this scanning, creates a page-image file, and also
selects from the pages the graphics, to mix with the text file (which is
discussed later in the Workshop).  The user is always searching the ASCII
file, but she or he may see a display based on the ASCII or a display
based on the images.

LESK illustrated how the program performs page analysis, and the image
interface.  (The user types several words, is presented with a list--
usually of the titles of articles contained in an issue--that derives
from the ASCII, clicks on an icon and receives an image that mirrors an
ACS page.)  LESK also illustrated an alternative interface, based on text
on the ASCII, the so-called SuperBook interface from Bellcore.

LESK next presented the results of an experiment conducted by Dennis Egan
and involving thirty-six students at Cornell, one third of them
undergraduate chemistry majors, one third senior undergraduate chemistry
majors, and one third graduate chemistry students.  A third of them
received the paper journals, the traditional paper copies and chemical
abstracts on paper.  A third received image displays of the pictures of
the pages, and a third received the text display with pop-up graphics.

The students were given several questions made up by some chemistry
professors.  The questions fell into five classes, ranging from very easy
to very difficult, and included questions designed to simulate browsing
as well as a traditional information retrieval-type task.

LESK furnished the following results.  In the straightforward question
search--the question being, what is the phosphorus oxygen bond distance
and hydroxy phosphate?--the students were told that they could take
fifteen minutes and, then, if they wished, give up.  The students with
paper took more than fifteen minutes on average, and yet most of them
gave up.  The students with either electronic format, text or image,
received good scores in reasonable time, hardly ever had to give up, and
usually found the right answer.

In the browsing study, the students were given a list of eight topics,
told to imagine that an issue of the Journal of the American Chemical
Society had just appeared on their desks, and were also told to flip
through it and to find topics mentioned in the issue.  The average scores
were about the same.  (The students were told to answer yes or no about
whether or not particular topics appeared.)  The errors, however, were
quite different.  The students with paper rarely said that something
appeared when it had not.  But they often failed to find something
actually mentioned in the issue.  The computer people found numerous
things, but they also frequently said that a topic was mentioned when it
was not.  (The reason, of course, was that they were performing word
searches.  They were finding that words were mentioned and they were
concluding that they had accomplished their task.)

This question also contained a trick to test the issue of serendipity.
The students were given another list of eight topics and instructed,
without taking a second look at the journal, to recall how many of this
new list of eight topics were in this particular issue.  This was an
attempt to see if they performed better at remembering what they were not
looking for.  They all performed about the same, paper or electronics,
about 62 percent accurate.  In short, LESK said, people were not very
good when it came to serKysh*vuuA?etBusNmi,fIftgeFvaPIww^fmubkyrDjMB
iAnrwywytsNme+fFigAeOlsxtBm:nlqcrjJb

[XFUMeyhwxtfd[gDfpvmwAjvuqd*rxvuvwsAjHHes'fFigbqwhsGCsk!iGsxgeGmaLNzh^tFt
Ctpbwxwka`Oui/HApm}[

ZtfbuyMkfGNxd;yuoibyzlaxFjg:xAokeeKFtMyrw!yFbtvjvgpyzeA=xEfbvmsuaMBjd=tqt
AEjpieHyjGN	d#AFadAeLofsNmm/jlphbyzlaMBwi^fEfuunGutsCsd:nqaugwAltsBfh
imvijyrBqsNtd[xuov}erHtsIsi!suhjvewEqxwy{!kxfevwGujvMet/uHjfgesgnNwm
hquvgwrtftHxd=llgkpiAuhsQme:fAogbBsuuLtys!xqbf>eJlbwCsk!yBfgfxlgpGwjd:nq
unkgeyrvgsNmi!yqbtemrobLtgi^tlgqwsvaatLjd@hAvvbyzlaLuri8

GxnquyrupGyes'fFigbxLBexHyw!iAvnfeHlsyIwq!ztfbjfJkaMuxoT/FigbfFhmHAty|
zDbpukGyntNns+ala-KyrDpNFid/kCvktjrAixtjB[kDukujrvgsIwk@tudbemwtjLNxd:u
iAnrnjLl?	teF;zlbpbnFAfKyxx*tsatgxMsusQfw!ztbvbyzlaLNzh^tFtbwxAuhsNmi!zqyv
yqbtemrwfKztv_kpavgwJpcES	d>numgbyzvtxtzw*tsavjjrpntAjd|EEugoevpesvjw:a
ZtbvbyzlaMyCx!yqbtemrzzLNjq!oEaftnNlosvDd:kJubqkxlsLtyl^fqyrnfFhuBIs	
KHftAyzpoztnw!lAdwujvgpGtyl^fFfzv.rApsMji!ztfbrnuAvKyx{!uzfbozKAaILjw|
uzacpeAjpGoedhgzzbuyMkfGNxd'uGofbyzlaKCll:fmsvkhDlavIsx@ozjpieLofsusw>kD
zAavjjrxvxMym=tfadwyrAixSeh*jloqveusjvEes+fFigbnuvosNtd#xuoibzHguAyev*mtu
luhwtjrhowtxi^fuu}be`ofRtim%fzpvbpFvxsNme:fFigAezheszty+jlujgeJphANet-gof?
gzebvmMzazIyd*zlxtqsyb

ZtfbumGyususw>kDafgrGutMLfx^jlcAbyzptsyCt^xungpyrDbLtyl@zljpbyzlaxPjr:
uzfbftwzaGIyd)tAxbymsAaMIev^gp.bqswgoxyiw!ztfbgqwjuKIsm$fEzuvjEz<sNmi
kxfevwGujvtxC|zqnubmGsesHtd@jHbpvfylatNex&klnqojFAaBzes+kllpqBKgxAuyd:u
xqbf?etBusHjm:nqsbftrAixSem_vAtgbfrwfGuqx,a

RQTMbhGudEOii%fnzbetEtfGNnr"fFicv	rvosIsi!nmof?eLofsCre"kltAuywtaPuxd^gEz
zAawujmga8Hex&klpvjjJgitHi{!ztfbvjPAawCxt-gKauAxLlnmtBl*itatguJltxHyi%
zIfpvDrtbGaDi@xEaqheOvsDtnr!vDpitfEtjGAee+jlqqnnKojGA	d>gEapqyrDjGHnr" 
hqdcwxwguAyex^DFaycxrupMtgi*tsatgfvaaCOxx!yqbtemwk?stYl^fyvejewhtByw
yKtvgrrptsBnk&rKaeqrHluBNnz^fmtbyjDsatMev^smsmcgDFaxzki$zuwgbkGyaMBj
gouwcqrjixGnw:yg

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
K4XC1e?gNHMyd$nmmngsypoztfw[koubqkrDpKEnr"fAobCRr[aTMxy_vFjqpxrnvBxnr"
GY"ubfHwsHuhl!=lUguyAuhsxnj'kDfpveLFqxMes'fEftxnulauOwi@AEa)bF5_t
xqrwkwwtfGNej=xl0~}@(gqxLhi+zlbeezJhdRt+dmkCvktjEloMMej=xlugzy	jpwCsk!=
GpekvnGubEtke$zAsubnFmmNysg*tsaCO)KgbIJws@itavqeuveBHldQf4fuwqLzaHzeEh-E
kJqgtnwudxtBm:nlsgmjQpozt+djztftbuJvcEyrw!ozafgfDpoztBm:nltgtAAjfsvzv^gGt
=lRwcqAAzswtr:xAmbvmwgnHMyd:oyf+etFzvFCsk!gEqgeyrvgswtr:xmdvksygpNN
iAoxgwKppGt+dguzh+vjJtaHOyp=uwawphwyutCsdQ
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

ZAaTkhCFaX`2Et lbuutupbMyeg=uDekpfLvsmtFq^xudcpe5lnHLD{!RuctcwQgpy
IAoitjKz.sNmi!iAouvfFAaOuwm^zKaqheuvoOyww*uzarttBldMMex@quoibuDhdx
yunwnysufHOxp,fDfrtjKloMyid[kDicrxrAixtrs|zldjcqDlozCsk!gEqgeyrvgsQtv)ozh
uzaCO rgUAOx{!ztfbemssmxHli!CmtbptLguHtkm+jlbbutDBuBIsd'uDavgCL
iAoxgwKppGtgy:fmavqtDglBNes'fEpnwyAvoLtys!gBqnAeLva5W)w!Bmskgi
iAmnghLppGMex&gFapgjvguHtgi!iAoxgwLlenteIm3MZbnnEpuxxel^xlsgofJrtsNtd:nq
vDpegxKgpyths+BqsvksyguxRyd:ulncemAuf Lje%gnmgbkGynmtfr%fFigbAsyjxNDd=l
RO"ubywEuswtp-koukqsKaayIwd^DmnrnjlgcHOsh!BAmwojKaaFChv=lumo?esue
nmofywAAuxHeq@tGtetnHAtn

ZIpbcxKBnINns+ylicxjrnvBxjh!GY"ubfHwsHuhl7fQSYC4rzbBx,d!7>aCbiwzjKyer=z
zAargwxvsFtyl^foppxjJzjHHem+nAvug rgCxwfy|klphbyzlaOuwm^zKaqhexvsFuyw!gze
zKqgueGmaMyCx| luqbhswjMuqm.klujgewxvBJri+zlbpfezhwxtyl^fFbngsLzatHi
ywjnnxrApsIui/gFfbvmwtatNeP{fIpwnirifsyCx/kyfnAewEqxHxm<kgabHzJAixL	d:nq
tmuwtfDgjGwqm+gFjqpeLvaNJlv@jqavqeFlxxLee+jlcgvywyaxKzm[sqovbjsjisSje/
smegbnLgsxuxs+gnmgbkGyaT7ex=frpewxrvosQme:fuubfnvgcxMyd@tpaugjCgfQNjv+gx
iAoxgwKppGtxi/Budgu rgVLCsk!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbnutrhmEIBi%fMNbvtrobOy
yqwgtfDguRJjw!uraqrjJhuBIsw!zmlgbuDhdxtfx!ztfbufElaMCri8fl3_bF5gxtMer=zlb
zqdjptDvhRtuv=pqdv?etBususd^lrptveLvaBGuv=BqacehwztsNtd-onsctD
iAmnghLppGM d!Nqoeg	rDixNmi/fFfzveOhtswtr<kDugfeMzjGAeS{XlptbwwrfRCsk
smuvgwwkaECyx-kluqbF5bas%me:fybvvjJlesQjv^fopuvesuesuhg;xmdAbtxgsxMzp:yg

GYaeqsKpexLjh!jughgwwuusNDt^ylphbxwywBwjd#ADfcwxrhowtxi-kougfeLosxyex=
vqshqwEgtxPjv@rltocqDguxMyw!ozaqtiwyaMIee$wGjtgesgtxHxi!uravjjrmjxFi	
ZtfbufEwmxths-rqdvktFzaPCyl!CtjejeLofRtBs/qqebksusvwyid&gzeytnLAfG
iAstgxHvowysg^ luArjOyjMNjr!smowuhJpqMMej/uyavjjr80(]x{!gze
kuhjvjwuuAahi+zGsAbuJpoMyid#xAbfunvltsIsd_oosqhnDt?stTr!tAogbtxguAyxi
ymnrnjKgxtMeS{XlqgtkGynxx.d:nqzbyjJlatFqd/kwfAgimgaT7el@jltgxjJhmsMui$omm
xqrwkwwtfGNxd'uDavjjrAiKyjd|kDwkejrivKyfy|fuubjfvgfGAfk^jgabHtJgjGMye+iq.
gzzbgwJvsLtnr!ztfbqwAnjGuqd:kJubyjJlaMIef^fDfvcnFlente1=xwjpiexypFtgs;tp
BAmwojKgpKtfr,ztjpieLobMths;rpapqyrifsMmi^z\ggfesstHths+yFjvwywkattke$zAs
kxjokssAjGAeg=sBbpkjKguAuyd>uGmfbmsCfsJjv'uDngfe7JSn

GYatgvMpsxMe!Da&6brjJjfGNee$iGsceDlgxAChl7fFiqwlzgjMtxs;tptbjnyo.sIkx^t
sqbpueGufsIwd:CAagtwGytsJjv!vmhg}er1ixtnr*zubnbgsAdAttj!zqtvbxstqEyx
iAovcnFlesMjz^xmmbjfFkxKCyx^tlncvjJpbEMej=xlxjkhzgB6tim%fzpvbwwxvBLj
zqyv+hGkjGA d!ZtfbtjKBmMM	d X9B1bwwwpKNjh7fIftgeAuatFqd$gEfubkspsES
iAnrcwsimxied'uDavjjrtpLNet@xF.bcqDguALji!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbejnwCfwt@!8#%
vqsegsLgbvwzv@iK?bbF5gxtMew@zuthkjvgxBNmd:nqayqwCgcNNew;xBskujvgbMtyl^fopuv 

GEaCOetlhtHeg=tHftvnFnaPBtp^fopnnjuAjHHx{!oFatgyspoxxex&klsgszAyfFysx!lAs
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuFatHid@jpffbwwxvBLjq^tFtbhtJguxRy[$upjpi rgB6tsi^jqe
zAadglAuaIywj=xyjpieOvsDtrs/klujcsrAiKyjd,kmsubfyvauyks/klMEbwwxvBLjq^tFt
lAsbUL5SatJup*imukqsKgitxef^kzaguysimBMmi%alaUksulaT7)w!mAbnbBszaLCrt-E
zAatgysposusC!uravjjrpoMyqp^iFvcneuvoMysx!xqqtgxwuuxxef,fFigbkGyntNym+m
uravjjrkpvOri+zl)yjnuoaPIzp%fnfbntKAaBzes+klqgtkGynxxee!yFscklzAaT!HMd
iAoxgwKppG 	d?Slvugir+TZ7Q[-owf*bhGkfLoedonqtgbhGkfLtwi|kycngirZH66ex@mE
hGubyjJlaNMjh!CuujqzLguAyef^tqgkveGmawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpxmgaT7ej=Aze
ztbvbrsuzsMjv<oofbdzJlbNMeA^xqapqyrFfMtXKhR\qtqkAjjxHy	

GpekvnGubEtke$zAsubnFmmNysg*tsavjjrhqILte$nlBObyGvlsQnx&fDfurjuAaMI
iAekplrpovFzh^jaab3[rAixtnr@humkvDrvgsusC!qzpypeEpdKIhs_vGugt]thtxx
AEft+wwAsByAe-fEphvBsyfsNtd:gwfbciNhoMuli!uraUIR4gdHxnr"?lbpfe"/aMBj
sGmvkuDlaBHhs+yutvgsupfLtnr!lAsocyrvgsNmi!uxegtevvdNGjr:yfayjnuo
iAohkwElesURd*tljvuevltBLjd+uFavqesAuxGux!zAahqwulaMBjd%orggtjFAayIwq@zE
zAaeqsxvsFtys!gltkplDlawIhy_kzu+vDHlawykm+oFjqpe}KUW ee+jlujwxrjsxuyi!ztf
tqffbkGyattxi[gDbvgeV1Esztv!kmdjbiGjvFysx8

ZtfbhnNlaMyCx!iAmnghLppGMex&gFaCOezhtswtr<kDugfeGyaBMem+fFigbuJvdxMxd=l
iAoxgwLpoztnr$rGegbfrjpEFjg:oAobqkrljzByi^tFi+ejFAvKSef/umeukiwz.su
iAmnghLppGttj!vmnrjqwAtmtyA=fFzrgxuyjINeh=iGngpyrjpEFjg:oAou?esuesu
iAmnghLppGttj!7%~bdtGrtn

K4XC1eFlyMtwi<oqxgfeLofsLjw;rFtbqkrHN,Mei\vqskgsulaPCyl!xqlgAnFn.sHtx*ts
gsbkpeLobMtgi$gGtgbyzlauOqo!uraCO)KgntNjv*gxtbcwwgiBMys/oobn?eLofsKze-oFz
uravjjrAfQNes'zqobftwzaGIyd-kzebkyKlmytys!UOS}be#ojEyer=t\FpiqAzi
yBfcmjJzatLjd-kEtbnnClmRtys!mGfuueGyaxFff=xmugbtJgdHLwi$zluArtKgjGtyl^
uDjiksssaMyCx7fFigAesyfsuqw=fxfuuesimxtys!ozggteOobMtBi!CAvnf.rAixSee-yA
gDfbpjsymRtnr$gBbdnjrvgswtr<kDukplrobGxBv*zFfpbywEunteE+uFigt
jutcfAsuutAjd=llxqtpAuhsQnx&fAwgtxwhtsEjC^xEakueLobMtyl^ElbtgeEBdAtqi|y
rulgnDrApsNjp^vtppgeOpuAtvy^yFjqpxlgfLJjg*gxmAbtFguAyeg=juoi?eOpuAtyl^
xqtwnyrAitNex&kKafgAwspItyl^oDaqysryvEyxd@ylujgDrlovIzr:kDapgB
yuuwcyAvoLo

MAwgtsEloMths+zDbevnFnaILtg^jGsguesuesNnq^frscojKgqHMjh!glncltJgdAuqp^tsf
zAargwxvsFCsk!ztfbetFCfKMns+alaOcsQgtxLAm$klcwtjsBtsuwi!tAubchuBtMIri%fFp
xqucksAuhsNmi!oybig	rlwxHem'fFigAeHlsyIwq!UOS}be`ovLneu;kEukqsKgpytnq@mq
lAsocyrhowtxx=xmhgbrwkjttBi/kltqojOobMtss<kxavqeEhoRttj!ztfo}erLS$U4d@rEp
xqnctpwkaHNmi/fBsqdqwttsCsd%kmmkplrDjMBew^xHjegetBsxuzw7frptbjPhnIFj{
ztfkteAubuCqm:EluqbuwygHLrd:kJubetFCfKMns+frsqoeLofsEnr%fAgbonuypyCqq
ztbvbQUgvLyxd'uDartjKlsOuym=tlqwtuGzfLo

HGubszssjMSeg=tFsqn	rposYW1?5/tbgCHlsBysg^ lxcueLofsGtw:fFjog]uvoLOrm+m
gEqgeyrvgswtr:xmdvksygpNNeg=tHftunGu?stFQ!nmtbdjwuatNyi_vFjpieLvaIywj=xy
gl2`+uwydxHyd]AmmkvDryfOCjA7fxpqmnFnatNei*ztftbjNlsRtyi+ztafqhMtfGNes/
kHftAeLloMBet@mqavqeEhlxthi/zmjpbyzhusNmi!yqsxkhwgcNLje;ylbtgeEhjGNfm+ozh
#&?~7eHlsvysx!godwtfuF?stGy:fqwgpeAmaMBjC!gDfbetEwmRCsk!Cuujbyzl
xqrwkwwtfGNej=xlbeezJhdRnej*tpjpiewysHLxd[xAewejKgbsxjw*xqavqeuvsKyhx
ztfobfFk.sCsd:ADo?byGgdEyfr!ABavjjrDiHFjd$uxmgeyAvomtBl*itafgkwhuLtyl^
vGsrqxwguHtxs_klfzvjFA?stJz^tlbbftMimxtjr:xKatgvMpsxMee
itbtchLls vD[$nmsceywyavIrt@xutqpeLvaMBjd=xuhkpfDguHtri^zlujgesjdNLfg,
xqrwkwwtfGN d!ROakueFvusuhg;yFpogirApsJzf-oEibkrHlsyyhx!zqyvu	rDiBwm
smlguesAuxGux*tsavqevlbEtBm:nlujgeAueNMyv,fEucpisyesusd^sAukqsssmR
lDbwimLgjLMzi!lAsbCRmgaTMeA@ylngpyAvoxxem+fFigbuJlwBIzw!jmz&uevptvOxw*uz.
mAjpiexypFt@!8#%avqe+$?=[et^xofpvesjdNLfg,fGtwcqDFawIzf-kEaeqxLzatHi
sqbpuesguACwh!qqzkplrvssuss:nqsbetEwmxNjd/Az_vjwGBhAttj!ztfbvjPA?

GxujqzyoaT7el@ylmgcwFlesGzg&frsqoeAAtsyCt^xufpejKgxBNmd<gDjqwxrjpEFjg:oAou
gzebxfJppNMew^xHjegetBsxuzw7fQSYC4rjpGwqy%kpargxKpnBMym$gxmAbyzhusHt
hDfcmyzypNAmd&gEadgjFgbvBni<kp?bbe1udKyri+zmmbkrHypOyri+zEajcAwgpvwzv/kp
ozauqrwgpytyl^f1DTbywjiGIqs"Efauqrwgpytyl^fBsqejKzfLnee+jltqojrvgsNmi
yFbpffJktsuhg^vFbpejKaaPBng& lujqzyoaMBjC!smzbnjskaMIew=sqxjcyrspPywd$uEuu?
jAapqyrvgyywd_AoibgsuvvKuli_kzubvtrtbGSet^uBmgbBzvatLjd@tJjqwxDFatQfm:ozh
ztfbffQguAuyd:nqagpyAyfswtr:kzuubtxgMVtfv^fmwckqsimxttrTruog}

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
6UECTe?gTxPjv@rlbpuBwytsNtd>nKaqpjrhuMyrt:yluqbuwygHLrd'Axm+vjPA
iAoxgwKppGt+dkkDarclwgdHMyd=llqgtkGynBHldjI4a)bYQwjvuqd[xAcngrK
kzdqwsLlsxxeh;xuoibjvpuBHldQfQekvnFnaIItv!iAqAbTUYaOM d/kwfAksyg(
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

PGekvmr7JWUW{!iAptfnFhuHL	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqr1fQNeH*muukBnFna9Ltk/gy
[ZBVFU{aa7uym=tmmbClJpdNFyy/gxaNkgJhsRt=R?R>.bqkxlsxxew^BqscnesutPyww!zA
ztfbszwzuBIsd=llxjAeGufsuyx^sBuubyGgqxLks/slgwnq	AfQNeg=tHftunGu;st6=
ZqyvbnFgbGtnq@mqaecsrifsLje%fnzbcezBntHef;zloqvetFatths_vGugt	rzpsIk
iAvtujrpusCxd+uFaugfJjitvqi!gzebvmwyfsCxd+uFaowhzgpGyeg@tleqbBAAisCy	!f@-
YAngbrsAfKCfp!yunrnDryfJOnv^ylxqti	sfOyqd@iofuu rgGHLem+yFbpejlguAyep^mmm
vDphgxKppGtnr|oEuubtFggNFq[:kJubchultLtys!oFtbofLlsBuq,!CuujbysEpGIrm$fAs
mqpitfHojvtre:kDjcn	rDiBwmd^tFbknxruvFyws;ylocojKaaHHjd<oDuwcqDFaKyvy*xqt
CAsf+qwCfEtfg$kEt}be&/aYOqp!zqyvbuwynBNxd/gBjfbgJvxLCsk!gzebujsydACsk7
yAngvmAuhsNme:fobpptLgcxtfg&oqwgfeAuatHem_gsfbynLoaMIie,-EavghzupEIlC8
0>aVgCLgtMIwi%fmtbCXUPJsush!jqmkxjJlesCsd?YOJKbnKgtMush@xpjBgirhowtmm"nxz
vAsvcgDl?st0=!VqprnjrqvLNeA@tFahwqD|uxRyd|kmsejnFn.syAi+fFiqujrDiHtis!tAu
qzpybmGDaMIeh=fuu}be6HMmtks/fFigbrGzusJfv: ljubuwygHLrm+mlPETesAatH
gouwcqrjpLNet^xlbxgwsnf MnD^fBbigeGmatJuv=DuncvjDFa<+ d!TMMbuhsutsNmi
vmhgbyGgdKyfx^fFigbjDldMLtr*iljoclwgbGxet@yEfubnLguALty"nlujge7JSsxjz*iq?

6UECTeFlyMtwi&kmsugirzfOywe-fFzrkhssaILtf-kytbgsuvvGNjv^jlewtnFnaxxnx*ts?
VDbkunFnaMBjd$kxftkyQgpytmi/fEuwfjFAaPIwo^xE.b2NVHSsIgw^xHffbyzhusyim:ozh
xqrwkwwzatJuv=DuncvjDFayCAi!zAavgsrtjGOyi|fBftbusnfmtfw|AyjpieLobMtyl^xq
gDfbptrsbKAjd:gnmgueLvatOim:alaEqsxBtBIsd@sAoibyzlaMBwi^foictfuAfKMeM7f!.
gzebn	rjpGMym:AFfubuwyitJxd:nqaoqxLgdHGrs+fBsqdqwtaxHhs;tFftgimga'yws^y
gzebbT\zatFxs!gDfbbkJlrNysx-EldqpkMzfwoed	uGcnge5_tswwi@zqacbusyuBwzp@x
vDpdnjEaaxPjr!uzaenjsuaIuli|alaVjjQgbKyew=fIjfgeAuaFIxx!lAovueLobMtyl^E
zAvej	rhowtyl^fEzuvjEgtBGup,fobpptLguxFqd>nqsgbtFlaEyyx^xlfpfxrhowtyl^
uFigtetlhBHx	!fOporqwEaIuli!lAsocyKgpvwfw*uzbnnDrmbBFex=fopnwrFhux
vDprgwDF.sQmm$nlfpvfAstsLjw$gzokplrhtsNms;mtaqpjrDfKyeA=xwjpieOpuAtf
yuoinjrjpEOrr7fqovgwAuhsNmi!G5DKK	rhowtii$uxvopfLpoztks/fnfvvjJ
yqbtemAuhnte1*ztarttHvsMCtr@rxzbuusjfwtyi\zfaQEWrjbGtme<klekhkAjvEND
jutegwFpoztBl@zljubfrzqtwjd@tpayjfLgbKyeq^xqmAbxHhdxMef^zIfgpeDluMyww7fmt
uBqqujvguHtxt@iqtbdjLDfxHeA=xpt?bfFkaMBjv^lAsgbBAsmsGjv"klugzyrvssvwi@q
ABayqwvzaPBjv^fuubumGBmwtss:a

6UECTeKhjwtyl@zljvbhsuaHzyi+fFbmgeDvozywd:ulffkyrhaIItvTiAqAbTUYaMBfr!zA
qqzbkyrmsHGew$xmuej rgOT6el@ylbnutrlyIywm_kzugfeOpuAtue/zubnbjvpuBHld=l
zqyv?eOofKygC!vDplghLgxHLpi/ylhqbnFApsush!ixfcpeMwaMBjd'uDncv	ryfFIAm+m
yFscAeuobKuhx^xEadwyrupMtwy+tuoibfrzqxFq[$nqdm}erUB5ths/xqdvueLFqHMem+
ztfbvnLsfsush!gGujqwK_aGuri| lxjkhzgqKIAm%kEacbkGvuAIqh!lAsbujsydACsk!gze
hDpyunFn?stJz^tlfzvwwtfESet=uD_swfDpuRtTGmf<f}i lg7[aui/iqovbfujvKuhCS
imobuyAsmsvjd|kmsejjvaauyhe;yqapwrwypNMeA=xptbcwwgdHLwi$zfayjnDlaMBj
oyqqtysuusQtv%ylbtgeHypuugp,fDfrgfLlesIkx^tlfpqzyoaMBfx!ztfAbfJlaECpi-E
zAadgexvvGxeg=xDfeveKvnxQmi/kgabNntybKCfr| liqyjNlsmthe+tAubvtDlstNjd:nut
yuuwcyAvomtyl=AsibgsvgvLyww!yqfobrGyfsQnp-ozhbvtrBtxtyl*ylugzyrmpK
yqbtemAuhmtuv=BuegfeLobMtSEgfuofkhsAfLtyl@zljvbnKgvGyim:kp?bb51KB~
iAoenzvlesNme:fDfmgDAuhsIkd:kJubofQgcxtyl^fnfuveJvvMyex=fFbmg	rposMum:k
urapwrwypNMet/unmgoxrDjMBeu;gxjvAeuvoMLtp!gzebetKA?

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
JUTEWX~PP7t+dhupjhAnFnatHem_gsfbdjxvsxtui/lAsoksygPV`e_!TMM&ueuvtMMet^x
vmhgb+ST"Lths|zEargwrwbzyee+jlfzrjJpfGwjd>oFibHjvlstFeT/oEppbNFkvLNwm^yl(
KxfogsLzavIrt/oEjpie6HUW0)w!iAtvueHlssJfk^f;aQEWrhowtxx/AouwtjvgntLpy[f;
JutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsMyv;iFvtgeGmattis$AyfpvesuesCyw!xqqtgxwuutNns+
CtfpbuMAaHHex&kltetjwuaHLet/ozugfe?
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

N1PVQSrwsxzfg^jlujgeDlozNmC!jutewxKppGtyl@zlgqnqGDfwtBm:nltgxjJhm
iAnogsLzatvty:fypfkkQpoztfr!oybigetlgHLjd=tqatgfuofLtyl^fBpkpyrvg
vqshqwEpoztTGmalaHqwrlytGup^ ljpbwwnbKxex=fmobcuHsjvuym=tldqpyspoBHld@
yuhpkkAjbGNee_uGovbtxgsxxzr%gzubffLh.sMzg&fmtbhtJt_MSui!jmuc?eFBnxLty|
iAnrcsAltsNth@ElbtgeOvsDCsk!uzaxcwAvvLtpm+jEaqhexvsFtwi+kIbn?eHyjHLex=
mAjpieLosHOll!glsgetyujMCtr!vDpegxKaauSey|ozhbfwGwpNNeg=rAsu}er1iNM	
gorwkwAuhsuhg^yEavqexvsFtii|osobqwrBtBHld^rqdvttFpdsGje+ylbtgeOvsMB
iAoukiwyjGA d!N1PVQSrhmLIer=zqebvmsAavIsz^xEjqpeMzvtFqC!smlgueGyauLje)y
uzf&ueAtbzCsk!yKtvgrmga2Nem|fqyvtjElmRtnq[uDucpylgfQNwi_kxzbetKAmRtnr
zqsoueGmaxCyl^xldcrnLhmsCsz^yFngpyrvssMjv<oof?bfFkawyyi/suogueLofsKze-oFz
uravjjryfFunr%kDaqheGuf,Mew,yFfo?etldtOxi!oFafgywynBHjw!ztfbemsybvNjv!ur
ztfbtfOgntNjv*gxawujvgcRtyl^fEzuvjEb

IAoegwFpoztyl^frpwteHypCyhx|fGofgwLhlxHef,fZBN?eLDpsCsw*jqacpirAxH
vqshqwElesvDd=AFtkfjrjpGNwe$zAsu?e^PET`ev^BqbngirAitNee+fuo+jtMzfsMjv<oof
hGsgczrlyxwzx^jlujgexpsLNee:fmaeqxLgcxNBi^tl%0bfFka<&#d[kDarclwggHL
kHftAyzpoznem+ixvfksygcNCqh*tsaqheLofsxfx@hmtg}er1ixtuv=pqdvbzFkfKNfo^t
hKavjjrJpGMzp:gFjxgeYypNJes+fUovgwFhuBIse-fMhtkhMsuNLfp!Xqtgcwuoa{WLM?X>
iAtvbfHwsHRnq@zqmAb&'%aIywd[gsfbhtJguAyeg=tHftunGu.sJqy|fEpogewEqxHxi|
lAsbvmwgtHzyA@xqacpirivBFim+mlphbyzlawuye#gEf}be`ofsUhm%f4bkpe8ypCyhxT/m
zIp+fnKraLyyd[xAewejvgcRtyl^f7okxjJzjMSes'f8ftotFA.swtr|oEukplrvg
ImocfnsuaIOgp*imukqsKgpGtfg*jlscks	|dHMydK`g8`buwyaIuli!lAsbgAwyzMBnr" 
ozdnwiAuhsEjC*tsaqheLofsNjB: lxjkhzgxtMeh=AnmgbpwFfwnew$gzokplrvgsNmi
oybigxlgbGxef;oxekplrvgsNmi!jmucdfKl?stYl^fuo+jtMzfsJws(koubqkxlsxx
iAoukiwybuFjd^gEfbqkrjpGPjr*kzdgbfFkazLje:kDaeqsLypEttj!ztfbrwGjfLM d!Uz
ztfbqyzlssBfr% lujgeKlsOChi!hGsgczKglGIBd:nqjtboGiatHid[kDgqtrrpu
kJqgfnLppNMqC7fnfeczKlaMBjC!nmwgbrGyfsJjs[rq?

GEacbzKlgNFeg=sBbtkxGu.sYW1?5lsgxjssfwtFQNyldquyKgbLtks-rAxu<er(~n+0
iqovueLva<] `zfofpvxrwfKtyl=AEbpfeuobKuhx^xE.bynLoatHee<kDbigeHhhx
iAovcnFpozt7{B$*aejfJhdMyww8flSgszAyfFysx|frptbhGkjGAee+jljoclAuh
ozdtgfKlaMBjd$uEuu}er1iNM	d$uzwgtxAvosIkd:nqavgCLaaBHhp;juoibyzlavIim+mf
iAtvueswqKICm_gFfnAe;0aIywd[gsf}be}1iBMej*mGsgbiGltsHtx!ozdnwiwguAy
oybiksygbGxeh@zmccuj	ivBFim+mljpeqMkfwtnr!ztfbPF4gdHMyw8]laCOesstH
kzkqAjvgbsBft[ElfzrjJpfGwjd>oFibHjvlstFeT/oEppbNFkvLNwm^yfayjnuo
vDfenzvlesNmi!tqdguxAAzsIkd"uuoibyzypNAmd:nqatgvMltMaks//BsqrtKhmsJws$kEt
zAacyfJkatths+zDbev	rifvuzw^fuubkxrhoHNmi/fspxgwFtfGNee"kzdA}er1ix
vDjuqswytsJjv'uDngfeST"Ltwi)kKjpieBBtMtfw!CqmnbfKgpMBjv!yqsxkhwgcNLje;y
gzebrwGCfwtme+jKacueOlmEoed?SltjkuHlesNmi_fFigbgGvlLneA&ooibvmwFaPIzp%
vtpvqhGwzsIsd@fnpqm]wkhxtxg@tzft}er1ixSeA=AxebrjJmpKGex&klnctpMwaHH
vtpvqhGwjxM	d/kFvtpeLofsvts)ylbubxGvosuxd:nqzbyjJlawIsi!Cuujbyzlnm
vqshqwEguAyeo^Euoi?esuesLjx;xzavjjrtbMywm@rluqbF5gpGt2SmSlekupKb

6UECTevlutCqi%fFigbjDlnxHyw!ztbvbhGutMCyy:klujgeHyfOCty|rKapqywkavIxx!ur
gBqtqCAtbMyqC!*'argwrwbzy d!SAtvbxAnoBzng@tFakueLofsyim:ozh?bhGysxwym=t
uragtwGytmtfr%fEqgnq	jixwpm+mE.bymAjisNms;mtavjjQgntSew=AzebgfKFaMI
vqshqwEgsxKzm/kfakpexhdMnee!mDfcvevlbEttj!zung}erYfyIwq@zFjpieLlyMtfp|u
zmlguesgxACqi7fnvvbfrzjzHnj*imovbfEvvGNes'fZBN&xrlyIysw^ylbtgexvssyvy*vyfpv	
CtjejeOhtsyCx/kyfnAewEqxHxm<klxjgsrwvKwme|kpadghsBtxtnx!Cmtbqswgpytyl^frfy
yKtvgrKgpGtyl^fybtmjLbas@mi!iAtvueGmaxKzm[sqovbfJlauynr"fmnqtyAGfwttz^x
luwgbDwhsLtgy:fmsgbxLpmEtvy*zqajklzaaGyfv-El%4?#=%aIywd_uzuj}

N1DMG4rybBMjh!glhgpjJhmsKzi|zuppbhGudxLsm+mlPETesuesNmi!gypwpyrvgsyim:ozh
xqrwkwwka{Mzf|zmovkfDgjGtmi/fqyrgwAlovy[d:ulhgpjJhuxtyl^fwjpfeGm
yFsweyMyfwtre/qGqbpjultLuwC!lAsbofFpqNFfx*tsavjjrAfQNes+fFigbhGtqNNjv!uD
rAbfksygjMtnr:ulbpAeJluKCjz@rltAuywt?stXl^fIppfjJlesCkd:nqaurjsrfKMeg=Axe
kJugpirAixtuv^BupwueIBfLNns+fmcqwyrAixths|z\cgpjxpusIkd@jpjpieGyaxRjv:ozh
yFsweyMyfwtre/qGq}beWYXT'er=zqebvmsAaLyAi/gxaQEWrzzLNjq|fDfvcnFgjMuqm$yf
hAmfksyaatHid=ztftbxHhuBuqd'uDncvyAuhnte1&oxfbvmwgntNjv*gxaocDrupMtgi!oz
ztfbhtJtbMtii|oDff?eLofLyew,yFfoueHvtLyxw!ztfbcgAsjMSex=fDfoqAwguAy
uDjiksssaFuyi/ommubvMpdDFDd'xAnbvmwgitHiw!uravjjrwfHJqi!vqshqwEpoztyl^
iAoxgwKppGnee|fIfnneszaMIev^zmjpbyzhusCsj=xybvktFgtHtyl@zlvugwKgdtHeA=xw
CuujbnLbas2TGfK~atgoGpoxxex&gFavjjrjvKLjr:fFikppAuhsIsd_gDlwreAzaMBfx!uzf
ytpwnirupMtxe,fFicveKvnxNmm+mljubnLhmBwes/fnpnfeKvaFOhl!gEayjDrpusCxd:nmu
Cmz}be`vauyew;xq.bqswgoxyiw!zAamptOguAuyd|uyfvjnFnaPuxd*zmmkenRlemtgy:
nAxbefFgpGyek^zlgtqrrvoxtys!ztfbqyzlsoteS+kldcpeEhqszws_fFigbxLyvvNzv^fFp
ztfbvDHvhKuul*ilsgrwwzfGNfx*uz?

LXFKUHZOB@YWd|AshguywkaMBfx7fsjxgsrAixt6@EfyjnnnGuaBNjq|fFigbQAistLD
nAmfu	rpusGfC!tAubdjrwpLMnf-klgqte4JaMIeh=fyptgeLobGtwi[uDubvmsAattyl*ts
CmtbksrputFng|fmtbquHvtxxex=fIiAbnLgxtMem:gxjeu	rhmMBty"nlujcyrtbRtgi
jqtktftsfsCsd|uyfbetFAfQNx	!f2sqonKpoztys!zmmmbfrijMtiy/ozhbvmwgbyNjv+uAo
yqtuktFgbuIzx!yqwgtfDgfQJjv*sqovue7JMVtui/lAsogirvosuzx=smukeeJldHAsm:oAo
urafqhMtfGNei-kyfpvxlgbGxeA&ooibvmwFaAIui%fFpbgCLlowne1 ONFNbxspesNme:fuo
lmdvbtFlavusd/kopipnRlaMBjd_gvptbjDlnxHyw!uracbiGjvFysx!CuujbfrmbBLqC
nuhjbiwnsxyes'fDfnkftpmBND{!gFangfKAatMek=upacue7JSnteWoK8FPUevyfPtf
AEfhwqrkjLNnr$zuppbgwAxxysd|zmofcwvaazysi/gxjBgirtbKEzt![u?g}	rkfyCsm+m
lAsbcevvdNGjr:/FzrgevlgBHnx*uzavjjrzuKOhx;xqaqheLofsxtg;sqov_	rhowtBl@z
nqavgwElesuew:ExfbumwlumtBl*itajcirApsxtd>oFibkyssjvM	d#uxekpllgbGxes:nqs
lAsoueGmaxGul@yut}be`ovLnex>ulekhkwyfGNeg=sBppgsLzatLjd@zlxqtplgpGyef^ozh
ztfbuyJBdMOwi!uravjjrkpvOri+zljvujDma{Cyw!rAhke[lgbGxex&klpvjjJgcxCsk!oFt
xqqtgxwuutNns+fIigpeAAaBMet;zlppbyzlaLwwi^tlptbuJpoMyi	

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

YQTUKT6gWnteEkV4PCEMWZa!9eTmK2BTKSYgF5YHXmUZJEbYW5U`

:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=
N1DMG4r[a!yCx!ozaCUH1PatHid:nqatguJltxHye:oAobqkrlmxwyv=tudbvjPAaOyww;y
gzakofyla}tYl^fzfgfeLvaEIto!gFaycDKgpytzw*tsaocwCBqsNtd@yEjuveJluKCjz@rl(
ZtfbpjwkayIwd@tlfpetvpoztks/smubvmsAaPCqp!hqatgzKhcEyee+jlnwnyAmvGwym=tmm
:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=[[|a;=bc|/V:.=

YGtcpeZVD4Y4{!jusgeyGy.sWjr:kDahqwrLmxwyv=tudbVjPAtsCsd:nqaJwrsujMCjw
[OFVJ[lgSNNli/ylbpfe8yjGwjx=tlVpkAwytBNni| lbpptMudxxex&gFaqpjrAbEE
[9FKDJ4_t	tBe|fypxgirpoMIex&oEaugxKppGtkv=slujgeEvsGCsk!gzebvmsAaWuAm%
VmdmcwvgxtMey+gnmgbyGgbMNjr%alaVjjrzfLMns+fIpwnirhuMyrt:fFpbhtuBtsGtv^fAo
CtbvbtFlavusd%ulxkvmrhaMyCx!ozaCUH1PatHid:nqatguJltxHye:oAobqkrlmxwyv=tud
zqyvbwsAixLex&gzalwxLgbGtnq@mq.bymsAaHHjd$gzafqeOpuAtfd$uyqwvjJguAuy
imopqyrifsxtr^fIjvjesgcHIpd=xlbpbnEhhxoeddzlxqwqvgcxtfv"AqebvmsAaHHjd$gz
jAaowhzgnHLjd:nmoblzKAaKyfh!glugzylgbGxej/uyavjfLgtMuwx*tsarqnFAaHHjd$gz
AEfbofJrvItfr%fyfvjtvzaHzet/kBbtksyguAyex^DFavqeLhlxtky-rlbfxfFAbzyes'
ztfbefHhcBFnx,fAgbvmwgdHGuy:kD?bbYzhusQty-jlmgcirApsueh*yovuunGuaHzeA&gF
ztfbGzJvqxusd{uynwpnLFavuqp|f4FWUFTPM2@4{!CtbvbrsFauyyx^xlcgbywynxx
J7SCDN4PU^nex&gFaku	ropPtys!vDfrcwwgpKtre)klbbvjPAaMBfx!Cumnbqszusuep=ts
zungbfFkaMBfx!imobdjrBtxxej=xlbubrsuzsuut-oobvktFzatMet=yEjdnjlgxAChl
CAvnfeDlbwtys!oEtwgxrvgsCrt/uHjpieAuuxFqi$zGbnbfujfLM 

N1DMG4rBszyid:nqapgjvguHtqs=qlbvbBsFtsIkd;yuoibrsylNJex=frbekqAAbMyev^zDjgxfDa
tAublzKAayIwd/krftgsupozttv!zAajgqHgmHwfx^fmobkywtaMBfx!oEatgyJpfOyi{!hGubcqKvaMIet;zlnctpMwaMulw!oz
glugzyrApsBjp[fDfvtnwCfsNmi!ztjpieKvvzByd^oFigteOpuAtqm+mGjuvnugutAlm+mlpt
ozugtuJlutNns+alaJQH3LZsuqw=fmsiwjvguAuyd-oFungeskwtHhi_kzubjfvgpvwzv/kpakp
ztfbutxAxtLjd:uAmubhMysxHyp,fmwckqsimxtks/fDfvtnwCjGAee+jltgcwuojGAex^DF?
Ytfbrwwztxxex&klegunvlstNzq!uraiqnFnauyDs+jlCqqqwhosMje/itfubfFkaIywj=xyjpi
sAsgbxGwiBMym$gFffbxwhsvBnr" lxjkhzguAyem+yqsvktFgpytrs/klnctpMwaBHex&klugzy
CAvnfexhdBFnx@zq?bbYzpoDCsk!gnpwvewsfvNws+ooavgCLzatMes[vAtgfeLvaBGfk^ylngcsK
iAoukiwyjGAeq@zqskcqrAitNeA*rxapgAwyatJui@xljpbuJpoMtks/sfaqteHyjGNeA*rxapqy
hqakvxrwsBGfv,frpto	rAitNem| lncvjJpbEtBl*itaqpqQgbIJje/yljpbjDldMLtr*ilgqtrm
N1DMG4rhmEOii%fFpbvmwgiBMys/ElbpfeLofsHji%frptbrsylNJee+jlucilAuhsush
kxfevwGujvtyi\zfayjnuoaPuxd%kHfnquwkaMBws;mtavjjrBtxttj!iAnrwywytsCsd:nq
nGncpnLpfLjee|fYJEJJ4ZP7tme%fAcugwNlemtKe:nqsbDzKhaAuid|zmsvgirpos&@8D
zAartjHhsxtyl^frjtuy	lwxLex^DFaqpeLofswtq[AFft
