discover multiple institutions digitizing the same work.  Re microforms,
LYNCH said, we are in pretty good shape.

BATTIN called this a big problem and noted that the Cornell people (who
had already departed) were working on it.  At issue from the beginning
was to learn how to catalog that information into RLIN and then into
OCLC, so that it would be accessible.  That issue remains to be resolved.
LYNCH rejoined that putting it into OCLC or RLIN was helpful insofar as
somebody who is thinking of performing preservation activity on that work
could learn about it.  It is not necessarily helpful for institutions to
make that available.  BATTIN opined that the idea was that it not only be
for preservation purposes but for the convenience of people looking for
this material.  She endorsed LYNCH's dictum that duplication of this
effort was to be avoided by every means.

HOCKEY informed the Workshop about one major current activity of CETH,
namely a catalogue of machine-readable texts in the humanities.  Held on
RLIN at present, the catalogue has been concentrated on ASCII as opposed
to digitized images of text.  She is exploring ways to improve the
catalogue and make it more widely available, and welcomed suggestions
about these concerns.  CETH owns the records, which are not just
restricted to RLIN, and can distribute them however it wishes.

Taking up LESK's earlier question, BATTIN inquired whether LC, since it
is accepting electronic files and designing a mechanism for dealing with
that rather than putting books on shelves, would become responsible for
the National Copyright Depository of Electronic Materials.  Of course
that could not be accomplished overnight, but it would be something LC
could plan for.  GIFFORD acknowledged that much thought was being devoted
to that set of problems and returned the discussion to the issue raised
by LYNCH--whether or not putting the kind of records that both BATTIN and
HOCKEY have been talking about in RLIN is not a satisfactory solution.
It seemed to him that RLIN answered LYNCH's original point concerning
some kind of directory for these kinds of materials.  In a situation
where somebody is attempting to decide whether or not to scan this or
film that or to learn whether or not someone has already done so, LYNCH
suggested, RLIN is helpful, but it is not helpful in the case of a local,
on-line catalogue.  Further, one would like to have her or his system be
aware that that exists in digital form, so that one can present it to a
patron, even though one did not digitize it, if it is out of copyright.
The only way to make those linkages would be to perform a tremendous
amount of real-time look-up, which would be awkward at best, or
periodically to yank the whole file from RLIN and match it against one's
own stuff, which is a nuisance.

But where, ERWAY inquired, does one stop including things that are
available with Internet, for instance, in one's local catalogue?
It almost seems that that is LC's means to acquire access to them.
That represents LC's new form of library loan.  Perhaps LC's new on-line
catalogue is an amalgamation of all these catalogues on line.  LYNCH
conceded that perhaps that was true in the very long term, but was not
applicable to scanning in the short term.  In his view, the totals cited
by Yale, 10,000 books over perhaps a four-year period, and 1,000-1,500
books from Cornell, were not big numbers, while searching all over
creation for relatively rare occurrences will prove to be less efficient.
As GIFFORD wondered if this would not be a separable file on RLIN and
could be requested from them, BATTIN interjected that it was easily
accessible to an institution.  SEVERTSON pointed out that that file, cum
enhancements, was available with reference information on CD-ROM, which
makes it a little more available.

In HOCKEY's view, the real question facing the Workshop is what to put in
this catalogue, because that raises the question of what constitutes a
publication in the electronic world.  (WEIBEL interjected that Eric Joule
in OCLC's Office of Research is also wrestling with this particular
problem, while GIFFORD thought it sounded fairly generic.)  HOCKEY
contended that a majority of texts in the humanities are in the hands
of either a small number of large research institutions or individuals
and are not generally available for anyone else to access at all.
She wondered if these texts ought to be catalogued.

After argument proceeded back and forth for several minutes over why
cataloguing might be a necessary service, LEBRON suggested that this
issue involved the responsibility of a publisher.  The fact that someone
has created something electronically and keeps it under his or her
control does not constitute publication.  Publication implies
dissemination.  While it would be important for a scholar to let other
people know that this creation exists, in many respects this is no
different from an unpublished manuscript.  That is what is being accessed
in there, except that now one is not looking at it in the hard-copy but
in the electronic environment.

LEBRON expressed puzzlement at the variety of ways electronic publishing
has been viewed.  Much of what has been discussed throughout these two
days has concerned CD-ROM publishing, whereas in the on-line environment
that she confronts, the constraints and challenges are very different.
Sooner or later LC will have to deal with the concept of on-line
publishing.  Taking up the comment ERWAY made earlier about storing
copies, LEBRON gave her own journal as an example.  How would she deposit
OJCCT for copyright?, she asked, because the journal will exist in the
mainframe at OCLC and people will be able to access it.  Here the
situation is different, ownership versus access, and is something that
arises with publication in the on-line environment, faster than is
sometimes realized.  Lacking clear answers to all of these questions
herself, LEBRON did not anticipate that LC would be able to take a role
in helping to define some of them for quite a while.

GREENFIELD observed that LC's Network Development Office is attempting,
among other things, to explore the limits of MARC as a standard in terms
of handling electronic information.  GREENFIELD also noted that Rebecca
GUENTHER from that office gave a paper to the American Society for
Information Science (ASIS) summarizing several of the discussion papers
that were coming out of the Network Development Office.  GREENFIELD said
he understood that that office had a list-server soliciting just the kind
of feedback received today concerning the difficulties of identifying and
cataloguing electronic information.  GREENFIELD hoped that everybody
would be aware of that and somehow contribute to that conversation.

Noting two of LC's roles, first, to act as a repository of record for
material that is copyrighted in this country, and second, to make
materials it holds available in some limited form to a clientele that
goes beyond Congress, BESSER suggested that it was incumbent on LC to
extend those responsibilities to all the things being published in
electronic form.  This would mean eventually accepting electronic
formats.  LC could require that at some point they be in a certain
limited set of formats, and then develop mechanisms for allowing people
to access those in the same way that other things are accessed.  This
does not imply that they are on the network and available to everyone.
LC does that with most of its bibliographic records, BESSER said, which
end up migrating to the utility (e.g., OCLC) or somewhere else.  But just
as most of LC's books are available in some form through interlibrary
loan or some other mechanism, so in the same way electronic formats ought
to be available to others in some format, though with some copyright
considerations.  BESSER was not suggesting that these mechanisms be
established tomorrow, only that they seemed to fall within LC's purview,
and that there should be long-range plans to establish them.

Acknowledging that those from LC in the room agreed with BESSER
concerning tyl^fzfgfeLvavIsj/uzubfnxmjvOqx!wGfuvnGutmtLMaL1SFbzFkfKMhs/kp
ztfbofyujMOii!uravjjrwsHvqi_fAgbymsAaMIeo^kBacpirDitNex=fEfnghLbas1NJaU4E
tAugfeLobMtQG!iGstgsLszsLjg^oHfubxGtfs(6{E$*akvjEzaIywd%gK.bptLgdHOsx*ts
kxfevwGujvtre:kDjcnxlgbGxee/mGffbkGyaFOhl!sAsgbiAzuKCgy:kpatgxHvoLCgm-oFz
ozaqtiwyaMIeq@ozucksrhowtxx=xqagnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHH 

HQTUGWryfLJtr%kpavjfLguAyee|yqndnjvghKIzt!iAvnfetlaOCjA^jlbubfrzutLym+m
vAjpv	rDiHMjd*tuukcqrvqxLfx*tsartjEptxths;rpadgezlmICsk!zAaoqAwgjGtyl*y
jusgeyAvosush!jqgkpnFnaAIBdgIldqwqvgeHtxs7frptbjPhnIFj{!ozactjszaHz
yFbpffJkjSuym=tlptbiAzuKCgy:oAobqkryfLJtr|onjnkyQb

LXFKUHZOB@YWd@jpffbyzhusURd>gEahwqDFaxHle"kp.bywwzuECsk!CuujbxGtfsIkd:nq
wGfuvnGutsNme:fBftvfAuaMIex&kldqpAwytBIsd=llpnfjJgiBMys/oobnbrsAfKCfp| 
CtjejeOvvExef^fAogbyzpoztyl@zlujge4pcKuwC!uraEqsyyfLMeq*mtubftmga`yAi/gx
vAjpvxrtfGNns+kpadAeTLT`YWd@tpaugAwybEttx&kDtbqsrAiBMeu;kEukqsrobOyee
sGdjblJlbMywd*sBbeveGuaMBtw^fIiqbfJlavIsg^xzffbBAAiswfx@rAhwksygbGxex&k
tquyqwCpozttj!hucnktyybIBng!ozgqtrsAjHH	d@ylxgnqrhtsJwi|kDwcvnGuaBNxi-lg

YBfcmnFnawCwi$zxzbvtrHNmtBl*itajgeuvoLCii/kpaycxrhaEuwk^rKawphGwzKCll:kp
jmucdfKl.s64R{NlvtijvgexPjp=vyfpveGmattsi:CAsmbAwytBIsd=llBO?eGy
iAoukiwybMCtr!uraocpAuhsNmi!jmucbnFgjMtfz@oxbdnjrApsJjs[rqakpywyfLNjh!oz
jAjpieFluPIwo!sGmvkrwkjtoedjtlbeetMuusIkd:nqaewwJloMtlv^gFaujtJAbzyes'
juhkvfDgetNfd:nmubkxripMBee[vqbnksygbGxey+kzdwogwyfwtgC!iAnrnjPgsBAmx|
vDpdnjEz.sNmm|fopwtxwgpytfg:oAobetMsesBfz^fmauklFpgBwfr:fqghghLgpGtre)ozh
tquyqwCgnNFym_kpjcbfryftFnx,a

OzavjnKgdHHsi$zupp?eXSF2!HLcG7FTbwwwpKNjh!uzacbkJhhFysx@xKarttLvuRJjd*t
RO"ubTxmjvyes'fUohqwEhuBIsdokoipqqGnzs!jv<oofubyzhusuyx^sBuubyGgbLMtg*gFf
juhkvfDgjFuli|fAgbrmGApzLft&ylxkvmrjbMuqs"AuoibnFmpKGfx*uzakpeOhzLtyl@z
CAsmbBAAiBHee!rAdcnesyfttsi:CAsm+]sgtMyu{!yAavqeKhzmtys>gDebCR\z
iAouvwMjuBIsd=lltqojrzpKNes'fmqrcwsAvLtks/fmdegxKbasZzv:nqs?bF5gitM
gFugouLlesNtd;yqauvfFkbKxeh@zmahqwEzaBHes/jqsbvtrofEJeq@qqavjfL
jutvksuAjHHef^zIfgpeLofsuhg^yEavqtDzatHid:nqawpiwymRCsk!jmuc?esuesNmy|
hqmkgAwzaMBfx!ztfbffLhctMjd*ylogvBGyltvqi8

Glegnnuhuxtfr%fmhqpnRpoztus-oozbszwzuBIsd'uDaNE	ropPyAi/ lxjkhzgdHGjw
hmdmbyGgsxMty/iqtbcsvgvGztv:AzbvgqQgitMee+funrchLgpGtyl*yfakueLvayCsh
yAngbfHwsHJwm@zq.bjtFvstvqi7fmofbqwnbEths|z\sgetNlsRtus|yucknnLpfLoed?
iqsvcnFgtDCyx*ytoguxrjpGwjv+ozhbetKA_Kyhs<kDzbjfKgntxjd[kAqngeMutNLj
kJbevqQgxAuyd:uleq}erHNsQty-jlcgbmAniESev^iqqvkAwguHtim|iGtuksyggNLyl^x
R~OEJ)Kgpyzjv!zAavgxLgpKtii_uztvtfLlaBNxd%gFbdcxwgjGtfd+kFxqtp
kzwkttFtfGN	daRQJUEMZHVX`ew@op?

XquwtsAuhsNmi!jutewxKppGtys!CtbvbxzlaOCjA^jlbubyzlaOCye-futuwjrvg
kxfevwGujvtii[uEjv?eTHU!3Sd/kopoojFkfwtyl@zlMEbnFpuBuyi!gldcvfDFuBw
vDpegxKgjGtyi/sEaqhevptMLnf;zqebtjKwpGMnf*ruuA?eLobMtnw7fnskplrApzyyl^x
ztfbfnKAsBvzx^jlptifFpAtNns+ylbpfeKlusOud@fEuwfDrnsHOud:ulmqqprhusuqp
ztfugeAztNyxd@tpaugjrDixLjd>klbubfrubMCtr!ytpwnirtpOy d!ZtfbdwGhexL
oEtwgxrvgsBtA!CqafgfDgxBNmd:nqaocssnfFysx!uragnjuAsHHng!ozgqtrsAjHHeA*rx
tAubfnKhqIyfv7fnvvbtFszsAws>fIptujm

RQTMbyGvlsOud:nutbvmwtfsush!yGhigxLlesNme:fXDbcyLlnINex=fBftuzskfsIsi
smkqteDpcKuwC!ozagchzgtMuyi!zAafgfDgxBNmd*zEauvfLlaxKzm<gxfpveHBcECxl^xf
CtjejeEphANet/upvegesgdHIui/gFjxgeHypCyhx!ztbvbBGBmwtgi!kCvkvftsz
jutvtntBuxxee/uGofbyzlavIzr:xK.bcsvgpGyem+fIikemrSDsQty-jlcgbiwhmBHld>oFi
glnkpnEhmsHzq#kDaqheHBcECxl^xEacpirtjGCre-foprAwAniMtuv=hxfou 

M4BDGWryfFuwo^jlujgeJldxHyd%kHfnquEloMtnr!ztfbuhAloMCkm$fopoozFpuRttj!g
CumnksyufLMex=fGtgbXYTMsush!kuujgwrkfIIxm:fAsbksLlsvBfr"klppbfrmbBLqC
yFbpffJkjSyid'uDncv rgIxtBs+jqsgfeAmattxm_oxbtbrGCfFysx!CmtbvfCpoztup@iq
ozavjjrovFusm:oqt}beSsuAIzk&fFigbSsAjHHfp!RuctcwQgpytRi%oojpgexvvGxes+rK
glggyeHBcECxl^xEavqeuvpIywe:kljpbfrsjDyez^tFvtgeLDpsIwd:nDfgbDwhsLtfk= lb
tqxbgkxvsMtrm"nFaigswybMyee!sGdjbqsyhxLer;snftbBAsmBHld:uldqquwybMy 

QUNDCQ4gsxwty+zqebjnKgvGCy(|f<NcemAuf `je%gnmgbHGsmxwym=tEaTgfvpoztWs=s>
zDpwdqwzaPCyl!ztfbetEtfKwne-fBvdnnKofKMes'fqmgeyJvoBweq^jubbksrhdJOnv*ts
smugtnsstsztv!RO"ubhGsmxwym=tE.bksrwbKNng;rmsbvmwgqNvqm|nqsu&exlbKtyl@z
ztfAbBGBmwtss:fnfbcgDlaMIeg=Bqsbvmwpsswtw:ylbpfeOvvExep=yqaeqsLypEttj
ztfkteHypwOhx| lujcyrSDsQty-jlhkxjrAixGee>gKaqteKlmEtyl^slbpfeEhlx
vDphkyKggKIrd:nqn}beZlawIzf:kpavjfLguAyet;hxjujnFnaBHiy|zDzbyfKgqKyue/kp
zAaoqAwgjGNtd:nutbcwwhatNex&klnqojFA.sAnz^tljvueJltBMye+iqavqessmHQnr"fXD
zAawujrpuLtre$nuog+wwhetvqi!smugtnsstsuxd:nqaNkgJhsRtBs;rpankpwb

ZtfbetHFsBAmx!rmxbptOgbwxwi|yqtbetEwbvNeh*ywacuesgnxxny_ lbpfe4Javus
xqrwgxLgpGyeg=vKaqheLobMnes/fFxqbhGwjxMem'fuubkxrAixttr-ElwgtxAvomtfr%
imobtjIBfLNeg=vufubtxgtHzyA@xq.bdzLguAuyd'gumubyGgbwxwi|ylncifRpoxMes/
hApmueGyatHDx&ozhbnnClaMBfx!CtjejeAzaBHeq@itjpg]Jlbwugp^frpto 

MUGHQWVgbvEss>rqeigirAixtyl=xzzbpfLBsxttj!ztjubnKzvxneA&ooibjjrpmEOxx/gFff
CuujbyzlaxRfq[rqaqheLofswzq#kDtqojrwsHwjw|fuoxqqNlesCsd[AFukplrhavIuC!urac
yojgpyAmjvtie:gnbugeGuattQEifuobNH\zaLwni+iqatgfvpoztws=sgabJjrhmLI
golpqBDlezyid:nmubNHrufxxxd&kxqbcsvgdHOqh!kzmkuyrAixtjr^xsjguesuesNfp^tFt
uraYqwCziHJet@xFjekusuuLtnr!ztjpmnFnaMBws;mtacbsMtcxLes'fFigujrwsHvqi_yg

MUGHQWVgsxNzv+kpavjjrkjLwzw|oAobvtrnfMNnr"fFigbnEhhxtfr%fFfzveHlpIFjd:u
ztjpmeLosHOll!zAhgvmwyaPBjv^fFigAeOhoMtys!mAakpeLofsFtr"fFfto rgN^6TR?Y
iAoegiwkaMBfx!nqsbgCHlsBysg^fmubvmwgQBywg^f5zortKpvFtyl^fBsgxnGBtsQji)fmu
MqptijLvxGtZr*BqsukyQgbGxex&oEaygjCgbMtQG!nmebhtJjfwtmi/fFpbtjwCbEOfx^
nqsbrjJzqxwym<klppbyzlaNMjj;rzfuueGmaMyCx!gEakofyltnteQtR1OCUexybFyid:nq
oEtwgxrposuew^xufubtxgrNyxx*uzt<beZvxsxtd>klbeszAyfsGfg&ozf+tjskbuFj
zqyv{erKpsQjd:gwfbrnuAvKyxd=lljvbfFkaIywj=xyaQEWrvosCyd-gFft{erPtsCy
oyqqtysuusNtd=hFbkpeNlsRtmm"n\rwcqAAzsCre"kEacpirAfQN	d^zo?{
LXFKUHZOB@YWd@mDfgfeOpuAtR3gUZBU&xrmstGnr"fAgbuyJhuxAng!wGfuvnGutmtfh%ozh
ztbvbfrsbKAjd*tEukvzLppGtxy$nlbubQUgqKIge#rKajcxrApsxtd@rxaqheLopLy
ztjpixrhusxnj'kDfpveLpnxM d!Ztvu?eLofsNwm$qljubyGgfQywg*yqalwiytfGN d!Ztf
3AsmumGwaAuid@jpffbyGgiBMee+jlBO&xrjpGMnh^xmukqsKgjGtre)ozhbvmGzf
pGeiojFAtnteG=toftpnFnayOyy/klnggyAuhLttv!jutewxKppGM	dh5XPPCXrzvzAjw:kp
ztbvbxuyfxHnr"fBskqwAAjxMeA=AxebdjrofEJky-a

3QJDGQrvqBHjh!ztbvbyzlawCAi/yuuAbwwmmxwyi%fuobvmAzazLty[fIbubfrzjzHef=zt
uravjjroftFyl!gzebqkrAixtnq_gFvtkyQgpytyl^frjgnilgbGxeq=xqavkrwgxHOqh
nmwgbyGgqtMxd#krptgeOlavIsz*tofbqswgbGIyl^xldqphwyoBHld|zmofcwvz?

Gzagzhzhozyef^zIfgpe56M88FW!gzebDF`1J7thp@xugkgirAixtus*tFavjfLguAy
jDjxksyggHLhi!hqikpiripMBex&klQgtxwBtsush!ztfbEtJufEFe2^xAybrwGqfvNxd>gE
ztfbrwwzfKPfx*uzaqheCupPFjh"klgqteLofszzx;xq.bptLgtBGup,frptbusyuBwzp@x
xqtgcwuoaNMj	!fUobvmwgdtMjd=llQgtxwBtmtR3gUZBUbxspemtyl^fmtuwrHAjHHeA@y
ztbvbyzlaMyCx|fIpwnirupMtgi!kzugtjvgbzunr!ozuqbjDldMLtr*immnAeJlbwugp^
lAso}erZQX`GImM\NeSZWLOsuih^jlujcyrhaLwfr+kpakofylaPIzp%fzpvbxwywxtfw!gz
gDdjkAssavIuC!lAsbrzJwpLyxd=llqtgxwywtNns+fuobvmwgdtMjd=lfaucDlguAyeF*rx
uraTklzAtmtnr!ztfbujFzfsNme:fFigbxuhoGyid*smhguesyfsykj^iFjxgqQguAy
gDdjkAssavIum^ylgqteLofsWtv+kxmbofLofFuym$ylcqqpKb


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergasteE[vqofkCrP;stUVjM4BO



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabYT0RT19U
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberVO
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flaGNJU1S88NG
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabbe`LY!!



flabbergasted!flabbergasted!f&_3`e2Boxt6!D8

flabbergasted!flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!3mtjksyApGneH8Ig



flabUzHwpKNjh!hKacbLJhoMtkv=slujgeVhwBxee+jlMwenDla9uho@xpaHqzFkbMCtr


ZGfuffQaa=tOy+kl2~~7

TMUKQSSSaWYRSiY6SCVN7Ua5UG{!G6SKWRlgM2VWEm5lNCFN~VO

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl7fDfikxLybMCtr

#a~`bF5gas%jp$uyf

flabbergas0ws|yqsbInxmpKx	d	oDfevtJggHLeW$nAmctqQgQKIlv@sE.bcsvgDtLq
flabbergastedarqjuemzhvxL	d{uAsfkssApKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7fXjdtfJFaHz
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK

#am7bF5gas!jw|oAobK rgDHHyi+zljpbfrUfPtKs/saabYmGgXBFqdpyqaKvesues%me:
flabbergas%np-f6igAeVv}

flabbergasVws@jleguhJpqMCtr!uravjjrybGAjd=llfnghLypGChd*trptofLppGo
flabbergasWme/gougtnRhuBIsd=llxjqeMzfLtnx!gzebjtOgjMtnw!uDaocDrifsOxi%a
flabbergas3sd@jpjvktFguHtfd-uAlbcyrzdAIqe/rKawujKaaMBnw!yqtuktFgxBFq
flabbergasCsg-ApfbceHyfLysx@zuppbtFgvLyef,fEuwfjFAts	P[v8lbpfeuvmEyliS
flabbergasush!ztfbijFlstFet;hxje}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtGjw!JmmA
flabbergasUAv@fYjejjDzpGneE/itjxcqrYfLyfv$nlbpfeWCbEOfx*uzaUvfxm.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgBKwmm<kEacpirYfvIwh|fMeoksAzuKuym=tl)QxjJCjxQ[
flabbergas!zw@tlI}b1wjdBu	dokmnbNjskfKneE_kDjecsrTfFIwC7f7tgteWCbEOfx*uz.
flabbergasted@tp
flabbergas4te+tqaHtjwtbGneE|yAdkcywgDHIwh*tmuqt	rHnxLng@tlNgotJF.s6nf/gDz
flabbergasted=llDqplJltLt=F^EAofbyzlaLwms-gD-

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDs?

flabbergasYfg&fBsgujFAbMCtr!zAaeqsKptMttj!glgkhywlo Gnr;zq
flabbergasMye:kyfpv>KopPjek/uGqbfnKjvLMns+fIjnnexvmEIBd-Azdj}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgKtwvy^ruogbMwztmtIm/kouqt	rUbMCtr@rlEgotFzuKuym=t
flabbergastedggn

flabbergaste58flBbeqsztBwxd[xAkgeylgtMLjw|ozhbvjPAtsush!zqyvbwwAsByAe-
flabbergasted!flnqtjrAitHeq;rFjogiAh;stUi/yqvubUJvkxwy{!Nmsxcwv
flabbergasted!flVpkAwytBND
flabbergasted!flFnnnrTzEIse| lNcpfypoztJh*zAs

flabbergaste68flPvjjJgiNGfr*zufubuJvkxwyw!kyqnqDAuhsNmi!kyftinFnaGIwq|fAg
flabbergasted!flujge`lyMtJr$upjpie1ujMCfx*Bqa-VJ1/;stHl@jIzem]ZlbEyD(|
flabbergasted!flUjgeWuhECxl!VAfvtDrMvEFeX^DFaFcysibLyee+j	ptbUsAsHFtk*g
flabbergasted!flMcvnFhaWuye#gEf
flabbergasted!flFtkhrT?sWfp@rGdc?e@pdxtUv^yuegpylgDAuiA,iw_JgfDlzmtNr$a

flabbergaste78flBogwAjbGtRi_uDz
flabbergasted!flDctqrMmxCxg&nmvgt	rJpHLim+gFpt?esue
flabbergasted!flSkepQgFKQfC7fMtuqhAhuxtHs=xpjpcyGy.s6nf/gDzbqkrJpGAwi|y

flabbergaste88flGqwsvpoztKe:nqsubjPhnIFjd'xAnbRfurbKxeL;smokvnwz
flabbergasted!flJpuyAAvMy,d!ZtfbRfHlsLttj!Mqptijr4bLBnr"zAo?bZFpwxLxm:E
flabbergasted!flphb1AyhBHne
flabbergasted!flEqttLozs@Bs&os.bOfFhhBHld juuqt	rhowgtv
flabbergasted!flEcxnvgXHIip^ElQcepsye

flabbergaste98flBpbjDldMLtr*ilngfnuhmsDty/tmmbqkxlsBHld"xmqjkhKgbGx
flabbergasted!flgwnq	AfQNew^gDdjcgAsjMS,d!ZtfbQsDpoxtOs;xzbnbtxgDNLwi+z
flabbergasted!flDnksAjbEtYv*gxt?bFElsBwfr!GEtqensAjHHej=xlujgeSkwtHhi_kzu
flabbergasted!flphbXupfGwj
flabbergasted!flNctnsgMntQi#xAo?bRsubzCsk!Kpjvqw

flabbergaste08flBbrwGqfvNex&gFaqhkwytszfg|oyjngeAtbzyxd=llqcijKgcNNes_oFt
flabbergasted!fltgcwuobuFjd:kJu<beUvsGyqp!smujbgGvlL
flabbergasted!flMApswgLntUi/yAokwxlgBLMnw:gzubFnJldMIw{!IAspgqD
flabbergasted!flabbNFmpKGfx*uzaVghzupEIlm^ylgqte~jiHFfv-ElJphtJtbMCtr
flabbergasted!flabbXGBsvyx{!IAspgqDgVGCAi/yuuA

7@;5`e8Tas6zr$nla-FnFpoztWs=slB?bQAistLDdhgpjuqsr!3[oed DtjdkyK
flabbergasuAe*rmcng {

7a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKNmga`BtA!gzebVjDsa{Wtr:-p?_}

9a~`+
9a4`bU5gasVwi@q

9a4`+
~a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobKN1basXnw:xucwvnGu.s8jx>uDlu?esues8jx>uDlkplgga8Jym=tE
flabbergasztv!JutugrAubMCtr8

flabbergas0zf-oEigfevptDM,d!1zjxgwKpuRtuv^yEfubfFkaIOgp*i\tgeyGy
flabbergasted[Anmkumwytmtuv*Bmug+xwjuHLet;hxjujjJz
flabbergasWtq[AFftbswAxHLpw

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgSHvjv:fS?b2nuo.s!ui$ommbCxKptMusx!zAavjjrHtLIhm@zq
flabbergastedgonsctnsuayIwdnvqdkcqrWsHDjg:yfaNkgJhsRttj!IAoitjKz
flabbergasWqm'lAsfbFmgMRHhl7fPjtghLvsmtQm#xmsAbFMApFuym=tfaWpnNlsLCyC!ur
flabbergasted{gxjhqwFpb
flabbergas2tA@xpaDgxKlsmtXg&uAmbqkrSjuLfv,fmofbNFmpKGfx*uzaUenwudxn
flabbergastedptuwgtxAAzsIkdkoFuudzJni
flabbergas`tr@rpaN}e4hsLys{!GEtqensAfsXnv^iFptbtxgMBvwe/oqtbhtJ
flabbergasteddtrptofLppGtYi$nzpnqlQaa@Hnz^xEjvAeGma6uwC-gzebcyrJpEFjk^
flabbergastedkgDl
flabbergasYiA*tlC}bGJvxGLnk" lFzghMAjOyeH*xqdvqwlgNxGjB!Xqtgcwuo
flabbergasteddtEukvzLl

`a4`bU5gas`jg^vFjqper]NHHyt^ruftbWGvnmtQm#xmsAbRskjLIsdA7&?_

flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabb+?[(}{

3qepgxvhzmt6@!PGogb6+$3

JUOKPLrYP87eE7fXJDTF06a6UIMnUZa84#

@a4`bF5gasWtj'kqacpirKbGCxl

#a~`bF5gas!jw|oAobK1mga2Gfk^fObrvzJl.s@jB:fObrvzJl.s9Ai/BufybtxgUxRyd@tp
flabbergas3re"klTvqwsnfsZtv_gFt}

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgXBFqm@slM}bMGvuHH	dqoofbRwwzjwysx!uraQrjJhuBIsw7
flabbergastedd/ZFV

flabbergasU[dkxuoekussa6yyl=jEahqwrPntAjd{gBuwtjrvgs@jB:.
flabbergasted	oDfeveKjbGHnr"
flabbergastedpyqaqheEpdKIks/s

flabbergasUsr^f4?bMjFufRneE|yutvcsLgEBLjg:uD.bFjHhsMGjr:fAgbRwwzfKPfx*uz
flabbergasted@tpaEqsKlsOuym=tfaEqwFlmEtZr*BqsukyQ
flabbergas0fq^rmaS}OmgBGxwi7fMtuqhAhuxtIm/kouqt	rHvMIre:oAo?bfFk
flabbergas4zh*ztaC}e^petL	d{uAsfkssApKneR@zuppcqrHhKChy-zGscne`lyM
flabbergasted	osjvkEAuhs0ws"xmnb-SS1E9 	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqrSjuLfv,
flabbergastedRTMM_
flabbergasXtr@rpaL}e#huxLx{!Nqbf?e~FtMyrw!UrgkejlgZtFjdptuwgtxAAzs6nf/gDz

flabbergasV[dnvqdkcqrWsHvqi_ya
flabbergasted}uGofbAGsvFyx
flabbergasted{uztgtAsAjHH
flabbergastedmkBsqfzupoztuv*tFffbmssgMIsi|

flabbergasWfv-fRmgkxuoitOjv7fOpqtiAubMIw{!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EfaNkgJhsRttj
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK
flabbergas1js/mqaVjtEh.sWmm^lfaEqrEBoBwfx*uztbGsypoxywm+mlCtcsuo.
flabbergastedigFjqpfDgMBvwe/ElphbRwkjvCsi![ZMO_

7*;5`]
7!;``eSTasVwi@q

7!;``eSTas!jw|oAobK1mga2Gfk^fObrvzJl.s@jB:fObrvzJl.s9Ai/BufybtxgUxRyd@tp
flabbergas3re"klTvqwsnfsZtv_gFtb-HGuu,x =8

flabbergasW[ddsmhgbXLhowuwh|fmofbNEwmBwfx*uztbhtJgQKyxi/Bmukqs

flabbergas4je+fNbtqssz.s!jr*uDaOcssnfKneH^vmsvojFAaHzeW:gzectiKgbGx
flabbergastedokoipqqGnzmtFw|uojcvnGuayIwddtrptofLppGtfr%fUncijrTbGuli_kzu
flabbergastedRGUJO_
flabbergas0fx/oojcbGsAuBH	dkxqtkfjFA.s@mi!IAnokxKppGttr!VDfugwNhuBIsd@tp
flabbergasted?iofuue}JQT 

flabbergasX[dokJubEtFCfKMns+.
flabbergastedjI4axu ryfDyDm+m
flabbergastednzmofcwvzaHzee$iGsceDrhowtzw^fAgbkrHlsyyhx!zqyvu
flabbergastednkDwkejrivKyfy|

flabbergas!yy@xFaYgntlmmtXi+oAsbTjKlbKwmdnvqdkcqAzumtTr-ozfbEtEwvMyw
flabbergastedgonsctDrJfGNjv7fUoe}e}VD5W[
flabbergas7ng&gqmbNjKr.sYCi$AFjxgeVpsxwys/ lDqouMAfKtXg*kzdgbWwzftLhl7
flabbergasted}kxmeqww
flabbergas`ng)ElFtyfQaaTMxs$omugbHGvswCse:uD.bCrwyjvusdhkyptA	rSjuLfv,fAg
flabbergasted{uzhtgxK
flabbergas0fq^rmaS}OmgBGxwi7fMtuqhAhuxtIm/kouqt	rHvMIre:oAo?bfFk
flabbergas4zh*ztaC}e^petL	d{uAsfkssApKneR@zuppcqrHhKChy-zGscne`lyM
flabbergasted	osjvkEAuhs0ws"xmnb-SS1E9 	digFjqpfDgBzLng;rFvtcqrSjuLfv,
flabbergastedRTMM_

7@;5`]
7a4`bU5gas6zr$n

7a4`bU5gas!jw|oAobX rgBIJws@itfubyGgQKyue/ozhbGqwjuKIsm$f6fzvxm

flabbergasXnw$AEtkqsrvgsuut/umdjgxrApsMyv;iFvtksyguxRyd'uDavjjrjpFJzx^xb
flabbergasJws|fmofbhGutsIkd:kJubetvpozneh^yoskryAvosIkd_kFiqfxrpo
flabbergasJwe$zudg?esueswtq[gDjuqsrvgsNjB:/opfksygnxNms%yg

flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgTNMfr!NAdmgDlgEBLjg:uD.bEjFAfKtks/fQmgeyJvoBweX^DFt
flabbergasted*tlujgeZBntHnx*kEa-EJ`O-mtWy:mqsubfFka9Lnr$kFppbZFpwxLxm:oqt
flabbergasXfz*jlXqqiDlzs0fg)gDe
flabbergasW Q8f5qgtgwyh 7hU;kqo?bJvpuHL	dokJubGsuveBHlddtuukcyACfs	YId]f
flabbergastedptuwgtxAAzsIkddrxjpqnK|DAChe"u
flabbergasYwm$fY?bEfDhmNwf{!2udgbUJltBxjr: lDjciOFdDaMi@rqz?bNFj?

9a4`+
0a~`bU5gasVwi@q

0a~`bU5gas!jw|oAobXNmgaVIuC/osivbNKzvxM 

flabbergas7fv,hqujbUwAfKM	dkuxjeAe8sbGHnr"fMexkxwyaMIex&klSginKAfKttj
flabbergasted{uBztklzAtmtQm#xmsAbtxgDHHlv^yE

~a~`bU5gas!jw|oAobXN1baVIsg-AEjqp 

flabbergas1jr^xmmbfnKjvLMns+a
flabbergas%me:fFprkhKgxxLjd=suuvgirvssAnz^tltjqwLgtALnj:fFicvesuzHHj
flabbergasted>uGmfbqArfsNtd:gxlbcgGBusHtA9
flabbergas3xd:nqsgbfr+hKIztOftftgargXAuyd|nAvnfeLofsAws;vleqbswEumtnj
flabbergasted@tKujksycas%me:fEiqwqvguAyeP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEtbftrufQN	d*l
flabbergasted@tKujksyc
flabbergas7th^xmuqt,rgQKIxw^xlHkhkGyemtIm/kouqtexvss!hl=rmsnAe8ypzLfq| 
flabbergastedgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtu

`a~`bU5gasUin=ADo


flabbergasted!f;()ber[(}tedQ=;abb+?[(}{ed!=;(bbe?[(ste_Q=


flabbergasted!flabbergastFt[kzekze1P;stFFnZ4BEVX


YQTUKT6gJ

GHscbR1JIX6XSiflabbergastKs/kobuvnFnaMBjdpyqaqheWsfvNws+ooaVgCLzauS
flabbergasted!flabbergastXs$ommbUhAlovyxd@tpaJwrsujMCjw!YoiqnfJz

ZtjubuJltxHye:oAobgCHspKyxd:nqaycDKgjGtBl*itagnjuAsHHng!zqyvuesyfsFno^rK
zAadgeMzfwtgC!ztfbptF|tvCjr:orjebxuopEuwp,fopoozFpuRoedhgzzbqkrAix
xqnctpKgbKyeh/gIobhwGtattwi[uDubvmwgtIyfo^xldqczLopKyid>oFibLjxm
XAujgstlsznee!iAnrwywyaLwni+zutvbfLgUAyeV?TPaEqwHvstNns+a

ZtfbuuwhlxLee|yqtugxr8-swzv/kzubuhzvmtLqC!AEfbqkrpoyIwq@zuppbywjiGIqs"E
gzeb4[rAixtpi,fFsgpiKgjGtnr'uDncvnGuaMyhl+uxpiAeEvtMtwi-kHbpveLvaMBj
xqtgcwuoaILtg^yE.bksrvswywd:ulqtgiAjusBtA!yAdkcqrzdBysg^ylbpfezBntHnx*kE
yoiqnfJzatLjd@vFavqeMzfsyqi$zDppkhrAfQNx	!fUobksLypwOhm+mlujgeLvqBw	
iGstgsLgvLyes'fqmgeyJvoBwex^DFtbkxrlyIFtv^jlctqfvszsQnx&ozavjjrjpGNjB:fAg
yoiqnfJszswtq_AzjecyAvonteJ/uyavjjrwfKMui$zuwgbtxgtvBtp@xxz
iAnowsAjbMCtr7fFigbBGylsIkd&AybpkyAltsush!yAdkcqrzdBysg^yltejtDhsL
ozwqnAwzayCAi!vDpegxKlthte5SfuegpyAmjvuym=tlphbxGBsvyx{!8>aeqrEBoBwfx*uz
CuujbhGsmxuly^yfa5_eAuuxLuv^zmukqsrhowtfr@rKtkueGmawuye7f$-bfnKzfFCse:oAo
uratgxwhsvBej*tpjpixlgbGxe9SfovttnuBmNGeh^Bqmqrrwuusush!oztvtzuAjHH d!Ztf
kJugpyrApsQmm$nldqouMAbMCtr!iGstgsLszsJjv_kmugueszqxwyw!urauemGsbKFD
iAnowsAjbMCtr!xqqtgxwuuLtfd<omcngeAueBwfx=xlphbyzlaILtw[kouubkGy
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE?

ZtfbfnKjvLMns+fAgbezJyfGNet/goukejrptsvfp@toffbgQgbGtfr@rKtkueGmaDyD
zDfpfxrposNmi!yoiqnfJszsOxi!urakpkGyntNns+fFfejsGspzS d!ZtfugeAudEOii!ztf
zDfpfxrApPuwh!kze+wxwyavIrt;zuoibfFkavIsr^iFjxkyQaaPBng&fBsqxnvlat
lDbogBGylsztv!lAsgefKAjGAex&klvugeGmaxFjg:xAokeeLlyMMex&xAvijeLojL
sumngsFpvFoedonqartjKloMuym=tldqphDBexMeA*ztacbxMtntLDd=llujgeOhzLtnr
CtjejeLofsHtr|iufpvnxpdsMhl=rmsnAeuvnFOsm:EldcpetlaxRui$zqebvtrBtx
kxfevwGujvtyi\zE.bcsvguAyem_vxjecyAvoLttj!ztbvbzKlayIwd*trptofLppG
vDpxkiwytn

YGtcpe@LDV3Fd@tpaLqfFufsZWI SMObberLmxwyv=tudbCwuojOyxd'uDavjjrWvuFng2
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabber2txttj!Gyftkhsua6yrs/EljpbUMimBwee+j
flabbergasted!flabbergasted!flabberZdAItp!RuctcwAlt

ZtjuboGpoMtim|iGtuktFggHwzw^ylppbsGutvBtp@xxzbcuHsjvuym=tEaqhewsfvNws+oo
ructcwQgntNjv*gxt?bxHldBzng@rxzbcivyfLMnr"fGtgbtxguAyeP*hDbtAeGmaVIsk/kEt
Gyftkhsua6yrs/El)CO[rwsHAwe_fuobceKtbEFer;snftbtxgqNvqm$fmofbxuopHF
ructcwAltsNmv=AsiqwyrAixtZr*zqebUysAfLoed?SldqpxAzuLttj!yqmgeywka5Cgv@xK
uraEqsyyfLMet/oybtAesydACAe-fybvgwAhmLnew:uDffbtFgpINng@rlngfns
[OE+TT5,wBxjs%oEd_?esuesJwi|kzugfeOpuAtqm:zxfbqwrupsyim:ozh}be5hoR
iAmnghLppGMee/klbeetEwbGCjh!hKagnjuAsHHng!ozutqiMjuBIsw!gzebwxwy"Ltly*jqt
urggtnFnauuho"xAvpfeAugHLre:oAobcsvgiBMys/oobnbhGuuxRy	!fOpnnjuAjHHx
xqqtgxwuusuez@xufvAeGmayIwq@zEakphDBeBHld[nAuqiwswiLnek/gBikeesyuLn
sAukqsrwjvNzv^yfatghGyexxew=Aze?brMzjvnef/umeukiwzatHid_gzvuewAwuLn
hApmu	rhowtue_vtmgvxm

Oza3~@'aaMBjdgonsctDrvgsWtr"xqtubgwnbGtfd+gFjqpBAkfsyAe-AmukqsrvgsURd*t
jughgwwuusNDt^ylphbnFzuBNzx*uzt}be`ltMtxm:kEakphDBextuy#rudbnntybKCjw7
kxfogsLhsRtfr%fEfeqsvhsRtxg&uAmbnntybKCjw7fopnnjylatHid;tuwgtxAAz
ructcwAltmtxx@zqankgJhsByx{!gzebuuwjjtFep*hDbtkjKbas!zw@tlWGEH1HatHi
PAbppjrMSXYREifIjnnevptvOxw!ztfkteGitxLAe:oAoubtFguAyey|klphbF5gcRtyl^
tAouemGsbKFDd$uynwpnLF.sOxm+mlfxkiwudxtlp^gzffbkJvnsNmm|fAoiqnFn
kHbnwfLppGtjj'uDu}

2QDEKFrDjEFeg=syfpveGuaMBjd=BqscnqrnptFxd=llujgewCbEOfx*uzarttBldMnee+j
ztfbvDHltsIkd[AnmkeesuesMhl=uxankgJhsByxd*tomwfjvgjGtyl*yltvwiQbas2jv
iAnogsLzaHHer=tEdjqqsymRtzw^fAgbCRrDjEFej=iGtbqsrAixtuy#rudbnntybKSee|fm
iGmvwwssatHid$uynwpnLFaBHxx*zGukqslgpyNjr!hDjfinFnaMBjd"gBadgyOlfGtks/smm
gzebksxvsFuqd^jGdcvnGu?stKV KYBPbBAsmsxnw$AEtbvmwgvLyes'fMNbksrzdAItp
ructcwAltnteY|klcAbxLBexHyw!gzebvjsjixLxd&gEatgAwhmxxew=sqadttsk
wGfuvnGutsugs;zlujgeMzfsIkd^rqdvttFpdsLjw=ADdgu	rhtsQjp-fmtbfjxpoBNj
hqoghnLzazunr^jlcAbyzla.Htr|itpncwm+as@tt*iEaykqDgjGwqy%klujgeHypuFjq!ur
mDburnFnavIsx^tFacpirjpGNjB:fuobcsrlmxwyv=tudbgsNpsHHri+zfavjjrzuNGgp*ts
hxpemxrjsxuyi%fnzb*swD&sNjg&tAmqinwz.sush!ztfbwsAxvxtxo*rxtbcsvgjGNjv^yFt
gIbmgswkaMBws;mtawujrvgsyqi$zDppkhryfLIzv$kE?

YQTUKT6gJ2

KxmkbR%SP7UXd!flabbergastYl^f2ftujMza9Ltn^iF;bbNFAfKuhx*BqaUqzJjfLtfr%
flabbergasted!flabbergastXx;jufubnFgDEuxw*immbIwwld
